Hello everybody, my name is Ray. Welcome to the Evangelical Dark Web. Today we'll be discussing more on Sermon Gate. And we have a special guest with us, Troy Skinner. I'll introduce him more momentarily, but just to set up the context for this discussion, we will be discussing Sermon Gate, which is the scandal that has somewhat plagued Ed Litton, the new president of the Southern Baptist Convention. And, you know, since he got elected, it was exposed that he has been a serial plagi sermon plagiarizer specifically uh mostly doing live as I would call it live Disney live action remakes of Ed lit or of J. D. Greer's sermons, and J. D. Greer was the outgoing president of the Southern Baptist Convention, which draws more irony to the situation, but it does appear that um he's been plagiarizing Edlitt or J. D. Grew's sermons since at least 2015, which would be before J. D. Grew was president. And it does appear that J. D. Grew is not the only person that's being plagiarized. by Ed Litton. But we want to use SermonGate as a launching pad to talk about a much broader issue of this industrialization of sermons And you know, this is just one facet of Big Eva as we like to call it, big evangelical. So that's why I have one of my my guests, uh Troy Skinner here, he's a pastor And you know, uh welcome to the program. How are you doing? I'm doing well. Thank you for having me on. Big fan of your work. I appreciate that. So, you know, one thing I like to do just as an icebreaker is certainly to glorify God is to, you know, have just have new guests. um uh introduce themselves and tell 'em how they came to Christ just as an icebreaker and you know certainly to share the gospel in that way as well. Yeah, um my testimony isn't one of a dramatic uh conversion experience where I could give you the setting and the and the the date on a calendar and that sort of a thing. Mine is uh is kind of um a gradual awakening and evolution in thinking where I came to a place where I realized, aha, I think I got something here. I was raised pretty much a denominational mutt. bounced around a lot. Uh the short answer to the question somebody's asked is, Oh, did you go to a church to as a kid? What kind of church do you go to? My short answer is I you know, I was raised Roman Catholic. But that's really a cheater's answer because I was only in the Roman Catholic Church for maybe a half a dozen years. I spent time in the Episcopal Church, I spent time in Baptist churches, Presbyterian Church, uh Dutch Reformed Um I'm I'm sure I'm leaving some out non-denominational, community Bible church kind of things, um, church of God. Uh uh a charismatic church along the way. So I've I've kind of a denominational mutt. Uh my thinking got clarified or began to really get clarified probably about twenty years ago when a then pastor of mine had the patience to sit down with me and walk through all of my conf confusion 'cause after spending all of that time in all these different traditions and teachings I was uh I had way more questions than satisfactory answers. He helped me to kinda see my way clear and I was at that point able to realize, okay, this is all true. It's it's what I believe. Christ is my Savior. He is the Savior. I'm totally dependent on Him and His provision. I didn't do anything to save myself. He did everything to save me. And I now recognize the truth of that fact uh and that all of the different questions that I had, the theological conundrums uh from the different traditions have played themselves out in the intervening twenty years. I've kind of tackled them one issue at a time and tried to wrestle them to the ground to uh uh at least to a cognitive rest point where I could get my hands all the way around the issue to get my fingers to touch as best as I could. Um so In answer to the question if this is part of what you're asking me is when when, you know, when did I become a Christian or when was I saved? Well I think you kind of shared that. Yeah, I would say one, I was saved from before the foundations of the earth In the in the you know so there's that. Uh I would say more fully I you know you you could ex expresses itself in that I was saved at the cross. Uh or you know, I I I was saved at uh from the moment that I was conceived and God had a plan for my life. Or I was saved when I had the awakening and all my confusion began to finally uh well said my camera's shifting on me. Let me try this. Sorry, I'm drifting. Um so I think a better qu and I'm not going to get into all of this in my answer, but I think a better question that we as Christians should ask each other when we say, hey, share your testimony. I think the question we should be intending there should be sharing the testimony of your current walk with Christ. What's your walk with the Lord looking like now? What's your testimony of living a life for the kingdom? That's a better question then. What was your conversion story or how did you come to be a Christian? Um I think that's more dynamic. I think it's more helpful and edifying to believers. And it takes the pressure off because I've learned to some people that say, Oh, you don't have a conversion story? What you don't have a moment where you hit rock bottom and you've All of a sudden you saw the lights and the angels sang from heaven accompanied by harps. You don't have that kind of a story. conversion stories as I like to call them to glorify God. Like I think there's something about a boring conversion story that's glorifying to God. And in ways that people don't really realize that. But mine's really glorifying really kind of boring. Hey. I mean, you know, just the way you describe it is, you know, Christ does the saving, and I think that is uh pretty much sums it up in one way. In in a way you just shared the gospel by sharing you know, how this all came together for you. And you know, kinda how I like to start this. What you're doing here with this, you know, this internet broadcast and stuff, one of the key moments that I do recall, it wasn't the moment of conversion, but it was a moment of clarity. I was it was a radio ministry. I was driving to work or from work. I think it was from work. And I happened to have uh a radio station on that was broadcasting a um a pastor's sermon And uh he said something about the gospel, and I can't remember exactly what he said, but I do recall that it was like one of those clarifying moments when I realized, oh It's about what Christ has done. It's not about what I have done. And I kind of already knew that, but I don't know if I really truly internalized it. And so somebody doing something through a multimedia, electronic media kind of a thing had a profound impact on me. And so hopefully, you know, what you're doing with your channel, what other people like you are doing with their channels is maybe being used in the same way. All right, that was well said. So let's uh get back into SermonGate. Um since you are a pastor, I would also assume And it's fair to assume that you are very familiar with the qualifications for a pastor, whether laid out in 1 Timothy 3 or Titus. or um 1 Peter chapter 5. So you're pretty familiar with those passages, I would assume. Do you believe that plagiarizing sermons is disqualifying? Yeah, so uh I don't want to get bogged down to the weasel with a question like this and as hot a topic as it's become in the last couple of weeks uh I think it's important for us to try to be as precise as possible and to root our answers in what biblical teaching is. And so I'm and I'm so I'm not punting, I'm going to swing back around, but I do want to uh I want to take the time to to uh articulate our understanding of our terms. So if by plagiarism what we mean by that is someone stole someone else's work, stole someone else's intellectual property, then absolutely uh as a sin. Um is it disqualifying? I would leave that up to the uh the board of elders and the leadership in a particular church uh to make a determination if it was a one-off or if it's a habit, if there's repentance, uh if there's if this is part of a combination of a cocktail of sins in in the pastor's life or something. I I don't want us to get in the ha I don't think it's uh I don't think it's uh safe For us to get into the habit of every time a pastor sins, he's disqualified. So does misrepresenting someone else's work as your own, does that rise to the level? Um it could, but I don't think that it must. It might be one of those situations kind of like when I'm doing pr uh marital counseling. And one spouse has cheated on the other spouse, and they would have biblical grounds that would allow them to biblically sue for divorce Uh, but the Bible doesn't require that they sue for divorce. And I think there could be a way to navigate through that and come out on the other side with a better pastor, better congregation, a better commitment to the truth and protecting everybody's stuff. In this case, you know, one is plagiarism, intellectual property. However, plagiarism doesn't necessarily um I think properly understood plagiarism. Whoa, my stuff's fallen down. I have my phone here, my camera propped up, and uh the weight of things has fallen down. So we're having a uh a fortunately kind of wardrobe malfunction like at the Super Bowl a number of years ago, but we're having a let me see if I can get this to stay. It doesn't want to stay for some reason. Anyway, I think our common understanding of plagiarism though isn't necessarily as simple as stealing. I think some in our common culture, our discourse, people will broaden the understanding of plagiarism uh is borrowing somebody's work plagiarism. If you gave me a sermon and said, hey, I wrote this sermon for you, Pastor Troy, why don't you read this sermon to everybody and you don't have to tell them I wrote it Just read it like it's yours. And you gifted me that sermon. And I didn't say that it was a gift. Technically, I'm using somebody else's work, somebody else's intellectual property But if it was gifted to me, well that's not a sermon. I mean that's not a s that's not a theft. There was no stealing. Is that a sin? So I think we've got to be we've got to be very careful of how we define our terms here and uh and not chase after ghosts and make sure that we're being firm on enforcing God's law, but make sure that we're enforcing God's law and not our own understandings what we might like to think God's law is Uh I think that was pretty well put. And let me just add, since this is a live stream, that means w this is also a live discussion. you are watching this discussion live, feel free to submit questions into the chat and I'll try to incorporate those into the screen. I often do, so uh take that as encouragement, because I didn't write that many questions. So uh you know along the lines of one of the concerns that I had with specifically you know and specifically with Ed Litton is the ability to teach. Because one of the things that I observed, and someone else pointed this out, but I also pointed out the other side. So between two observations that I one I made and one I saw someone else make, there was a contradiction in what Ed Lytton was teaching. For instance, in his sermon on Romans one, we saw that Ed Lytton was basically teaching against unlimited atonement. Which I I assume it was because you know he's Arminian or whatever, so you know he doesn't believe in unlimited or limited atonement, sorry my bad. limited atonement because he said, you know he quoted and I believe Tim Keller, who is supposedly reformed, was the one who originated the quote, you know, uh, God doesn't send people to hell for homosexuality. How do I know that? Because God doesn't s you know, 'cause Being heterosexual doesn't send you to heaven, which is a logical fallacy in and of itself, but it does kind of ignore the idea that God does punish people for their own sins. speaking. And Tim Keller is too careful a thinker that it makes me wonder because Tim Keller has done things like that in the past. He's such a careful thinker. When he does something like that, it's kind of sloppy logically speaking, it makes me wonder, okay, did he do that on purpose? Like is he trying to be um th to give us sort of some sort of weird double speak? 'Cause he's just he's a very smart person. I'm just trying to credit uh I believe Tim Keller was the originator of that quote. Which would be an argument which would contradict the doctrine of limited atonement as understood by Reform theology. But when but when you see Ed Litton's sermon on Romans eight He's actually making an argument for limited atonement, and that was directly plagiarized from J. D. Greer. And I don't know exactly where J. D. Greer stands on this, but the person who made that observation They said that J. D. Greer wasn't a wasn't full Calvinist or anything like that, so he doesn't actually believe in the doctrine which he's articulating. So I think that's one of the issues that Yeah, it that comes about from making a habit of plagiarizing as you're contradicting um your own beliefs and theology because you're using someone else's. Yeah, there's a f there's several things uh you know that uh I think maybe deserve some comment tied to what you were just saying in your comment. So one I'm not sure that I would say that that gobbledygook uh that might have originated with Keller and then made its way to Greer and then ended up in the ears of the congregants of Lytton I'm not so sure that that is an argument for or against any sort of uh limited or unlimited atonement. I'm not sure that I'm making that connection. Maybe Uh but we don't need to take time on that because that's not the point of our discussion. But let's just say for the sake of our that I cede that point, say it is Well that's not a problem in the Southern Baptist Convention because you don't have to be reformed in uh in your view on that. You can be Arminian or Calvinist in the Southern Baptist Convention. So that wouldn't be a game changer Right. My point is that the contradiction of the teacher. Yeah, and I would say that the apt to teach part, you're absolutely right, that that is uh one of the preeminent uh necessary requirements for an elder is that the elder should be able and gifted to teach. But does that mean that in your giftedness to teach that you couldn't borrow somebody else's ideas and incorporate them into your lessons. That's what this is this is muddled. I do want to say this though, so I don't want to come across as as as weasley or wishy-washy or being squish on this It would appear, I mean I've only seen, maybe you've seen more, I've only seen one very clear uh example of uh of Lytton uh lifting practically word for word uh the words and the structure, the outline of a Greer sermon. I mean side by side it It's shocking how exact they are. That's clearly him using Greer's sermon. Now I don't know if Greer gave him permission. It Bureau said, Hey, I hate to have this great sermon, you should preach it, or if Ed Sotten said, Hey, JD, do you mind if I use your sermon? I have no idea, and that would be a a an addition. Now if you've seen other examples where he clearly lifted those, but I do know that a whole bunch, dozens, uh over a hundred I guess sermons suddenly disappeared from their website or other media platforms, which it it was at least 143. Which adds up to nearly three years worth of sermons. And the timing to do the math is suspicious, and boy, at the very least, it does give rise to the uh potential for an appearance of evil. And so if they didn't remove those sermons because they were plagiarized sermons, if they didn't do that, then boy, the wise counsel would be for uh Ed and his church to re-release those videos or uh you know provide some detailed explanation of why they happen to take those videos down when they took them out because it doesn't look it's not a good look, that's for sure. No, it's not. And I think you know, the one of the I think the other issue is that You know, there's a lot of really bad messaging in those sermons that they didn't want to get out there. They didn't want And that would be a big They didn't want Ed Litton on woke preacher clips daily. Yeah, well that's even a bigger problem, and that gets to the point you were talking about having being apt to teach, having the gifts of of teaching, is it's one thing to lift somebody else's words. It's another thing to lift somebody else's words and they stink. Why would you want to have a non-gospel or confusing or uh some messages antithetical to biblical truth and have that be what you steal. Like do you not have enough discernment and wisdom and and uh you know educational chops to discern a lie from the truth Because that's ultimately that's why the elders um are required to be good teachers. It's not that they should be winsome or are chicken, oh I mean being winsome is fine Being articulate is fine. Being able to build a nice so you know uh construct, a good outline and and and a good three-point sermon or whatever those things are, that's all fine But the reason that the teaching is a requirement is because the pastors, the elders, they are the sh they are under-shepherds for Christ's flock. And they're re they are taking on responsibility to help protect the flock. from the lies and to edify them in the truth. And so it's about discerning the truth, proclaiming the truth, heralding the truth, advocating, fighting to the death for the truth That's why the teaching is so important because the people need to hear the truth and they need somebody they can trust to do that consistently well. Maybe not perfectly well, we're all frail and fallen, I get that, but that needs to be what the consistent study diet is comprised of. And so if you got a guy who's not even writing his own stuff, but is grabbing somebody else's stuff that is not Christian, That's a huge problem. And then I don't even know what that says. Again, I'm not Southern Baptist, so I you know I don't have a dog in this fight. But point, does raise questions If you've got the president of the convention who doesn't have this level of understanding of what the truth is, what does it say about the denomination as a whole, the convention of churches as a whole? You know, if we're not careful, we're gonna stop calling it the Southern Baptist Convention. We're gonna start calling it the Southern Pagan Convention. Yeah, like I I think if you were a Southern Baptist and you wanted to plagiarize a sermon, you know, like Adrian Rogers would probably be your go-to. And yeah, I've actually heard I I believe it was Kevin E. Vill I heard was had plagiarized. I don't know how long ago this was, obviously because Adrian Rogers is no longer with us, if I recall Um so but someone and was on a different show um pretty much recounted the story of, you know, I guess there's two back to back weeks and one week Kevin Ezzel was a guest pastor at a church and then the next week Uh Adrian Rogers was the guest pastor and they'd both preach the same sermon And the passer described that they, you know, sunk down in their you know, Kevin Eza was sinking down in his um seat. Yeah. And I've been in situations at churches where I heard the same sermon from the same pastor, like a guest visiting pastor. He preaches a sermon, he's invited back several years later and he forgets that he preached that sermon and he gives you the exact same You know, that's cringeworthy enough, but to to have a situation where you're like, oh, somebody stole somebody else's work. But I gotta tell you, you might know this already. In fact, I I'm pretty sure you know this. I don't know if everybody who's listening to us and watching us right now knows this This is a pretty common happening. That's probably more common than we would care to to acknowledge or admit as as Christ's church But um I spent thirty-five years in the radio business and there's uh something that happened in the radio business a lot of uh particularly morning shows are dependent on what are called show prep services. It used to be they would fax you over the stuff and uh before that maybe they mailed you stuff, I don't know. And more recently is you know there's a website, a link, and some of the stuff um that that radio shows will use for show prep is just like a free forum open sharing kind of thing. But most of the services The radio stations pay a fee and their morning shows use it. And so you end up having morning shows talking about the same topics in the same way. In some cases, they're doing word for word the exact same bits. And they're I guess in effect they're plagiarizing somebody else's work, but they're paying for it and it's an open well, it's a secret from the audience But it's not a secret in the industry. It's an open secret, if you will, within the industry. And it's not considered plagiarism because you're buying somebody else's work and they're letting you use it The same thing is true with with pastors. There are websites where pastors will go and there where in some cases it's free. People can go and they can get illustrations or you know outlines or in some cases full sermons and it's just open sharing. In other cases, you know, people are paying a fee or maybe it's a per instance charge or something to preach sermons that they did not pre uh prepare, that somebody else prepared. But they're paying for it. So is that plagiarism? And that's a so that's a related but different question Because they didn't steal it, they pay for it. And yet they're preaching somebody else's work and pr and more often than not passing it off uh either as their own or at the very least not owning up to the fact that, hey, I didn't spend twenty hours this Preparing this message. I spent 20 minutes downloading it and uh and reading through it once before I shared it with you. And you know what? Before we make the mistake of thinking that this is A modern internet era problem. This problem goes back generations and generations. There was a time in church history when the the the the people that were pastors or the priests, they were unqualified. They couldn't read Latin. They were unable to prepare the messages. It was a real problem for the larger church. And so, you know, Central Command sent the sermon to the various pulpits, and every congregation in a particular region would be hearing the exact same word-for-word sermon from those preachers because they didn't have the chops to prepare it themselves. This goes back hundreds at least hundreds of years. Maybe, maybe who knows? Maybe they were doing this two thousand years ago. I don't know Yeah, and I was looking at one of those websites where you can buy and sell sermons or buy sermons and sell sermons and you know you see a lot of names on there. And you know, I'm sure Ed Litton was one of the customers But you know, you know who one of the sellers was? Who? Mike Stone, who Ed Litton defeated in the second round of the SBC presidential race. You could buy his sermons for I believe five ninety nine. Yeah, so that raises I mean we don't want to go down the rabbit trail on this thing, but that raises the question, right? If it's wrong for somebody to use somebody else's sermon, is it wrong for somebody else to provide uh assernments so people can play hooky from their responsibilities maybe. Now look, I get it. Um It could be tempting. Yeah. Imagine the you know, a lot of people they have this idea that all the pastor does is they show up for an hour and a half on Sunday morning and that's their job And they don't understand the leadership meetings they're involved with, the phone calls they deal with, the emails they have to answer, the the counseling sessions they have to go through, the the wedding ceremonies performed, the funerals that they have to officiate uh the oversight for the Sunday school curriculum and the youth group activities and and uh being involved in the c in the larger community, maybe the uh in the political sphere to have relationships with the local mayor and other political entities and their th their plate is full and to do the kind of preaching that I like to do do. And not everybody does things the way I do. They there's there's shorter ways to do it. But but I'm a a a huge fan of working my way systematically through particular books of the Bible in the order the verses are given to us and to do it in an expository fashion. And to do a good job of that takes, I would say, for me anyway, um uh a short week of Sermon Prep would probably be in the in the twelve to fifteen hour range, and a long week might be in the 20, 22 hour range. Not every pastor is going to have 15, 20 hours a week to spend. And so it's hard. And so they're looking for help. And I have a measure of compassion for that and that I can at least understand the temptation if they're doing something they shouldn't do. And stealing somebody's work, stealing would be wrong, but buying it Yeah, I'm not so sure it's the best idea. Uh I would put that in the category of buying somebody else's sermon and using it. Probably not sin Uh, but not everything that's lawful is beneficial and I would probably put it in that category because so much is lost. Uh if somebody spent the week uh down with the flu or in our environment, I guess, down with COVID. Uh and they didn't have but they're but they're better on Sunday. They can actually preach, but they didn't they were just too out of it and and weak to to do the kind of sermon prep they might want to do then they need to do something. Uh as a one off, if they call a friend and say, Hey I'm preaching my way through the book of Revelation on chapter four. You know, have you ever preached on that? Yeah, I preached on it two years ago. Hey, cool. Can you send me your outline or your notes or even your your your manuscript just so I can get a sense of of what to do here on Sunday morning, having a time to eat my breath. As a one off, uh you know, I'd have some grace probably, but if it's a steady habit The problem is, um, it's the same with a Christian uh just a regular Christian, if you're not spending time in the Word, wrestling with God's Word You're not growing. And so if the pastor is not doing the hard work, laboring to figure out what the passage means and how to convey that truth to the congreg congregation He's robbing himself of growth and by extension he's robbing his congregation of growth. That's a huge issue. And I wanna take one of the uh viewer comments and kind of adapted them to more of a question form. If a pastor is not able to find time to do sermon prep on his own like you're suggesting, what are the odds that they're also doing regular Bible study apart from that Yeah, well it does it beds the question, doesn't it? And I will say this, the way I get around that problem, I'm a little bit more of a compartmentalized organizational Enlow or kind of sometimes kind of a personality. And I don't want to get caught short on that. So I'm working on my sermons in advance. So I'm working on a sermon this week that won't be preached for, you know, six or eight weeks So the sermon that I'm going to be preaching this coming weekend is a sermon that uh I might as I review it in the mo in the you know couple of days leading up to the message, I might add a couple of tweaks, I might decide to rephrase something at the last minute. But 98% of the message that's going to be shared this coming Saturday was prepared a month and a half ago. So that buys me the space that if I have a family crisis, if I get ill, if I'm out of commission for even two or three weeks I can recover from that and not and and I have to hustle on the back end to get back to the place where I'm, you know, six, eight weeks ahead 'Cause now it would only maybe be, you know, four weeks ahead and that's maybe a little more nerve wracking. Uh I think that's the way I know some pastors that they work like six months in advance The problem with that is it's so unfresh in your mind that I think it's hard then to deliver it in a fresh way to the congregation. So So I have experience in a church um that was you know, they did their sermon series models and I would probably reckon to guess that they were one of these people that paid for a lot of the sermon prep to be done for them. I wouldn't uh put that past them. But the point is that they had they blocked out sermon series like, perhaps at least a year out in advance because that's you know, and these weren't the sh longest sermon series, like Uh, you know, like uh Ed Lytton's Roman series went on for several sermons. I believe forty-six sermons is what he said he did, which doesn't sound, you know, like a terrible uh uh indulgence but yeah no it is yeah it sounds pretty right but nothing as big and as important as the book of Romans, yeah you're gonna spend a year on that. I could see that very easily But uh point being, that's not what they were doing. They weren't spending all this time in one book. It was very topical. So that kind of begs a comparison between topical and expository preaching. But before Um we dive more into that. You know, one of the things that has more come out is that, you know, JD Greer isn't exactly prepping his own sermons either. And so Ed Litton is using a lot of the same messaging as J. D. Greer. And I think Ed Litton's straight up copying J. D. Greer, but J. D. Greer is kinda like you know, he's very much in the industry of Big Eva, and, you know, one of the You know, they have firms that do this for you, and one of the prominent firms that's really coming out in a lot of this is Docent Research Group. I don't know if you've ever heard of them. Them I do not know. But you know, uh Tim Teller has endorsed them and a few other p pastors between Presbyteri Presbyterian Church in America and uh Uh SBC would probably endorse them as well. A lot of these bigger churches have, you know, multi uh pastor staff, uh it's a team approach. You know the a lot of the sermons get written by a time, you know, they they meet together, they compare thoughts, they outline it together, they share illustration ideas And there might be two, three, four, six pastors involved in preparing that sermon. When the but when the sir when the pastor who's designated to preach on that particular uh worship service gets up there and shares the message Are they going out of the way? By the way, this illustration I'm about to share with you came from Pastor Bob. This isn't my illustration. So is that plagiarism? Is it 'cause he's not a big thing. No, I wouldn't say so because like if you're you know, doing prep, if you're collaborating, you know, that's you know, that's an internal meeting on helping you out. Like I don't think that's wrong at all. But you think that someone could effectively write and study for his sermons if they have a committee of nine people as Ed Littons claims that he does. Do you think that that's an effective approach? You know, that begs all sorts of questions there about what's going on with that church. If that's true, and we'll take him at his word that it's true. They've got, you know, a dozen people working on the sermons Okay, then why are you preaching JD's work? What are those dozen people doing? Is everybody derelict in their duties? Like LipTag's a much larger and I think even a more even an additionally problematic, if not more problematic issue for them to figure out. It's a mess. What they have going on is a mess. I don't envy their situation. It sounds like they did it to themselves. And it's got to get figured out because people are going to lose confidence in um People will respond to the truth no matter who the deliverer is, but if the deliverer is clearly flawed in uh in ways that are perceived at least as being unrepentant, that truth has a harder time connecting because they're distracted by how can I trust this guy He's not being honest over here, he's not being truthful over there, how do I know he's being honest and truthful about what he's telling me right now in this moment? That's a real issue So you buy by the way you were alluding to the expo uh expository and topical. I didn't want to get sidetracked. Um so if you want me to comment on that a little bit, I certainly can. Well we'll touch more on this because you know the idea that you know going back to that you know sermon writing by committee, like to me, like there's only so many so large a group before something becomes very ineffective. Like, you know, if you have a group project, you know, it's not effective to have more than four people on a group project. Yeah, a sounding board I think is different than having like a collaboration team like your Taylor Swift trying to write a Uh, I don't know, a kindergarten level pop song. Uh Shake Shake Shake It Off. So I think that is one of the uh But uh just while we touch back on the issue of like this industrialization of sermon prep, because I think that begs a or that opens the door to a lot of uh bad issues Um okay uh David Morrell wanted to comment. He's like, yes, Breer Lytton both preached against double punishment in one sermon, then preached Christ dying for the whole world in another. And I believe uh that is who I actually made or picked up the one observ observation on Romans eight from whereas whereas I noted that in the Romans 1 sermon So just to clarify, um so just to touch up on the um industry of people who provide sermons, if those people are corrupt then the stream or the flow of sermons flowing down, you know, that has a huge impact. And I think we're seeing the fruits of that because we have a lot of people that are very squishy in the pews. Um, you know, the evangelic. concept and we got a lot of sermons preaching very milked toast messaging that's trying to be palatable to the whole world And this is a huge issue. Yeah, and even and it even if it's not part of that industrialized complex of sermon prep, even if it's more um uh uh happenstance and accidental that somebody's going to s a church's website where sometimes the churches they don't only f they don't merely provide the audio but sometimes they provide the transcript to the you know the the manuscript for the sermon as well. And if somebody goes to a church that they think is a good church and they download that that manuscript and they try to pass it off as their own, uh, that's not part of the industrial Conflict, that's a you know, that's a petty theft crime that plays itself out in the pulpits of a church. But even in that case, the problem uh I mean, has anybody been paying attention to what's going on in the Western church these days We have a we are in the midst of one of the more critical crisis moments in church history with what's been happening with false teaching and and uh and uh uh paganists uh idolatrous viewpoints So most of what you might go out there and steal is garbage. There I mean, most of the sermons that get preached today in this country are are horrible So the od the uh if you were just to do a random sampling, oh I'm gonna steal a random sermon and preach as my own, the odds are very high that you're gonna preach a you're gonna be stealing a message that's gonna be quote unquote preaching some sort of this anti gospel or another gospel. as as the Apostle Paul would put it. So why would you want to steal somebody else's garbage, knowing that the odds of running into a lot of garbage in today's world is really high? Well I think you know part of the issue stems the you know why do people start churches and a lot of people are planting churches so they can create their own megachurch. And, you know, part of creating your own megachurch is having a squeaky clean, uh, palatable message. And, you know, the a lot of these sermon uh providers like Doscent Research Group and all that, they provide a you know, a pipeline so you can grow your church and put butts in seats. And I think that's the goal of many churches. If you're going to steal somebody else's sermon and pass it off as your own, is, you know, when that sermon was originally written, if the if it was a good pass for preparing it He had a particular context in mind. He understands what's going on in his community. He knows what's going on in the life of his congregation. He knows what kinds of questions are going to be raised in Bible studies, the kinds of uh error they might be exposed to he's gonna go out of his way to point to and and and and expose and teach against and all those sorts of things. And that gets lost when you apply it in a totally different context because they're not wrestling with those same issues. But in a mega church where you've got a thousand people, five thousand people, forty thousand people You're not contextualizing that to individual pockets within the body of Christ. It has to be a mass appeal message And so if you're stealing messages from those kinds of sources, you can kind of get away with it because you're stealing a mass appeal message and applying it to your maybe smaller context, but it's it's going to kind of work But it's not gonna be feeding the sheep the kind of food that they're needing. It's not gonna give them the balanced diet that they're requiring because we're all a little bit out of balance And part of the pastor's job is to figure out where are we as our smaller expression of Christ's church, where are we out of balance and how do I begin to nudge us in the right place so we have a healthy balance. And that's not going to happen if you're part of this industrialized complex, as you put it, of of sermon prepare that. Well said. So now I think we can dive into more of the uh you know what sermon prep kind of looks like and the issues of topical versus expository preaching. Um but first I just want to uh start off by asking, do you think that topical preaching is more ripe for this kind of plagiarism or sermon stealing and industrialized sermons than expository preaching? Well um yes, but not a full throated yes. Um I said m my my first instinct is to say yes generally speaking because topical sermons have a tendency to be either one-offs or short. Like somebody's doing a topical sermon series where for the next six or eight weeks we're going to talk about this issue And so you could steal, you know, one or six messages rather easier than if you're gonna be committed to uh the exposition of entire books of the Bible. You'd have to make a commitment, like the example you use of forty-six sermons from the Book of Romans, you'd have to make a commitment to stealing forty-six sermons. Uh that so that's less likely. Maybe we should explain uh and define our terms here too for for somebody who's listening and doesn't maybe uh know what all of these terms exactly mean. They've heard these terms tossed around and bandied about, but they're like, yeah, I don't really understand exactly the difference And and maybe uh in indeed my understanding as good as I think it is would be different than even yours, as good as yours might be. So just so we're on the same page For me, an expository message is merely it's a message that is explaining the truth of the text. And yet then you illustrate through cultural references and you illustrate through life application examples and that sort of stuff. But the main thing is to explain the truth of the text And topical messages, they tend to they tend to be more about explaining the truth of the culture and the truth of our life experience and then relate these sorts of things to various biblical texts. Now, this has the advantage of uh of having a built-in relevance to to people's lives and a relatability to people's lives, which is why a lot of pastors today lean in a topical uh sermon direction because they want to be relevant. Uh but a good expository message will be relevant too. You just have to build your your illustrations and your life application examples into the relevant life of your congregation. That's why sermon stealing or borrowing or paying for something else's sermon becomes a problem because you can't apply the exposition directly to them as easily Because the illustration that one pastor uses for his church really wouldn't it would miss the mark. He wouldn't connect with a a pastor in another church. So for those reasons, I think Topical sermons, I think, lend themselves to be being more uh readily and easily uh uh repurposed by someone else. uh and being able to get away with it uh more easily. But uh I'm I'm an expositor. I have preached some topical sermons. Um most often when I've done that it's when I've been uh invited to guest preach somewhere else, the pastor's on sabbatical or wants to you know have somebody else preach for a week for whatever reason and they're in the middle of a series and hey we're talking about this You know, like one example that pops in my mind. The last time I had to do this was a pastor said, Hey, you know, I I would like you to do a message on greed. It's like, okay, so I had to do a one-off uh topical message about greed and so I I picked a central passage where the a main theme within that passage like if I were working my way through a book of the Bible it stumbles in that passage, I would have ended up preaching primarily about greed anyway, because that's what the passage is about. I picked one of those and I did kind of an expository sermon, but it was topical. One of the benefits to doing expository, and this is tied to some of the weaknesses we've talked about before. If you do an expository message You have the advantage, the benefit of helping people to work through how to truly understand Scripture because you're wrestling with the truth of the test. What does the truth text uh what does the the text truly say? And how do we know that it truly says this and how do we properly process these words on the page. So we're training up our people in their own individual personal devotions, in their own individual personal Bible study. And that's harder to do in a topical message because what happens in a topical message is it's kind of like playing hide and seek. You're going on a proof text hunt Like, oh, the passage is about humility, so let me let me find a bunch of passages that have to be to be about humility and build a message around that. The problem is oftentimes you're riffing those those verses completely out of context and you're making them fit your topical needs. And it's not that what you're teaching is wrong, and I don't want to you know, we're not talking about Beth Moore, but one of my criticisms of Beth Moore throughout for years, up until more recent criticisms as she's uh gotten a little bit more, in my opinion, bizarre in what she's advocating for over the last year to two years. But even before that, one of my big problems with Beth Moore is she does a lot of topical type of messages And oftentimes whatever she was teaching, I would find myself saying, Yeah, I I I agree with where you ended up But I have no idea how you got there. I I can't agree with the method of of how you process through the texts to make a biblical case. Yeah, you told the truth But it felt like it happened by accident. And that's what can happen with a lot of topical message and it's less likely to happen with an expository message. Now a risk with an ap expository message is they can come across very academic, uh more like a lecture and not a a a heralding and a proclamation of the gospel truth. So you've got to be careful about that. Tapical messages lend themselves to being a little more emotive oftentimes and you can really get into a proclaiming mode. And you can really preach, brother, preach. You know, you can get there a little easier sometimes with topical. So I can understand the allure But I think if you're disciplined, you can accomplish those same things at least as well, if not better, expositionally as you can topically That was pretty well said and uh I think that covered a lot of the uh uh strengths and weaknesses of pr both approaches. I find expository preaching to be a little bit more rewarding. And I guess the way to explain that would be to compare it to like a a comedy show. Like I don't know, just pick a show that's really funny to you and that has continuity. And because of that continuity, there's those running jokes, there's those um uh running gags that make the show more rewarding to watch as you progress through the series. And expository preaching I think is kinda like that where because you're say in Revelations one and you're running through two, chapter three, chapter four, it becomes more rewarding because you have a more fulfilling understanding of the book and of the text. And I think that is m you know, probably why I think expository preaching in general is probably superior on a Sunday to Sunday basis. Now I do think that there are there's a time for topical preaching to address a certain topic, um a certain event. But as far as trying to learn the text and understand scripture, I think the expository is superior in that regard. Yeah, I think there can be, and perhaps I could even argue, be pe or at least be persuaded to to argue that there are times when it's not only okay, but perhaps necessary and good uh to go off schedule. Like, for example, go back twenty years ago. Uh whatever you were planning to uh see, uh would have been probably the let me do this. I think it would have been the sixteenth Whatever you had planned to preach on September 16th, 2001 needed to be scrapped because it was five days after September 11, 2001. And if you didn't go off schedule and say, you know what? We just had a couple of air carriers crash into buildings in New York City and the Pentagon get crashed and a bunch of other people die in Pennsylvania and the world stopped spinning uh for a while. People they want to hear from their pastor. What does what does God's word help us to understand about this? What's going on? If you didn't do that, Iran was derelict in duty. So you had to do a topical sermon in that case Uh and I think more dramatic uh less dramatically you can have times when a big national crisis happens or some big thing is in the news and Now I went off schedule uh last year, uh last summer when uh the whole world was talking about Black Lives Matter and critical race theory and intersectionality and people are like, what is what are all these terms I don't know what they are. So I went off schedule to try to, you know, edify my people and build them up to understand what the cultural dialogue was all about and what the biblical perspective on these things is and try to get ahead of it. So I went off schedule there because I was in the middle of a of a sermon series on the Epistles of John and we took a pause actually for I think two weeks. to uh to talk about these other issues before getting back on track with our our uh Epistles of John series. And by the way you mentioned Revelation. That's a really good example for the point you're making because the images and uh and And uh the ideas that are introduced early in Revelation in chapters one and two and three, they recur over and over again through the rest of the book of Revelation. So if you pick up on the importance of those themes, you understand what those But what those visions mean, it really helps you later on to understand what's happening in chapters four to the conclusion. So that's a really good example you used. Yeah, and there's some insider knowledge on that, I suppose. Um now Yeah, I I'll float to the audience if they have any questions to ask. But yeah, just going back to um Yeah, i the issue of sermon prep. So what does sermon prep look like for you on a weekly basis? You s mentioned that you prepare weeks in advance now. Um so just go into that. What exactly is the work that goes into a sermon so that people may not know? Well I'll start broad and I'll drill down. So the broadest thing is my sermon prep in a very generic sense is more than weeks in advance. I'm already right now thinking about What am I going to be preaching in the year twenty twenty two? Like where should we go next? What what do we spend our time preaching through and learning about in twenty twenty? What are we working on now in twenty twenty one? And what would be a a good logical progression based on uh the Bible and the meta-narrative of the Bible what would be good for us and our people to be focusing on and twenty and I'm making I'm not making firm commitments on that yet, but I'm already beginning to make plans for what is likely to happen. I've pretty much I could be persuaded to change my mind by something, but for the most part I've pretty much narrowed my options to probably two or three possibilities for what I'm going to be doing next year. Uh what we're um but what we're focusing on now obviously is where I'm more interested in focusing my uh and this is what you're probably really asking is week to week what am I doing? So the first thing I do is I'm working through a book. So when I make a decision, like I mentioned the Epistles of John. So when I was starting my work on the Epistles of John, I'm grafting with the entire book and I spend a couple of weeks We're familiarizing myself with the outline, the structure, and first John, by the way, is really hard to outline. Uh so I'm trying to figure out what John's saying, how he's going about saying it, and what those keep and then breaking it out into uh preaching passages which seminary students are taught to call pericades. They are the they are the sections of the text that uh are kind of intended as not standalone per se because they're all interwoven and connected, but they preach on their own. There's and and there's there are clues and and and uh and and uh and words and things within the text that give you an indicator of where those shifts in the in the lessons being taught in the book happen. So you identify what where those moments are and you say, okay. So in some cases versus one and two is its own pericope. In other cases versus one through thirty-four are pericope. So it can it can be longer or shorter. And and then I wrestle with that pericope and I and I spend Uh I'll read it multiple times, meditate on it, try to pray through it. Uh sometimes different scripture ma uh passages will be called to mind and I'm like, oh, this reminds me of something that Paul wrote. This reminds me of something in in Leviticus or whatever and I want to check myself, see am I right and I'll bounce Yeah, okay, that's interesting. That's a connection. And And I'm just trying to work through it and then I'll have a loose outline. And then I'm kind of done for that day. And the next day I go back and I re read it again and I revisit my loose outline. I say, okay, was I on to something here Do I still agree that this is kind of the loose outline? And I firm it up and I say, okay, now this loose outline has become my outline. And then I start to uh draft the message. I start to think about, oh, for this point that's being made, I have a personal experience from my life 30 years ago that really helps to drive this point home. Or this is cultural reference from a movie or a song or a TV show or my next door neighbor tells a story or whatever Or things you just know to be commonly true about the average person's life and the kinds of stories that are true for all of us collectively. And I start to assign illustrations to certain points and then I flesh it out. And I don't fully write it, but it's Basically, it's all but written, if not on the page in my mind. And then at that point, I then start to interact and interface with the um uh with the various commentaries and stuff that are out there to to to see if how I've understood the the passage and the pericope uh falls within what the church historically has thought to be true. And I don't want to do that because it's going to necessarily change my mind. But if I've come up with oh this passage means this like I'm thinking obtuse example. Oh, this passage says we should go kill our next door neighbor. Oh, I'm going to preach on that. And then I read, you know, commentary after commentary that says, this passage is about saving the life of your neighbor. And I'm like, yeah, I thought it was about killing your neighbor. It's about saving the life of my neighbor. Really? Huh, maybe I got this wrong. Maybe I need to re-examine Uh and there have been a couple of times when, you know, my take on something is it's not unique, but it's in the minority view. And so sometimes the first two, three, four, five, six commentaries I'm interacting with are basically disagreeing with me and like, wow I I think I I possibly have this wrong and if I do, I mean that blows my mind because I'm so off base. I But I I I spent time a day and a half interacting with it and feeling like I got it. So I'm I'm still wanting to trust myself and I w and by the way that first day I'm not just reading English translations and various English translations, but I'm I'm using my Lagos uh tools to uh 'cause my uh Greek and Hebrew isn't as strong as it should be. Uh and so I'm using my my Lagos tools to help me interact with the original language to really come to grips. And so I'm pretty firm that I'm right. And so I keep studying until I can find some other respected good commentators. and and find a few examples of people who also agree with me and then I'm like, okay, I'm in the minority, but I'm not a heretic But usually what happens is the commentaries do kind of echo what I'm saying. It gives me that much more confidence that okay, what I figured out on my own is right and true. And so my illustrations are going to be good and I can put this forward with confidence. And in the process of interacting with the con with the commentaries on occasion Somebody will uh draw a connection to a quote from, you know, Jonas Edwards or whoever, and I'm like, oh, that's a really good quote. Maybe I'll use that In that sense, maybe I'm stealing somebody's work, right? But because they gave me the idea to use Jonathan Edwards' quote. But I'm not going to say I was reading a commentary by Ray Fava who then quoted Jonathan Edwards, so now I'm going to share that Jonathan Edwards quote with you. I'm not going to go so far as to do that. I don't think there's anything wrong with that. Well you miss one hundred percent of the shots you don't take Wayne Gretzky, Michael Scott. So that's kind of what my war way week looks looks like. So then I will flesh it out firmly. and uh and then I'm kind of done and then the week because I prepare it several weeks in advance, the week that I'm gonna be sharing it The days leading up to that, I'll pull out the notes and the and the ideas for that message, and I'll spend some time reviewing it for, you know I don't know, an hour every day if I say three or four days leading up to just to make sure it stays fresh in my mind because when I stand up and preach in the pulpit I want it to be top of mind so that it's coming from that place to my hearers' ears. It's coming from that place that I was when the idea hit me. So it has a freshness still, because that's the risk with doing things my way is six, eight weeks later or even four weeks later it can almost start to grow a little bit stale in the refrigerator, and so you gotta warm it up a little bit. And so I want to make sure I get there. That by the way is one of the problems with stealing somebody's work. Yeah, when I was first becoming a preacher, uh one of my most trusted mentors in my life, um he was you know, I was going to seminary training to be a pastor And he said, you know, you can be taught a lot of things and all of this can be good I'm sure. But the three things if you can remember three things from me, when you get in the pulpit, these are the three things I want you to remember. And I was like, Oh good, I'm gonna take notes, you know And uh and he said, first thing is every sermon you take the people to the cross. Every sermon. You take them to the c cross, because if you don't take them to the cross, you haven't preached the gospel That's what he's saying. Preach the gospel. Your need for Christ, your need for what he did at the cross. That has to be there. If you haven't if you haven't shared that message, you haven't preached. you've lectured. If it's not the gospel, it's not a sermon. It might be an interesting teaching, but it's not it's not a gospel proclamation, it's not preaching by an assay. So that's number one. Number two, he said, and this is really good and important for a guy like me He said, Don't try to say everything in every message. You know, you're going to do a lot of study and prep, and you're going to know so much about that passage. You could preach for ten hours if you wanted to. You gotta figure out what's most applicable, most relevant to your people in the moment and and in the series you're teaching or whatever. Don't try to say everything. Pick the things that need to be said for that week and say those things and only those things And then the third thing, and this is the point I'm kind of leading up to, the third thing is be yourself. Find your voice as a pastor and be faithful to being you in the pulpit because people if not immediately over time they will sniff out a fraud They will recognize something that's not authentic. They will recognize that you're trying to be something you're not. And in the case of stealing somebody else's work You're being something you're not. That's not authentic. You're not being yourself. You're not preaching in your voice. You're preaching in somebody else's voice. And that right there applies everywhere. Like, you know, you you said you worked in radio earlier and that certainly applies if you're gonna go live on the air, you can't just try to impersonate someone else, like me doing what I I'm doing here, I cannot just be someone else. Like I can't do my impersonation of what people want to hear. I just have to be myself. during this and you know it works the same way as a pastor because people will smell the in authentic inauthenticity. Yeah I'm gonna share with you something. This is gonna be uh free. I won't even charge you for it. Uh when I was in the radio business for a long time, a period of my of my career was on the pro programming side and I was part a big part of my responsibility was coaching the talent on the air. And uh it was a talk station that I was working at, so it's very applicable to what you're doing. You're kind of doing a radio show on the internet right now with some, you know, some video uh component added. But we're just talking heads. It's basically a a radio show with with uh with pictures. And what I would try to figure out with my my on-air talent I would it was like counseling sessions. My my coaching sessions, a lot of the time was spent trying to help them figure out who they are. And the reason I wanted them and they needed to figure out who they are is because on the air the successful talk show hosts Now it's the same for the DJs too for that matter. Those who are successful on the air, um people can have some success not doing this as well as they might, but the really successful ones at this They figure out who they are and they figure out how to consistently put the best version of themselves on the air every day So the trick first is to figure out who you are, and then the second thing is to figure out how to cultivate your skill and your talent in a way so that you're putting the best version of yourself. It's the same for pastors. Pastors get who you are, what's your voice And then so over time you you you develop a voice, you find your voice, you cra you you more well uh uh and consistently form what your voice is, and then you bring that voice into the pulpit And that's when you start to connect with the people. That's when you start hearing comments from the congregants like, wow, I felt like that sermon was preached just for me. It's like I was the only one in the room hearing you. Well, that happens because you found that spot and you it's it's impossible, you know, in today's world to to live there perfectly, but as often as you can you want to get there. And you can't do that when you're using somebody else's work. You just can't Now, yeah, one of the things that came to mind was I believe it was like either back in 2020 or 2019 Andy Stanley kind of famously claimed that you know if you're preaching expository messages, you know, you're cheating. Basically calling it easy. You're taking the easy way out. In my case, I was gonna ask your thoughts on that. No, like I said before, I have had I mean most of my sermons end up being expository. Uh but I've had occasion to preach some topical sermons and the topical sermons are way easier. What at the time when I said, you know, the time it takes me to do a sermon, I could prepare a topical sermon. I don't even know. I I probably could throw together throw together. I I think I could put together a pretty compelling, engaging, uh, relevant, and even gospel centered topical message. I don't know, in six or eight hours. I can't do it that fast expository. The the the labor, the time commitment is so much more. expository. Because the expository sermon here's these are the part that I didn't say because I didn't want to get bogged down the weeds. I'm not just wrestling with the text, if you're what the words on the page say. I'm surrounding I'm saying I'm paying attention to the surrounding text too because I want to know what the literary context is. But then I'm also, when I start engaging with the commentaries and I start doing and I engage with my with my uh my history books and stuff, I want to know what the the historical context is. I want to know what the geographical context is. I want to know what the moment in history was happening. What were what were the crises uh taking place in the uh in AD fifties uh in the Mediterranean region versus what was happening in the AD 90s in the Mediterranean region or whatever. These things are important to know and it takes time. A topical message, I don't even know any of that 'Cause I'm just talking about what's happening right now in the here and now and how it's going to speak to you. Because topical messages I mean maybe I'm being too trite about this, but topical messages typically how to be a better steward of your money How to have a better marriage, how to be a more biblical parent, uh, how to uh honor God in your work. Uh through those You know, we th those are the topical messages and they just recycle. It's the same thing over and over again. You know, twelve steps to this, eight steps to that. Um or something. Usually it's three in a good sermon. It's usually three points Or oftentimes you'll have somebody that will do a book of the Bible, but it ends up practically becoming a topical sermon because what they end up doing is they take a book of the Bible. Let's take the book of Revelation, which has come up already I've heard series on of Revelation that were like six weeks long. How do you do a series on the book of Revelation in six weeks? It's like It's impossible unless you're going to take these gigantic chunks, find a theme within that chunk, and just do a topical sermon on that theme. And say, yeah, I just covered, uh I just covered Revelation chapter 1 through 3 in one message. And now I'm going to do Revelation chapter 4 through 7 in one message. And I'm just going to pick a theme and do a topical message on that theme. And that's Fine as far as it goes. My concern is that's not going far enough. And people aren't learning the nitty-gritty and we end up getting way off the rails and we have a biblically illiterate congregation because maybe we've got some biblically illiterate pastors who aren't doing the heavy lifting to do the learning they need to do on their own. I don't know. Uh I wanna get your take on our reader comment because I'm not sure Um maybe the mis there's a misunderstanding here, but uh I'll read it out loud. I think you were conflating exposition with preaching in a series. It's not common It's not common in the circles I move in to preach through a series, but the sermons still expound the text chosen by the preacher. I think I don't think that these ideas are mutually exclusive. I just think you're describing your process of preaching sermons. Just they so happen to be in series? I'd have to go back and listen to exactly how I might have blended ideas here. So yeah, to be clear, and and it wasn't very clear, to be clear, expository the messages. I think you can just define it very simply. An expository message is a message that is explaining the truth of the text. Period full stop. So if I decide one week to do a sermon on Genesis chapter 4 and do an exposition of that, and then the very next week do a message on John chapter 8 and then the very next week do a message on Acts chapter 2. Those could all be expository because I'm explaining the truth of that particular text without going through a series But in addition to that, I was trying to explain that I like to work through uh books of the Bible in an expositional way as a series so that by the end of and the shorter books take less time. You can do a short book in a handful of weeks, you can do a long book in a year. But by the end of that time Mm the people that are sitting under my teaching and preaching are uh they're gonna have a really good understanding of what that particular book of the Bible really is saying because the wheel grappled with the full text. And I will say this, if you're bouncing around There's a reason that a lot of exposition not all, there are ex-clearly there's I think there's a significant minority of people that preach expositionally that uh that don't preach through books of the Bible. I think the major m in my experience anyway, maybe have a limited experience, but in my experience, the majority of expositional preachers tend to favor working through books of the Bible. And Part of that is I think a a guardrail. Because if you're not doing that, if you're bouncing around, you run into the same risk you run with uh the topical preachers run into. If I'm going to bounce around and do expositional uh sermons on various parts of the Bible, boy, how easy is it to avoid the parts of the Bible I don't want to preach on Uh I want to talk about that homosexuality 'cause that's the third rail of politics right now or or I don't want to go on this road So I'm just gonna avoid the debate completely. That is so easy to do. But working through the books of the Bible, it forces you to deal seriously expositionally with every text in the Bible over the course of a career. So yeah, I'm not trying to say that expositional uh preaching automatically must be working through book of the Bible. I'm just saying that working through Book of the Bible, it's hard to work through a book of the Bible and uh and do a topical message consistently. Well maybe not. I guess I mean we're sinful, we're creative. We'll find creative ways to to do things. I don't So I I I appreciate that comment and it gave me a chance for clarification. I don't know if I clarified or added more muddledness to it, but I I think that was a good clarification. Now another um Oh, let's uh get this comment in here. Because it mentions Sean MacArthur, so you know gotta comment on that. Yeah, that's another advantage, avoiding difficult topics that aren't politically correct. That's why MacArthur stays in trouble with the world. I don't listen to too many of his sermons, so I can't verify that. Uh, but you know, uh in a general sense I would say I'm a fan. Uh I I I think MacArthur does a lot of really good things and I have high respect for him. There's a couple of things that you know, this isn't about that, but since MacArthur's name came up and you know I I think we live in a spirit in a a a spirit of the age where it's important to uh to not only talk in generalities but to use specific examples and you know not to be calling people out unnecessarily but to name names. And MacArthur's a big enough name that I think it's uh he what he teaches and stands for is is pretty pretty well known by most uh in evangelical circles uh in this country. So I'll use him as an example. MacArthur does so many things well. I mean he he he has expositional approach. He works through for the most part books of the Bible. Uh he he works really hard to stay faithful to the text. He understands historical setting. He does a lot of things great. But definitely he's perfect. So we won't we don't want to make uh idols of our favorite pastors either, 'cause in my opinion, as great as I think MacArthur is, I think he's wrong and badly wrong in a couple of ways. One is persistent, I'll get myself in trouble with those who agree with him on this, but his uh animus towards the charismatic movement um I don't disagree with his theology, but the meanness of spirit towards people that I would count as brothers in Christ and sisters in Christ who happen to have a charismatic view. I argue with them. I have a radio show where I debate these issues and I will argue these issues with them, but it's not something that makes them not Christian. I think that they're I think that they're wrong, but they think I'm wrong. We can hash it out And the spirit behind a lot of what MacArthur has to say to the con to the conserv uh to the conservative, to the uh charismatic movement I I I don't think it's uh it's it's conducive to uh the body of Christ living in a wholeness. I I I wish he wasn't didn't have so much animus there. So I don't like that. And I will say this, this time last year, or it was around this time last year, uh when he was either just coming out of or was still wrong. Uh uh still wrong. It didn't happen till later in the month of July, but I know what you're talking about. So it's possible. Yes. Yeah. For like a three to four, five months period of time. He was wrong. You know, Dr. Bob wants to say that expositional preaching through the books of the Bible has a deep precedent in church history. Calvin preached line by line, verse by verse, subsequently throughout the Bible. And now I want to get to another category of preaching that I see that has come up a lot more. And I guess it would be a subcategory of topical preaching, but this idea of pastors writing books. and then preaching messages based on those books. Michael Todd did this with his book series. Or with his sermon series, relationship goals, which he then adapted into a book and then preached another sermon series on that book. And Levi Lesco du did this with the books that he started the and published. That's what I would ask. Why? You already preached it. Why are you preaching it again? Well, I yeah, I can't speak for Mike Todd. Like he's an obvious prosperity preacher. If somebody has a platform uh and that's enough people want to buy their books uh and they can turn their sermons into books and then get the message out in written form to people. I have no problem with that. I would probably have an issue if somebody writes the book first and then uses the sermon series as a marketing tool to try to sell more books. I would I would have a Uh I I would have some questions about that. I think that's where the question of love of money comes from. Like it's one thing for uh John MacArthur to use him as an example again to have someone ghost adapt his sermons in the books Yeah, that's one thing. It's another thing to write a book, then do a sermon series based on that book to get your congregants and perhaps other people to buy that book from you because you have a captive audience. So I think that's another issue that comes up specifically within the mega church movement And you know, I don't think it's wrong for pastors to write a book, but you know, the book that you should be preaching on on a Sunday morning is the book. Yeah. And by the way, in reference to the comment that uh the the viewer, the commenter had about, you know, where there's a long history of uh ex expositional preaching and John Calvin my words by verse and all that, and that's true, but I I um Yeah. Ray, you know me outside of even uh this thing that we're doing here, so you I think you know this to be true of me, that uh I want to be fair, fully fair to what is the absolute truth of a situation. And so while what the commenter said is true It's also true that somebody wants to make put up their dukes and fight over topical preaching could find ample evidence of a thread through church history of a lot of topical messages taking place. It's very much the uh the the the homily, kind of the Roman Catholic homily method where they kinda uh pick a topic and and uh and they have a practical application tied to that topic. It's very common, it has deep roots Um so I think that some of the more um uh uh muscular preaching traditions uh come from ex expositional tradition. So if if that was the point he was making, I would agree. I would say that the the the the best Long-lived most helpful kinds of sermons we have preserved for us today would be the expositional sermons for exactly the reason we're talking about before. It helps us to understand the text We have so many Christians right now that don't understand what the Bible says. And I know this is a you know a buzzword, a negative buzzword in the postmodern culture. But we can't begin to understand the meta-narrative of Scripture. I know the postmodernists don't like meta-narrative, but I'm sorry, there's a meta-narrative to history, that's just truth And there's a meta-narrative to the arc of how the Bible uh teaches that to us. That is just truth. And you can't begin to grapple with that meta-narrative if you don't understand what the specific text is saying. And so we have pastors that aren't wrestling what the text is saying, so they're not teaching the people understand what the text is saying. And so then they grapple with something you know, in a th in one of those hard to understand passages. And by hard, I don't necessarily mean hard to understand like intellectually. I mean hard to understand emotionally like this is hard. I don't want to believe this is true. How could this be true? I I I oh my gosh, my faith is now shaken because it sounds like God's a big old meaning. But if you understand the whole arc and what the text throughout Scripture is saying, you're equipped to come to terms with, oh, I know why this text about God being a big old meanie is actually not about God being a meanie, but it's about him expressing his love through judgment that comes out in a way that is his vengeance expressed. And that his vengeance is actually love because he's defending what is good and right and proper. And uh he's defending his truth and his honor. And he's defending his own honor and glory. Why? Because then he wants to then share that honor and glory with us So him defending his treasure is defending our treasure. And so when he's doing those big meanie things, he's doing it out of love for his people. Well that makes that's a totally different kind of understanding that you miss if you haven't grappled with all of the texts of Scripture to get to that place And it's just about how to manage your money and be a better parent and have a loving marriage and be a good worker for your boss and have series like that endlessly. Those things are important, and those things can be used as illustrations within an expositional sermon and say, here's a good opportunity for me to bring up a point that has to do with husbands and wives. That can be totally fine Uh and as a Sunday school lesson, maybe that's totally fine. Or in a men's group or women's group thing, that can be totally fine. But from the pulpit we used to see heralding the gospel, it's not so fine. In my opinion, for what it's worth. Alright. It looks like we have one question already. Uh whether dispensationalists tend to do topical sermons whereas covenant guys tend to do exposit exposition preaching. Do you think there's a tendency? Do you think there's a correlation? Well I'll say this. I haven't done a uh a research study on that to see if But I I do I will say this, and I and I've never thought about making that connection until now, so this is totally off the cuff here, but it feels to me like the dispensational uh view would perhaps lend itself more to that because the dispensational Dispensational view is more focused on end time prophetic teaching, and so they're looking for things happening in the news and in the culture and in the happenings around us. So they might have more of a natural inclination, if not tendency, uh uh to to go in that direction. So I could see that as possibly true Okay, interesting, because I I had never made that connection either. So I I just found that fascinating to see if that was true or not. So um uh since we're closing things up, uh tell the audience where you can be found. Yeah, I'll do that. And by the way, there's one thing I did wanna to uh mention really quick before we c we close out. And um 'Cause I've been paying attention to this debate with the plagiarism and all that sort of stuff, and I I started out our conversation by saying, look, we want to be careful to to to clarify and define our terms What are we meaning to say? What do we mean by plagiarism? And if what we mean is theft of intellectual property, that's fine because we can then turn to, as a good expositional uh pastor, Can go to the text. What does the text say? Stealing. Bad. Don't do it. Avoid stealing. Be a generous giver. Don't steal. So if you're stealing somebody's intellectual property, that is a sin. It's not a sin because you've plagiarized per se. You've sinned because you've stolen. And so I want to make that clarification because There are ample examples from Scripture that stealing is bad and wrong. But there's not a clear cut scriptural proof text, if you will, about plagiarism per se. And the closest thing I think that we get would be in Jeremiah chapter 23. I've heard a few people on different platforms Try to use Jeremiah 23, I think it's verse 30 specifically, that talks about uh God being against those prophets whose steal my words from each other. And so see, the God's prophets aren't to steal each other's words and use them. But holy cow, that's making the error of of what what the topical preachers can be prone to, being prone to a tendency towards eisegesis. You've got this idea in mind and you've got to find a text that fits your idea and you start to make the text mean what you need it to mean to make your case and you're reading into the text. And and you need to be useing uh not isegesis, but exegesis. You need to be pulling out of the text what it's saying. And the way to figure that out is to look at the broader context. And if you read uh that chapter of Jeremiah, if you read I I will challenge you later on, after you're done watching this, read Jeremiah twenty-three and you tell me if you think that verse thirty is telling pastors and prophets not to plagiarize each other. Because my reading of that is the whole context is a rebuke against false prophets People saying, thus says the Lord, when the God when the Lord hasn't spoken, and putting themselves forward as those who are using God's truth. uh uh when they actually are using Satan's lie. And so they're saying, thus saith the Lord, when they're not, and I think when God says, look, the prophets who are stealing my words I uh from each other I think my understanding, and you know, I'm open to so I'll be paying attention to the comments on this if anyone wants to rebuke me on my understanding here and say, no, no, you're totally wrong. The point there is The true prophets of God should be giving God's people the truth, the truth of His word. Of giving God's people God's truth, these false prophets, they're stealing God's word It's not that I'm taking somebody else's intellectual property and reapplying it. That's not the context of that text at all. It's about people being told lies instead of the truth. It's like stealing the food from the baby. uh and asking him to live on turpentine instead of living on actual food. I I I think that's the context. So I don't think we have a proof text against repurposing and using somebody else's work and I would argue Well other than the eighth commandment I would I would imagine. Right? If it's stealing. But if I'm quoting someone, if somebody gives me an illustration that I then use or gives me permission to repurpose what they've used, that's not stealing. And so that wouldn't be against the commandments. And so is it a violation of God's word to me is it to merely repurpose if you haven't in fact stolen. And I would argue we want to be careful because scripture itself might fail that test. We've got uh we've mentioned Revelation a couple of times. The Apostle John, who I believe is the author of the book of Revelation. The Apostle John is quote unquote borrowing, repurposing illusions and teachings and and images and illustrations and analogies from the Old Testament like it's going out of style. I mean he's using probably more than a more than a dozen uh he's lifting more than a dozen things from the Old Testament and putting to use for his purposes in the book of Revelation. Is he a plagiarist? When Matthew is borrowing heavily from the Hebrew scriptures in his gospel account, without attribution, Is he plagiarizing or is he just repurposing? Or, you know, the people talk about Well, I I think you make it make your point pretty well that we shouldn't do eisegesis to rebuke sin. And I think that Yeah, that that doesn't just apply to this issue with Ed Litton. I think that applies to everything in you know any any kind of sin. We shouldn't do eisegesis ever, even if it's for a good cause, like rebuking sin Uh one of the Yeah, if you do if if you do isegesis, what you're doing is you're buying into critical uh scholarship, you know, higher criticism where And that was modern instructing. Yeah. So you're basically saying I'm going to decide what this passage means and I I as the reader get to do that because the reader is is the one who brings the truth to to the words on the page as opposed to authorial intent. So exegesis is authorial intent, isegesis is reader intent. One last uh question that has to do with whether easis or e exp expositional preaching Um and how the spirit laying a verse on a preacher's heart, what is the relationship between that? Do you see there's a contradiction? in doing like a sermon series model, whether expositional or even topical. And the idea that it is uh the spirit laying a verse on a preacher's heart, do you see a contradiction there? Or what do you think the relationship is between those two? Uh activities. I want to make sure that I'm properly understanding because I'm not sure that I'm fully comprehending what's intended to be asked of me. Are you saying that there's like if a uh a a pastor is um The regular habit might be to do things my way, but then has this moment where he's thunderstruck with, oh my gosh, the pastors It's almost as though I audibly heard God's voice and he told me I need to preach on this instead. Is that what you're talking about? Uh I'm I'm trying to understand the reader's question, but I believe it's in the the idea being that you know, they feel led to preach on a certain passage of scripture and maybe they're already in the series, what do you think about that type of thing? You know, just go with the Yeah. Okay, so no, uh can you clarify? Clarify. I I I'd I'd take a stab at what I think might be being said there, and I would say that on the face of it, if a pastor feels something burdening his heart, that my people need to hear something, you know, something's happening in the surrounding culture and the community within you with within which you live or your church life or something. There's something that's gonna trigger the pastor to feel motivated to to maybe deviate from plan and do something else. We actually talked a little bit about that with like 911 happening or something. Um so that's totally fine. I will say though, a word of caution is um How do I want to say this? I'm trying to uh think of the right way to say. I would be concerned about some sort of a hyper-spirituality Uh I've been in too many situations where somebody comes up to me and says, Oh, I've got a word from the Lord for you. Oh yeah, what's that? Uh it's that you should buy your own radio station and run it yourself. Oh interesting. Like this word from the Lord came about how and how could I test that against Scripture? How do I know this from It's you didn't just have some, you know, bad lasagna last night and uh it gave you this weird impression about what I should do with my life. This hyper spiritualized or or trusting upon ideas that are maybe perhaps merely uh formulated within our own mind and heart. Uh you know, there's a line from uh the the movie uh Fireproof where one of the firefighters says that the Kirk Cameron character, he he he tells them, Look, y you don't follow your heart. You need to lead your heart And what is it that we should Christians, what is it we should be leading our hearts with? We should be leading our hearts with God's Word. So if I'm studying Scripture and through my study of Scripture God's word and through the illumination of the Holy Spirit, I am then as the pastor led. I'm struck in the moment by God's word, like, wow, I need to preach on this this week. God God speaks me in my His Word. I can't fully explain it, but I'm that that instinct because it's coming I'm I'm in God's Word in the moment. That strikes me as different than I've got this ethereal feeling and a whim and you know what I'm gonna I'm gonna trust my whim and my gut instinct. On occasion, I think I'd be okay with that, but if that became my steady habit, I'd be concerned about if I was trusting God's word to lead me, or if I was trusting my own broken, fallen, dark uh still being uh sanctified heart to lead me. Alrighty. I think that uh hopefully uh covered that sufficiently enough and I think uh That's all we got for today. Just tell the audience where you can be found and just more about what you do. Well the easiest place to find me is probably go to my church's website, which is Household of Faith. in Christ. I know it's kind of a mouthful, but I felt like it'd be easiest just to have the church name be the web address. So it's household of faith in Christ dot com There you'll feel to connect with uh all the the various social media that uh that that I've got out there, uh podcasts of of uh not just sermon messages but also the radio shows I've been hosting for the last seven years a radio program called The Faith Debate. It's a uh 25-minute weekly show that's a panel discussion about various uh topics and hot issues and and uh spiritual debates and Christian sometimes their the panel is me and a Christian pastor and a Buddhist or a Muslim or a Jew or a Hindu or an atheist or whatever Uh uh so we're talking about it's kind of an interface dialogue and we're talking about Christian teaching versus non-Christian teaching in those shows. Or if sometimes it's a Christian pastor and another Christian pastor, and we're having kind of an in-house, intramural uh discussion about, you know, things like baptism or uh or even the kind of things we're talking about or what's happening you know in and with uh and surrounding the Lord's Supper or you know those kinds of things And you told me you were relaunching you're getting ready to relaunch that. Yeah, we're gonna so uh the the show in seventeen years has gone through a couple of minor facelifts and we're about to experience another minor facelift. So uh Starting with the first uh the first week of September, uh the show is gonna have a slightly different uh um format on take. The general format was the same, but specifically the big change is it's going to be a steady diet of the same panelists. So it's going to be me and there's three guys that have agreed to be on the panel with me recurringly. Every show will be either all three of those guys or at least two of those three guys if somebody can't make it And it's going to be the same guys giving our perspective. And the reason I'm doing that is I I'm I'm feeling like in today's environment it's helpful for people to have what they can grow to uh lean on as trusted resources. And I want people to hopefully if they agree with my my take on things and the people who are on this panel that they'll be like, you know, these guys are serious discussers. They're talking about tough stuff and they're doing their darndest to do it biblically. And I I feel like I can trust where they're coming from and where their heart is. And so I'm gonna incorporate them into our habit of social media consumption because I'm getting good stuff from them. I can trust them. Whereas the old version of the show You know, sometimes the non-Christian viewpoint ended up getting more time and it was a little bit more dominant. Um now always the truth, because I was the host of the show, always the truth would be expressed and would be given at least some sort of a fair hurt hearing. But it wasn't ex it wasn't exclusively, here's the issue, here's the Bible says about it. It was a lot of, here's the issue, what does Hinduism say about it? Oh, well, as a retort to that, here's what the Bible says about it. So it was more of a mix. And there's so much confusion right now, I feel like it's better to have you know three or four guys that are all equally committed to the truth of the scriptures, the inerrancy of the scriptures, grappling honestly. it with the scriptures in a way that will be edifying and helpful to other people. So that that's gonna starting in September, the show, the Faith Debate Show. And the easiest way to find the Faith Debate Show is to go to the household of faith in Christ dot com website And you can find a link to the faith debate there. That'd be the easy thing. All right. I'll be sure to link that. Again, my name is Ray. This is the Evangelical Dark Web. If you like this kind of content, subscribe to the channel and also check out evangelicaldarkweb. Or that will be linked in the description as well. Have a blessed day. Thank you for all your comments and comment below after this live stream. Let me know what you think about what I think and what Troy thinks. And I will catch you on the next one. Scoplas