Hello, I think we're on. Are we on? It's kinda dark. Let me turn on light. So is that better? I don't know if that's better or not. Well hello. Uh it's just after six o'clock, so we already have started with our uh first official household of faith in Christ. Uh faith Facebook Live video. I've asked Angela to open us in prayer. She's going to do that in a moment. And Dina's going to have a song later and we're going to have a lesson and another time. of prayer and uh and even a joke so stay tuned for that anyway Angela would you open us gracious heavenly father we thank you Lord for another opportunity To come together and fellowship and honor the name of Jesus Christ. We thank you for all that you've given us during these trying times, Lord. We are reminded how Lest we are despite the circumstances, and we are grateful. We invite the presence of your Holy Spirit during this time together, Lord, to teach and to guide. And to comfort and give direction. And we thank you for the precious gift of your spirit. And we dedicate this time to you in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. So I want to read something. It's the uh the opening portion of something that's titled Dear Pastor, Please Open Your Church, written by Joel Levin out in California. California and uh the the first couple of paragraphs have a subtitle called An Urgent Plea for Unity. So let me start with that and then we'll have our joke and some official formal announcements I want to begin by clearly stating my motives for this letter. One, to persuade all Christians, the church, not merely individual believers themselves, but the gathered assembly of these believers And two, to achieve and preserve unity among the Followers of Christ. In regards to achieving and preserving unity, it's important to note that there are at least two methods of accomplishing this task. One, one method is by extending charity in the Minster of And due to the unprecedented nature of the recent events surrounding COVID nineteen, I believe that disagreements among believers in this season is certainly However, by making this statement, I'm not saying that the Bible doesn't speak to the present challenges we're facing. Undoubtedly, there are both right and wrong answers to our questions And therefore, in our attempts to extend charity toward one another during this season, we must be careful to avoid the type of language that affirms the moral relativism which faithful Christians have worked so hard to fight against Again, throughout the previous years. And two, the other method of achieving and preserving unity in the church is powerful and persuasive preaching. Charity in the midst of disagreement certainly helps to preserve unity But the greatest way to achieve unity in a local church is for its members to actually be persuaded of the same position. For example, my local church, the Response Church, located in San Diego, California, currently possesses an incredibly high degree of unity in regards to our views of soteriology, which is the doctrine of salvation This is due in part to the fact that our church allows for its members to disagree with a few specific doctrines which relate to soteriology, such as However, it's fair to assume that the lion's share of unity which our church currently possesses on this matter is due to the fact that the vast majority of our members Actually hold to the same doctrinal positions. And so the question is this: did all of our members who agree on these particular issues initially arrive at our church already in agreement? The answer is an emphatic no. It is true that many people come to our church precisely because they are searching for a reformed church. However, it's also true that dozens of our members strongly disagreed with the question of quote unquote doctrines of grace when they first arrived. And yet over time these individuals were won over through multiple conversations with their pastors. However, in hearing the testimonies of dozens of both past and present members, it is blatantly apparent that the greatest factor in winning over the episode. Powerful and persuasive preaching is a fine art. It's incredibly difficult to achieve the art of persuasion while carefully avoiding un That said, I ask that you would please extend charity toward me as I attempt by God's grace to make powerful and persuasive arguments for why churches should be a very good idea. should resume gathering on the Lord's day while doing my best to maintain charity toward those who disagree with my position. In short, my goal is not to merely win an argument. My goal is to win you. And so I'll explain what's going on here to me in a second, but I'm gonna let the dog out while we hear a joke. Come on, Asian stop So what we got? Okay. They're laughing at me because it's such a short joke and I still had to look it up What's Irish and comes out in spring? What is Irish and comes out in spring? Patio furniture. Patty O Furniture. Yes. I went to high school with her. The O Furniture family is wonderful. All right. They're good people. I'm gonna need yeah, I'm gonna get back in just a second. Are there any uh uh special announcements you wanted to make? Uh no. Okay. So what we're gonna do this week and in the in the coming week assuming that we continue to do this and the reason I put it that way is I'm you know this is new to us. Um we've got some traction. I want to see if we maintain that traction, maybe even build some momentum. I look to see We did not do a Facebook Live last week. Instead, I posted a uh a sermon from a church service from a couple of years ago where I preached and uh had that posted for people to watch and according to the YouTube channel uh looks like fourteen people watched it. Well or fourteen people uh uh fourteen sessions were started. I don't know how many people might have been watching at it time like I know in Florida my my mom and and sister and nephew are are watching and that would count as one view and yet there's three of them. So there's at least fourteen people I guess it took In last week's message, maybe that translates to twenty or thirty, I have no idea. If that's the case, then maybe it's worth us doing this. Uh and if that dwindles down and it's just, you know, uh expending a bunch of energy for no particular the reason then you know I need to be uh be cognizant of that as well. So uh but what we're doing this week and the weeks to come and maybe for a long stretch as long as I get questions throwing at We're going to tackle questions that people have on their mind and provide what we uh intend to be, hope to be scriptural responses. And so this week the question is: should churches Reopen uh right now. Another question that we'll tackle next week is if Jesus were around today, would he wear a mask? And then in the weeks following that, we're going to uh we're going to tackle the question of uh what happens uh to us, with us, with people, uh humans, when they die. They immediately go to heaven. Do they do they sleep? Do they immediately go to hell? We're gonna talk tackle that question. And then we're gonna talk about uh end times uh perspectives. Uh the most dominant view uh in America on end times is dispensationalism. Uh the most dominant view worldwide would be uh millennialism. historically for a long time, the most dominant view was post-millennialism. We're going to talk about what some of those things uh are so you understand what people are saying um when they talk about uh the last days. So those are things that are coming up in the weeks ahead, but for this week we're focusing on the question of should churches be open and if they're currently closed, should They open back up. And I'm using now I've talked about this at length, to be honest, for over the last month and a half, two months, something like that, uh recurringly. Much of what I've had to say in my thinking on this is represented by This um this article that I've begun to read, this letter, this open letter to churches everywhere and Christians everywhere. Um there's a couple of things that are mentioned in here that are different than what I I have shared or in addition to some things that I have shared. It's very thoughtful, very measured, and uh references a lot of scripture. I think it's going to be very helpful. And so the the question uh Um as we know there are there's there's a battle going on. Uh pastors are being fined, um maybe even imprisoned for deciding What does the Bible have to say about it? And I think I think this captures that pretty well. So I'm now going to read the next section of this opening of this letter. I just read the opening part to start And this section is subtitled, Church is Both Essential and Unique. Allow me to be abundantly clear. I firmly believe with every fiber of my being that the church, not merely individual, individual believers themselves, but gathered assemblies of these believers on the Lord's Day for the administrating of the ordinary means of grace is absolutely essential. However, this statement is not meant to convey that I believe the gathering of the church is essential under any and all circumstances. Members of our church with a sniper rifle, we would immediately and happily comply, submit to these civil magistrates and their instructions. If the mayor of San Diego announced on a Saturday evening that there was a tsunami of biblical proportions heading straight for the city and that anyone who remained within the city limits would be wiped out entirely, we would immediately and happily cancel our Lord's Day gathering so that all of our members could di divert their efforts towards However, an important detail to recognize in both of these scenarios is that under these circumstances, all other institutions, grocery stores, driver through restaurants, parks, and so forth would be deemed non-essential as well. However, in the case of COVID-19, churches have been deemed by the civil authorities As non-essential, well, other establishments, grocery stores, drive-thru restaurants, parks, and so forth, have been deemed essential. Sadly, it's quite possible that one of the reasons there has been so little pushback By the American Evangelical Church in regards to this decision is because many Christians in our nation have held a low view of the gathered assembly on the Lord's Day. To our shame, many Christians in our nation have actually been completely content to miss multiple Sunday gatherings for a whole host of substantially lesser reasons. Vacations, sports, travel. If a person is comfortable with missing upwards of ten Lord's Day gatherings in a year for such petty reasons, certainly they will struggle To understand why pastors such as myself are making such a big deal about missing six or seven weeks of church in the midst of a pandemic. However, even if Christians are convinced that the weekly gatherings of the saints is essential, they may still remain suspicious of its true necessity. This is due to the fact that although some Christians may be willing to confess that church is essential, they still fail to recognize that church is unique. In our day, there appears to be an alarming amount of Christians who are simply unaware of the fact that what occurs in the gathered assembly on the sa of the saints on the Lord's Day is categorically distinct from what individual Christians do always week long in their personal practices of piety, which might include scripture reading, prayer, fasting, catechizing their children, etc. Therefore, pastors must labor diligently to teach their congregation. That when we come together on the Lord's Day, we do not merely experience the heightened benefits of individual Christian practices due to the reality. of being surrounded by many other brothers and sisters in Christ. Instead, what takes place in the gathered assembly is a spiritual reality which occurs in no other context. According to Scripture, when true churches, Orthodox churches faithfully proclaiming the gospel message, gather together on the Lord's day and rightly administer the ordinary means of grace which Publicly preaching the word, publicly praying the word, corporately singing the word, and corporately seeing the word in the sacraments of the Lord's Supper and baptism. Christ Himself begins to walk among the Lampstands and the lampstands are the churches themselves and hold the angels of these churches in his right hand. The angels are the gospel ministers who have been tasked with the And as these gospel ministers begin to preach, while being held in Christ's right hand, a double-edged sword is extended from the mouth. mouth of Christ himself and begins to pierce the hearts of men. There's an allusion there to Revelation chapter 1, verses 10 through 16. In addition to this, in Matthew 18, verses 17 through 20, we find another biblical text which illustrates both the essential and the unique nature of the church. If the impenitent church member currently under formal church discipline refuses to listen to the two or three witnesses who have confronted And if he refuses to listen even to the church, let him be to you as a Gentile and as a tax collector. Truly I say to you, whatever the gathered assembly of the church binds Again I say to you, if two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. For where two or three are gathered in my name, a true church, there am I among them. According to Jesus, two or three baptized believers who have made a public and credible profession of faith and have covenanted with one another to fulfilling the Great Commission in unity, which includes following all of Christ's commands and teaching others to do likewise, constitutes a true truth. Church. And when true churches gather in Jesus' name, there is Christ among them. In other words, Christ who is always present with believers, all believers, by virtue of the indwelling. ministry of the Holy Spirit is present in a unique way only in the context of the gathered church. So when the saints physically gather with one another in worship on the Lord's Day, they are doing nothing less than coming together to meet with Christ. in a particular way, which does not occur anywhere else on earth. And not only are we gathering to meet with Christ, but we are gathering to offer him our Worship and receive from him a word. First Peter 4 11 says, Whoever speaks should speak as one who speaks the very oracles of God. And Matthew chapter 4, the first four verses. say, when Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil, and after fasting forty days and forty nights he was hungry, and the tempter came and said to him, You are the Son of God, command these stones But Jesus answered, it is written, man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes from the mouth. of God. Therefore, according to Jesus, if physical bread, i. e. , grocery stores, are deemed essential. Spiritual bread, i. e. , every word that comes from the mouth of God, must be deemed as even more essential By the people of God. Now, it's unquestionably true that Christians have been granted the immense privilege of receiving a word from the mouth of God in the context of their private practice of piety. Again, reading the scripture at home as individuals or with family and friends. However, as we've already seen in Revelation chapter 1, verses 10 through Through 16, there is a a word, a double-edged sword, which comes from the mouth of God, out of the mouth of Christ, when the lampstand is lit, the church is gathered, and Christ begins to walk Amidst the lampstands. Jesus is spiritually present with the church in a unique way. When Jesus says to Satan in the wilderness that man shall not live by bread alone But by every word that comes from the mouth of God, he does not specify which word he's referring to, and therefore it is both reasonable and prudent for Christians to assume that both of these words are vital for the the sustaining of our souls. In order for Christians to spiritually survive, much less spiritually thrive, we must not only be diligent to study and meditate upon God's word privately. But we must also humbly and joyfully receive God's word as it is publicly proclaimed in the assembly of the saints on the Lord's day. day. In fact, a convincing argument can be made that for almost 1500 years, followers of Christ were only able to receive God's word in the world. Times where the church immensely suffered by not having the scripture available for private use, it appears that God has sustained his people through the administering of the ordinary means of grace. on the Lord's day in a way which he has not through private scripture reading, apart from the gathered assembly. Furthermore, Jesus also says in John chapter 6, verses 2 Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. I am the bread of the Again, if Christ Himself is the true bread of life, which all Christians desperately need in order to be able to do that, to spiritually live. And Christ promises to be present in a unique way when the church gathers together, as it says in Matthew 18, verse 20 Then certainly this gathering must be considered both unique and essential by those who profess to be followers of Jesus. Jesus. In 2 Chronicles 7 verse 14, we find these words, if my people who are called by my name humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways. Then I will hear from heaven and will forgive their sin and heal their land. Of course, there is a sense in which the people of God may humble themselves and repent of their sins individually. However, there is also a sense in which This humbling, repenting, and seeking of God must be performed corporately. Ironically, it seems as though one of the most effective ways that the people of God can work toward ending the destruction of the coronavirus as well as the destruction of some of the foolish reactions to the coronavirus is by carefully gathering Together on the Lord's day, crying out to God in humility and repentance, and pleading with Him that He might heal our land. So I'm going to take a pause from the letter there, and we're going to do that now. We're going to go to God and plead with Him And repent before him as a gathered body here. There's two or three of us gathered here. So we're going to do that now. Wanna open? And then Angela, if you're glad you can pray, and then I'll close. Oh. Father, thank you for the privilege of being able to gather in your presence. so that we can seek your forgiveness, seek your will, seek your healing, seek you. Thank you for being our sustenance. Thank you for being our bread of life. We ask that she would cleanse us, that she would call to mind things that are sinful in our own lives individually, but also sinful for us corporately, that we might repent. Turn from that, that we might seek you, that you would heal us. Father, we pray as we confess these things individually and corporately, that we could a step further and not only confess because you call us to repent and that is an about faith. So I do ask that you would forgive our land for being so quick to toss you aside but not toss um you know being upset about going to a football game or not that there's anything wrong with that but there's so much more outcry over those things as opposed to the outcry that you deserve for trying to seek you. So please forgive us. We are nation who has flown away. We are like the church that has become lukewarm and you just want to spit us out and I ask for forgiveness. It would be better actually if we were completely and totally opposed to you or completely and totally on fire for you. It's the lukewarm that you detest so much and that's exactly what we are. Oh, we're fine with taking church virtually, oh we're fine with just watching it. We truly are as a nation and that's and that's so sad. That is so so very sad. That has troubled my spirit terribly And I ask for forgiveness that we've settled for that. That we've settled for that, thinking that that's good enough. You are a holy God, you are deserving of worship You are deserving of our heart, mind, body, soul, every you're deserving of all of us. And so we have failed you. But thankfully you are faithful. We are not, but you are faithful. Bring glory to yourself even from this. Ask that you would call us back to you. I pray for revival in this land. I pray, Father, that you would do it quickly, that you would come quickly. Father, I pray that you do this in your mighty name. Amen. Father, I agree with my sister Nina's prayer, Lord. We are in desperate need of revival in this land. Lord, there's so much that's going on that is terribly painful to you, Lord. Um you weep over this land, Lord God, you look upon it. the sin Lord God and you want to save America want to save us from ourselves. Um Lord we invite your spirit, your people who are serious about relationship with you. We your people, Lord, whom you have sensitized. and tenderized us, Lord, through the various things that we've gone through. We know, Lord, that you are the answer, Lord Jesus. You're the answer. to everything Lord God you're the answer to the division or God you're the answer to the lukewarmness you're the answer to everything Lord we invite you we we your people who are serious about knowing you and living for you Lord we invite you to sit as king of this nation Because you are the sovereign God. Your word says the earth is yours and all therein, Lord God. This earth, this piece of real estate called planet earth is your possession because you created it and we are your people And so Lord, we as your people, we pray to you, the sovereign of all of the entire universe. We invite you back in where disobedience And rebellious men have told you to leave. We invite you back in. And we ask you to have your way in this United States of America that was founded as a Christian nation. Lord God, um, we do pray for people who are ruleborn, Lord God, to be convicted of that. And And to repent from that. But Lord God, regardless of what other people don't do, we your people who are committed to you and committed to your way. Because we know you are the way, the truth, and the life. We invite you back in. And we'd ask, Lord Jesus, have your way. The enemy has had his way for far too long. And he is not even a legitimate leader of anything. He's just a rebel and a sinner. And so, Lord God, we are asking you as a sovereign to have your way in this country and we are uh asking you to put the devil beneath our feet the way your word says you will. We are asking you to crush him, Lord God, and to deny him, Lord God, and to um smack him down and um make him back off We are asking you to arise, arise, Almighty God, arise and let your enemies be scattered before you and take your rifle position as the sovereign of the universe and in particular specifically the God in whose name this nation was founded we are asking you to take your rightful position as king, regardless of what anybody else thinks about it. And so Lord, we are praying for salvation of them. who do not know you. Your word, Lord Jesus, you said that people would do. You list of so many things that people would do and you would say, and you said, they will do this, they will act this way because they have not known me nor my father. So Lord, we do pray that people would come to know you so that they would stop being, as your word says, possible in mind and sinful. The way that we used to be, actually. We pray for their salvation. But Lord God, it doesn't matter what people don't do. We are asking you. Not not in an ultimate way it doesn't. We are asking you to take your rival position as king um in our hearts first and foremost and then as the envisible King of this nation and we have the privilege of doing that because you are the true God. And that's not politically correct. But that is biblically correct and that is the truth. So, Lord, we are standing on the truth. We are asking you to move mightily. Mightily and stop all this evil and this corruption and this rebellion. Take your rightful place and let righteousness, let revival return. Almighty God, let's Righteousness return to this land and and stop all this rebellion and this cruelty that comes with it and injustice that comes with it. it. Lord, we are pleading with you because we as a nation, Lord God, there's only there's only two options. And we One of them is to not survive as a nation. And the other one is to survive as a nation, one nation under God. Those are the only two options before us. We want to survive as one nation under God. And we are pleading with you to make that happen. A King of Kings and Lord of Lords, we are pleading with you to please move my And make that happen in our land and save as many people as possible, as many as you will respond to your conviction, save them, Lord God. And the others you'll just have to to deal with but save and save people and save our land. And we ask this Father, we ask this in the mighty name. naturless name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Father, as we we pray for things of uh national concern and uh local and state government concern. We pray for the leaders there that they would uh they would seek your will, they would lean upon you if they do not know you. they would come to know you, that uh you would save those who are lost and you would uh lead down the path of righteousness those who are saved. And we know that uh Your people are tasked with helping to see that your will is done on earth as it is in heaven. And we ask that you would help us by the power of your spirit to be uh Better equipped, better motivated, and more diligently obedient and faithful in doing that. We pray for all Christians everywhere in this regard. We particularly pray for those who are ordained leaders in your church, the pastors who have a special call in their lives to lead and to teach the truth, to stand for the truth, and that they They would do so faithfully, always preaching the promise and hope of Christ, which chases away, casts out all fear It's in the name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Amen. So this next section that uh I'm going to share with you from This open letter that I've been reading is has a subtitle of A Word About Submission to Civil Authorities. Now, in terms of the Christian's duty to submit to civil authorities, it's It's important that we rightly interpret the whole of Scripture on this matter. Firstly, it's important to recognize that Romans thirteen says absolutely nothing about Christians being required by God to submit to Unrighteous rulings handed down by the civil magistrate. Christians would do well to submit to these civil governments. However, when we survey other scriptural texts, we quickly discover that there is a clear biblical principle for Christians submitting to civil authority. For instance, Rome was undoubtedly taxing its citizens at a rate that was wicked. In the sight of God. It was clearly unrighteous for the Roman Empire to demand that its citizens submit to this unreasonable taxation. And yet, when Jesus was questioned about this, he responded by saying Render unto Caesar the things that are Caesar's in Mark chapter twelve, verse seventeen. Therefore, although it was wrong for the civil magistrate to enforce such burdensome taxation, it was righteous for Christians in Rome to submit So we can say that Christians are biblically required to submit to the civil magistrate when it is ruling righteously, but also when it is ruling honorably. Righteously. However, the question which still remains is this is there ever a time in which Christians are not required to submit to the civil magistrate? straight. In order to answer this question faithfully, we must once more survey the whole of Scripture. In Exodus chapter 1, verses 16 and 17 we find these When you serve as midwife to the Hebrew women and see them on the birthing stool, if it is a son you shall kill him, but if it is a daughter, she shall live. But the midwives feared God and did not do as the king of Egypt commanded Commanded them, but let the male children live. This was certainly a righteous rebellion on the part of the Egyptian midwives against the king of Egypt, the highest Civil magistrate in the land at that time. Also Rahab refused to report the Hebrew spies in righteous defiance of the civil authorities at Jericho and Joshua. Chapter two. Furthermore, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego righteously rebelled against the king's edict when they were commanded to bow down and worship the golden image of the king In Daniel chapter 3. And in addition to this, we see that Daniel himself was also willing to righteously rebel in Daniel chapter 6, verses 7 through 10, which say, all the high officials of the kingdom The prefects and the satraps and the counselors and the governors are agreed that the king should establish an ordinance. And enforce an injunction that whoever makes petition to any God or man for thirty days, except to you, O king, shall be cast into the den of life When Daniel knew that the document had been signed, he went to his house, where he had windows in his upper chamber open toward Jerusalem. down on his knees three times a day and prayed and gave thanks before his God as he had done previously Therefore, when the decree of the king was ordered that forbid Daniel from continuing to act in obedience to his God, Daniel courageously chose To ignore it. And lastly, although more examples could certainly be given, it is important to remember that even the apostles chose to righteously rebel against the Jewish Council, which served as both a religious and civil authority for the Jews at that time. When the apostles were instructed not to preach in the name of Jesus any longer, They courageously and joyfully defied the authorities. That's in Acts chapter 5, verses 27 and 29. In the case of Daniel, it is worth noting that he didn't find it necessary to throw any extra punches toward the civil authorities of his day. However, notice that he was deliberate not to pull any punches either. Daniel was committed to praying three times a day with his windows open toward Jerusalem. This was in accordance with God's covenant found in 1 Kings 8, verses 27 through 30. The fact that Daniel's windows remained open was due to the substance of his worship. Not these circumstances of his worship. In first Kings chapter eight, verses twenty seven through thirty, God promised to hear the prayers of his people, even if they were held captive in a dis As it pertains to the New Testament church Church, the substance of our worship is preaching, prayer, singing, and the sacraments. These elements of worship cannot be changed by Christians. But the circumstances of our worship can be changed. For example, gathering in cars and parking lots may alter the circumstances. Circumstances of our worship, but live streaming at church's service actually changes the substance of worship. This is because the Bible clearly commands Christians to physically gather Together, for example, Hebrews chapter ten, verse twenty-five. However, the Bible does not command where, when, and how Christians should physically gather together. Now certainly there are some distinctions between these biblical examples and the recent rulings issued by our civil magistrates due to COVID-19 But for the sake of this argument, we must all admit that there is most assuredly a legitimate biblical category for Christians righteously rebelling. And therefore the task of those who desire to diligently obey the scripture is simply to determine the proper biblical criteria for when it is both appropriate And right for Christians to rebel. Some of us may be tempted to conclude from the previous biblical examples that the common denominator in each of these cases was that the people of God were being being specifically targeted rather than Christians and non-Christians both suffering side by side. However, this is simply not true. In the case of Daniel, the decree of King Darius made it illegal for anyone in all of his kingdom to pray to any God or to petition any man. This decree oppressed those who worshiped the true God right alongside everyone else. And in the case of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, it was exactly the same. The decree of King Nebuchadnezzar affected everyone in the whole kingdom, even the pagans who worshiped false gods. However, it is important to recognize that when governing authorities remove civil liberty Christians will always be affected more severely than others. And this is because we have been given clear commandments from God that must be obeyed. For example, in the case of King Nebuchadnezzar's decree, those who worshiped idols could simply add the king's statue to their list of False gods. Most of these pagans were polytheists, and therefore there was far less conflict in submitting to the king's demands. However, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego were committed to worshiping Yahweh alone. Similarly, in the New Testament, the church of the first century, Domitian ruled as emperor Of Domitian and bowed down before him as God. And once again, this was a blanket ruling that affected the whole population of the Roman Empire. But Christians were the ones who most frequently lost their lives due to their unparalleled allegiance to Christ. And so, in regards to the social restrictions against gathering Due to COVID nineteen, although it is true that all Americans are certainly affected, not all Americans are bound by an allegiance to Scripture, which clearly commands that we gather for corporate worship on the Lord's Day. In my assessment, it is nothing short of a tragedy to discover that some Christians in our nation actually believe that the only valid criteria For Christians righteously rebelling against the civil magistrate is if Christians are being exclusively targeted. If this belief were to be consistently applied to the Christians living in China in very recent years, we would have to say that these precious believers have been righteous regarding their decision to rebel against the civil magistrate in order to gather in under underground house churches, but they've been sinful regarding their decision not to submit to the civil magistrates by handing over their quote unquote extra children to be murdered by forced abortions by the civil authorities due to China's one child policy. When we speak of the importance of exercising charity, certainly we should all agree that holding a position that condemns Any and all rebellion against the civil magistrates, so long as Christians are not being singled out, is far from charitable. If it was not righteous for Chinese parents to seek to hide their extra children from a communist regime which sought to murder them, then I'm not sure I know what righteousness even is is. And yet we must recognize that the one-child policy of China was applied evenly across the board. In other words, this grotesque law did not single out Christians. A further problem with this view is that if single out Christians is the only valid criteria for righteously choosing to realize Rebell. The civil authorities can simply do what they have always done through the church history. And in order for Christians to have the biblical option of rebelling, we must then be able to somehow infallibly discern the hidden motives of all the governing officials involved. It's true that in the case of Daniel, as well as with Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, there were malicious officials serving as counselors. to the king who desired to see the downfall of this godly man. These wicked officials worked hard in order to influence the king to establish foolish laws that would affect those who feared God. In much more significant ways than others. However, we only know the wicked motives of these civil officials because it's been recorded for us in Scripture. In all fairness, these laws, although they were inspired by sinful officials, Officials who aimed at the persecution of godly men actually affected all types of people, not merely worshippers of Yahweh. If anyone did not bow down and worship of the King's death They would be cast into the fiery furnace. And likewise, if anyone of any religion prayed to any God, or even if an atheist petitioned Any man other than the King Darius for thirty days, they would be thrown to the lions. There were likely many religious people at that time who urged one another to To simply submit to the king's edict. Perhaps they said something like this: you know, the king, he's promised that the restrictions against prayer will only last for 30 days. Surely it's reasonable to simply be patient During this season, as we seek to humbly submit to those who are in positions of civil authority, in regards to our own civil magistrates, ruling against the churches During this present crisis, the reality is that we simply do not know what motives some of these officials had when influencing these decisions. As it currently stands, schools will be permitted to open in California several weeks, if not months, before churches. And although parking lot services are now legal in the state of California. I personally just spoke with a pastor who does not have a parking lot and has not been able to gain Permission for his church to use any other parking lot. So do the civil officials responsible for influencing this decision have wicked motives against the people of God? We can't say with absolute certainty. However, it's quite possible, especially in my state of California. Therefore, it's both unbiblical and illogical to hold to the position that Christians being definitively singled out is the only valid biblical criteria for rebelling against the civil magistrate. Instead, the clearest common denominator found in each of the biblical examples of righteously rebelling against The civil magistrate is this. Both men and women who feared the Lord righteously chose to rebel against the civil authorities wherever those officials required them to quote unquote partake of something that God clearly forbids or forsake something that God clearly commands. This is the only clear biblical criteria for determining when it's appropriate And right for Christians to rebel. And therefore, we must fairly consider whether or not the specific ruling in question requires Christians to disobey God's word. And so the question for the for us is this. Does God, by the agency of his word, command us to regularly attend church? The correct answer, of course, is an emphatic yes. This is demonstrated by Hebrews chapter 3, verses 12 and 13. Cross-reference with Hebrews chapter 10, verses 25. and twenty-five, multiple other biblical texts, and the overwhelmingly unified witness of church history. Therefore, in order for Christians to forsake the gathering in a manner manner that is acceptable before God, there must be a biblical reason for doing so, and this biblical reason must be something more than merely chanting Romans 13 and An incantation and then framing the most recent document signed by Governor Calvin Newsom in California on our bedroom walls. Perhaps the current challenges we're facing require a little more complex thought than this. Again, we must recognize that Romans 13 says nothing about subs submitting to governing officials when their decisions are not right And it must assured it most assuredly says nothing about submitting to governing officials when their laws require the the people who are Christians to forsake something which God clearly commands. As a final note on this point, it's vital for us to recognize that as Christians in America, we're not subjects in a mar Instead, we're citizens of a republic. We're not ultimately subject to a sovereign human official because the highest civil magistrate in our land is not a a human official, but a document, the Constitution of the United States of America. And therefore a reasonable argument can be made for Christians righteously rebelling against lesser civil magistrates. such as governors, mayors, and so forth, in order to righteously submit to a higher civil magistrate, the U. S. Constitution, which clearly outlines our freedom of worship and the right to peace Peaceable assembly, the First Amendment. In fact, it's only because of the courage of some churches here in California who exercised their rights under the Constitution to protest the unjust law. Laws that were set forth by our governor that drive in searches uh services are actually deemed legal by our government. So So the next section uh is called A Reasonable Objection. I'm going to share that in a moment, but we're going to pause here for a song whose lyrics happen to capture the the tenor and the tone of the time pretty well, Tamaron O'Donnell. Dear guy, can you hear me? I need to talk to you. I'm afraid I'm losing home and I don't know what to do can you break into this fear can you help me wear it out let the mystery unfold and the end I know I somehow ended up in a place I don't know I feel a little faint and I'm nearly out of hole. Help me go a little further. Help me deal Help me clearly see the steps on the path that you laid out. I know that someday soon you make sense of this despair and your love, your love will get me there. I can't imagine what you would see, but I know how much you care and your love, your love will get me there. I can stop and take a breath. I can look and see what's real. It comes down to who you are. And knowing you are near, no matter where I go tomorrow or what happens next today, I know that you are there and that you hear me when I pray. I know that someday soon you'll make sense of the Despair and your love, your love will get me there. I can't imagine what you see But I know how much you care and your love, your love will get me there. You will keep my soul afloat. Hey, if I cling to you and not let it go I know that someday soon you'll make sense of this despair, and your love, your love will get me there. I can't imagine what you see without I know how much you care and your love your love will get me there Amen. Thank you. I'm sure Cole's very excited right now. How was that, Cole? Was that pretty good? Um So a reasonable objection. So at this point it must be assumed That when all this craziness began about two months ago, those who believed that it was the will of God that Christians forsake the weekly gathering of the saints for an indefinite period of time Were either ignorant of the clear teachings of Scripture, in which case grace and love should be extended, provided there is repentance, or they must possess some other biblical text in order to adequately justify their possession. And I firmly believe that the most legitimate biblical argument against churches gathering in the midst of this crisis is done in Exodus chapter 20 Verse 13, the sixth commandment, thou shalt not murder. The sixth commandment, when cross-referenced with biblical case law, found in Exodus chapter 21, verses 22 Which addresses the issue of liability in the case of a human death resulting from negligence, uh, provided that the negligent individual was previously improperly warned. It provides a strong argument for why churches should postpone their Lord's Day gathering during this season. From these two texts, Exodus 20, 13 and Exodus 20 Exodus twenty-one verses twenty eight and twenty-nine. An argument can be fairly made that because the American people have been sufficiently warned about the dangers of COVID nineteen, we are each held liable in the sight of God for any negligent actions we commit that result in the death of another human being. However, before we use these texts, texts like this, as biblical support for a decision to abstract reasonable actions which have been deemed as essential, such as going to Costco and Home Depot, where people are quite literally standing shoulder to shoulder. As we have already discovered, the Christian simply cannot conclude from the Scripture that church is less essential than any of these other activities. And as we have also discovered, an argument from Romans thirteen alone is not sufficient. Therefore, in order to righteously forsake the gathering of the saints, a person's conscience must be bound that the manner in which their local church is choosing to gather is legitimately more dangerous than other activities that this person has chosen to If this is the case, the person could then rightly, fairly argue from the sixth commandment that the threat to the body due to the Due to the potential spread of the virus, outweighs the threat to the soul due to the forsaking of the gathering for a prolonged period of time. All this being said, as I have made clear several times to my own congregation, there is still at least one clear exception. to all of this. Those who are physically vulnerable, the elderly, those with pre-existing medical conditions, and those who live and have close interaction with the physically vulnerable Vulnerable. They have ample biblical support for abstaining from the Lord's Day gathering until the present crisis is further resolved. Of course, this assumes that these individuals are being honest. And consistent. In other words, if a person maintains they cannot attend church, but they are engaging in other activities that possess uh a similar degree of risk for contracting the virus. Then by way of their actions, this person is displaying the fact that they truly believe the other activities that they are choosing to engage in are more essential than meeting with the risen Christ. Again, in the spirit of charity, we can assume that any person who is making these kinds of choices is acting in ignorance rather than blatant rebellion. Against God. As a final thought on this point, it's worth noting that my own church canceled six of its Lord's Day gatherings despite my strong position on the subject. Believe it or not, I actually think it was biblically right for us to cancel our Lord's Day gatherings for the first few weeks of COVID nineteen. This is precisely because of the legitimacy of the uh uh uh the opposing view, which Which stems from the Sixth Commandment. When the coronavirus first came on the scene, it was extremely unclear how deadly the virus really was. Therefore, as far as we knew at the time, the threat of the to the body due to the virus really could have been substantially greater than the threat to the soul due to the forsaking of the the Lord's Day gathering for a few weeks. Due to this possibility, it seemed as though the Scripture's command not to forsake the gathering was superseded by another command in Scripture, namely the command to esteem you. human life. However, as more data regarding the actual risk of the virus was collected, and more Lord's Day gatherings were missed by our church, I think The majority of our church's elders, including myself, were of this persuasion after missing about three weeks of church. However, it took us some time to practically figure out how to resume our Lord's Day gatherings in a safe and reasonable way, especially since our state governor still considered indoor services, outdoor services and even drive in services as illegal at that time. All in all we ended up live streaming our services which is absolutely not church for six weeks. But if we had been more diligent and courageous, I believe we could have cut that number down to four or five. Want to be honest about the fact that I too have personally failed as a pastor during this season. Now he's got one last section called closing remarks. Before we do that, We're gonna have I guess our final thoughts and closing remarks. You wanna let me look at the time. I'm just gonna read that. I was gonna uh jump ahead and then come back to this. finish this I'll give Dina her phone and we can go through the Facebook comments what that might be there because she can't follow along while I have her phone. So his closing remarks. As stated at the beginning, it is of the greatest importance that Christians on both sides of this argument ex This is especially needed in a nation like America where arguably the church has never before had to seriously consider rebelling against civil magistrate in a manner like this. That is not to say that our civil magistrate has never done anything unrighteous throughout our nation's history. However, examples of wickedness such as Ethnic based slavery did not require Christians to participate. Even more heinous examples of wickedness, such as abortion, still allow for Christians to practice what the Bible clearly teaches is righteous. There can be no debate about at least one thing. This is a very unique situation with far more uncertainty than any of us can Would prefer. Courage for Christians is desperately needed in this hour. But true biblical courage never comes at the expense of charity and a genuine desire. for unity among believers. Again, this kind of charity does not mean that there is not a right answer to the question we currently face. As Christians, we must not only uphold the inerrancy of God's Word, but we also must uphold the sufficiency of God's Word. We must believe that the Word of God speaks to all situations in the world. life, especially crisis moments such as this. And furthermore, we must believe that whenever God speaks, he does not speak out of both sides of his mouth. One day when we all stand before God God, we will come to realize that some of us got it right while others got it wrong. In this particular situation, it's likely that everyone has gotten it wrong, at least to some degree. However, as those who esteem the reality of absolute truth, we simply cannot say that two contradicting positions are both right at the same time. same time. Therefore, we must each study the scripture for ourselves while seeking to be taught by the local elders that God has sovereignly appointed over us. In order to come to a clear biblical conviction on these matters, there are many positions in relation to this crisis that have no biblical merit At all. However, there are still at least a few positions which an individual may take while staying well within the boundaries of Christian orthodoxy. Therefore. Therefore, our task should be to challenge one another to take a reasonable position with sufficient biblical support. As we seek to do this, it is both appropriate. And even right to attempt to persuade others to hold our own position because we are convicted that it is the right one. However, as we lovingly And diligently work to avoid falling into the deadly Then he ends with 1 John chapter 4, verse 19, we love because he first loved us. So are you Facebook call-up over there. All right. So Chuck Copeland says bless this gathering. Diane Foote says the restaurants in California are opening up next week, but nothing so far about churches opening. Uh Danny says good song. Carrie says, yay, Aunt Dina. That's I'm sure from our nephew. And Joy Brill goes on um with the opposing view that she's fine with uh not going to church, basically, no objection to what's going on. And as you were saying, everyone entitled to their own opinion. And she you can I mean it's it's a short paragraph, so. Um and then uh Danny says good song Okay. There you go. Yeah, one thing that doesn't isn't addressed by what I read today, but it's related to what's going on. Uh yes, there can be a difference of opinion among Christians. And and Christians should Diligently press into scripture, press into prayer, rely upon the illumination of the Holy Spirit to understand what God says in His Word, but also then, of course, seek out the biblical counsel of I mean these are the men who have been tasked specifically with wrestling with these kinds of questions and we need to And we need to uh maybe help them and uh encourage them in that wrestling. But the the point I'm trying to get at here is those are the people to be wrestling. The ordained Christian leaders are the ones who should be making these decisions. And if an ordained Christian pastor who's uh and and his board of elders, ordained elders are making a decision for their local body that the best thing for us to do is X. You know what? As long as they're trying their darndest be faithful to the scripture, we can agree to disagree and we can debate that and Like the the the letter I read says, we get to heaven, God maybe will tell us which one was right, or maybe how both of us were wrong. However The governor, the county executive, the mayor, the president of the United States for that matter, is not in a leadership position in the church. They are not ordained by God to make decisions that affect worship in the church. And so if the civil government makes these decisions for the church. The church, I would agree with what I read tonight, the church has a right to figure out how to civilly disobedient to that so that they can be uh religiously and spiritually obedient to God. So yeah there can be a difference of opinion, but those opinions should be within the body of Christ, particularly at the leadership level within in the body of Christ and shouldn't be the civil authorities dictating to the church how and what they should do. In our area, for example, there are some churches that are gonna be allowed to meet but they're not gonna be allowed to sing. If a local church wants to make that decision, I would argue the merits of that with them, but there's no way the civil authorities have any ground for making that kind of decision for a religious gathering. So that will be my firm position on that. And uh we're gonna have one more um session related to the coronavirus thing next week, but it's gonna be a little bit less about the politics of it and the the con controversial uh worldly view of what's going on. And we're gonna a and uh hope to answer an interesting question. If Jesus were walking the earth right now, would he or would he not be wearing a mask? Interesting question, so I look forward to sharing that with you next week. So um actually Angela, would you mind closing us with a word of prayer and then we'll wrap we'll be done Thank you, Heavenly Father. Thank you for being with us today. Lord God, thank you for guiding the conversation. Thank you for the thoughtful discussion. Almighty God, and we ask you to extend your strong hand protection upon us, Lord, upon the people who are watching, Lord, um, as as everybody goes their way after at the conclusion of this gathering. We ask Lord that you um continue to teach people, teach us. Lord, make us wise and wiser because of the message that shared today. Help us to come out of this whole experience better than we were. smarter, more spiritually discerning than we were when we entered into it. And we ask for your wonderful protection and we bless these people. who have gathered together with us. Lord, we bless them in your name, Lord Jesus, and we ask for this blessing for all of us in your precious and priceless. We have a YouTube channel actually set up to store these videos now. It's the household of faith in Christ is what it's called, uh borrowing a name that's given to the church uh for a description. for the church in Galatians. So household of faith in Christ. And I'll actually provide links to the videos in the comment section of this, if not tonight, sometime tomorrow, in case you've missed any and you want to follow along and catch up. So anyway, until next time.