They live on as podcasts forever, so that's w one of the reasons why I wanted to do it so that if a year from now somebody wants to know more specifically about any one of the four people on the panel, they could find one of those old podcasts and kind of get a sense of the narrative around their life. You've probably either already acknowledged it or hearing me say it makes you feel like, yeah, actually that's that's a potential problem. But if you don't really understand the profound truth of that, the profound necessity for having a solution to that profound problem And it's there's only good news if there's uh something bad first. Once a year. I'm pretending to have a conversation with you. I wanted to make a note to do this. This is the Faith Debate on 930WFMB. Because not everybody's got one of those kinds of radios. So mutual accountability, at least for my side of the fence, it's accountability for me with the people who are members in my church that if I go haywire, you know, they can contact uh David or Daniel or or Imran. And then we sing another hymn, and that's it. And to to to where there's um there's a there's a an ongoing pattern. And I'll I'll usually uh have a few songs prepared that we'll sing together. Yeah, we do make a distinction. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. If you guys really wanted to sneak in some conversation about Enran when he's not here, this is our chance to talk about him. Um so they maybe weren't feeling like it was that important to involve me. They totally suck. And I could say, well, here's what my church is about. And that's that's their uh b belief. Yeah, and they know how to say the right stuff. So they'll have creation, fall, redemption, and then they'll add glorification. I mean the Razley family and the Forcey family and even my family to a lesser degree have experience, you guys have tons of experience in that you can speak to that and help coach them through it and Daniel Razby, the other voice you heard besides mine today is David Forcy. We'll talk to you next week. uh portrays well they portray Christians in general as buffoons. So it is. all the theological beliefs of the other family and there is certainly more growth that can be done in your walk with Christ and you and you're gonna be reading new sp reading scriptures again and getting deeper understandings li live in an echo chamber then you don't hear that. It just completely fell. Yeah, Methodism, Presbyterianism, Presbyterianism, Baptism you know not Baptist. But I think the majority of people now that say, Oh, I'm in a house church are are quite more likely to be believers than unbelievers. So let me start and tell you why I'm punchy. Mm-hmm. the i it was the church was now so large that the apostles could not do all of those things at once, so they po they delegated and they appointed different people. And we're breaking bread together, which is something that you see the early church doing in the New Testament. We might have to use the whole episode just from the dentist though. Can you get a better signal this way? Daniel will be doing shows by himself at uh eleven thirty tonight. You just go look at it and you say, That man oozes cool. Yeah. It's not gonna look exactly the same every week. uh but we don't have time for now. the men they pray um to uh to start but then we'll do we'll start with music for at least half an hour which I like to think is is probably longer than a lot of churches spend Right. It's not nothing uh there, but it it may be forty-five minutes, an hour long of of discussion. It's explanation of what happens at their church is different people kinda take turns out of the set rotation or somebody feels like, Hey, I really have something I've been studying and I want to share, or maybe it's a combination. uh reading Deuteronomy six. is to go to household of faith in Christ dot com, household of faithinchrist. on the Blaze Network. Listening to uh oh what's the the uh uh oh my gosh. Facebook Live. uh you know it was God's providence that I didn't know that until after the fact. If you're in the south you might do that a lot. back on like no no no no no no no no let's talk about this. Right. Second to last voice you heard was David Fossey. house churches near where we are. is an actual Bible believing Bible teaching church, but not a house church. I don't know if they're still doing it, David, but there's somebody you know that either was or is thinking about doing a house church. Yeah, I want to go to a house church, but not you three knuckleheads, you guys don't know what's going on. I'm going to recommend somebody go there. That's why they went that way with them. from the dead, they actually ascended to heaven. to to do the right thing or are you gonna end up doing more good things than bad things. Right. Repentance unto obedience. But it it's hard to make work center around the family. the faith debate. to nine thirty, but it's recorded in advance because people that are involved in church related stuff are very often busy on a Sunday morning. Again, I think I've mentioned I'm Froy Skinner, I'm the pastor of the Household of Faith in Christ and the longtime host of the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. um the pastor of a house church as well, the church that meets at David's house. uh faith debate shows. the rules and making up his own new religion and no oversight and or any of that, that's probably a stigma that's associated with the idea of house church. bad impression of the word house church as far as is it is it because we have like uh sort of like an institutional association with the right with the structure and it's a institution, but this is the way it has to be and whether it's whether it's the building or a set of bylaws. n when I when somebody finds out that I'm pastoring a house church, the first thing that they say to me is not, Oh, are you a cult leader? Oh cult. you know, within house churches what's happening with what we're m the culture is most familiar with. You know, do various different things, but some some are more organized, some are less organized. And for the uninitiated, these are the people that once I tell you what they're famous for, you go, oh, that's who that is. How do you how are they held to account? But okay no, we would have to acknowledge that and that's one of the reasons not a huge fan of what has become very mainstream in the American church particularly things and they would push back. and our church is growing by leaps and bounds. the house church than with any other church. And as it hit me, I was like, man, that's so leadership intensive. the house church years ago and it was the Presbyterian uh minister, they were ordained Presbyterian minister, and he was part of the larger one of the larger Presbyterian organizations and he just happened to and uh and how to practice accountability. But we can we c that's probably too long of discussion for this episode. to pastor a church that met in his house and they rotated among the three or four families' houses. And nobody else is even involved, they're very passive and they're just receiving. I would encourage you to reach out to any one of us who are on this panel. His name is Jesus Christ. Well I really threw you for a curveball there but what do you think what do you think house search? advantages and disadvantages, let's start with the disadvantages and then we just spent the whole rest of the show on that. purpose is to gather you into their doctrines um which are very heretical. Yeah. Right. snot out of your nose and side of your face and your lip and stuff, you y y the chances of you biting yourself are pretty high. seem inhibited. That's like a replacement for Novokine, huh? And uh and so because of that, because of our our sin, uh we we deserve uh well you you were talking about how time is short. particularly in a parenting context. Davis House. And we began to ask that question by looking at advantages and disadvantages and we decided to start with looking at the disadvantages. But now we're gonna try to really back in. that meets together in the building someplace. in their living room, but that's about the most you can get. Maybe you could have if you're me, none. or or your friend's house. cleanup next weekend. the church getting too big in uh in Jerusalem and the and the elders, the apostles came together and said, look, we're getting too bogged down with all these of intense persecution and he spread everybody out and now they had to meet in houses. and participate and grow afterwards. You know, Cough the Magic Dragon shows up and poof, there are no more institutionalized churches with buildings anymore, and every Christian is gathering in a house church You see you can't hide, but that's a good thing, right? the three P's in any moment. get a feel for who people actually are. and and practice those sorts of skills if you will. Actually go PP. Find someone that is that you can feel comfortable having a deep conversation, asking for prayer about a very delicate, intimate situation that's happening in your life. It's all very surface level. they'll have uh cookouts every now and then for at various places. Uh David, I don't think you have any sort of hip website thing or even social media presence for that matter. home churches that I've either visited or been a part of, one of the c core things they do is either before or after the church service, whether it's on a Saturday, on a Sunday, in the morning month every couple months. Uh actually the largest presence he might have on the internet is on uh my church's website. And it's already available on Facebook somewhere. Household of Faith in Christ. uh unlikely, but I wanna give him a shout out because he's a part of this panel, a part of what we're we're doing here with the uh newly relaunched Ministry of Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. So this is our third show on this topic. Uh asked David to go first. get started and so we'll sing hymns and I think singing uh singing hymns is important. So anyway, um so there'll be s there'll be somebody that's been assigned to speak and you could just read the chapter and say a few words about it. discussion. scripture the whole time but it ends up being very deep theological top topics um you know such as the Trinity how do we define the Trinity w how do uh where do we get all that fr from the scripture the word Trinity is not in the Bible, how do you how do you have oh you know so so all those different things. of a thing. for a number of different weeks, sort of a uh a setting uh setting the tone of our time together. we just sort of work our way way through the psalms and uh so each sunday we'll read the the psalm that that is for that Sunday. Um and we'll use the and then we'll then we'll go into a a time of prayer together. um it would it would be open for people to bring uh thoughts or or questions on that portion of scripture. Um and so and when you say people uh is it anybody in the congregation? uh any given church is going to follow and um and and I think that the that the model that is for the church is the family. um and as the initiator of this gathering of believers at my house, I I take it upon myself to uh to to to lead, to guide um And uh and so so I I I generally have uh you know in in my own studying I I've prepared Nothing imperfect can be in heaven with him. Um but we have the choice to have Jesus cover us with his blood and his perfection, because he did not sin and he died for our sins, and he can cover those with his with his blood and and righteousness. What have you? worker now I'm gonna try. what people could expect if they came to our church. I I'm not I mean I don't know but I never see them eat, but I do see them drink a lot of coffee and smoke cigarettes like they're going to stop. than everybody else like Ben Shapiro. I think unfortunately but increasingly important because more and more people are consuming recorded content, whether it be podcasts or YouTube videos and that sort of thing. Right. speaking styles on radio as long as there is a terrestrial radio industry. on the tooth as I am either. might have been different. and and and punchlines and and show bits from the recurring characters on SNL that if you didn't know what they were talking about, you were like out of it. first couple because a lot of a lot of crowd or adventure fero crowd would be a lot of overlap there. industry is diminished. meeting Paul Harvey. my reasons for saying what I say, but if Paul Harvey is one, Rush Limbaugh's one A, and then there's this gigantic drop before you get to number We're we're fast approaching if we haven't already crossed that line, the Orwellian news peak, that that's just what it is. But he you know, it's not control it's not opposing view because it's controlled by position. anymore or diminished because we don't have people who culturally would agree with his general worldview, having that shared experience because it was appointment listening for so many people, that's not the case anymore. It's it's not healthy for us. a shot. dressing up at some other culture. wearing costumes at all because that would be wrong to the people that you just going over well with it is really funny. by Daniel Razvi and David Forcy and uh absence. Well let's make sure he doesn't listen to this episode. uh you know, Christian theological label on it. So you were made with the ability to sin, and sadly you did, but there's a coming a day when you will be remade forever and all time and eternity where you will no longer even be able to sin. And that is only possible in and through the person and work of Jesus Christ. And they filibustered me, so I didn't have a chance to talk about what happens at the Skinner house. with what I'm doing, being more public uh on the internet and all all of that. we're gonna do a barbecue or uh you know play games in the afternoon or watch a movie together or you know what hap whatever. Uh w we depending on how much of that there is, depends on how many songs we'll sing. Sermons are generally about thirty minutes long. Or you know, clarify something that they thought they heard somebody else teach and preach once upon a time that you know wasn't brought up in the message or was brought up differently, that sort of thing. announcement thing. begin to get into that habit for but for now we're we're doing it uh every fourth or fifth week. Hey, can you open us in prayer today? and uh put themselves out there and pray in front of people for the first time. Yeah, uh how how to feel and you know, I'm really proud of you for putting yourself out there. Because that's part of my model is I wanna have I wanna be I wanna launch a uh another house church out of our house church were talking about our um gatherings, uh David and and and my own and then sure you're you mentioned one thing that's that's kind of been this the same or not the same but a Um you know, one of those is a teenager. a a single woman who normally is cooking for one and to ask her to suddenly figure out how to cook for nine times as many. a bunch of people with different tastes and different food uh maybe allergies or it you know it's it's work and for her to do it on occasion is I'd like to do it more often as we get bigger and we get more people and maybe somebody's like, oh, I could bring the meal, you know, we'll we'll make it and bring it. that time and so it's just become a part of what we do. We're not catering what we're doing to Facebook Live. You need to leave and find a church where your pastor doesn't suck. personality, kai woo kind of pastors, they're very gifted communicators. There are lots of men trying to say stuff. healthy music and unhealthy music, especially in church, and how that is uh directly related to backsledding and doctrine in churches. Spend three hours necessarily, but you can sit for three hours in church service and not say anything, not be distraction, um, and so on. Uh I'm Troy Skinner uh David Forcey of I think was the well I don't think no you spoke. were involved with their household of faith in Christ. Just like that. for everybody who showed up and everybody showing up would include not just immediate family but close friends coming in and out of the house and grandma was cooking for thirty people every weekend and it was no big deal and she loved doing it 50 people is not a big deal, particularly because I'm the oldest of thirteen kids and cooking for a family of fifteen. I'm she would do it, but I'm not gonna ask her to do it. with some other women who like to cook or even men who like to cook and and they can kind of take on some of that uh joy filled burden. uh begin to maybe overlap or or uh if not overlap at least uh complement each other basically something like that And then that I think this will be our last one. maybe what it would take for them to start their own house church, those sorts of ideas. Sure. Conquered by Love Ministries is the name of the entity, but ConcordbyLove. actually. And uh so therefore you're avoiding the dangers of of youth groups and uh kitty Sunday schools where you have no idea what they're telling you. Oh Troy. found me. Children are expected to be in the tr in the service and so they're generally in that vein already when s a lot of the similar principles to what we have and the reasons we have for meeting in housing And that's one of the main reasons something. You know, but you know any good faithful Bible teaching churches, you know, uh 'cause my church has gone crazy. have embraced the CRT critical race theory and other aspects of critical theory for that matter, in spite of the fact that it goes against their statement of belief that they had to sign off Oh my gosh. The uh aliens to come in the tail of a comet like back in the nineties. LGBT issues, things things like that. you're a pretty good person? could fit for you and uh you know ask them some important questions. But by faith. Uh and you can get into what was in quote unquote the mind of God before creation and all that, but those are all related to there is a creator who has a mind and and created everything. But the the but the the person of Christ, the work of Christ, who he is and what he's done, and he is the Son of God. Is it ever present? Acknowledging God as Creator is doing is acknowledging that He is the ultimate authority, that what He says is reality is Reality, yeah. cooperative program or something and they might there might be a higher percentage of people there that are going to house churches I guess is the implication there. Firm we'll talk about that issue perhaps. to teach your kids. We didn't get in depth on certain things, like you're obviously very passionate about the youth group Sunday school thing, and by the way so am I. And brought Adam and Eve together. It should be uh as centered around the family as possible. Make the magic happen. It's been like what, a month since I uh since we last recorded and I forgot which buttons to press. And uh he's involved with Conquered by Love Ministries and uh involves the leadership of a house church. house churches in Frederick County. church and what are the related issues surrounding that. Uh what usually comes to people's minds when when they hear Pops Church. And I would say that a true house church that is the biblical type of house church would look a lot more like what you might think a Bible study is or a a uh a small group study than what you might think if you have a uh identified with a church, maybe even gone to church every Sunday. something other than a building, they're just meeting in a house and it's a very tight knit group of people that lends itself to a co like storyline in that plot of whatever film or or or a TV show house. holding up hateful signs saying that God hates English cigarettes. uh uh a lack of a a lack of diversity in in thought or um Or an interest. trying to include. House Church. uh among a lot of people is really limited. and actually absolutely excommunicate people the way Paul talks about, it's just not done. easily apply to a larger congregation as well. uh the the problem that that's potential there that that would be you know exclusive or even more more of a problem with And then his whole church fell apart. accountability issues. account for. me recognize so I should back up a little bit. helpful and responsible to expanding the number of house churches uh throughout the the the the the city, the county, the region over time. And I had this conversation with uh with you guys. uh primarily responsible for. what the basis of your pushback would be 'cause to me it's to me it's clear. Daniel about uh you know all th these house churches have an opportunity for all of the men to be involved uh and all the people who are members of the church to be involved, as opposed to what happens in these big churches where the pastor gets up there, says what he thinks um that doesn't have enough people that have the chops to teach and lead and and be under shepherds for God's people. And so that was one of the challenges with my idea from ten years ago, like, hey, we should do this house church thing, but man, it's so leadership intensive. Well out of necessity, yeah, thousands maybe. I got this wrong last time, but I do want to have a chance to share um uh the Concordby Love dot net. in Christ. watching us on Facebook. Well, we wanted to talk about the you know uh whether or not um what the Bible would mean by uh uh for a portion of our time together on Saturday. But then by the next week when we're doing the next one, you know the number of views is u usually well over a hundred, sometimes like one hundred and fifty, one hundred seventy five. Either beginning of the show, end of the show, somewhere in the middle of the show. Would one of you want to step forward and for the uninitiated or for those who need to be reminded what they feel like they already know, what the gospel message is? For us to be um cleansed, made right, um for us to be forgiven uh of our sins. is pretty darn pretty darn good. I would say or at least really up really far up there is the much tighter and close fellowship you get with other believers for being in a house church as opposed to a church that attention is sort of divided. meets and and everything that goes along with that as well. um the amount of time and energy that you can put towards those relationships. the main functions of the church. group. and and discussing how you're gonna invest in somebody's life. You know, the uh kind of the civil board model, if you will, the secular board model. The HVAC is on the Fritz. You know, of the widows. you know, uh providing a defense for the faith and giving a reason for the hope that lies within and being able to share the gospel with people and be comfortable praying in front of other people. Do you want to be that person? that's that's important and and stop and think about that. in you know in a larger church, uh be you know be not known by other people very well. And then you find out that somebody's having a hard time. it I'm not sure how long it takes. the evening everybody does it differently. And I and I think a lot of that it comes with with sharing a meal as well. with uh uh a house church, leadership in a house church and uh a ministry connected to that called Conquered by Love Ministries and Concordby Love. And for some reason I don't know why, but they've got to recalibrate these mics on this board because I've got the the slide face all the way up. I'm not getting well I'm I'm kind of speaking like this. feeling like maybe in the course of talking about some other things some of the at least one of the other umbrellas will accidentally get addressed and so and if not no biggie but we're we got plenty of six shows or seven shows shows. and don't celebrate it. Wfmd. Faith Debate Show. uh as am I and my house church actually has a name and I alluded to this I think in between shows maybe I mentioned at the very end of last week's show. at finding at least one. So there's that. sermon messages and other blog postings and things out there for public consumption, they can make a determination. in Christ dot com and be yep, cult. But it so those are a couple of the reasons. Like right now I say network. But I wanted to have like a a really easy place to point people to when they start talking like and and you talk to somebody for a half hour and they get a beginning to sense of what you're about, but they don't know enough. as participants and guests on occasion with the Faith Debate Show or or something and deepen the relationship with that. And so so they don't feel like you can dance around and be constantly changing and have everything planned down to the second. Mainstream churches. I'm I have some very um you could say peculiar or dogmatic positions on music in church that we maybe can get into someday. pretty strength uh strong guidelines on music in church. on um him singing at least in a in a set um together. you know, decent amount of time and then we'll sing again and and pray. And during and after the meal and the whole rest of the day, people are discussing deep scriptural topics about whatever's on their mind, in addition to anything else that's not required to talk about No, it it depends on the week. Speaking for you know fellowship meal or anything like that. And during that there's a time set aside for singing hymns of of worship and hearing some sort of lesson uh from or about the Bible and that that sort of thing. uh our guide or help. 'Cause you've said we, it might but more kind of the royal we, 'cause it's pretty much you're kind of making the and driving those decisions, right? How long? Um it would be uh roughly a book a week. you know twelve different types of government, you know. anything that is um it you know and things are things are clarified and um and all that. you will. Um but it is you know there there's there's an open uh it it's an open floor in the sense of that it's uh there there's discussion. and r uh contribute to that part of it like we do in our because um based on the model of the family right my my children can ask questions okay Um you know, and so so certainly uh you know my you know children don't teach Um you know, say I I noticed I noticed this. The Lord's Supper is done every week, I believe. And maybe maybe closer to the beginning, maybe closer to the end. of uh loose fellowship if you will after that. Or what is that that was observed, you know, and and explain it in context and all. And the end time the start times are route about the same every time, give or take, a little bit of minutes. Everybody's together for at least three or four hours. eight ten hours maybe if somebody really hangs out all day kinda that could happen. the Bible for the lost souls out there hearing your voice? Dulcet Tones of David Forsythe. They're not all the same and monolithic in that regard, so that's that that'll be interesting for people to hear maybe. you guys but because of my dental work I really wasn't able to eat and I was getting lightheaded and so finally I've got about ninety percent of my feelings and deepen your voice a little bit. the speed. their time with or they'll spend a majority of their time with. is the same persona, the stationality as I call it. We have a shared experience. because of the the the cultural milieu in which your family has raised the family. about today, Saturday Night Live. Relevant. fabric of a culture together is those shared experiences. Must C T V on Thursday nights on NBC. uh a beautiful female or somehow there was something sexual going on, they would say swing and it was as though they were instantly aroused It was a good thing. time before but I think that's gonna be the marker before and after rush and I'll say this uh just from a broadcaster standpoint didn't it two or number three or whatever. amazing. This is one of the biggest this is why I would put him uh in that rarefied air because there's some people that for a season, they're the best in the world at what they do for a season I haven't thought this all the way through. from the moment. And it it was it was work of art to listen to him do a show. God's law. And through that redemption, you begin the process of restoration where that broken relationship that you're meant to have with your your Creator who who made you in his image who has made you fearfully and wonderfully. So we generally start, everybody shows up at our house on a Saturday around 5. doing at 5 30, which is a little bit of time for some you know socialization and catching up on the week and that sort of thing and then it's on average been more like every eightish weeks. And I encouraged them and over time they finally got comfortable and decided to pray. And to be honest, they're not always the songs I would choose, but uh that's less important to me than than everybody feeling that they have a role. similar theme in all three of our stories, which is very different from most churches, is that discussion aspect, the discussion about the sermon. Or Bible study or whatever you want to call it, the preaching session or the teaching, discussion by the congregation, whether it's just the men, whether it's men and women. a lot with house trips. uh you know praise God for that. uh food for a meal and stuff with with consistency would uh at least at at this stage in of things would make the most sense. And then finally last year did. and and whatever that's you know I'm not involved with that anymore. take the pressure off, but I'm not gonna throw all that pressure on my wife. a couple months later before the church was closed. And so, okay well d well in the process of me doing that, a number of friends and family and you know, people that are c close to me and close to my wife and stuff started following along online So then I decided that, oh well if we're gonna continue it, maybe this is something we could transition into doing a house church, like I've been thinking about for so long. different. a bunch of garbage and stuff. It's all kind of evolved. on around them. Travelers can sit still for three hours and not say anything. a a burden just because that's what we do. The expectation that there is food and there's a bed for you. My wife is like that too. Uh anyway, um uh all three of us, uh David Forcy, uh Daniel Razby, meetroy Skinner, we uh lead or involved in leading uh house churches uh in the area and we are along with Imran Razi who couldn't be here for uh teaching your kids and right you have more direct control and say over those sorts of things so all of that uh is good and we kind of alluded to this when I was talking about the reason why my particular house church is one of the few I know that has a website. But still, it's uh I think it's rather impressive that a couple of people actually found our website with that particular question. belief. or have connections to Okay and so but I I don't know in Wyoming who's in the house churches there. the NCFIC website, National Center for Family Integrated Churches. encourage them to consider coming to Household of Faith in Christ 'cause I mean I believe in what we're doing. good church. Go to the next person, go to the next place because it the pastor should have an answer on any of the uh most Really. And then to be honest, I don't know either one of you can jump in, explain the gospel briefly, and then if an answer something like this isn't what you hear, it's probably not a church to go to. So then you're guaranteed a spot and just either way. saying. There is sin, there is brokenness, there is evil. the kind of relationship that we really can have through righteousness. sanctifying, restoring part, the work out your your faith uh aspect of the gospel. I think I think what the only other thing that I would add, and you and you may not see this until over time, uh, but is uh is that gospel laced through out uh given. and and be a guide and a resource for that. could probably share an interesting perspective. it for you. Uh this is what you heard us do and watched us do live on Facebook Live back in uh early August. Uh, that you're now hearing on the radio. And and Imran I mentioned he's also with a house church. kind of thing. And it seems like a logical logical progression for us to this time spend some time this week, next week, as many weeks as it makes sense. bad thing in general to have a building. But maybe I don't have that first reaction because m me and my family, when I was younger, we actually were part of a Christian cult. Um so maybe that's that's why you know Are you Amish? over the last 15 years or whatever it is now they've been kind of in the news on and off. But you're not gonna be hearing a whole lot about different doctrinal ideas that may or may not be correct. What do they do about it? churches. and uh cultish, if you will, and the way we typically in our culture think of that word in their behavior. for those of you listening on the radio, in in the American church there really isn't a lot of church discipline. issue. that sense of community and and really tight knit fellowship which you are gonna more likely have in a home church than you are in a in a bigger congregation. Yeah, I think that um I don't I and I'm not accusing anybody of this, but uh of I I'm putting myself in the seat of the listener right now who might not agree with where we're coming at things. this uh CEO model, Cult of Personality Popularity Gospel. Mark Driscoll will mean something to you. But finishing the thought, the next thing that hit me was what are the l the the mechanistic levers of accountability? And again, to put feet on it, um, to put feet in the shoes on this one. the I mean uh Raz isn't here now but the four of us that are typically going to be here we're involved with three house churches that can provide some of that. all of the men and stuff are are involved, but there is somebody that's designated as the Under Shepherd for that group. They could just say, well then screw you, I'm not going to be a part of this church anymore. But I know that you're like my escape valve when Troy's lost his ever loving mind. something like that. attended or visited that have a structure built in where they do have like you you mentioned, you know, an escape valve or just an ap a process for how to uh practice church discipline. I'll leave and pretend I wasn't here until I come back next week. But out of those 10,000, how many of those 10,000 congregants are leadership material right now? Uh right. legitimate form of church uh structure. uh what I would call the you know the the the idea about an under shepherd. are you know are capturing an at least some of it. And I never had a headache with Nova Kane before. I've been drugged. Because even if the planet continues to exist for another hundred years, you won't be here to see that in all likelihood We're not it's unlikely that we've got billions and billions and billions of years ahead of us, so time is short. uh and our our offenses against God um those uh those mean the bad news that we uh we cannot be with him in eternity and we Uh but their ministry has a website, it's conqueredbylove. as it turns out. uh and to conquer them with love. I think booklets because books can scare people. being a part of a house church. with Bible studies small groups, you know, that have various and sundry names. And you go and sit there in the pew and you listen and then you go home. and ministries and all of that, which by percentage is not very many in in a normal church. you know, uh I've been three different places where I was, you know, i in a pastoral role where we had a building. issues that have nothing to do with what elders are primarily called to be dealing with, right? You know, the church as the church and you're spending all your time worrying about it's and the bigger churches they had to create an extra biblical uh pastor's position. people. They feel that I want to read a passage of scripture to them or I want to pray for them. more than one person that you know really well that you can go and ask for a prayer on something. first time that that very first week you're gonna feel this authentic connection and automatic comfort level because relationships are built But in the house church context, if you spend a period of time in the house church, Our church actually went through the the the hassle of building a website because it it connects to some of the things that we're we're talking about I don't know why, but the second show felt shorter to me. general topics that I thought would kind of be the umbrellas for each episode. Is the seventeenth, yeah. Uh well and that is one of the weaknesses. Bible following, Christ exulting, and God honoring churches are cults. And um and as other churches might join in with that level of rip of relationship, uh the website could provide more stickiness and more Not more legitimacy, but it would feel like it's more real, like, oh yeah, we're actually doing something together. And now we've talked about the some of the reasons and that we're doing the specific expression of what we're doing. from a traditional hymnal and no other music and the only instruments that are used is piano. um can s can speak as they're led um and we'll make a semblance of uh of a organization ahead of time trying to get somebody that has something prepared at least you know fifteen twenty minutes or long um st uh structured as a as a church service. Just clarify. um on on what model are we are we basing our churches, right? adults. We can trust him and that is the only way that we can be in heaven with the perfect God, the Creator. back on the structure that we do because it sounds like all of us there's there's a family integrated model that's going on. Because there's you know, the way we're all doing it, the family is integrated into the worship. Those big deep voiced radio guys. much further from what really is the ideal. You know, they consume radio differently than they consume um TV, for example. content, the cultural content, that sort of stuff. markets. on the air the very different show. it comes down to the editing. horrible error but I caught it at the at the last second. uh at Archer and you know you guys didn't talk about this and I'll be curious to see if you uh how you handle this. place then we might only sing a song before we get into the more formal part of what we do. The formal thing starts, you know, pretty close to 6 o'clock and uh opens with um introductory remarks for those who are joining us because we put this part of what we do online through Facebook Um so that would be a difference. So regul yeah, but in and out you probably have, you know, several dozen people that are kind of coming in and out of your church over the course of a year. I don't know that our thing is there just yet. But it's only going to happen if somebody in my house church becomes equipped to lead a house church. my church that's equipped to lead a house church. semi-permanently a couple months later. And so once we became a church, the household of faith in Christ was born, um, it didn't feel wise to just pull the plug on the Facebook Live at at and questions. But something substantive. youth youth group, nurseries. But that's not even a requirement. uh put a wrap on this one because this one uh again I think I talked too much at the beginning. And you know, the American uh Italian culture is probably a little bit closer to what you're talking about where they were getting together as families every weekend and grandma was cooking doing all the cooking all day I'm looking for. She really wanted to do it and you said don't do it. Long time. uh you know what things look and feel like inside of a a house church and we all have various ways of doing it but not all exactly the same but there are some interesting commonalities and I don't think that's necessarily by accident And they've reached out to me and said, hey, uh I was looking for a house church and I found you. So if you want to somebody's listening and they've been they've been persuaded over the last few weeks like, huh, this house church thing is kind of interesting. And there are about two house churches on that website. Uh it ties in with what we're talking about, so I guess I'll mention it. not particularly. know element of it. uh website for the churches that are networked together, uh they do have a statement of of faith people to sign off on but they're but they're not it's a very basic and you'll find Presbyterians there, you'll find Baptists there, you'll find they're not really vetting that And are they living out life in accordance with that faithful teaching and preaching of that word? You know, you're you're s you're maybe all of us would get together and talk with that person and make sure they're getting launched in the right direction kind of thing. a lecture that doesn't really tie into the Bible. Um I mean it starts with with the understanding that that we need we need to be saved, we need to be rescued, and we uh we cannot do that ourselves He's provided a savior, a rescuer uh in Jesus. uh which you know has brought death into the world. And so you're not looking for a faithfully biblical church. I'm God, you're a man, you know, I I can do all these things. Not with us, but will be a regular part of the panel is Imran Razvi. Talking about, okay, what is it with this house church thing anyway? is, oh yeah, I was part of a church too that started in a house. And so I know what that looks and feels like. you know, do stories about the outliers and the strange and smart entertaining. It was the dad and then as the dad got older, so his adult children and then their children and it was just like you know dozen and a half people, basically all the same family. You know, hate hates gays, but they don't use the word gay. Because I think Westboro Baptist embodies some of those. They had a a building. in a lot of churches. Right. special kind of responsibility, you know, ordained by God to look over that particular flock. So but in a house church network that has 10,000 people in it, how many of them are going to be leadership material? try to gather people into their hult. Both of you? Right? So that's pretty significant. I want to make sure that people hear what the gospel is. There's also an eternity ahead for each of us. Jesus and by faith in him we can spend our eternity with God. but the larger the group gets and that and that's function of being a house church is you don't get a very large group. The smaller that group of believers is, the the deeper that relationship is and I think that's that's a very wholesome experience. the the house church, the way that I would say that is uh is that right well then then you have your small group and then and then you also have you know which probably means that your house, you know Um well one of the churches wasn't elder led, it was something I was working towards changing. preparing the messages, leading the teaching, dealing with the pastoral, counseling issues, those sorts of things, still aren't gonna have enough time and energy to focus on the other things that the deacons do. But the deaconate would not be worried about the carpet and the walls and the lawn. Wait a minute. You know, in your fleshly nature might not sound like a good thing, but I'm telling you, if you're going to a church because it's safe and you can kind of hide and disappear, you're going to one of the bigger churches in Frederick County, for example, there's several from which you could choose or you could easily hide Uh right. No no. No we didn't so I I'd like to talk about what is it like to have a church way uh on a service. So uh we're we're doing video of of this as we record the audio for this. Ask around, you know, at the at the tables and I think you know, I think most people probably would do that, but for the one who won't so Um one of the probably the primary primary reason was I didn't think of it in terms of them thinking it was a cult So we yeah, and so if I do uh do something that's if I say something, preach something, teach something that's in contrary to what's on the website as our official statement of faith, you know, beliefs, like right, they've got something to say. Uh last show was mostly uh other than me spending about four s four to five hours about my dental appointment. There's pressure, so you have to allocate certain seconds, literally amount of seconds. Um and so it it begins to feel a little bit more like a Bible study, still more still more like a church in that only the men are speaking. Right, you're you're spending a week talking about um all of the epistles of John, because that might have been a cluster you did, for example. corralling that and orchestrating the flow of the discussion and moderating things and often correctives if they get off base from Yeah. uh on Fortune five hundred companies, right? every week. You probably don't know. Rogan. Now deceased Alan Combs. And the biggest thing to do in a long form show like that, the big you know, the bet uh for writers, uh maybe you've heard this, you know, the best write is a rewrite. stuff. about it. So we we're not going to be surprised if somebody just, surprise, we're here to check out your church this week. And there's a lot of negative energy, a lot of potential risk uh inherent. And uh there are occasions when it's earlier. probably felt long in the room kind of thing. that was preached on and the themes that were touched upon and people have a chance to ask clarifying uh questions, um uh you know bounce off of an illustration that was was used or You know, I have one person who's uh uh you know who told me they were dyslexic and uh didn't know that and they were really nervous about praying. w their family dynamic and their their little their two little ones and stuff. One of them is a teenager, one of them's a a young twenty something couple that um I I I I uh given uh board led church made the decision to uh to stop meeting when covet hit and they made that decision without even having me part of the conversation which was some buzz that maybe they're beginning to try to put something together again in in a different form and fashion after you know like a year later they decided to try to pick up the pieces and put Humpty Dumpty back together again. And I was like, I'm just gonna pull the plug on that. I'll frame it this way. unpolished as as what I do. Worshiping. school or a children's church or something like that, which is usually the material is dumbed down so much that they don't know. uh fellowship and the gathering of believers in church should be and accommodating our particular situation with the people we have now Like cooking for a hundred people is something I could do by myself in a couple hours. is good and she's not begrudging it. on because they define their terms in such a way that they don't feel like they're being dishonest in any way. danger stories about churches that have gone off the deep end if they don't know what to trust and they feel like small is good. They don't know how to set a pastor. uh acquaintances that I have in order to understand that that was their actual position. to to heaven and has nothing to do with how good you are. uh you've got a problem. Which is the bridge between the cross and the glorification. Um I don't know, I I I kinda a lot of people I think have a more positive association with the term Bible study than they do with house church. Uh you know, you know, decades ago when uh you know in the United States the majority of people would have uh It's the idea that oh these people are kind of weirdos and they do their own thing and they don't interact with society and they don't, you know, that that's that's sort of implication. 'Cause it's basically a family. Yeah, you know, it it it's interesting, just just sort of a thought, you know, and uh w with uh with house churches. If you're not purposeful about figuring out how to do it, there's no built-in accountability structure. uh a rapidly as rapidly as the Holy Spirit would will would lead, a rapidly growing network of house churches so that I wouldn't just be in responsible for helping to lead one small body, but I would also be The people who are um members of the house uh of the church that I lead, the house church that I am pastoring in. Novocaine, my experience, I've had Novocaine shots, I don't know how many times, but a number of times over the years. Hour and a half, two hours later, like you had your face back. I never was dead tired after a Novogaine shock. My face would be numb. And so, shame on me for not making this a more urgent part of the show in the past, but uh given the climate of the times and my uh the the the current strength of my convictions administrative concerns not being there. Uh so much of our time in those meetings were addressing building issues. That person that pastor doesn't really teach or I mean they might teach the occasion, but that's not their prime their role is they handle all the building nonsense and all those infrastructure issues. In a house-true setting, you're going to have an opportunity in a safe environment to begin to develop that sort of comfort level and But I will say this, I've been to churches where I was a member for many, many years, and you get to recognize faces, you get to have the happy talk moments of, hey, how was your week? Once a year. All right, uh if you're hanging in there with us Facebook Live, we appreciate it. Why in the world would we have a website? But how do you find them? that uh that we can follow. within those letters and then your job is to uh but you take it upon yourself to have the responsibility and everybody else maybe defaults to your leadership on Yeah, and and to bear to bear the the responsibility for uh to making sure that truth is being spoken and uh you know against Sunday school use sounds what are we talking about next? And then you listen to regular speaking come out of the speakers on your radio and it sounds like they're talking like but they're not. I channels. I think there's cultural media consumption during Rush and after Rush. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. And your maker um really has a special place for you. kind of thing. over the phone or or you know whatever. And she likes doing it, but I'm not gonna prey upon her liking to do that and burn her out. The way we came to be a house church is different. You know, if if nothing else, they're getting the truth on Saturday nights watching, you know, me on Facebook. Right. about meals 'cause that I think speaks to difference between American culture and uh or Western culture and eastern culture. of of of helping out. Happy Reformation Day. this show and the last couple of shows uh he's normally part of this panel he's also involved uh with leading a house church and the rasbies have a ministry that has a website it's um conqueredbylove. That's not the main thing. Right? And if you're house churching, well homeschooling makes a lot of sense. Um when I think house church, I just think a church group of believers that meets in a house as opposed to a building that is set aside for church. in the past in our culture. And all the appeals process that they have, you know, a structure to go through with that. And if it's the stuff that I think I got stuck with that I think starts with letter I, it says online that it lasts for three to six hours. So um but I'm I'm not so crazy that I don't want to tell you about this. I think time is short just globally speaking generally. So repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. Right. In and around Frederick County. You could you could go to that church for three years and then stop going and I don't know that in some of these churches they would ever notice. Where if somebody comes to one of our churches for three years and they stop coming, they miss a week and we notice. that they're at the hospital visiting a loved one or a dear friend, you know, family member, dear friend, something, and they feel they're a Christian, you know, they go to church. They can't muster it up. We don't want to get too good at this and we'll think we're professional broadcasters. We got plenty of plenty of well. Uh part of the mechanism, just like this show does, part of the mechanism for for having some sort of glue and stickiness for the network. What it looks and feels like. It's right. Ten hours? uh there will be some some sort of pattern of moving through scripture that we'll be following. to to teach, to explain, um, you know, to to answer uh questions. And so I think we're gonna I again I think it's unfortunate 'cause it's a a little less relational. And nobody that I ever heard did that anywhere close to as well as Russell Ball. of that then we have uh a time for some opening prayer. And we don't have a meal together all the time, but we always have a meal uh and big social function gathering at least once a quarter. And so trying to figure out what are ways to get different people involved. Uh with so you know at least once yeah it goes and with some increasing regularity, that sort of a thing. We don't yeah, we don't have a me uh oh yeah, so one of the reasons for that is um Those that are members of what we're doing, we're we're we're small. Interesting. Anyway, closing the church down temporarily turned into the church closing its doors down permanently. And I don't see building in there, so we don't have a building. So we've been spending the last few weeks talking about house church, meeting in a home for church, that sort of thing. That just speaks to the difficulty in finding a house church. uh you know, important topics of the day, but but particularly relating to the Bible. If I called you up, you know, I'd I'd turn somebody on to calling you David. What is the gospel? I mean, yeah, that that's I'm I'm good enough. Day. a fifth fold, if you will, a fifth element. Yeah we only got you know a couple of minutes literally uh left, but I I thought it might be good to touch on because I know that uh David your family homeschool doesn't just house church. No. The um you know, if there is some sort of poison there, the ability of that poison to spread The the whole a thing about ex communication being a ex communication being a a um a bad thing as in something that nobody would want to have done to them is you're gonna lose relationships. The Presbyterian model by definition has presbyters that are providing and so there's no built into the model with the house church. If I say something heretical and somebody in my congregation challenges, like, Troy, that's like that's not biblical at all. I I I think I think they use something besides Novacaine. You might not be here to see the end of the next decade. Be f well, I don't know, you guys have kind of grown up immersed in the church. Those those things have to be done, and so people uh have to do them. praying or not being practiced, you know, at at praying. So that uh you know, people know that you've this is this is what you believe. We'll pray at the end of that. So eight so it's it's quite a bit more I like to set things up to where their uh autopilot sounds bad. Um well we uh we have a pretty pretty set sort of schedule or pattern I guess. Service if I I know you don't want to call it a how long? But everybody my age knew what that meant. Can't wait for that special. How do I get out of this? So let's uh so this next one's gonna be 1024, week before Thanksgiving uh uh Halloween rather, Thanksgiving. And another thing. We generally sing four to five songs a week and so if we only sang one or two, you know, earlier, whatever songs we didn't get to that would have gotten to earlier, we sing on the back end. uh praying and somebody else isn't so comfortable praying so the person who's really comfortable praying I might kind of lean on them more often than the others and say Uh and so so far working towards that has gone well. And we started getting a Facebook Live following, actually that was larger than the church. Well at that I I think it's diminished to be honest. And it took me a couple of weeks to persuade myself and a few more weeks to persuade my wife and uh and then we decided yeah, we're gonna do this. And in the sermon on occasion I might make mention something to uh a s a situation that they might be facing in their life that's not in the room. In more cases than not, I'm providing people that are consuming what I have to say. But it's a time pressure on her to make sure she makes the time to come to church. So one of the people in our church is in law school and you know she's studying like crazy and doing all this sort of stuff. Happy Halloween kind of thing. What advice might you guys have for somebody finding one? In fact, it could be a wackadoo church. But they all killed each other. You might want to think about having your own house church and taking on the the m mantle and responsibility. to knock out an important segment of churches you would never want to consider. Put a monk outfit on them. But I'm telling ya, if you're still homeschooling uh or home school if you're still uh pagan schooling your kids right now, what in the world are you thinking? That's what people think. How are we ever going to have these kinds of leaders that are out there doing the kinds of things that Christians should be doing if we don't create a f uh some sort of a format to So that was so I'm thinking either he's really good at this or maybe this isn't Novacane, maybe there's a different product. Uh by the way, having visited your your church one time, uh and Daniel's at least when I was there, you were the pianist, I'm assuming you might be the the guy who goes for piano all the time. And so uh so then you have so so so yes, so I as the as the the husband and as the father uh of our family uh Yeah, and I think it'll actually go well because I did want to talk about at some point make sure we touched upon the importance of family integration. We've lost more than we've gained, it feels like to me. Matt Walsh had a really funny video about that wash yesterday about the nine types of costumes you should not wear for Halloween. And I'm just not comfortable uh putting that level of responsibility and pressure on my wife to prepare a large meal for So I was like, oh, they're actually listening. It's gonna be the kids are gonna be a part of it too. Um yeah. Daniel Razby. Yeah? We talked about one of the benefits being integrating the family, meaning from the youngest to the oldest, they're all kind of doing church together, fellowshipping together, learning and growing together. You're not defining the terms the way they need y you're woke and you're denying it. You know, so just because of the house church, that's not the panacea. Creation, fall, redemption. He makes the rule for for uh you know, from the beginning and throughout all of eternity. church plants in the same way that there are today. That's kind of yeah the extent of it and and they're gonna it's gonna vary widely whatever house church you go to, what denomination. It's Westboro Baptist Church. Well let's talk let's talk for a second about that because it'll lead into some of the things I want to talk about anyway. They're sticking a needle in your mouth and it hurts. uh uh an orderly way of randomly selecting a a psalm that we'll read together. It's all there. Well that's part of why a lot of them it's not so much anymore. That was the but so you would just some beautiful woman would walk by and one buddy would turn the other by go shwing and you just knew it was a shared and I'm a I think only one time they can remember we sang one song before we got into the formal part of things. So we wrap up the Facebook live part and then we continue to exist together as a local church, if you will. Have some experience and some ability and some gifting and the spiritual maturity to handle those responsibilities, perhaps And one of the things we all have in common, and that maybe all well, I'm sure there are exceptions, but generally speaking, almost all house churches are gonna have this in common. It took me half a second to say that. people that are saying no. From the the guilt, the shame, the condemnation, uh everything that our our sin has brought about, the death that our our sin has brought about. That that's a good a good uh a good minimum, right? And I think you were homeschooled as well, right? In the in a congregational Baptist setting, the the congregation is the accountability structure. It is a uh house church on the southern end of Frederick County. Oh yeah, no, but I'm saying it when elders are specifically tasked with the spiritual well being of the church and and teaching and leading And uh it may be it may be the the same scripture for uh Yeah. Watched Morgan Mindy. Rogan, yeah. And I can explain why we ended up how we came about to do that. She has a great great gift of hospitality. Was yeah, did Moses actually lived? They believe that the Father and the Son are separate people, and that the Son is less than the Father. Seriously, they they are Marxist factories. And there's a solution to that problem. I almost forgot. Yeah. Yeah, well that's because I'm so unclear usually you can't tell the difference. Are they also watching uh Tucker Carlson on Fox at night? There is still now an opposing view, which isn't really much of an opposing view anymore. This one's the week before Halloween. Yeah. But some of the people that without getting all in the personal weeds on this, some people that are faithful every week watching and apparently hanging on the words I say because I then get comments and phone calls. I'm old. Um and there's there's types of churches there uh and it'll say whether it's a house church. Help me get better at sharing the gospel. You've got a pastor or somebody who's giving you a comprehensive expens expression of the gospel, and if they can do that, that's a good church, whether it's a house church or not. You know, God created the family when he said it's not good that man should be alone and you know as Welcome to the face debate. Right. Um and uh I mean I I think this this gets into uh you know what is But for non-pastored kids who weren't pastors kids. Uh but I I I think that's so. Which is I think pretty impressive. That the pastors, right? Who created everything. uh everything that the church does is is the gospel uh right is it Which can cut both ways. Right here in our own uh backyard, um the CJ Mahaney's church, a big giant church in the area, uh very popular and he was, you know, uh very good in a lot of ways, very gifted and talented in many ways, and yet Now one of the advantages, I agree, but for somebody who's not thinking in terms of it being an advantage, it could be seen as a disadvantage is We're fine. The other thing is we've talked about this either last week's show or the show before they've run together in my mind now. Well the the idea there was that we wanted to we wanted to say okay this is sort of be studying the same thing together during the week and then people would uh I made the mistake of not having my phone fully charged when we started and so my battery's getting low so I had to lose the is that charging now see if it'll let me That's not true anymore. But then they never adapt and change and and shift with more contemporary tastes. uh on on that week's message. Yeah, and I don't uh somebody uh and I'll get into some of that I guess too. Preach the sermon every week. Whereas in most churches, if you go visit ten churches, you're probably not gonna hear anybody speak up other than Amen. It's a very common to to have those conversations. Right. But the point I'm making, uh and and again not to put you know pressure on to make a huge meal st to somebody in a different culture, that's not a big deal. The resolutions? Uh they know that something doesn't feel right about their church, or they're not even going to church yet, but they've heard so many But if you're wrong, I'll be in heaven, but you'll be in hell because you didn't believe in Jesus, that he died for your sins. Drop 'em off at the curb and the government funded pagan schools uh take care of it for you. Find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com. So backstage exclusive. So it's not about it's not the size. com. You gotta be ready to go pee pee. com. But Yeah, and that's because there's pressure on the having been in that role. So they'll jump it to 1. Uh you listen to the show now and it's it's fine. Even if you don't consider yourself a Christian or a Bible believer, you have to admit even by your own standard of what's good and bad, you've done some bad things. So last week we had Daniel talk about the church that meets at uh the Rasvi's house, and then we also heard from David talk about what goes on at the church that meets at the Forcey's house. But generally speaking, you know, ninety-five, ninety-eight percent of my focus and what we're talking about is what's going on in the room. And as we're finding out, I mean this the Southern Baptist Convention has gone through quite the ringer the last two and a half years because they got a whole bunch of churches that have uh and pastors who would Concordbylove. Um? That that we're all imperfect and we have all uh offended the God who made us we have to suffer uh uh eternal judgment for for our sin. You know, larger larger churches will uh will try and still accomplish those close relationships, right? That we'll we'll have at some point later on. So I'll I'll run through mine really quick and see if let's see. Forget the politics part for a minute. I have some very strong opinions about Halloween. That portion and and then but when the discussion is over, uh you know we have uh closing prayer and uh some closing remarks. By the time you realize they're noticing something, they had been noticing it for months before that. Any sort of ideas that you guys might have on how somebody could find a house church, uh what to look for in a house church, that sort of thing? That's a good answer, right? So we got that part out of the way, but we only began to touch on the idea that we're all involved with house churches It's a cult. Who did they appeal to to maybe begin Matthew eighteen or something? I don't know, I'm punchy. Exactly. And y those are usually the mid-sized churches, a couple hundred people, you know, they'll get together for a fellowship meal like a potluck. Right. Uh and then after that um we uh we share a meal together and then it yeah and then it's a it's a time of of of Um probably probably an hour to an hour and a half. Oh my god, it's it's uh it's it's taken over. He hasn't adjusted to and his show sounds old. No, not if I didn't catch it because it went I was about to like move forward and it was gonna what we were about to record would have overwritten But I caught it just before. They're not teaching the gospel. But this is just a good question to ask any church before you go uh attend is how how often do you be are you reading the Bible and are you preaching from the Bible? You know, that we are justified by by faith alone, and uh you know, through his grace, not by works. Yeah, so in honor of Reformation Day, dress your kids up as Martin Luther. Right. They just sit there and listen and then they go home. So that's why the network idea was important to me. Oh, okay. I don't have time because I got like 20 seconds, but remind me, next show, we're going to talk about one of the benefits and reasons why So our last one will be like a Halloween episode? When last I heard we were still on the FM at 99. Alright, so uh Raz Imran Raz Razvi is uh is not with us uh for this recording session. So Daniel, maybe you can start somebody comes to your house church for the first time and they're gonna experience what? And so when we are together and having a discussion, the children are not teaching. Yeah, so it's it's very it's very conversational. So one-stop shop for you, baby. Um so we already are diminished by, in my opinion, by the loss of only having a handful of major network television And and he kind of closes out his podcast with words to this this effect, saying, look, if you're going to one of these, you know, big megachurch woke pastor kind of things, you know what you need to do? She likes to cook and she's a great uh uh homemaker and or, you know, uh great um Because I think I'm a pretty good person. By the way, culturally speaking it'd be good for us to say, you know, when you get in when you're talking about each of these creation. It's not not easy believism. I would invite you to inquire more and to turn your life over by repentance and submission to him as your Lord and Savior and King. I can't tell you watching now or not, but I do know that we do our on our for our church we do Facebook Live for our Saturday uh Because they're not as connected. Is is putting those those those things into practice. His son here, Daniel, is here, and he's also involved with the same house church that Imran is involved with leading, and they have a There's a huge gap. And so I vet people before they come. Right. I get it. So with that, we're going to wrap up the show. Hello Facebook Live. Yeah, that's a good point. Account for accountability. Like I can't just go to your church and hide? It doesn't even oftentimes rise a level of small talk. And if they find me, I could help them to find another one if they don't want to be a part of what my church is all about and doing. There's three churches that are doing something together, and that something is mostly the faith debate. Twelve hours? It's church service and it's not, because we have women that will cover their heads generally the church service. Yeah some radio stations they they give you coffee by IV I think so. Um but D there's some DJs, so it's not just about the talk. Somewhere in my top ten list of all-time most talented radio broadcasters I've ever heard happens to also be a uh a talk show host with Alan Cole. And then avoid not dressing up as some other culture because you don't care enough about that culture to to to show pride in them. Uh hadn't hadn't been the uh I part of it is I hadn't been their pastor that long. How old are you? Oh you didn't know that they were uh yeah, it seems big because Baptist was in the They're one of us, David. And I think one of the things they could potentially push back is like, okay, here we go. And so last week we started talking about we all do house church. And it's a it's a long thing, right? I was listening to a podcaster, uh actually it was just earlier today, and he was being critical of one of these megachurch pastors who's gone full woke and is teaching Something correct, right? Let me end by saying this. The perfection of Jesus and in his power over sin and over death, proved by his resurrection. Uh and then you have your your larger gathering which then meets at a building. And at moments notice you have to be able to preach, pray, or perish without any warning. Yeah, well if you want to do that as a as an aside. We're gonna spend forty five seconds on that and then a minute twenty on this and then we're gonna do th uh you know thirteen minutes on like this is a little bit too much. Gotcha. Yeah. You know making those refinement choices later on is really what takes something from good to great and from great to exceptional. So the the the multitude of choices is good, but it comes at a huge cost. Like the Raspberry Church you guys have I don't know thirty, forty, fifty people maybe that come with really depends on So uh we try to encourage that. Yeah. Do you have a traditional Christian worldview on those issues? This panel came together for the first recording session and we kind of took turns sharing our testimony, our background, giving the listener a chance to understand who these voices are. I wanted to make sure either at the beginning or the end of each other. But everybody was talking about it the next day. You definitely don't know what I mean. But it was a sheer thing. Fail to listen to Rogan every day. I don't know that it is leading to the more of the problem. Right. This is our Holly Halloween episode. You'll find some people now that are gonna argue, well, it's kind of mythic in nature and you know or Trinity. If you didn't actually accomplish something at the cross, you've got a real problem. That might be a topic we'll want to remember to file away. Half we've we've got ten thousand people in our church now. So uh we record this show in advance and so this is a week night when we're recording it. And then I I Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, that's kind of uh equidistant between these other two house churches. It's now I'm actually speaking into my own. Yeah I think the um I I think there's I think there's two discussions that T V it's an even more dramatic experience. That's like that's your personal preference. Whether it's worshiping through through through teaching or yeah, or singing or praying. I'm old. Oh yeah, I probably should turn that off. Who is it that holds them to account? Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. That's the poison. I'm not sure if that's how they would say it, but that's kind of the way I understand what that ministry is all about. And people are upset about the color on the walls, so we need to form a committee to figure out what paint color to choose and what carpet would be a good complement for that. Right. Troy, is he talking about the the disadvantage of being able to hide and the dis So his next one's airing on uh October seventeenth. Um so we'll we'll s I'll I'll stick with the statement that in our church we have a strong stance on him's only You're not getting the nitty-gritty of all of them necessarily. Because my our structure is a li distinct a little bit from what you guys are doing as well. And actually here's an interesting thing. But certainly if it is just one or two families that are meeting together, within you know, a few months you're gonna kinda know That's like four times longer maybe than the old stuff, or at least twice as long as the old stuff. It's not just focused on that smaller group. It's going to cost us $17,000 to replace it. When I was growing up, or the tail end of my growing up years, if some guy went to another guy and said, shwing, everybody knew what he meant. I'm just talking about broadcaster chops. His show evolved subtly, but it evolved over time. The songs aren't chosen by me. I would say at minimum, I don't think it goes far enough, but at minimum it needs to touch upon So let me get this uh thing rolling and we'll get going Um the idea being that it's a small enough group of people that don't need a separate building to be able to fellowship together. It can be an advantage and a disadvantage, depending on which uh which dots you are Yeah, that Novocaine, your face is numb, it starts to tingle and come back to life over time. That's that's what we're called to do. It's different for every personality type. But whatever it is, there will also there will also be a meal around that and it'll be every week. No, th I mean you're talking 'cause at one time the the the needles kinda went up, but you I don't think it like completely pegged a distortion. Oh yeah. The other thing is it um it provides a Any man who wants to add something to the prayer can do that as well. So it actually was considered a a good thing. But that's about it. Um, it's interesting that David you have a uh like the family's kind of your structure model in your head for how things should go. Before that was Daniel Razby. Yeah, we can do that. Yeah, that's not it. But there's a there's a natural overlap, it seems to me, right? Um I don't think that the that there's really a lot of biblical precedents for having a solid structure, this is what you must do. Okay. I I I don't know. Alan Combs is a liberal, like big time leftist liberal, but as a broadcaster, his talent was a So his whole point in that passage is don't all speak at once. But that's not the the that that's not I'm sure uh what were those guys called that were we're in the Nikes and the jumpsuits and they're waiting for the They don't know what questions to ask. Uh that's not by accident. But but I'll say a lot a lot of churches like that meet in buildings, you don't get any of that either because it is just just the pastor saying his own thing and the congregation doesn't even participate If they have any issue that for some reason they can't come to me with, they have your cell phone numbers. And you get them every every once in a while there's there's a church that I'll go and visit. We have a YouTube channel and all of our sermons are up there. What do these house churches stand for? They're not the thing anymore. But everybody my age watched the last episode of MASH. And part of the circumstances that led to us pulling that trigger was that I was pastoring another church, and that church, uh, the board led, not elder board, but uh board of trustee type I mean what I will allude to it on occasion. I mean if if your if your baby is screaming to the point where it's disruptive to the service and you want to take the baby into another room and and nurse or something, that's fine. They're picking up things through osmosis, whether you realize it or not. Yeah. But if we turned it into an eight or ten hour thing like you, she would probably only join us for a couple of those hours anyway. The website's less than six months old. And in both cases, I was able to help them get shoved off in the right direction to find what I would have reason to believe and trust and hope And they're like, oh, I don't think that would work for us. So finding a house church is one thing, but finding a faithful biblical church is another. So if you're thinking about homeschooling, well oh but I could never do it, how do you do it? So if you were part of that history making moment when we went Facebook Live for the Faith Debate Show for the very first time, you're now hearing the results of that. And that was not and maybe uh people who've listened to this show for a long time might recall, if you've been a long time listener, you might recall me sharing this story uh in the past a couple of different times They come in and they visit me we were visited by um the s some people and and they they uh they're Ibakine? You know, to uh uh conquer them unto obedience, conquer them unto a successful life, conquer them unto all the blessings that God would have for them, uh, through uh biblical principles applied to everyday lives at a So some of the advantages. So that's the new reality. It gets to the point where you actually have real conversations about real things that matter. Russell and and that's even debatable. But if everybody shows up, it's nine people. But over time I could see like right now like say we'll have dining everybody shows up. Maybe maybe the idea of like isolation, you know, there's there there's a danger of becoming isolated maybe. You know, and and so so all of the resources and energy would be going directly into serving We'll be back next week about 167. Uh that's chosen ahead of time. I was like, this doesn't feel right, so it doesn't look right. Well during those couple of months we were still doing church. So not gonna do that. Ask the pastors what they believe and why and that sort of thing. Right. I would say the number one advantage is a aside from it's the biblically prescribe Um and and and so if it gets much larger than that you have to be an ability and and suddenly you don't have a close relationship, how many best friends can you have? Right. They're just not comfortable. So it can be any any man who uh has been led by something and if if you were assigned to you know biological man? Yeah, so I'm gonna see if I mean I'm gonna keep going. Yeah. Or will you be the one to close us in prayer today? I can foresee a time when that would go away. Whenever you come to a house in a Pakistani household or any any Jewish household, anybody from the Middle East, it's She loves doing it. Don't remind me. Yeah those those are important things because they're talking about okay what if you reject if you're listening to this right now and you reject that that's fine. Yeah that was I thought that was good. Why? Like this is a maybe an Achilles heel if we're not careful. But I th I think you're correct that many churches just haven't really thought that far ahead and they're assuming that everything's always going to be hunky dory and they don't have to Concordbylove. Yeah, the guy in the wilderness got the little blow dart and hit me with the blow dart and I am loopy. All right then. So I wanted to lay some breadcrumbs out there on the internet so that if somebody's actually researching and looking to find a house church, they have a shot. So I don't know which one maybe Daniel, you want to go first, because I think last week uh I I had uh Not a man who thinks he's women. Um and so so then after after a time of prayer, uh then we will um 25, 1. Uh the the reason I'm going to mention these other things is doing like a potluck style thing doesn't lend itself to easily coming together Like there's something there that these people are wanting or needing or feeling like they need from us. You're not gonna shuttle the kids off into a completely different part of the house for children's church or youth group meetings or things like that. And uh David was I don't know, y well, y you were probably only eleven. Seventeen years ago? Yeah, is that the only thing you're gonna hear today, theology and things like that? And I homeschool as well. So I don't know who wants to tackle the question first, but I think we can start broad with House Church. Um but yeah maybe we can go more into that later. That is a in a house as well? And to your point before, this might be like the last thought we have a chance to share, but it's um it's kind of putting a bow on something that you mentioned. I don't know, right? Well we'll say that either the dentist was really good at being gentle because it didn't hurt anywhere near as much when he jabbed me. Maybe you can take a nap and we'll finish this uh you know ourselves here. Do you want to be invisible? All right, believe it or not, we've reached the end of another show, Graham. Are you feeling particularly sexy today or what? But then either after or before, depending on the time of day, we'll have the a meal together. Yeah. It is. The editing happens in the moment. What's that? In fact, in some cases I think they're preaching and teaching an anti-gospel. Yeah, 'cause I'm not, you know, y you watch these guys that uh you know around the country, these big uh first high person Um anyway. Yeah, and and yeah, across the board, right, regardless of size. You know, uh are they actually being true to what the text says is the most important thing? And we wanted to do this at some point during the show anyway. And so the the the family is where I would say sort of sort of everything should be should be happening. They use a different three-letter word for that. Well that's what they're using now. I have one. I'll I'll be five. First show was mostly what are the disadvantages or potential pitfalls that house churches have to be aware of. Um and when you're choosing what's going to be the focus of the teaching or choosing the psalm, uh Yeah, and I'm not saying that my wife pushed back and said she didn't want to do it. Yeah, I won't get into specifics. So obviously that's a non starter. But you wouldn't know it by just talking to them. Yeah, a little behind the scenes for you. Yeah, I th I think a lot of a lot of people assume that a church is a structure, it's a rigid structure So I'm not getting enough levels. We are the way I had things designated, I had because we're we're hoping to do five shows tonight and I had like five Yeah the fifth one's the thirty fifth. You restore that relationship ultimately to at the end of all things being glorified. com. And the other and I didn't want to get bogged down to all the hyper specific things to us, but one of the everything that I've been doing so far has been I'm trying to stay true to what I think So literally. But basically and this might even be a good litmus test for your current pastor, to see how your current pastor and you could couch it as hey if I if I'm going to share the gospel with somebody, what are the things I need to be Yeah, I don't know why I forgot the music. So it's not an accident. You know, well Mark Driscoll was a superstar, a rise uh he was an emerging superstar in evangelical circles fifteen years ago. Ten years ago ish, maybe a little more than that, I had the idea of doing a house church thing, but not just doing a standalone house church thing, but being involved in helping to establish Yeah, and grow in my walk with with the Lord and actually be able to contribute something. So anyway we sing and anybody in the congregation can request any hymn they want in the hymnal. So it's long. I'm Troy Skinner. Which is you know we all did. Do you even know what I mean? So if you're right, then you, your the listener and me, all of us, we'll we'll all be in heaven together because we're uh we all do more good things than bad things just in general. Right? But my point in bringing that up though was with the house church model, it's like a built-in weakness that I think house church leaders should Basically the booklet they're like long articles. But how Nobody likes me that much. And so uh all that all that to say the uh the advantage isn't just of the the closeness but of the Uh and you can w uh if you aren't listening to it live or you you catch us in the middle or you you want to listen back so you can laugh at things we've said, uh it'll be available via podcast That's what we'll do for you know maybe half an hour or so. People can have a conversation. Not we thought I was gonna go with that, right? Daniel to distract him when this show airs. So uh on a week by week basis it starts around five thirty, but uh there are occasions when we'll say, hey, we want to do something extra long I'll may I'll if you care I'll explain later why I think that happened. You can also check your homeschool umbrella groups and homeschool movements uh and any connections you have to homeschoolers, a lot of them will have Um but I'm not gonna just recommend something to the house church. But there's the the statement of uh they always popped in my head. It's not like, oh, I said the sinner's prayer and now I'm gonna be forever with God in heaven, so I'm gonna be glorified. And so it looks and feels so different from a what we're doing as a house church that I was like, yeah, it's not cult. No. So it's you know this is this is an an advantage in a sense, right? We don't have enough leaders, and we'll talk about that uh in a second, maybe next, maybe next episode. Yeah. And I typically only have three, four, five people that are watching it live as it's happening I don't know, I'm just I I'm totally punchy. Instead of just going I I think I think sometimes people go to church like you go to a movie or you go to a concert. So that when you're out there in an unsafe environment, it'll just be a matter of course. Their mot their uh you know their mother's uh had cancer for the last four months and you and you just find out about it, or a marriage is in distress and you had no idea and you're like, Wow, what? Well, you can also sleep in later to make up for it, which is what I do. There's a couple of reasons, at least a couple of reasons. Seems like those have been the shorter ones. SNL. So the industry has diminished because the talent level, what he brought to the table is so rare. And it's so hard to do. But anyway, enough of my soliloquy. That's what we do with our house church. There is a great Redeemer who has uh provided the solution for your guilt. I generally do good things. Um yeah, I don't know about I don't know about ad, but uh the yeah, the the gospel is is the understanding that This is a first. I think one of the uh significant challenges for a house church, and I think again Westboro is a good example of this, is the You know, open up my brain, pour into me what you think I should know, and then sew it back up and I'll Listener, do you want to be that person, the person who feels this compunction to pray and yet, but I can't. Uh in in a larger church, you don't really know any of those people. You are not perfect. And it was Must C T V because on Friday everybody at work was talking about um Seinfeld and Friends and Fraser and Wings or whatever the other show He is, in my opinion, the second best radio broadcaster in history. Okay. So I think 30 minutes is a kind of a sweet spot for us. It's fe filling a need. I don't think I could do what you guys are doing because you know we really need a good youth program for the kids and we you know we need this, we need that. Was he an actual human being in actual history? But that's that's uh um Pascal's argument from what the sixteen hundreds or something. But if you're looking for a faithful biblical church, you're looking for a church that's gonna say a man is a man, a woman is a woman because that's that would be the biblicals Yeah. Is that a thing? Okay, fine, then don't be a part of what we're doing if you think we're a cult. And and we sing uh we sing every week as well that um that may fall in in different places. Sure. And one of the steps in that development of leadership will be taking on the responsibility of leading a teaching. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. That's that's one thing. And so I wonder if, you know, uh that's what, you know, uh there would have been a stigma around a house church much more so I said, you know, I have this problem. We don't have leaders, you have a church of 10,000 with one pastor and then a couple of, you know, a whole a whole staff of associate pastors. I'd love to talk with you about it more. Hey, you're not even agreeing with your own stuff here. So that'll go on until people are done with that and it could be fifteen minutes, it could be an hour and fifteen minutes, but it's around it's around Okay. Yeah, no, there's a lot of there's there's a there's a lot of upside. We're all doing the same things at the same time, in the same way, going to work the next day, talking about you know, back in the nineties, you guys well you not, but you are old enough to know about We're online at HouseholdofInChrist. You d it uh not only doesn't anybody do it, it's kinda discouraged. It is possible. No, I'm not gonna do that. He there's like matter wasn't pre-existent, you know, God made everything, right? We do wrong things. Is that fair? Depends how big the it could be it could be five hundred to a thousand depending on the size of the house church. And that solution is Jesus Christ. My wife post pregnancy would add a fourth P to that. Well, we'll get into uh Should should I laugh away from the microphone, Troy? You have churches modeled on um you know whether it's whether it's business or government or any of you know Oh no absolutely. That was from the Waynesworld bit that got turned into the Waynes World movies. Somebody else's everybody's so fractured that even if they have the same idea and I use those on on purpose as the the Um I don't see just one guy speaking all the time. That that's how easy it should be to answer those questions. So what are some questions they should ask? At minimum those three things. If somebody's a member of that church and they're like, holy cow, my pastor has lost his freaking mind And that's a real challenge. Because you spent you spent the first ten minutes talking about your dental point. You guys what you guys do is a long it's a day-long thing. Yeah and so and and I've been to your uh church as well um uh actually a little more often than I've been to what the Razvies do It's more about personality and how you use your voice as an instrument as opposed to having a tuba. 5. Short sermon might be twenty-five minutes long. Lack of accountability. Ten years ago that would have been my assumption. Alright. Probably. We don't know when the end is going to come and by short it it could mean a thousand years, it could mean a year, it could mean a day. I'm gonna uh we get a good discussion going back to the case. We don't have those things anymore. Yeah. But I like the house church idea. And many people have the understanding that oh well if there is an afterlife or if there is a heaven or whatever, I'll probably be there because I'm a I'm a pretty good Sometimes they don't even sing. What are the what are the uh I I I I could go on forever. More than I go somewhere. Well also now you can just go watch the highlights on YouTube the next day. I nobody uh so I I'm very public with what we do, but our address is not I don't know. Uh because we would we would have made a different decision uh if it were my call exclusively that's for sure Uh this is a Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Maybe I'm wrong in that. Yeah. Oh yeah. Thank you for that firm exclamation point on the end of the show, Daniel. We have four people involved with this show, and all four are either pastors or associate pastors or somehow in leadership with And we're going to be talking about that t uh today. Right. They're poisoning me. So I think one of the side effects is is causing drowsiness. And it'll probably actually be on the Household of Faith in Christ. Thanks for listening. Well I I think I think you're right that there's something certainly lost. I almost erased the last show we did. I mean you can keep doing more good than evil, but you m uh the the important thing is to make sure that you are trusting in Jesus alone. And you're fat these there are some basic pieces to the sharing of the gospel. Yeah, we cover we at least touched on everything I was thinking we probably would uh touch on. So the you know, whether it's whether it's education, uh I mean our our society is so so far away from uh from the family, you know, that Sure. And on the other end of the county there's a house church that's connected with Conquered by Love Ministries. And that's you and you'd still need a diaconate because the people who are Yeah, well some people are out of the gas. Now uh so that's what goes on with the uh the house that meets at Imran's house. Sometimes it would be a grouping of books if it's uh a number of epistles from the New Testament or I I guess I would say like I think it's it's it's closer to the ideal, right, radio. If it's a particularly slow talker, they'll double the speed. So that's gone well. I mentioned a couple weeks ago that I've had this idea about doing a house church for years and years. Uh and I think singing is very important. However, we have a special needs son and we've got a big house and she's got a lot of you know pressures on her and I'm like The overwhelming majority of house searches do not have a website. So I I wonder if that's they have a tendency to think it's a church plant that's going to grow into something much bigger. If you know what an English cigarette's called. So I'd be curious to see uh w what what your uh thoughts on that would be. I haven't had anybody say that to me. org. Um but then yes, we we close everything with uh with communion. So a joyous Sunday to you. Part of that is I want to have as much participation from people as possible. So I try to get everybody involved. But the context was we got shut down and it was it was The first important question they probably should ask you is, so uh Pastor Forcy, um what's your understanding of the gospel? And so uh so the the good news is that uh that God has made that way. Um you know, so Yeah, it's a real challenge for our culture right now because, you know, uh in in church context it's drop off your kids at the curb and the youth group and the Sunday school takes care of Yeah, I d I don't I don't think we really run into a whole lot of people that think it's a w it's a bad thing necessarily. Oh, those Baptists see how hateful they are. Good job, get that in there, correct? Cult. Well, uh I'm ready to just get going and we can pick up with where you kinda left off on some of these dang dangling participles and where'd we leave off? So this is getting some traction, so we'll see. Right? But there you don't get that every week we're having our meal together. What do they believe? Uh God is perfect. Are they also listening Before He died to Rush Limbaugh every day? Uh sometimes we'll read um an extended passage from scripture that's connected with what the message is going to be about, sometimes not as a passage Um uh it's more just a spontaneous, hey I feel like maybe we should just hang out and and so those that's the structure. So we stopped meeting we were shut down, meaning we we shut ourselves down, stopped meeting, and then closed the doors Host of the Faith Debate Show. Well as you're hearing this on the radio, it's now a little over six months old And that website has a listing of um family integrated churches across the country. They all committed suicide. So I feel like a fuller, more complete expression of the gospel, you got creation, fall, redemption, restoration. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. org. I just came across a cult recently that's with a uh involved in the house church movement and they actually go from house church to house church. I wouldn't just say elders though. We we should pray at the end of the at the end of the you could call it a sermon or you know Yeah. Or if you want to get away from that even, and I'm not sure how big it has been uh in your context And that's what I found out they were dyslexic. That's true. Thirty-six. Said, Hey, you know what, you might want to check out David Forski. Welcome. Right, that that sort of thing. Right. I I I'm not sure. Those are so the flip side advantage of of a of a house church or a smaller setting, right, of believers gathering together is Oh the horror. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. Yeah. Right. I would invite you, if you want to know more about that, to reach out to me. Yeah she's not saying oh can we have them come over so I can cook every weekend? Um, why is it good, bad, or indifferent? Oh sure, yeah no yeah having lack of accountability is an issue across the board. So that I think there are house churches that do follow a a connected structure like you're talking about, Troy. org. Let's get this ball rolling. One right one being like the roles of men and women. Awol this time is uh Imran Razvi, but he'll be around maybe in a couple of weeks and we'll give him a hard time. 30. They found me and they're like, uh, you don't have a location but from the stuff I'm seeing in your social media it seems like you're probably somewhere in Maryland and I'm not in Maryland, but do you know any Oh well I know something about the Raspbees Church and something about the Forces Church. I don't know if I've ever told you this, uh Daniel, but I have shared with uh David. Um but whenever there is a a group of Christians in in a Hollywood production that are meeting in Uh and actually I went online to look and see if that if I my suspicion is correct. That's possible. And they didn't have that issue anymore. But inside of months you begin to turn that corner. There's pressure on the pastor to hit the to hit the post. But then and then we'll have time for any man and we make it very clear, any man or boy, or anybody, any male, no women I am not perfect. Uh I I've heard the reference and but I I So during that process they might hear me say, so what you might expect when you show up is, so this is something that they would be hearing Usually by six oh five or six ten, you know, if there's an extended reading of the scriptures, by six ten the sermon uh begins. And afterwards I you know said, Hey I really pre I know that was hard for you, you were nervous and So at the time at the moment when that comes, I'm gonna be Um so so that's one of the reasons we do that. But generally kids are very much expected to be in the service. We actually wrote a book on it. We can do that. And then if we have some time, uh we can talk about how perhaps house church and uh homeschooling I can tell you this. This is not your place to to to judge me. Wow, that's too loud. Because I think that would be uh a stigma too, I guess, right? We're so popular and and that sort of thing. Right. Yeah, they take a needle and jab it in your mouth. And then you can eat. Yeah, uh so one of the things I I hadn't even thought about this. And having been uh lack of distractions. This example of you come together to break bread and you're you're you're ha sharing your meal together, that's a that's a a place to build relationships. Two down. And it took us two episodes to cover the one umbrella. I'm sure at some point we'll have a discussion on the roles of men and women. Um and uh you know and so then we'll you know we'll we'll talk through answers to questions or Which is right, you know, I think has at least ten years left in it, but after that all bets are off. And then they can talk about those radio stations and they have something in common and they can connect. If you weren't watching SNL, you could not have a conversation with friends in school. And so I I don't think we're very far from those being the only Uh so the family integrated part, you know, that's that's a nice to have Uh and so uh so Jesus is the the rescuer from um You're making history with us. Is so that all those who are primarily the under shepherd. So you guys had kind of a heads-up warning that you might be asked to kind of just share an elevator speech version of the gospel, you know, 90 seconds or less if possible 9 HD2. And uh David Forcy doesn't have a website, but he's uh he's cool nonetheless. So that that's kind of part of it even though that's not the church service so we don't have any prohibition on women's From the time the first people show up to the time the last people leave is Uh there's uh you know or whether it's uh you know concerts or you know however it may be there's there's some sort of model that that Yeah. You can call it a service for communication purposes, I don't I don't care. It's taking over. Uh you're too young to experience this yourself, but you might have heard stories. It's gonna be very exciting. Like, wait a minute, what's going on? Uh and the other thing is I'm suspicious that they might have known that I was gonna push Oh, at the beginning I do. It was y a cultural thing. Everyone else is a heretic. Do you wanna be have a all lack of accountability in your life? It's probably fifty it's probably fifty percent better. And so other people like them, they have a shared experience. It addresses the question of what's happening now? It's a good thing your father wasn't here and he wouldn't have gotten a word in edgewise. You have a problem whether you acknowledge it or not, and that problem is that you have done at least one wrong thing in your life. You know, our time here is short, certainly, and even you know the the length of that shortness we don't know. And unless you are one of the people that's heavily involved in all the church activity Is that right? What's their statement of faith? And those who are not as comfortable, we work towards that. It might seem crazy, but I'm telling you it's gaining so much momentum I'm going to mention this as a way to uh So and you mentioned that as a way to try to find a house church actually is look for a homeschool network or something like that, some sort of uh uh co Yeah, so I mean my I I think my thought to sort of tie both of those together is that um Yeah, I mean I there's a um there can certainly be a uh You've probably heard about prosperity gospel, but this popularity gospel where it's all about my pastor's really popular. 5 hours from right now. It'll be the thirty first. I mean look at this guy. But I don't know if that gives you an idea. Yes, it is. That's true. I apologize. And if it it's just what's provided. Maybe there'd be so many great benefits. So let me turn this off. Hasn't done in the house church movement any favors, that's for sure. Yeah, it's just a family. This is me in all sincerity. Well elite house churches. Like I have to be involved and I'll be seen and people might expect me to maybe like say hello and I've never prayed aloud in front of somebody before. Look, we're all connected on this website thing. So right. Till next week. Yeah. He's really good at what he does. Uh I'm not so sure having them bring uh Yeah, I mean I I read a the Bible in the New Testament I read examples of how the church is and we try to copy that Now one of the challenges like if somebody were to contact me, obviously I have no problem talking to them about and Ask them about the historicity of Moses. We've got no music played. My church's website and it can connect to all the social media and things related to this show even by going to household of faith in Christ dot com. It's just merely those greetings exchanged and that's about it. He's like invisible on the internet practically. So anyway, enough of my Russian book. So I'll uh just real quickly I'll run through what you could expect. We could point them to somebody outside of us three. And if you don't have that thought out answer, if if it's oh that's a complicated thing, well, maybe this is not something that you want to I do more good things than bad things, I think. A good uh a good start. But his son Daniel is here, and Daniel Razvi is going to be a regular part of this panel as well. Present. Exactly. They have a band singing on the stage and they just listen, uh the the congregation. And so you can find out and it's a it's pretty cool resources. House churches don't have that. But earlier years ago in radio having the radio voice was a big deal and so cigarettes actually would help to roughen and toughen Nowadays it's less about that. But they're not everybody who's in that crowd isn't consuming both of those. Not in the morning, in the evening. And we have, you know, somebody might be really comfortable uh So I think this time maybe we'll talk about uh Alright, let me uh get this ready. And they'll feed you every week. I would ask, do you read the Bible during the church service? Which gets to the tellos, the end, like the ultimate aim. But because of that, what of what are we left with? So yeah, sounds good. And it doesn't happen immediately. Yeah, including the meal time and everything altogether. We all listened to Walter Cronkite. If everybody shows up uh on the same Saturday evening, which happens most of the time. Well the implication being there are several men who will be speaking and sharing something of value, not just the comments. Okay, yeah, nineteen. org is their uh website. The best way to go about trying to find one? Uh you know, those sorts of of uh structures have some sort of accountability built into their model. But that's not the best first place to start. Okay. How many people can you really have a strong relationship with outside your immediate family and you you Uh it was uh board led and not an elder board. I I I like to make it a little longer. Um And I will say, and to that's gonna be uh become increasingly The the shared experience. This is the Faith Debate. I'm telling you, I haven't heard that yet. I'm Troy Skinner, URU. Uh people have favorite radio stations that they'll spend almost all Not that I'd be opposed to somebody else in our church preaching, but nobody else right now is equipped to handle that. I mean I mean rather than Halloween. Um, you know, to be rescued from from our own sin, from It's whataboutism. Right? Maybe maybe accountability is not uh So anyway, on top of that, I was dead tired. Ask a question, add something, make a comment, disagree, any of those things. Therefore we cannot be in heaven. Yeah, into the the church practices. But then I have strong opinions about everything. But the uh the climate of the times is negative. Yeah, so I'm trying to say what were some of the other things I said that were a little bit different than you guys and I want to have a meal at Um the the other the other question you can ask is is what is your stance on abortion or elder You need to really think long and hard. Okay. So there were only three or four families, but it was for all intents and purposes a Presbyterian church and e it had the leadership of the Presbyterian It's also focused on the larger group in the building where the larger group What are we going to do? And if that's the case, I would love to talk with you and uh and uh and to see you know where your thinking is on all that. The m the the sound's probably not gonna be anywhere near as good 'cause you guys are so far from the phone. One guy's listening to Ben Shapiro all day, the other guy's listening to uh Louder with Crowder every day, the other person's listening You're inviting people into your home. You know, so we're not huge. Uh my parents wrote a book on it. And this creator hasn't done any wrong things. If you're already homeschooling, house churching makes a lot of sense And they made the news because of their hateful rhetoric, and they have the name Baptist in the name of their What are some of the advantages and disadvantages? Anyway, so you rescue me. So after last week's show, nobody would ever want to join a house church because we talked about all the disadvantages. So uh you know but the I guess the advantage of It's like, where's so-and-so? I I mean, make me too much of a radio geek. You're making editing choices as you're talking. Um but right now I'm not feeling like we need And our kids usually are way more attentive to what's going on around them long before you realize they're attentive to what's going on. Next week I'm just gonna introduce you guys and say go and then you guys talk for the rest of the show If you came out and asked them, do you believe in the Trinity, they would have said that, but that didn't come up because they presented as believers. So we um it's not an accident that we have Coat. You have a problem. Uh that was the voice of David Forcy. I mean I'd say you know these are should not be the primary concerns of anyone. Yeah, unnecessary details like caring for the orphans and the widows. So you might not have a connect uh build but I can promise you there are people I mean it's okay, but it's like barely okay. So if you want to watch the video, go to uh YouTube, find the Household of Faith in Christ. One of the reasons is that there are people who want to kind of connect with and check out a house church But during that time, any other man who's there can And then when it's it's done somebody closes. Um so so for the last last month or so I guess we've been And then I think it'll blend nicely on the piggybacking on us talking about what happens. Yeah. Whenever we turn it on, it's always, hello Facebook, hello YouTube, because we put it on YouTube later. Right. Also known as Reformation Day. I mean the more obvious easy one is to ge you know, what's your position on the historicity of Jesus? I don't think it goes far enough, but if they're not at least there, I mean there is a creator So we've never done, to my knowledge, unless I'm totally losing my mind, we have never done a Facebook Live while recording So the faith debate airs on Sunday mornings on WFMD uh at nine o'clock every Sunday morning. And Holly Hollywood does like to uh uh Some of them don't even have a name. Oh. Somewhere out there you might be able to find David Forcey. And I think that's common. I think that's something that's where we get to the Y House Church, because I read Bible was So we're gonna go. And now all of our faith debate shows that we happen to do via Facebook Live. Sure. It's just kind of an overview of these or what the themes of these letters are and and people are going to have particular questions about or things that struck them. 167 and a half hours from Set Your Watches. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WSMD. com. I think it's important for you to know that you are fearfully and wonderfully made. Uh everybody who's been uncomfortable praying inside of two months uh has gotten to a place where they are willing to Unless I were to do it sarcastically, tongue in cheek, or trying to play have fun with it. Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Um I have because uh uh because I have the website some people have found me. And if they don't have an answer on the tip of their tongue, like you asked me, what's my stance on abortion? Uh, but I do want to talk more about what the perception might be because it's interesting to be uh it never it's funny uh your instinct, uh Daniel, was But but you just know what you're thinking yet I've I've been trying to I was trying to think if somebody never heard uh heard of the idea of a house church as like a Exactly. How many are we doing today? com. I'm providing something to those other guys, as gifted and smooth as they are, that they're not giving. Like it's it's not a a big deal. And I know you guys and so it's to say, Where do you live? That's fine. And if you're biblically see, this is the challenge though. How about now explain the gospel briefly He felt like he was above any accountability. Now whether that's biblical or not is is going to be a d a debate that theologians can have, but at least it's built into the model And if you're a Christian, what I'm saying to you isn't earth-shattering. Because you don't want to eat when you're loaded up with Novocaine because you're gonna chew the We could leave here today, the three of us, and on our way home, it's the lights out. If they are a really close group of people Right. So there's at least those three reasons why I wanted to do the website Yeah, you guys g boxed me out, a filibuster. Uh back in the seventies and eighties, even into the nineties, I'm not so sure Some people could argue uh the merits of that. Some amazingly talented DJs that are just Rush his his pace, his persona, his ability to shift and change with the time Dressing up like a mummy at Egyptian appropriation. And I paused, thank goodness for that. A sh a long sermon might be thirty-five. And I think the only reason it's filling a need is because pardon the you know common vernacular on this, but yeah And I mean I'm not competing with them on that level. I was going to say the last voice you heard was David Forcy's but the You ha uh I uh i I have had to go through hours and hours of conversations with some of these There we go And how much do you uh each member of the congregation is participating in the Until then, thanks so much for listening and God bless So if you want those fancy, expensive radios, you dirty, rotten capitalist few, then you can listen to us there. But talking about oh it was it was the very first uh show we did on this topic about house churches, where Daniel said the first thing most people probably think when they hear house church is cult. You know, what are they all about? That's right. I'll join this week as uh every week now with You're gonna hear math. Can you help me? So so how do you so I guess I'm telling you these guys can help you figure that out. I had it all set up and timed and ready to go and I had ever hit start. I forgot to hit the start music. Yeah that'll be part of what we're talking because we're gonna compare and contrast what's happening with uh There's only like fifteen people and it's all they're basically all related. They're the ones that uh infamously uh like to go to funerals of uh fallen military members I need help. Well we've got uh yeah we've only got we can maybe we'll we'll pick that up either next episode or the episode after that because I I'd uh I'd be curious to see what you Anyway. I hope I wasn't uh hope it wasn't rude for me to grab my protein bar in the middle of the show and he's ready to Uh but I think that there's gonna be more of a drive towards faster However, we have a problem. They somehow have to reach out to me and I have an opportunity then to either meet with them beforehand or at the very least talk with them So and then um we do we don't do the Lord Supper every week. And right now there's nobody in And it's just it doesn't it seems like a burdensome request The only clarification I would make is I don't I don't know that they're going to learn more or they're going to learn something different. Well hopefully I'm at some point we're gonna have eighteen or twenty and out of that new group of people we might get two or three families with They're totally off the deep end on, you know, being left theologically. Uh what are the checks on that? Okay, I'll just go down the street. I don't know if it's a metaphor, I just made that up. And we can talk about some of the uh advantages of doing a house church. But anyway, I'm telling it it you know, it kind of felt the same going in, except I will say you guys have had Novocaine at some point in your life Amateurs. I feel the same as any other day. But the end time uh it kind of just depends on what people sort of filter out. So we've got three different ways of of of doing house church. And we'll be able to look back and say, yeah, ever since Rush died, I think it was already beginning to fracture big But anyway, during that so after a f couple of minutes of More deep things, I guess. Like these are not Baptists by any stretch of the imagination based on the Baptist title. You guys have this problem Yeah. Five hour energy drink. Yeah, anyway. So if we get very chatty and there's lotta catching up to do, lots of sharing happening, lots of fellowshipping that's taking place At the conclusion of the message, there's there's uh a group discussion about the message in the past Okay, I gotta get past this ad for some reason. And so the fall breaks that. Okay, created as what? Facebook, thanks so much. You listen to the last four uh I think the last five I guess. And and part of that is actually uh I mean the idea How about if we work together and so we've got Exactly. Um that's how we do it. And uh using using the the psalm as our our pattern for prayer our uh He is the ultimate perfection. There you'll find links to this show and everything related to this show, plus all the other social media and sermons and blog posts and Uh and you I don't know either 'cause your dad was a pastor so You listened to his show in the early nineties and compared it with his show from the last couple of years. And I was like, I don't know if I would have put as much gentle pressure on you. And then after the message and I'm so far I've been the one to If it's done properly, music is very important and I have some strong opinions on And they'll feed you every week. So those three are absolute musts. I'm Troy Skinner. I l ended the show last week, but I'm gonna make sure we do it at the beginning of the show this week. I mean some there's some mansions that could fit a hundred people Um then you don't have to a in a house church you can't avoid going to the small How exciting is that? It's crazy. But if there's not as much chit chat and stuff going on, we'll transition into singing sooner and sometimes and uh we'll And so I was by default forced to do what so many of the churches had to do. And I think, unfortunately, there are a lot of pastors out there that I forget what they were called now, but those guys might have been family integrated for all I know. None. Is that what we're doing? You remember. If you want to get a hold of me, call Troy. What's going on? I do. The cultural and sensitivity of some of those people putting on those costumes for help I love you guys. Maybe you haven't had the issue because of not being so public like on the internet and those sorts of things that I have with But uh it's at least two, sometimes a third song before we get into the formal thing So we've got kind of a music coordinator, if you will, who shows up with that week's song selections. Paul talks about in uh Corinthians, he talks about don't all speak at once, as in You can connect to us with us most easily by going to householdfaith in Christ dot com. Yeah. So like even the family integrated uh you know He's got a good church thing going on down there. I went to the dentist today. And so why Which is the the the the spiritual health and direction and you know praying for the people and Um they still had the issue because they still had deacons. So maybe uh wait, wait, so this this this third episode It's a day of rest. As you draw to a close you end up having the uh We've got uh literally like sixty seconds. Talent as a broadcaster. So one of the things yeah, one of the things I noticed you know both last week and lunar One of the things that I think would make sense, let me get rid of this. Right. So you're saying, oh you guys don't you know house churches don't have accountability. And and so uh so now your your your time, your energy, your Don't get me started. All of our wives post pregnancy would add a fourth P to that No. I think it becomes an emblem. Sure, there there are there are instances, but it by and large in the American church, I'm using air quote I know Iocaine is from Princess. But even for you hearing my voice, your time is short. They've written a number of booklets, several dozen booklets I think. They'd be focusing on what the diaconates will be focusing on. And and you may find that people are a bit more authentic in that setting. My joke about the inn was belonging for a different time. And they're gonna learn a lot more sitting in a church service than they are in a Children can sit in church. No, he's you were probably like twenty or so when I started. But what you will find with that website is it'll all be churches where the church is a little bit of a So but they signed off on their uh what are the what are the Sun of Baptists? There's a rising movement where there are are It's an eternal problem. And that tingle and come back to life thing usually Uh right, and the the bad news is that um So let's do that then. It's all laid out. Bald headed guy, he's like the most popular podcaster in the country right now. But we had about a hundred and hundred to a hundred and fifty people that were faithful every week, paying attention to what we were doing online. Right. Joined by the you know, you were ten when I started doing this show. And I've had some people locally have reached out to me saying, Hey, I don't know if a house church is really an out Not always, but very often, and so it makes sense to uh to record them. They weren't going to house churches, right? Have you heard anybody do you talk about you're doing a house search and they mention to you, Yeah I have to come I have to make sure we know not a cult. So you want to wait until it wears off. Or who wants to sign up to It's not like if you've never been to the house church before you go for the I don't know if you do it in in in Europe gathering, uh David, on a regular basis, but uh most of the house churches, if not all the house What's gonna happen? And so you generally gather and when then there's enough people gather that you feel like okay, that's probably all who's coming now, let's go ahead and g They may ask questions or and they can certainly have observations. I double speed on almost everything. I didn't want to do it to her. Unfortunately, they weren't local And uh then we got David Forcy, who is Or they'd be in leadership Time is short. What is a service like Amateurs. All right. Welcome to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD online at Now you might see all the things that I'm putting out there on House of the Faith But it's also I think it's important for the whole congregation to be singing. I mean it's I think it's natural. Right. Yeah, it it it it's it I don't think it's great for the culture when radio goes away. Now if you like that old sound, that's good, but he hasn't kept Rush didn't ever sound disconnected Hmm. I want to go to a house church, I feel most comfortable there, I feel like that's gonna be good for me and my family. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. Can you give me some counsel here? And so is there well Okay, you so you're gonna push back on that okay. David Forcey is the closest to me. I'm gonna let you guys go on forever. And it's no longer the small talk, uh it's no longer even the cocktail language talk. Uh Daniel Razvy is uh involved Eight. But now let's talk about So when we first started uh we did uh we just we worked our way through the Bible and we uh 'Cause it you know, getting off of house church and talking about sort of churches in general, right? So we're destined for hell. And I'm not even talking about the content per se as far as the political God bless. And unfortunately, two people so far have So there's a fourth house church potentially that we know about? And if that's the case, reach out to me and we can talk about what that looks like and we can figure out ways to make sure that you're If you hear people hemming and going, Oh well see, that's a complicated issue. And the Holy Spirit is just part of the Father, so they have the Father and the Son. Um I think most people who are um trying to So I feel like if those five pieces, at least the first three, but if all five are are We're going to go out cold on this one. How does it compare with what most people might be used to in a uh house church? We were intending a Christian cult I didn't say that. Like, of course I'm gonna pray with you. But uh the only way you would think that we're a cult is if you think that a Bible believing There is a lot of upside, but as a big radio consumer before we got into business So we're diminished. Okay. Just letting you know. So it's not a whole lot more uh to just get a slightly bigger. And we've talked about the advantages, the disadvantages, we've talked about But we did. So how does somebody find a house church? Yeah but no about locally somebody who's hearing us on the radio right now they want to go to so if they didn't like us Um and so it goes so contrary to what the norm in our culture is What you should think when you think House Church is a group of believers that meet in a Some of them are part of a denomination. Uh you know, the three letter word starts with an F. So if you've got a group of ten, twelve, eighteen people that are getting together and they become cult like in their doctrine You wouldn't forget this. Yeah, I I guess to to add to that I would I would say or just to to build on that, right, is um You don't know how strong of a believer people are. I think I post one too. It's not I mean in Bible study sometimes you may have women that that are also contributing. Um Maybe, maybe not. Okay. And uh and I think that they hear something that's as So Maybe I should start one. But what about the person who's not a rock solid Christian? Right. So not all yes. There's three more churches down the street. Well You know, the Uh and so the advantages uh It's something about the industry. And then uh you know, avoid wearing costumes at all. Oh yeah, no, I'm not gonna say Happy Halloween. So you gotta start with a creator. It it has to do with our sanctification, the the outworking of the gospel. Thanks so much for listening on 930 WFMD. I left myself myself a little short on time so it wasn't as This is different than that. I hope they're okay. You guys are speaking right into the microphone and I don't know why. And well having a website with uh clearly articulated belief statements out there and uh Okay. Uh if you've probably noticed this as a casual listener of radio And a number of those probably uh We can talk about that someday maybe. Math skills. Till next week or next time or whatever. Oh no. Um and and also the the what you just brought up, Troy, I I think that could just as And we've seen it if you if you uh listening are a big fan of the bigger names in uh American evangelicalism. Yeah, having been a pastor of a church with a building. So we're behind, but I didn't f What are they gonna see? You get a Sabbath, you rest. Some of those morning guys they live on coffee. So at what he does there's nobody better. I I feel like we've we've overshot the the benefits of the multitude of choices I feel like we've overshot It would still be in the deleted folder. I I I don't think I am, but you know, uh over time maybe I'll think differently, hey let me I think it would only be wrong if Um foundation. It it it's obvious not a requirement that that you do one or the other. Ten years ago. And I'm telling you, in the past And it never occurred to me to think about it this way, but thank you for this. Um or the uh the disadvantage of not feeling comfortable So you'll get some churches, some mainstream churches, that'll have a fellowship meal maybe once a month. Uh after that four or five hour story about my dental appointment we talked about the advantages uh of built into doing a house church model thing. Now when I was there, Imran was the one who led that, but he doesn't do it every week. Yeah. Uh people might come earlier, like two or three in the afternoon and then around five thirty we would transition into what we typically would begin. If somebody does make a comment, that's kind of a rare a rare thing. And somebody else is, you know, uh Yeah, and and to uh to observe their parents. We're we're gonna uh So that so that'd be one way. They can text you, call you, reach out to you and say, hey, I know we don't know each other that well Well, your speech is is pretty clear. And I had a massive headache for like an hour and a half So I'm a little bit crazy right now. We start with music. I could actually I felt like I could hear him making editing choices as he'd go and The easiest way to do that is go to household of faith in Christ dot com. So you have creation and you have fall and then redemption means the necessity of Christ. He's Daniel Razby and he's So I'm um I'm drugged He's the pastor of the house at me to David Happen. Yeah, and you know what? Yep. So the uh voice you just heard is that of uh Daniel Razvi, the voice before that the Right. There's only gonna be one thing. And you have outliers That's why we do house church. If you were to show up You can sit for three hours. Yeah. Yeah, they're really long articles that are bound together that are focusing on it. And I I Yeah, we want to maintain our amateur status. You should probably mention something about that. Um And so her coming and being a part of what we do for two hours on Saturday, um Uh and so it doesn't matter how many people are coming, and it's not gonna be a hundred, but cooking for forty And if you have questions about that He was doing his own thing and it and It has given some sort of uh We're left with a American church, I would even argue at least a Western church Yeah. Yeah, it's look kind of similar to the That's true, but that's that's that's it's not the same thing, right? So um I'm gonna start with this, I guess. Um so the point in me mentioning all that is when we've had a meal, it's fallen to my wife. Now I've heard And that website is Household of Faith in Christ. Let's use Westboro as a chance to bounce off. It just, you know, you need to be able to defend your stance. Well there's an example in Act 7, right, of Or a a as some of the mega churches And maybe if we got more churches involved, maybe we start having them in as And that's a whole other discussion too. Everybody my age watched All in the Family. We all did. And whenever Garth and Wayne would see We're diminished because we don't have this master doing anything They're gonna be family integrated in their model. I think it's going to connect with some of the things that we're going to be talking about today actually. I could s describe those. And the Trinity. So if Christ is anything other than the Son of God, you've got a problem. You want to try to correct the problem. So I forget so what's been going on in our world, right? So um Whew. You know, not just your home, but it's your wife's home. Um I've never actually pulled the trigger on it. She's not doing that. That's what we should really be talking about. But then the thing that really gave me the motivation was like, exactly Like I I that doesn't sound good to me. Right. And it's more of a when you were doing going through that uh phase of instruction, it was more of a survey And then the longer ones might be And those nine people, uh Uh And the things they need to think about if they are seriously considering starting one call. I trust him. It's your responsibility to teach your kids. Um and you might be and actually you having been involved in leading youth, right, you pastor So anyway. It is a major problem, but there is an eternal solution I think it's a symbolic endpoint. And so you listen to somebody, like there's somebody locally in the market and we're on Facebook Live. Huh? Once I did a forty-minute message, and uh for our context that was And they live on the south end of the county say, you know what? And so uh and I would have no problem doing that. Men were created as men, women were created as women. Now now there are some house churches that are actually part of a larger network. And then God actually took care of that problem in the next chapter with the the death of Stephen But I I think that maybe leads into another advantage of Try it again. Uh that's not to say it's the only way to do it, but it's it's within my uh Rush was the closest thing. So that's and that's that's a lot of what God said to Job at the end of Job is the oh Um Um I'm not sure if that church really has an official name either. Anyway. Why is did that what the heck was that? So uh so so yeah, so then getting back to our our schedule, um if com. So you've got a guilt problem. So you know where to put your guilt. And then other people aren't comfortable reading aloud. Or how about the two or three of us all together? I'm gonna continue it That's what's important. This is why it's an important question. Well let me step back and clarify what I mean. Can you maybe facilitate a conversation or Um so the good news is that uh that God has made a way uh for I didn't say that. You wanna ha do you want to have no opportunities to to uh exercise certain muscles and get good at And they can't. I can't do it. org is their website They just call out the number and we play that and we clean it and we go on and on for you know at least half an hour. I I I have I'm confused. So if we were to lose Facebook Live it really wouldn't change anything But those who understand the issues that are going on really like no no no no no no no There's somebody I know very well. One or the other. And uh However, um it's very highly incredible. I think a lot of parents don't realize your children, even your top No music. Well they cannot say that to your face. I understand your point earlier, Daniel, about And these dentists I don't think they use Novocaine anymore What are some of the really cool, nice, attractive, beneficial things about Whereas at a at a home church you would presumably have And you might never get to that place in a more traditional setting Um we'll start off by uh by reading scripture. They're listening to the same kind of music with the same personality. I'm telling you, it is so hard to do. The Westboro Baptist folks Well this other stuff they stick you with now that I'm pretty sure I was stuck with, it lasts longer. That's true. I pray in front of people all the time. It'll be on the Household of Faith in Christ YouTube channel So uh Sounds like Daniel's uh Uh to where a little bit more structured You can find the easiest way to connect with everything that's involved with those of us here But the service part, like the official church right before the meal, see how old is that there And so you're you you get attenuated to a particular pace. You know, the the magic of being a great writer is is That's okay. And yet I I know some people in the House Church movement that do not believe He has a perfect standard and he created you for relationship with him, but he can only have I would say I've heard some people add, and I think helpfully, what they call a fourfold gospel. If you're not a Christian, it might not even be earth-shattering. So we'll see how it goes He can rescue me if I get too punchy. It's mostly focused on child rearing kinds of things, like how to raise your kids Put put it on a list listen again to see if this is any better. And the Facebook Live thing that's different than what you guys do. I didn't want to presume. So not not all uh house churches are in Kansas meeting in the town of uh Westboro It's one of the reasons why we're doing what we're doing here on this faith debate show. So there's some people that are They normally would have texted me or called me, said they couldn't make it this week. We may we may pray to open up, you know, but uh one of the So how long is your actual Well I'm gonna I'm gonna integrate in I'm gonna run through really quick the uh uh the the same thing. Not here to defend himself. But you're not just rejecting my words, you're rejecting what the Bible teaches Till next week. And it seems I'm correct. So I I'm a big fan of not having anything rigid in stone. Can you uh give me a sixty second uh presentation of what we need to know from You know, somebody's at the hospital and you I Uh I'll I'll try to turn this this way so I can still see the and talk. He is in heaven. And people that are heavy consumers, they have a habit of increasing They kicked me out of all the other churches. We have uh damaged the relationship through our failure to do right things, righteous things. And so when the church completely shut things down, I was like, well, I've got Like we've skipped over the Some of them are in independent, some of them Yeah. So and we're household of faith in Christ uh dot com and um Yeah, that's why I was thinking that during that time this is a great story Good point. The first best, in my opinion, Not that we'd say It's it doesn't feel like a uh I'm Troy Skinner. It's amazing how many people don't. And none of them are gonna have a problem with me. It would be a long time ago at this point. Except at their own houses, right? Okay So that may be a it may be something that doesn't really affect just how And so for example, you guys know this, um Yep. And And uh we sing songs there. Where So creation, fall, redemption, redeemed onto what? Yeah, yeah yeah. How many how many churches do you know that actually practice church discipline You've seen that in house churches? And they're calling out the hymn numbers and he knows them all Truly talent down load from God. Uh actually I'm to give you an example is to show you that it's not merely about politics. Yeah. Thanks so much for tuning in every Sunday at nine o'clock from 9 to 9. Because she's feeling well, a lot of the people that come to our gathering are They'd be a fit. But anyway, uh maybe I'm like, screw you, I'm right, I'm the pastor. What would be their mechanism if I'm just not hearing them By faith in David you talked about the the That's true. So I think I think even in a house trip let's say we could, you know, somehow poof Why would a house church have a website Coffee and cigarettes, these guys, it's crazy. But uh, you know, that's not how it always happens. Sure. And those aren't all necessarily house churches though. So you've got to start there. The last five Uh yeah, we've got sixty seconds left. Um but they don't cover They didn't sign that. Right. I I had mentioned I had framed it as what are some of the Like time is short. Uh how demonic the holiday is Maybe he'll join us before uh recording time is out, maybe he'll bet up Um That's not true anymore. And she's faithful. I mean if they if they're local, they're hearing my voice on the radio right now, they're local and they could call me. Well what about these other churches don't have accountability either? That if they're in Australia's potential Alright. And uh and that way is Um no, but but the the number one advance I And that's all you really know of the person. And uh I think that's uh it you can reach Why did it do that? What are you gonna do with your guilt? You put it at the foot of the cross and Christ takes it upon himself. Yeah I'd say it I'd say that's uh Um and then there are also house churches that I've either uh H his passing was um Therefore you are of incredible value. So it's like hello hello YouTube if you're watching this later. Now, an extension of that could be the failing integrated, you know. I wonder if that is because of where we are as a culture. So it does exist. Okay. I'm not even sure about you because you're not you know long But what are some of the disadvantages to doing a house church? I agree with that There we go. And in honor today, Reform Happy Sunday morning to you. Well uh the gospel is good news Right now. Because they were referencing, they were using all these taglines and I said Or maybe I should find one Right I know it's kind of creepy and weird, isn't it Yeah I want to say the my experience has been um God bless. We'll put those up there too. That's right, yeah. They and there there weren't really I mean there's just a couple of people probably that aren't, but it's He's got a number of bestseller books. I mean we don't know. You start talking about all these But it but it it's in that same vein, right? So that'll be good for people to hear They're not talking like that, but you're you're so conditioned But I'm glad I did because, you know Yeah. Which is different. I I forgot I used to be Sunday Baptist, uh the uh Uh and uh I I've I've seen some churches, for example, where they But when you're doing a live call-in show or a live spontaneous And then also avoid not I almost made Yeah. What one of the things you could do is you could go to God bless And in order for protection to be maintained in heaven You had to watch SNL to be culturally But what he does sounds like 1995 So far our habit ends up being a little more frequent than that. You're actually closer to the fourth Why? Right. And it's harder to find What goes on at the uh the church that meets at uh David's house? He is the only way. I think Hollywood It seems like Novacine's still out there, but there's this new thing, I think it starts with the letter I if I'm not mistaken. It's called the executive pastor Anyway, David Force he's the pastor of a house church Right. And I know that the But anyway the point is just because the house church doesn't make it That's the that's the thing. Not in house churches. And that's not only accepted, but strongly encouraged. And so uh I think as a nice piggy Yeah, the the pre Talking about my church and then getting into family integration. com. Leads a house church. If you're a solid Christian already Or you just giving it Uh Yeah, I've heard this before too If nobody's red at the default is me. It's your children's home. So but I see this Well that's what happens when you get a little later and get a little fuzzier and you're thinking. We only got so much time. You're a long time. There's several in this area that I I know about Yeah. And you're gonna start to hear this as a habit, so But uh but there is an eternity ahead. Um uh there I mean We bring a little something and we can and And uh I don't know family's your thing. And then the the second thing was fall, meaning God bless. So you're gonna be able to listen in on the whole thing we're doing and see kind of how we What the heck? But I would say on uh the shorter ones But I think it's That is the truth Something like that. Let's take a step back from that association there. You need to know why you believe something if you only look Right. If you're if you're a Christian and if you're actually saved, you need to be ready for It's a natural segue Actually I I joked but He'll never know It's murder. But uh no So you can kind of check some of that out and they're they're there their stuff is Um but but seriously it might not But I'm gonna try it'll be a good experiment because I can compare People have favorite radio stations This is why we can't do eight shows. She has not missed a gathering yet. What what do you what do you think people usually uh I I assumed they had a So and you pick those songs Uh at some point I might uh They did virtual church. You're going to be hearing with some regularity what we're all about Um but I I actually take the position that it's a Yeah. But in this in this case we we have it Are they also watching the Steve Day Show I wanted to get to your comment But I'm not gonna I'm not gonna genuinely with heartfelt Are they teaching God's word faithfully? So you have that Anyway, it hurts But in the grand scheme of things, short. Whenever we would have our leadership, you know, our elder meetings Well it's it's good to have something down in writing. You can find my email and phone there. It's no longer even just the surface level And you have God bless. He is so good. You can connect with the show and everything else that Good to see you, you know, that kind of stuff That way you can follow along follow along with our madness and nonsense. Okay, yeah. Uh you don't make the distinction of only And one of the reasons we do that is You know. So how many people are Yes. Watched Cheers. I know. You know, did he actually die? If we Well maybe I'm I'm not I'm not sure that there is necessarily Huh? So so I I would say, I mean, do you think And at the houses of I know it's a mouthful full, but that's the name of the church. Um It's not the same thing But just because it's a house church doesn't mean I'm And that's part of what helps to knit the fabric. How are you gonna be redeemed to put a And so we were already doing the Facebook Live They're not, but you can also sort by house church So it's truly a repentance. And if you've already seen this on Facebook So Well Like what's going on? If if Christ is merely an example, For example, I I w uh tended to I mean Okay. Um I wouldn't recommend it Not and not just Christ at the cross And that's another reason for the house. So I acknowledge that they're joining Facebook Live that's something. Redeemed onto glorification. Everything was streaming. So I'll give you some of the reasons I guess It's their it's their safe place. This is actually an expression of Nineteen You're gonna lose But I've I've seen it for for uh Yes 30. So You have churches modeled on Is that there's Okay, does Household of Faith. It's more like it seems like I mean I Right. Gotcha. And The sermon I thought everything I'm not sure exactly I'd love to talk with you. All right. Did he actually raise org Um But I like to actually add I have not run into that. We have sinned against So Right? So So