I think we're live. Facebook changed the interface for Facebook Live Once again, if you can believe it. So they change like every month. It's snutty. I think they want to make sure nobody knows how to use their product. Anyway, welcome to the uh live stream of the Faith Debate. We're gonna do a series series of shows that we'll be airing over the course of the next month or so on 930 WFMD on the radio. So if you're watching this then you get a a sneak pre uh preview, a sneak peek at what we're gonna be doing uh the show. So enjoy, we'll be able to interact with you a whole lot because we'll be busy doing the the radio stuff. But uh if you have any comments, I'll try to check them later, maybe in between shows. I'll see if I can figure out how to do that. Don't don't Hold me to that though. Alright, you guys ready? Yeah. There we go. Welcome to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD Thanks so much for tuning in and making us part of your Sunday morning. You can find us online at WFMD. com. And if you follow along to the sorts of things that we talk about and do outside of this show, the easiest way to do that is to connect through social media or if you want to email me or even text me or whatever. Find all that information at Household of Faith in Christ I'm Troy Skinner, and if you've been listening the last number of weeks and you know who's with me, we've got Imran Razvy. His friends call him Raz, so most people here call him Imron. And uh And uh Daniel Radby is here as well. And um David Forcy, all four of us are pastors of house churches. uh in the area. Uh we've got the the house church it meets at the the Rasby's house or at Rimron's house or whatever you guys can call that. And then um David's is The Church of David's house. And uh mine actually had the name, Household of Faith in Christ, which is why I sent you to the Household of Faith in Christ. com website Since we are a newly assembled group of uh pastors talking about this sort of stu uh you know theological things in the Bible, whatever, we spent some time getting to know each other uh in recent episodes and start talking about what it is to have a house church and what people can expect and that sort of thing. But I thought it'd be good for people, one, for us to get to know each other better. And also for the audience to get to know where we're coming from on some things and just back up the history needle a little bit. Go back in time not back to like, you know, the third century or something like that. But go back a handful of years to deal with the kinds of things that are still impacting our life today and people are still talking about and wondering about and it'll help them know where we're coming from. And if they're right-minded good Americans who agree with us, and if they're you know commies, then they're gonna disagree, but that's okay. So so I just showed my hand on that. So I've got a a list, as you can see, a long list If you're on Facebook we have we're live streaming this on Facebook, so there you go long. Eighteen yes, I know I've got to get out my m magnifying glass to read this. Um but we're gonna start going back, I don't know, five, six, seven years ago when there there began to be the rise of a spirit of populism. uh in the Western uh world. We saw this uh I th I the first time I took notice of it was with Bernie Sanders on the Democrat side And uh then we saw it uh playing out with what was going on in Europe, particularly with uh England, the UK wanting to break away from the European Union, a populist ups uprising there that caused the whole Brexit thing And uh then the whole Trump phenomenon. Uh I think that it's interesting. Different ideological viewpoints there, different political commitments, and yet they have in common Uh a populist uprising. I don't know if you guys noticed that same thing. If so, if you or if you disagree. Can someone define populism for me? Um you are are you all asking me to do that? Absolutely. We talked about that in the before. Define the terms we're gonna be using. Well I'm meaning by that it's basic it's an uprising of the will of the people So it it's it's it's the people trying to take back control from the institutions that have dominated their life, that sort of thing. Um So anarchy. No. Pure democracy. Not necessarily I guess we do have to try to define our terms here. Because I don't know the definition that you just You just posited that kind of describes all the communist uh r revolutions with such as the Bolsheviks and everything else. It would also describe the American Revolution. Right. So basically people that are not happy with the status quo. So that's not really a new thing then. I I I'm wondering if populism is a r really broad term or how how narrow we make. Bernie Sanders, there are those who still think he uh he beat Hillary the first time. And that he had it stolen from him by a bunch of shenanigans behind the scenes from the DNC who didn't want Bernie Sanders, they wanted Hillary. Uh back in uh I guess 2016. So he had a lot of he's faded now because he's getting older and people realize he's not the future of of the movement kind of thing, but I mean, Bernie almost won the nomination. So populism like uh like Brexit did win. Like from the grassroots Does grassroots have something to do with populism? Yeah, it's a grassroots uprising, the people um uh I don't I think the way I said it was the people try to impose their will as how well I mean that that's really what uh America is about is the people voting in and limiting. But things change and I I would go back as far as really Obama. He didn't even show up for most of the people who are not sure. of the voting and he voted president when he was there, um his records show yet he became president with really no qualifications whatsoever and he got reelected and people voted for him just because he was black. And uh even uh at that time Biden, what did he say about uh Obama? Well he's a good looking, articulate uh black man and So maybe he's uh something to that effect. Yeah, clean, right exactly. So I think that's when it really kinda started where people were not really voting on, you know, trying to maintain what this country was about, but to change it, to dramatically change what this country is. And I think it started there and it continues to this day. Maybe maybe it would help if we were if I were to clarify how again the way my mind thinks about this is what it's the antithesis of. So you they're reacting against a statist ideology. So it's a reaction against the power of the the institution, the state. The deep state, that's where the whole deep state thing kinda comes in. You know, we want to we wanna drain the swamp, get rid of the deep state, and replace it with the will of the people. And again, as as Imran said You know, that's kind of what America was was based upon. It's you know, Abraham Lincoln, a government of the people, by the people, for the people. That's a populist idea. Uh it's interesting that you um Bernie Sanders in that because he advocate for a communist agenda which is that everything is run by the government, not by the people. Well yes, to get there, right? That's I mean I disagree with your ideology, but that's the point of their argument, is you have to travel through the dictatorship and the socialism and the overbearing government system so that on the back end of that you can have Kumbaya and everybody's living communally and the people are doing what they want to do. So so so populism isn't necessarily a uh an ideology as much as it is a Um I don't know, a a way of a way of the people moving towards what they desire. See I I always thought populism or I but hearing populism lumped uh uh linked with nationalism, the idea of that it's more about us as us uh uh our own country, our own whether it's an ethnicity or whether it's a culture or whether it's just a nation, but it's us versus them as in them being people outside the country, not the whole world as one. And so when I hear the term populism it in recent years, most often it's in the same sentence as nationalism. That's the way it has tends to play out or be characterized anyway, uh, from the conservative point of view, but as you rightly mentioned, I mean Karl Marx was a populist Right. Right? The proletariat's gonna throw out the bourgeoisie, you know, and so it was the it's so the proletariat's the the populace and they have control kind of thing But to clarify for those who don't pay attention to these things in their everyday musings In an ideal situation, if there were no such thing as human sin, then the Marxist ideal could actually happen The problem is there is such a thing as human sin. We all are bedeviled by it. And so we can't get there. And so he ends up feeling like, which for your instinct was, David, like is it anarchy? It can kind of feel like anarchy, and so to keep the anarchy from happening, the the the the Marxists are like, you know what, we've got to keep the lid clamped down pretty tight on this until we get there And so it it always ends up, I think historically it's always ended up being a a a dictatorial rule, and then they try to sit pass it off as yeah, but it's okay because it's your dictator. He's going to be a benevolent dictator. He's on your side. He's the populist. So Bernie Sanders is a good example in America as we all know who Bernie is. So the idea, I think, for those who supported Bernie is Bernie's going to come in and he's going to he's going to have a lot of of restrictions on how things are done and the government's gonna have a lot of control and tell us how to because we need to, because we have to break down the systems that we don't like that are And so he's got to have a lot of control to do that. It's isn't it fascinating how the uh how how the most I don't know, throughout history probably one of the most important Most efficient sort of ways to grasp power is to take on the mantle of a messiah figure of sorts. You know, a a savior, you know. Someone with the right ideas, right abilities. An Antichrist, perhaps. A beast and a whore of Babylon thrown in for good measure? Oh I I I I just mean, you know, like uh like there's a longing in in in all of humanity for uh For someone to come along b because I can't do it, I can't accomplish it, I'm not in a position to do it. For someone to come along and and make things right, make things I I think that's almost some part of our nature is be feeling oppressed. Even children that are very privileged in a nice homes with lots of money, they still rebel against the authorities and uh their parents and want things that they shouldn't want and that somebody else has. They could have everything else, but if they don't have this one thing then they want that. I mean we've had people uh I've had friends say gave a a list to is uh uh got a list from their children think if I had this and this and this and this then everything would be good. And they laughed at it and said, No, you're not getting that but that's kind of who we are as people and And when you look at a large group um as nations, I think it plays out the same way. And it's not just a large group of nations, 'cause I think that's in my mind, that's where the divide happens between the left and the right, and I mean political left and right, not necessarily theological left and right. What was the word? Nationalism, that's the word. Uh Daniel mentioned how you know he he thinks populism, he thinks nationalism. Well that's kind of how it plays out, at least in American politics, that's how it plays out from the right. It's about America defending our borders, defending our national sovereignty, that sort of thing. But from the left, the Bernie Sanders point of view, uh, it's about globalism Right. And so it's it's one nation on the whole earth, kind of a thing. And so there's where the political divide happens, and that's why the populists are fighting, because he's like, they're all populists. Why aren't they getting along? But they're not. And and the MATA movement, the Make America Great Again idea, is so offensive to a globalist, because no no, you're taking us backwards We want to go forward to a one world order and you're trying to take us back to national boundaries and stuff which has led to all these horrible world wars and Is there something more biblical about nationalism or more biblical about globalism? I think that I'm going to fall back to what I said before and see what you guys think. I think in a perfect world, globalism is the answer, but we won't have a perfect world until Christ returns. And at that point it will be global. And then it will be global. But in the meantime, uh I think there's uh there are strong biblical arguments in support but national uh sovereignty, national borders, people groups making their own rules for their for their own their own selves. I mean God chose the nation of Israel. He didn't choose the whole world at once. I mean he c uh Jesus came and uh and uh died for the sins of the world, but originally God took Israel and made Israel a nation And it was a nation. It wasn't, oh, you're running things all over the world, you're gonna take over Canaan and you're gonna be the nation there, and I'll be the the head of the the nation. So it was in God's design there to show the contrast between people that are following God and people that are not, to to set them apart, to show what it's you know know w what it what it is to be a godly people and you know w what you said Troy that eventually that's what's gonna be a global scale. Now did you ask rhetorically or did you have a uh a thought that y you wanted to answer your own question? Oh Not usually. Um Yeah, I I mean I I I think you could uh make a Uh I think you could I think you could probably make an argument either way. Um I think Certainly, right, Christ returns and and there is one king of all the nations. Um and at that point there's even no longer longer uh uh you know a nuclear family like you know we we're no longer um you know married or given in marriage right if you will like we're We're like the angels in in that sort of sense. And so um so yeah, so I I think uh Yeah, I think I I think I'm with you on, you know, w what is the what would the perfect world be. Um I I would think um really biblically we're supposed to be separate nations. Look at the Tower of Babel. We were one world, one nation, one tongue, and God separated and He made them into different nations, different peoples, different tongues for that purpose. So biblically, if you want to follow that, we are supposed to have nations and separation and not be one world until God comes back. Yeah, I would I mean my my thought on Babel is that it's uh it it sort of is a way of of crippling mankind for his own good. Um right, sort of this uh this this because, you know, I as as we look through, you know, i when when when God brings the flood in order to sort of put a put a restart on humanity uh Um you know, I I think Babel is humanity just going down that same road all over again and God saying, Okay, I'm gonna I I'm gonna prevent this from happening with And you know, until a later date of my choosing when you know when I will you know again bring bring back people from every every tribe and tongue and people and nation. You know, and of my doing, everyone comes together and that that's why the argument is there that there should be separation So biblically uh we are supposed to be separate nations, we're supposed to have that separation, and even throughout um all the history in the Bible and the Old Testament God has very clear delineation of where the boundaries are, where the different peoples are, where the different nations are. Even when Israel was inside of Egypt, they were separate, they kept separate in Goshen, they did not mix with the other Israel. Egyptian so i it's been separate uh the whole time. And there's a there's a passage in I believe Deuteronomy that talks about when God made the uh the nations and he separated and he actually gave charge of physical locations on earth to each of different um spiritual entities, many of which are evil, and he kept out Israel for himself. Um he said these the sons of God he appointed for each of their um portions and he had Jacob for his portion. So all those other nations have a demon basically that's running that country, but they are all separate geographic locations. So I think geography is actually very important to God. Uh and in some way it it plays a part in his overall So I don't know if this is oversimplifying it, but I wonder if okay uh on one hand we've got this group of communist populists, right? The populists pursuing a communist ideal, and then you've got the nationalist uh populists. who are uh pursuing some sort of a sovereignty ideal, uh national sovereignty ideal. Um and they're they are, it's a tug of war, they're pulling in opposite directions Right. They're they're they're they're populist, but they're they're they're they're hoping to go h in different directions on the river, right? Well one is to break down the nation, the other is to build up the nation. And and if you're breaking down the nation you're just basically doing it one giant nation. Right. Right. In if you're a globalist, but if you're a nationalist you could be like the you know the name drop Hitler here. Hitler supposedly is a nationalist, but also is is socialist. Right. And so he but he wanted to take over the world and expand the borders of Germany, but it would all be one Germany. So I think I I think we're both of those ideologies have um when you start talking about populism as okay here this is the will of the people the will of the people well the people are not uh homogenous. They don't all believe the same thing about everything. Everybody has their own views and opinions colored by their uh environment and uh and uh what um experiences they've had and what teaching they've had and and so on and their own personalities. So not everybody is going to agree on everything. So if the people want X, there will still be people who want Y and some other people who want Z. And that's the difference with any sort of uh uh ideology or government or politics that wants this that says, look, we're gonna do what the people wants uh what the people want Well there's always going to be people left out. And I think that's where our founders in America had an interesting idea of we need to have not a true, full, pure democracy, but a representative democracy Such that the minority is also heard. Even if we're not gonna, you know, do what the minority wants all the time, but the minority is heard and has a chance to have their rights not trampled on. And so we don't all have the same opinion. And I think that that's something the founding fathers recognized. Most other cultures and forms of government other than the original founding of of the uh United States, most other forms of government are all about one person deciding what most people want or what he wants for everybody. No? The um the I want to make it we're gonna we have a few minutes left on this episode. We spent more time on this particular topic because we to clarify our terms than I anticipated. But I think it's all it's all good. It lays a pretty good foundation for us. It's not that populism is necessarily good or bad, but I will say that populism is always dangerous. I don't know if you guys would agree with me because if you've got so from my point of view, the the populist ideal of the communists is incredibly dangerous because you end up with this authoritarian Usually it's an oligarchy. It's not usually a a a single individual in in t in today's context I don't think it would be. It'd be some sort of an oligarchy So you got a very small group of people and they're all going to be sinful because we're all sinners and they're going to be power hungry and money hungry and sex crazed and all these other things that people are bedeviled by when they get in positions of power like that and they're gonna make life miserable and so many people. So that's really dangerous, just ideologically, politically dangerous. But even on the nationalist side, which is where I would tend if I had to choose a side, I'd be choosing that side But you uh David early on when you were trying to clarify the term, so is this democracy, is this anarchy? Uh well, pure democracy is nothing but mob rule Right. And so the populist rises up and says majority rule because we the people say so, well that majority are also a bunch of Sinners too. So if you got five sinners or five million sinners, you got a bunch of sinners making decisions. Populism can be very dangerous as of why the rule of law and the written word become so important Uh you know, which we don't have those uh things in place anymore. We're functioning kind of we're we're we're got our tail hanging out in the wind right now on that front. It's it's interesting. I I feel like uh like we're saying that in the in the current world that we live in where that that's broken by sin, uh Um that it is good to have uh a lot uh a variety of things that that that slow people down And limit right, limit power, whether it's of an individual or of a of a nation, of a group or anything like that. So Yeah, I think we all probably agree on that point. So next week I'm thinking we could talk uh we could we can shift into what the threat of the one meant to the other. So the the progressives in this country had a whole bunch of momentum and they thought for sure they were going to have the third term of the of the Obama administration with Hillary in in office and she loses to Make America Great Again and all of what that ended up meaning and how that's still causing problems for us. You had a full question. Yeah one one other thought is I don't think uh Populism in this situation really is the majority. I think it is what they're told to think, and that's what the progressives really felt is that they had told enough people people to think this way and that they would show up. But there was enough of the majority of Americans that still were conservative and still had uh um the thoughts back into a a national hey, we are America, we uh that's who we are, that they came out and voted voted and weren't as quiet. But usually it what's happened, I think the term that you really were used for hot populism is whoever's the loudest in pushing their agenda. And that's what's been happening with the riots and and the the bird protests. It's it's not so much that that's the majority of the people, it's the ones that are who are the loudest and doing the most of the speaking or changing. Yeah. So with that said, let me you've heard us uh mention how everybody's a sinner. You heard us mention the name of Jesus Christ. Let me just say that uh if if you're not sure that you agree, I can assure you you're a sinner. And you have a you have a sin problem, and I've got to ask you, what are you gonna do with your guilt? You know, if if you don't if you don't think you're a sinner then you're like the only one in the world who's not one. You know, I mean come on, be honest. Whatever your own standards are, you don't live up to those, right? You got a sin problem, you got a guilt problem, you can do with your guilt Jesus Christ who tells us his kingdom is not of this world, and he will come again to rule and establish a perfect one-world order, one world government, if you will. Uh he he's coming again and you're going to be ready for that. So if you'd like to know more about what all of that means, what the good news of the gospel is, how Jesus is the solution to your sin problem Reach out to me. Easiest way is just connect through the website for my church, household of faith in Christ. com. And if you'd rather not talk to me, you'd rather talk to one of these other guys, I can put you in touch with them and you can you can talk to them uh that way as well. So until next week. Oh, I I gotta upload the radio station too, right? You're listening to the fake debate on 930 WFMD, uh the Razvis, Imran and Daniel and uh Mr. Forcy, David. And me, Troy Skinner, has been our pleasure to talk with you this past half hour or so on News Radio 930WFMD. Until next week, about 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. All right. That was good. I wasn't expecting us to uh D to need to clarify the terms, and I'm glad we did because it's still not very clear. Well, I I think uh uh the news articles talk about a lot of these movements as if they're a brand new thing. New you know, Brexit, a brand new idea. Bernie Sanders has a will of the people, all that backstander talked about before. You know, Trump is America and and we never had those ideas before I I think uh there's nothing new. Uh so it's just repackaging something that's been. Yeah, yeah Anybody need to do a pit stop or anything? And by the way, we're not recording for the show, but we are still on Facebook Live, so just a quick reminder in case you were going to say something crazy. Facebook Live probably should be here so they can see everybody's faces. Otherwise you block off the case. Okay. I can try moving it. It's your back for the entire list. We can try that. Let me uh let me get this set up for the next recording session and then I'll we'll see if we can move it over there and see if that'll work better Alright, make sure that's all set correctly. It is. Next one. This is a Facebook Live microphone, is that what it's saying? Yeah, because the phone's so far away from everybody, I felt like that's more central to pick up the voices a little bit better anyway. It's what we use on Saturdays for our courses. Service. Make sure it's fully charged. Yeah, unfortunately. Maybe. Yeah. First time it's happening. No. It's the first time it's happened. I I I'm always good about checking and for some reason I didn't check and you tend to keep going and going and going Uh there's I I don't do all the talking. So it's uh a little bit more conversational, more of a a led conversation. Okay, so the show we just did is gonna air this coming Sunday on the twenty first and this next one is gonna air on the 28th, which I guess is the Sunday of Thanksgiving weekend, correct? Yep. All right, so let me uh make sure I got this done Alright, let's try moving this, as was suggested, and see if that will be better. And And we have some people watching, so I'll try to give a shout out here in a minute after I make sure I don't crash my phone. Alright, let's see. Is that gonna I don't have a I don't have a way of that that'll that should get most people. No, just like that. I'm I'm quite short of quality at the end. We can get a mirror and then I'll I could be in the mirror in the back. So it looks like uh Bonnie Hay. I'm not sure who else. Uh Bonnie, Phyllis, Ted. I'm not sure how many of you are still watching. At least two of you dropped out. I don't know which one's left, because it's telling me one is on right now. Well I think we had maybe up to three while we were actually doing the show. That's a horrible angle. Let me see if I can get that to tilt down more. Alright. There we go. That's better. Yeah, just three of us in. Alright. I like the voice of God. Pay no attention to the man behind the microphone. All right, let's uh um change things up, um Let's do a quick you know sharing of what the good news is at the top. So one of you wanna take the reins on doing that. I can do that. All right. Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, news radio 930 WFMD, online at WFMD. com and Uh I I think I don't think they've turned it off. I think we're still actually on the FM. If you go to 99. 9 FMHD2, if you have an HD radio You can listen to us, I'm not sure if we're in stereo or just really cool sounding mono. I have I have I have no idea. But it's either really cool sounding stereo or really cool sounding mono, because I mean with the four of us talking it's really cool sounding one way or the other. Who are these four I speak of? Well, there's Imran Raz Razvi, there's Daniel Razvi, there's David Forcy, and there's me, Troy Skinner, and we're all pastors. We're all pastoring house churches uh in Frederick County. And so if you're interested in a house church, reach out to me and we'll see, you know, which one's a good fit for you and and get you plugged in if that's what you're looking for. And if you're looking for a church, you might be looking for something else. Maybe you're looking for the truth. You're looking to understand what the the truth of the Bible is. David, uh, do you happen to know what the truth of the Bible is all about? Well that's that's an interesting uh introduction there. Uh well last uh last show we were talking about how um Now a lot of the ways that one of the ways that that people primarily rise to power politically is by um telling people that they have the a solution, that they have the answer to their their problems. and uh and their issues and um I noted how that's you know it's really really people trying to uh pretend like they are a a Messiah figure. Um a a Jesus Christ figure. And you know, we we all do recognize that we that we have a need, that we have We have some sort of problem, some sort of shortcoming, and that's because none of us is is perfect. And uh and so we know that we need to be we need to be rescued. And Jesus is that is that rescuer. Um and he, you know as the as the Son of God who came to rescue us from our our sins and to rescue the to uh to rescue the all all of all of creation from the brokenness of sin. And uh so that is that is the only hope that we really have. We have no no true lasting eternal hope in uh in any uh any any government, any politics. So it's not Donald Trump. Certainly not. No. No, even if he wants to make America great again. That might be nice, but Well that's what we were beginning to talk about a little bit last week. We were talking about populism and uh the divides there. We have um You know, Donald Trump and the conservative uh populist nationalist uh ideal on one side, and then Bernie Sanders and the communist ideal on the other side, and And it's not just America, it's it's it's around the world. Brexit is a good example we brought up last week. But there's they're pulling in so there are all these people on these different ideological uh uh tracks are populists, but they're pulling the train in different directions on the track and so there's conflict and so the MAGA movement is hugely threatening And in response to that, the fact that Trump ended up winning, his authority and his power had to be like cut off at the knees as far as they were concerned, to the people who wanted to go in a a globalist direction And so they did all sorts of nasty things, and now we've got proof of the things that we all kind of knew for the longest time with the, you know the the Russia collusion, you know, Russia, Russia, Russia, steel dossier, um, you know, paid for by the the DNC apparently and there's We have proof of these sorts of things now and I think we kinda felt like we had proof a long time ago, but even those on the other side of the political fence are a lot of them are beginning to say, okay, I guess maybe they're They're not going down easy, but they've they've kind of got their tail between the legs a little bit. But the right also had an interesting reaction to everything that was going on. So to try to tear down the nationalists, you got the Steel Dossier and the Russia collusion story, but to try to tear down any sort of legitimacy for the one-world government move, you got the rise of a really interesting phenomena, the the Q phenomenon. Now I don't know if you guys know a whole lot about the whole Q thing or not, but it's it's uh David's not sure. Are the are the are the Rasbies familiar with this whole thing? Somewhat, yeah. Um I mean Q is supposedly some some whistleblower inside the government that was posting things about the deep state and and so on. And I'm kind of of the opinion that Q's The i i if q was an actual person, Q was uh actually also a member of the deep state and just throwing out misinformation to try to get people riled up. What they call a SCOP, right? Right. Yeah so I don't know, I mean i the there you got a whole bunch of people that were following Q and and reading what Q was writing and and to the point where anything Q said was great and conservative even if it didn't match what with actual conservative ideals. For example, when Q said that President Trump might have to declare martial law just for a little bit to get those communists in in their place. Well everybody uh uh that was following Q was saying, yeah that makes sense. No It doesn't. Martial law does is never a good thing, no matter who's in charge. Like you said, you know, as long as your guy is there, then it could be a good thing as a He's our dictator. As soon as he's not there Then something else is brought. So I think people easy this is what the um my dad was saying last week is People are easily led astray by some charismatic leader that says, hey, this is what you guys want. This is what the people want. And people listen to it? Yeah, I guess so. Even if they never thought about it or even really want that, and if you gave them all of the information they might pick something totally different. You see this a lot with polls. Polls uh the you know, you'll s you'll see a news article, oh, eighty five percent of Americans want this and then you read the poll question and you're like, Well of course they want that, the way you phrase the question doesn't doesn't explain what you're actually asking. Right Right. So but not only that, once they say eighty five percent of the people want this and you want to be part of the eighty five, you don't want to be a rebel. I mean we're taught to be a compliant and be part of the whole, part of the group. Unless your name is Troy Skinner. Some of us some of us have that uh that streak in us. That comes from the revolutionary days. So uh now did any of the three of you ever spend any time on the Q website where he would he or she or whoever it was supposed to be or they would post the Q drops, they called them I read some of them. I never I didn't follow it extensively. Yeah, I didn't follow it extensively either, but you know, uh so many people that I know, uh, particularly over time, like it was a g it was it was gathering The snowball gaining steam and size as time went on leading up to the twenty twenty uh presidential election. So I had so many people talking about it and talking to me about it and stuff. I thought, okay. I didn't give it a whole lot of credence, but I thought let me check what this thing is out. Now in fairness to the whole Q thing, part of what the was attractive was It was pointing out how the steel dossier is a farce and the Russia collusion is a is a made up hoax and and Q got those things right. Well duh, I didn't even have to pay attention to Q and I got those things right you know, um and I'm not necessarily even smarter than your average bear. Um and and then the Mueller probe was an embarrassment and and Q was all over that I guess. And so Q Q was pointing out a lot of the problems. But for me, the litmus test was, alright, I'm going to see what Q is saying about things that I know about. Like that I personally know a lot about for sure. And see how that squares up. And I'm a pastor, right? And I spend a lot of time thinking about theology and worldview Worldview philosophy that ties into a biblical worldview and so I'm looking for those sorts of things on Q's drops And there was a lot of uh religious and pseudo-religious and pseudo-Christian and Christian it was an interesting amalgam of kinds of information and a lot of stuff was like in code and you had to try to decipher the code and it was Yeah, that's the clan. Crazy stuff. Trust the clan. Yeah, but some of the stuff is uh um is not oblique. It's clear what is being said and in some of those areas where it was being clear, it was clearly wrong. It was saying something as though it was a Christian perspective or it was the biblical view on something. And it's like, no, you are clearly wrong. And if you're that wrong, on the Bible and that wrong about what Christianity is all about and what it stands for, I can't trust anything else you say Now it's not to say you have to know everything about the Bible and about Christianity, but if you're going to make claims about the Bible and Christianity and be wrong And then you're gonna make other claims about things that aren't necessarily related to Christianity in the Bible? I can't trust those either, because you are wrong, like provably wrong, on things I know about. So I never threw in with the whole Q phenomenon. And I think uh it was just another way to divide because when we become united, um again we talked about that with Babel last uh week Yes. Divided, it's easier to conquer. It's easier to separate and you keep not as powerful, but uh once you start uniting, um, then you become more powerful and the Q was just one more way to divide and to have uh give each side hope that they could they had a possibility to keep fighting. And we haven't really gotten into eschatology yet, but I'm of the opinion that uh based on the Bible that things will eventually end up with a one world evil government dictatorship uh that is global in nature. And so everything must trend toward that in order to conform with scripture. And so I think that was accelerated in recent years in part because of the Q movement and the idea that all these conservatives and patriots should stand by and trust the plan and not do anything about the communist takeover of America or whatever. And a lot of people did just get lowed into sleep thinking that their guy, oh, Trump's in power, he's he's a patriot, he's a conservative, I don't have to worry about things. And meanwhile there were plenty of uh unconservative things that were happening in the government over the last several years, but nobody really stood up or made any noise about it. And I think that allowed a lot of other things to be put in place where now we have even more restrictions from the government on almost every aspect of our lives over the last year and a half. And so it's it's pushing towards that global uh Communist government. Yeah. With what you know about Q, and you know, I everybody in this room probably has varying degrees of familiarity with it, but based on what you know, what would your pastoral advice be? Because there are a lot of people pro who are professing Christians who were all about Q. So what let's let's say they attended your church and they brought it up, you know, what might you say to them? Focus on God, focus on Christ and what the what Yeah, I would have to s uh agree with that and also with David Forcey as saying they're all looking for a savior, but that's the wrong place to look. Yeah, my my go-to is always to to just remind people of the the dangers of of idolatry, the ease with with which we fall into that. Um you know, and you know whether it's uh you know, and idolatry of even even good things too, like you know, like there there are some great things about uh the United States States but and there are great things about family, you know, and people end up uh taking these these good gifts that God has given. Um um you know, of of all kinds and trying to hold on to that and then when God um you know, uh with, you know, say a a nation that seems to be a good place uh and is things are going well there when when God begins to take that away and people try and and grasp for it and hold on to it um that can that can be a sign of of idolatry in our lives. I think I remember a news article um right before the last election in twenty twenty, the presidential election And it started out with a statement that many people are saying that if Donald Trump wins, the world will end. It'll be a disaster. And then many other people are saying if if uh Joe Biden wins, then it'll be a terrible disaster and the world is gonna end and it's gonna you know accelerate the collapse of all society. And um, well, I'm a Christian and I read the Bible, and so I I also read the end of the Bible, newsflash, the world does end. That's a good thing. Um, it ends either way, the the a and and we need to have a heavenly focus. It doesn't really matter in the grand scheme of things who supposedly wins or doesn't win in a minor election. And when w you know, compared to what's what really is is important in in in the spiritual realm and we need to focus on God, focus on Christ and the the gospel and and the message we're supposed to uh preach and understand that there will be a time, maybe very, very soon. And if it's sooner, then that's actually something to rejoice about, but where the you know the world ends and we the Christ comes back and we're with him and that that's something to be celebrating, something to rejoice. It talks in Revelation when Babylon falls, it says all the saints in heaven are praising God and saying Glory to God. The ones that are sad about Babylon falling, those are the evil people the the m merchants and the warmongers and the and the uh uh you know idolaters and and all those people that were that are worldly, they're the ones that are sad when society's crumbling. The people that are are happy about Christ coming back, that those are the true believers. In the grand scheme, you know, I don't think anybody who calls themselves a Christian would disagree. We're all all Christians, all believers, all followers of Christ are awaiting. our King's Return, um with the second Advent, as we're now entering uh Advent season uh right now as we do these shows. But we're still in the interim. In the meantime, we are to advocate for righteousness and truth and justice and uh to uh to push for uh uh godly government and to uh live our lives in a way that we have godly families and that we demonstrate godly self-control in our own individual lives, like all of those things do immensely matter. So if Christ were to were to return, he could return in in in this instant in uh is uh in in my uh eschatological view. But let's say he were to return in five minutes. Well that doesn't mean we stop doing anything and caring about what's good and right and true for the next five minutes. We continue to live lives that are committed to what is good and right and true during those five minutes. That's part of the demonstration of knowing that we're ready for his return. And so um but there's there's a tendency to get caught up in that uh uh to the exclusion of the gospel and what uh and and what our focus should be in in in heaven. There there's a tendency to be worried about politics or to be worried about worldly things that Again, to the exclusion of actually focusing on God. I think that I would uh yeah, I think I don't know if we're disagreeing. I think I'm just trying to clarify so it's not a misunderstanding with the with the listener who might be hearing what we're saying. Um And I don't want us to get sidetracked. I'm not saying don't vote don't be involved in policy. Yeah, exactly. I know you're not saying that. So to clarify what w what we're what we are trying to say here, at least what I'm trying to say, and I don't want to I'm gonna bring up something, but we're not gonna talk about it right now. We're gonna talk about it, you know, maybe next show or another show or something. But the big controversy controversy with Black Lives Matter and and the people on the left, the progressive side insisting that you say black lives matter. They get really agitated if you say all lives matter or lives matter. Like, oh, you don't want to say what they're trying to force that you would say black lives matter And my thinking on that is that it's precisely because all lives matter that black lives matter. It's the same thing with this eschatological view. It's precisely because our victorious king is coming again, that we are to live engaged, righteous lives in the here and now as we await his return. It's so it's not they're not they're not tugging in different directions. They're not at odds with one another. It's precisely because he's coming back that we want to have him when he comes back tell us, Well done, my good and faithful servants, you've done what I've asked you to do. So and I think we might be saying kind of the same thing. So for the listener who might have been confused, perhaps we're trying to clarify our terms here. We did that last week and we're doing it this week One of the downsides to these PSYOPs, we used that word last week, and I think that the Q phenomenon could have been a PSY-OP. I think we used that word again this week for Q phenomenon. One of the dangers is it can throw us off the scent of where the real challenges in our world lie. Like on the progressive side, they had so many people paying attention to Russia that nobody's paying any attention to China and the World Economic Forum Which is really the threat to the Western way of life. And then on the uh and then with Q it got so discredited and so crazy with some of the things that the Q drops were advocating for that when real things happened You'd say something about, oh, you you're just conspiracy theorists, like you're you must be a Q uh follower. You must have your tinfoil hat on. And I'm alluding to you know the voter fraud that happened in 2020. Um and I'm not gonna say the alleged voter fraud 'cause I watched it happen with my own eyes. I'm watching TV and you see the vote totals and then ten minutes later they update the vote totals for a particular state and they flip the numbers. I watched it happen in real time. That doesn't happen. And then you could go and you could you could track the voting totals on the New York Times uh uh website And they were they were posting a dents every five minutes or whatever it was, they were posting updates or rolling a update on all the election results. And you can watch the numbers change To the detriment of Donald Trump in real time. So after watching it happen in real time and then seeing the video evidence and the personal testimony evidence There there's no doubt there was there was fraud. Was there enough to turn the tables on the election? I think there's enough evidence to say that's the case. But regardless Um all of this stuff that's going on, all the pushback against the Make America Great Again thing, it leads us to change our election laws so there's mail-in ballots, not just absentee ballots, mail-in-in-ballots, which is just an invitation to cheat. Um and then it it uh and all this electronic stuff, I mean we're a technological quandary right now. We're so dependent on technology and yet the technology allowed for all this vote switching to take place with the Dominion machines or or other products like that. And then the response to it. Yeah, you can't talk about that, Troy, otherwise you can't You can't even have a different opinion. It must be in line with what the mainstream media says and if you think differently then you're a troublemaker. Yeah Mike Lindell has kind of been canceled. He's the my pillow guy. But we didn't we, the people who think like I just expressed how I think, people on that side of this issue, we didn't do ourselves any favors because I mean Judy Rudy Giuliani was a disaster in how he was advocating for uh uh election integrity in the couple of months following the election. And uh Sydney Powell seemed like she had it together and then she just like I don't know, she just pulled the plug on her whole thing and walked away. I it was very confusing. So I'm bringing this up and sharing I'm putting my cards on table so there's no illusion about where I stand. You guys don't need to necessarily follow my lead on that The reason I mention all that is to set the context for you three pastors to speak pastorally to this because Imrod, you're right. If you hold a contrary view like You're an idiot, I'm not going to talk to you anymore. You should be put out of business probably for saying what you just said. And there are people in the same congregations who have those different views, some maybe n not in s some of the smaller, more tightly knit congregations, but certainly in larger congregations, there's a big divide, cause divisions inside of the church, you know, uh speaking more globally. So what do we as pastors say about that issue? Well, I uh I guess one of the things I I wonder about is, you know, are people It's part of the division within the church because people are saying, you know, the the relational starting point for for trust is that I agree we agree on political things, which I think is is sometimes the case and is a is a bad sign. Um you know, rather than saying, you know, well no, we we agree on we agree on Jesus and you know and from there we can uh You know, we can remain family while disagreeing on the lesser things. So I I I sense a I sense a misordering of of priorities within the church when there's division over things like this. I think that applies to uh doctrine in the church as well. Is you can fellowship with somebody who who disagrees with you on let's just say eschatology. I mean you could believe that the either the millennium already happened or it isn't happening uh or literally And then somebody else could believe that, you know, uh we're imminently gonna be raptured and then there will be a m a literal millennium. And those th those topics I would argue are not central to salvation. It would not Prohibit fellowship with each other. Yes. You can talk about those. Now there are things, even on the political side though, that that do matter to the extent that it's i i i it is very important to to at least be aware of what what people believe. You know, just like in in the doctrine of the church, I mean if you disagree on let's say the Trinity or whether Jesus actually died for your sins. Now that would be something that you probably don't want to fellowship with uh the so called believers who believe that. And on the political side, you might think that there's more the government could or should be doing, or less they should be doing or could be doing. But I would argue that if you believe that um Um it's okay to kill babies, then I got a problem with that. And you know, abortion is murder and there really isn't any way to get around that. The same thing with uh LGBT uh issues and things like that, a lot of times the church will compromise on those things. And there are there are politics you can compromise on. This uh some of these issues uh would not be those Yeah, I think there's a theory. Can you hang on to your thought because we're we've uh we've pressed up against the clock. It's one of the downsides to radio. We gotta hit the post The person I just rudely interrupted was David Forcy. The person that was speaking right before that was Daniel Razvi. The other voice you heard besides mine today is Imran Razvi. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. You can follow us online at household of faith in Christ. com and also WFMD. com. Until next week. 167 and a half hours from just about right now, you have yourself a blessed week ahead. God bless Man, they were just gonna rip into it right then. Ready to go. I heard him about to disagree with me saying ab abortion isn't murder. No, no, no. Just teasing. I was going to speak and she was the product of rape and her mother did not abort her and she's extremely intelligent, well spoken and and really going after it. And and good parts, you know. What about rape and test? Well it's I don't talk about rape. I'm not evil because the act was evil. Yeah, for sure. There you go. Up on the shelf maybe. See if this would work from over here. I yeah, I think I think what I was gonna say is it's like um You know, maybe maybe the political differences uh draw out um political differences and and worldview differences. That might end up being not bad. And I disagree with that. And I don't think that prohibits us from fellowship. Now if you think that a man can be a woman, that's probably gonna prohibit us from having Yeah that's that's worldview stuff. Well but a lot of these days a lot of them are intertwined is the problem. These days a lot of them are intertwined. Yeah. And and you have to agree with all the issues or none of them? And that's the you know it's well there there isn't a trying point when it comes to like what is uh Yeah, what what is what's I don't know what's a looks legislated. Right, but you get put in the box by in the view of of people in general. You know, if you Yeah, uh agree with all of these priorities of so and such and such party, but you disagree with that one. Oh, you're a racist, you're a terrible person, you're this, you're that. But you just you're an ally with all those other things, you know, and and that's the that's the problem that uh I think feminists have sometimes w with um the transgender movement is a It it you know, uh true feminism wants a woman to be equal to to the man, but then if the woman is a man now that's actually a different quality and that jeopardizes the the teaching of of of feminism and so they're they're kind of fighting with No. Ones I use I've used in the past. I think I have had to use these in the past on rare occasion, but there's typically a pair of black headphones sitting right there and they've never given me any problems. Oh there's a pair down there. Let me try those. Let's try these. I think these are Holy schmole, I can't. And if you guys get rude, I'm gonna Yes, but we can we can we can leave you from this end. That's true. Uh see. Oh yeah, now we're talking. All right, there we go. That's not fair. I I because the other one was only one ear and then that ear was cutting in and out. So I kept thinking did we lose the mic like it's And that's why you thought we might not be in the stereotype All right. We're in good shape now. Like I said, just from reading the back, I think this guy might be cute actually. You think he's Q? Maybe. Hmm. Could be. It kinda looks like a Q. I thought you was okay. Star Trek. Yeah, the he was the million starts. The next generation. I think the uh the James Bond inventor, right? Yep. Makes all the cool gases. Yep. Here we go Welcome to the Faith Debate. Thanks so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. I'm Troy Skinner and the three guys joining me are Imran, Raz, Razvi, Daniel Razvi, and David Forsi. We are three house churches Represented here by four pastors. You can connect with uh what we're all about. The easiest way is to go to household of faith in Christ dot com. That's the name of my church, and we happen to have a website These other guys, they're like in the Stone Age or something. They don't have websites. But uh you can see uh pictures of a couple of the guys that that are up there. One of them's kind of shy, so I don't have his picture up there. Uh but anyway, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And we are uh also of course the radio station's website is a way to connect with the show, WFMD. com. You can find the Faith of Fate page there. You can link to our podcasts and you know, see get a little teaser of shows that are coming up in the future and and that sort of thing. So we've been spending the last couple of weeks talking about Uh things that have been going on in the world of politics and worldview challenges over the last, let's say, half a dozen years or so. Um if you missed those, you go back. We talked about the rise of populism and what that means for the Western world. We talked about the MAGA movement. We talked about Q. That'll get your attention. Talked about that mostly last week. We began to talk a little bit about the voter fraud question and all of that. And um and then a distinction was made. Uh David Forcy is making the distinction about, you know, we don't want to get hung up on on on politics and let that be a division within the body of Christ. Christians shouldn't be divided. We can disagree, but there shouldn't be any sort of a wedge among followers of Christ over mere political questions. And so to me an example of that would be one Christian is a never trumper and another Christian is, you know, you know Uh Trump has been hand selected by God. And they're putting all of their both of those people. I guess they're throwing all of their uh all of their chips in on a political candidate and what that political candidate means, that is a challenge. But I think there is a difference, like the election fraud question, which played itself out on January sixth, for example, with a a a rally uh that was intended to defend uh voter uh voter integrity, election integrity, uh that sort of thing. And then s you know, some people ended up going into the Capitol building and it it got a little bit weird. But those people are advocating for truth, and so Christians who are going to disagree over now they might end up coming out on a different side of what they think the truth is and we can try to hash that out and figure it out. But if there are people who are going to deny the truth or say that there shouldn't be an advocacy for truth. People who went to DC on January 6th, for example, to stand in solidarity for the truth of election results to be mocked and ridiculed and dismissed by other brothers and sisters in Christ, that's not a political uh disagreement at that point. That's like a worldview question. I think that that is something that pastors should maybe stick their nose in and help to uh clarify for people. And I cut off David last week, so I don't know if me resetting it gets you off on a different trajectory or if you remember what you wanted to talk about at the end of last week's show. But You can you can say whatever you want right now. You can even say if you wanna. So uh so I I think when uh when I when I think of worldview I'll I'll define what I mean. by worldview when I say it. And so you know as as a I think that a Christian's biblical worldview is is what they should have. They should look through everything uh through through the lens of scripture. What does Scripture have to say about it? What does it tell us about God? What does it tell us about people? Um and uh uh what does it say is is true and right and good and what does it say is is bad and wicked and evil. Um so that you know that's what I mean by a world view. That's what I think everyone's worldview should be, uh, you know, is that uh is using scripture, using God's word, right, as our as our lens. So God's view should be our view, and we know what God's view is through the grid of scripture. Right. That kind of thing. And I do think that that then informs, you know, downstream from that you get, well You know, I you know, every man is a a sinner. Every human being is a sinner, therefore uh the there are needed restraints upon upon mankind. You know, whether it is, you know, within the the family structure that God has designed or whether it is Um, you know, and and there are many different ways to you know to politically via um you know, a a government help to limit the damage that uh individual sinners can do or that, you know limit the damage of the ability of people to a band together to do evil um within a society. So uh you know so so so I would say my politics are very informed by my world. view. Um, you know, I I think a political I think a world view that begins with, you know, saying everyone is basically good. They just need a little bit of help in order to reach their maximum potential, which, you know, uninhibited would be great and wonderful and uh you know know and uh and and kind and charitable to everyone around them. Um so I I don't know that's that's and that generally I think is the simplest way to think about the divide politically in the left and the right The left has a tendency to be thinking in terms of people are basically good. Right. And people on the right are like, yeah, but people are basically sinners. You know, so we need some checks and balances on what people are going to do to one another uh and what they're gonna do when they're in power in the government. And so this whole Shangri-La idea on the left seems completely impossible from a biblical worldview. view, absent Christ when he he comes again. So And and I think what happens then within the within the church is when there is uh you know as as the political tensions sort of sort of ratchet up, you know, and and when there is uh when there's some sort of crisis those they tend to do that. You know, people get squeezed and what they what they really think or feel sort of comes out. And uh and then so I I think uh I think there's an initial sort of uh sequence seeing one of the people within the church seeing each other and saying, Oh I I didn't think that you know that you were that far away from me, you know, uh in your in your political or at least in what I perceive as your world view. And uh and rather than rather than trying to go back to things that are common, you know, or at least going back as far as you can until you find something and coming and getting at the root, there's just a there's a separation and uh um uh an isolation from each other where people stop. You know, they just they just remove themselves from talking to each other. Yeah, and I believe a lot of that has to do with terms that are not defined well. And uh what people assume. For example, when Dan Magino was running uh for uh office here in Maryland, he went to um P G County where, you know, it's it's a l a big Democrat stronghold. A lot of uh fairly wealthy middle class b black people that mostly will vote Democrat and he'd knock on doors and uh they say are you Democrat or Republican? And he said, Well I'll let you guess. I'm in front for this, I'm for this, I'm for this and after he goes and explains everything. Oh, you must be Democrat. He said, No, I'm a Republican. The Democrats believed this but so a lot of these people believed they were Democrats and believed in Christ like principles. A lot of them were were believers there. But they did not know what Democrat or or Republican was because the media has so bad labeled Republicans, how evil they are, how they're just for the big corporations and rich people and all that stuff. So that that people tend to believe that And that creates that div div divisiveness and th they don't people don't know really what the truth is until they actually identify. And that's what you were saying the day David is you've got to actually talk and go back to the roots of what is it that you mean and what is it that you believe in. That's what's important, not the label you're given. Don't say I'm a Republican or I'm a Democrat or I'm a conservative or I'm or I'm a liberal. What does that mean to you? What does liberal mean to you? What is conservative mean to you? Because if you just listen to the media, you conservative is evil, liberal is good. Democrats good, Republicans evil. Why? What makes it evil? Which is really the opposite of the Bible says. The Bible says that uh the the principles that were built on is that we as people are generally evil. We're not generally good. And only Christ can eliminate that sin and those of you that are listening that are worried about the sin in your life You know that you can be assured, I'm telling you right now the truth is there is a savior that will eliminate every sin, no matter how bad you think you've done or how bad you've been It can be eliminated completely and you can be sin-free, guilt-free, and be held by your Savior. That's really where the truth is. You were looking reaching for the microphone a second ago. Did you still have something you wanted to say or did he end up saying what you were going to say? No, I was actually just trying to adjust the microphone so just helping dad out a little bit. Well talking about the terms And the evil and the good, uh I brought up briefly like the uh the January 6th happening. Those who want to look at it in the most positive light, they call it a rally. Those who want to paint it with a dark brush, they call it an insurrection. Armed armed insurrection. An armed insurrection. Which is interesting because um the people with the arms killed a unarmed woman. And I don't I we we we no investigation really. We don't know anything about it. I think the I saw the video, I think the woman was murdered Uh and yet, of course, that makes me a crazy lunatic. What do you mean? She was an insurrectionist. She wasn't murdered. She was like a five foot tall Unarmed woman. Medical. Veteran if the serve the military, I think the Air Force, if I'm not mistaken. Ashley Babbitt is who we're talking about And Ashley Babbitt is in a defenseless position, crawling through a window in a crouch position, and a guy comes up a point-blank gray and shoots her right in the throat. Uh and yet she is the bad one because she supports Trump. She's a Republican and so there's just a presumption. And it's not just there. I mean we're Uh uh and well by the way, and the people being held in solitary confinement for months on end as a result of all with no charges. But look at the the assumptions you can take. What was the name? Um oh darn it. Nate Something and uh Sandman. Something Sandman? Nicholas Salmon. Nicholas Sandman and I think the the uh the Native American guy was Nate something. They had that square. Remember this uh on the uh on the steps in the Capitol or something? Well salmon got a settlement from CNN and from the the Washington Post. But the early narrative on that was because Nicholas Stanley is a high school student, he's wearing a red Mega America Great Again hat and everybody assumes he's the bad guy because he's He must be racist. Because he's he's staring at a Native American and the Native American must be the good guy because, well, he's a Native American. And we come to find out when we get all the facts that the Native American guy is not a straight shooter. He's not necessarily a good guy. He's a bit of a scam artist it seems at some level. He was being belligerent and physically, you know, assaulting the guy. Yeah, provoking. Yeah, he was definitely he he entered the scene banging his drum and uh the media wants to cover a certain narrative. They want to tell a certain story, so they will highlight aspects of the news. that are sympathetic to their side of of the story and w and the worldview that they have, um, the idea of this Communist utopia. And it's become all about these fabricated labels. I mean that's why it it seems to me, because they knew they weren't gonna get uh a removal from office. They knew Trump was going to be acquitted. And yet, those who hated Donald Trump wanted to label him with uh he's been impeached. Twice. Right? They want to just paint him in a corner as just this horrible like world record setting, worst president ever because no other president has been impeached twice and they they rammed that stuff through uh in order to attach that label to him, knowing that he was gonna be acquitted on the other side. You're basically it's just saying that he was accused twice. Well I've been accused of a lot of things many more times than that. So Oh really? Tell me about lots of things. But well I think what what we're talking about here is that the media had so far made it um really evil to be part of the Republicans, part of uh conservatism and when Trump came to the scene he was belligerent on the other side. He was acting like a lot of the Democrats um and you know, not backing down and so it made it okay to be a Republican again and it made it okay to stand up for your rights, it made it okay to be uh stand up for America again where for a long time since uh Obama went around the uh world saying how bad and evil America was and how we have to apologize to the whole world about how evil we've been Um well when Trump came to the scene, a lot of the Patriots came back out of the woodworks and said, Oh, it's okay to be a patriot again. And I think that's really what what uh caused Trump to have such a big following because it was okay again. It it was in vogue again. And yes, they were being attacked, but now we had a defender, uh uh you know the a very popular man that's very charismatic defending the popular um nationalism and patriotism that you that uh it was okay to do that again. And that's what the media hates because they don't want that strength. And I I I don't know why, but as I uh my w mind wandered for half a second while you're talking, I thought, you know, maybe I should clarify something in the spirit and the context of what we're talking about here, because I don't want to give the wrong impression. I think it's clear I'm not a supporter of the Democratic National Committee. But I'm also not a supporter of the GOP. Right. The Republican Party does not stand for what I believe in. What's happened, in my view, is the Democrat Party has given themselves over to Marxism. And the Republican Party in large measure has overwhelmingly given themselves over to cronyism. So neither one of 'em, economically speaking, is advocating for uh capitalism, which is what I would advocate for, 'cause I think that's the the That's what the Bible would prescribe. I'd be curious to see if you guys agree with me on that question. And all of the issues in the platform that the Republicans run on, they don't actually govern on Right. It's one thing to to say something and it's another thing to act on it. And there really aren't very, very many people in government, certainly not on the national level, there's some local politicians that still do have And you gotta give the the the the people on the left, you gotta them credit. They're honest. They tell you what they're gonna do and then they do it. Now what they wanna do is frightening to me, but they tell us and then they do it. But the people on the right, they tell us what they're gonna do, we're like, okay, that sounds pretty good to me, but then they don't do it. Because they're beholden all these financial interests because they've they've become they've given themselves over to cronyism. Do you guys agree by the way that you do you think that uh Is God a capitalist? Uh a man shall not work, he shall not eat. Uh yeah I don't uh I I don't know how you say thou shalt not steal unless personal property is uh a thing. But I think you have to define capitalism because a lot of times people use in fact capitalism if if I remember correctly, history is actually a term coined by Karl Marx. So Yeah, so it's probably the wrong yeah, you know y I like that you're changing that because in fairness, all economic systems are capitalist systems because capital has to do with the things you use for productivity, right? So and everybody has an economy. Everybody has some sort of productivity, but greater or lesser results. So Marx had Marxism needs capital. Right? Fascism is capital. So maybe we should be talking about personal responsibility and and the free market. I think a free a a free market maybe is a better term. They Yeah, but but do we I mean uh from our our perspective sorry I'll I'll let's go to say Um, you know, like we we would say given the opportunity, people will do bad things. And It is right for there to be limits on the bad things that people are. Regulated free market. Okay. I've heard o given the opportunity only rich people will do bad things. Poor people will never do bad things. That's what certainly what some uh media says. No, this is good. So I'm gonna actually be changing my language. I don't I'm gonna try to train myself up not to use the word capitalism anymore, but to talk about a regulated free market. I think I think the Bible would call for much more of a focus on family economics. The idea that um money or income that's produced by one member of the family is for the whole family. And I think a family and tribe has a has a group economy and and And I think um in some ways the Amish actually have a very good system in this in this way, is that the family, you know, has this pot of money and when the k kids get married and the family all fits it in and builds them a house and then the those kids contribute back to the family and that's actually the the the way the in the Middle East a lot of things are done. It's all about the family. We even have to define that term now though, and clarify what we mean because I don't know if you've heard this phrase, but it's become popular on the on the left that the state is the family and the family is the state. Have you heard that phrase? No. No, but I I believe they said it. So they would agree. So you could say it's all about the family and all the money belongs to the family. And they'll say, yes! Exactly. And the state is the family. Right. So when I say family, I mean, you know, a f father, mother, their children. Biologically connected. Right. And as their children grow up as the sons get married the the Or adopted in right, and and and w and and then the male children would still be part of that family with the you know know, um their spouses, their wives and then their children and it is a clan or a tribe, m more so than so so if you think tribe that that kinda gives you in your puts in your head a picture probably of what I'm talking about is that There and eventually the truck gets big enough that there are more individual economies that are not like they're not all one. Everybody doesn't have everything in common. And I d and I don't mean that the father, the patriarch, has all the money and all the resources and makes all the decisions for everything. I just mean that the family pitches in and helps each other. for whatever they need and they view the productivity of the whole family as supporting the clan, not oh I'm doing my own thing, I'm building my own company over here and I'm leaving my family out of it and You know, it's uh it's all one and I think that's more of a biblical model than even the s so-called free market or capitalism that we talk about here, which is all about the individual. And I think that is actually anti-biblical in some ways, that it's all about me instead of uh you know, the respect of the biggest. I don't know that ha that it automatically has to be all about the in individual. I think families can be in a regulated free market can be working towards uh expanding their wealth and providing better for one another inside of their their family unit and that sort of thing and wasn't was Israel's uh was Israel's a regulated free market? Well God said when you when you ask for a king he's gonna exact tolls and tribute on you and tax you have to do. So Imran, you talked about personal responsibility. Um and Daniel you're talking about taking responsibility for your the family. And then, you know, taking responsibility for the community that you're in as well, like the the tribe, if you will. There's uh there's lots of biblical talk about the the neighbor, the and even the the stranger that's passing through. Yeah we're supposed to care for them, yes. Yeah. But uh personal responsibility and economics, you can't rely on somebody else to be your economic um fortune. Right. And I think um communism goes that way and most of this country goes that way and if somebody else has money and you don't, then they're responsible for giving you some. And I've seen that over and over again in in the media and other places and what we're talking about is personal responsibility for economics and in a family way and if uh a family's there but even in a family you'll have one child or two children that are really don't want to work. They want to sleep all day. So should they benefit from the work and hard work from other people? Because what happens is as humans we're sinners and we're gonna take the easy way out. One of the sayings my dad used to love saying when I was young, taking the easy way makes men and rivers run crooked. And uh so you know, you you gotta think about that, even in a small structure of the family, but you can manage a family better than you can manage a city or a town or or country because you can you know ostracize that child and say, hey, if you're not gonna work, you're not being parti part of this family, you've got to go find a place else to do something. But if you're not participating And I I think as somebody that's in the financial planning world as my profession and you know r my father and I run a company, Higher Ground Financial Group I think we talked about it several weeks ago. But when you think about retirement, which is a topic we discuss a lot of times with our clients, how you view retirement is based a lot on your worldview of economics and how it should should be because in this culture in America generally the more liberal person will view retirement as When someone can no longer work or maybe even doesn't no longer wants to work, everyone else must have their things confiscated in order to give to that person to help them live for the rest of their life. The more conservative person would say you should save up money, a lot of money, and then buy things that you need when you are not able to work and earn more money to buy those things. You use your saved money to buy those things. That's retirement Um and I think a more biblical mindset is actually that retirement doesn't exist in the Bible. I think a you know um the uh uh when you think of let's say long term care, right? The the the liberal will say the state should pay for Medica uh Medicaid bed for people in a nursing home. The conservative will say you should save up enough money to pay for your care. And I think a biblically minded person may come come to the conclusion that the parents gave to the children and all of their money and all of their time and all of their resources and raised the children and now when the parents are older it's the children's responsibility to pay for and care for their parents and that's more of a biblical model and again that comes back to the family. It you you stop working when you're not able to work, but retirement is not necessarily a biblical tips. Yeah well we're going to retire for the uh for this show anyway. Uh we'll be back next week about 160 sec 167 and a half hours from right now. That was easy for me to say wasn't it Follow us online at WFMD. com. Find me at household of faith in Christ dot com. And you can connect with the ministry that the Razzies have. Conquered by Love. org is their website. Till next week. God bless. But we're really pushing the envelope getting all over the line. Too much to talk about. Yeah, we only have you know like twenty five minutes. That gospel stick in the middle there. Yes. Yeah. We got that ear in early, so we didn't have to. Yeah, if we can have natural opportunities like that, that's that's best. It's way less forced and awkward, so that was good Yeah, I felt that was a good opportunity just to bring that in. Yeah. Alright, so we are Now up to December twelfth, this next show that we do will be rehearing on day. can. Okay. My wife and uh my all my girls, my wife and all the daughters were out in Iowa all week and I haven't seen them in in a week so they just came back today. While while we were on the way here. Yeah, I'll be uh yeah, it's okay. That's a topic we don't really talk about too much with our clients. When they come to us and ask us to help them retire, we I I don't usually tell them you shouldn't retire. Very few people have that worldview. Um even the believers, the class that we have. Um it's not it's not a bad thing to have money saved up and be able to use it, but I think a a true biblical mindset is the family has a a shared uh you know the economic show me anywhere in the Bible when somebody retired. They didn't They worked. And they until they couldn't follow the whole family took care of it. Retirement is when you can when you can't work anymore and then the family takes care of you, right? You don't get absolutely jump right back in? Sure, absolutely. You're participating a lot more than last time. What did you say? You say something. I'm getting more comfortable with it. Welcome to the Base Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our panel has gathered once more. We've got Daniel Razvi, Imran Razvi, his friends call him Raz, so I guess he's been on the air long enough you can call him Raz. And uh David Forcy. is uh on the show as well as usual. The four of us are pastors of house churches in Frederick County. If you'd like to learn more about that, connect with one of our churches. You know, reach out and be glad to talk with you about it. We spent the last three weeks talking about things happening in the news over the last few years and So much of what has been driving what's happening in the in the world these days has been driven by politics and political worldview things. So we spent a lot of time there I think we might have a little more to say on those fronts, and perhaps we'll have an opportunity, we'll see, to shift into broader concerns than just politics, but uh we will see. Where where we leave off last week? We were talking about retirement. About retirement. We were talking about whether capitalism or a regulated free market is the biblical model And I feel like we might have begun to reach uh a consensus that it probably was, depending on how we want to define our terms, but am I am I because if so, then we can move on. If not, we probably should flesh out where we were last week. Do we want to talk about what's the so the the contrast to a regulated free market is A not free market? A very regulated, so regulated that it's no longer a free market? Yeah, so it controlled market. Yes, a controlled market. Right. Exactly. A controlled market, which would be, you know, the the the depending on your flavor, socialist or fascist or communist. or something like that. So maybe instead of regulated it should be civilized free market. So a completely free market with no regulation whatsoever would probably lend itself to some sort of uh anarchy. Mad Max type of thing. If anything goes over stronger, it can get it done. But m but you know, the principles that That we're trying to include under this umbrella would include uh personal property, personal responsibility, uh you know protection from theft. In those days there was no king in Israel and every every man did that which was right in his own eyes. Right. Very free market. Yeah. Very free market. And the other thing is if it's not regulated properly, you have the problem that I think we we have right now is is cronyism, which is basically uh another word maybe for fascism. You know, where the the the government interests and the business interests are so deeply entwined and codependent and they're all paying and buying each other off that uh and special favors and all that sort of stuff. And we saw that play out with what's happened in this last you know couple of years with all the shutdowns. It it's Main Street. The mom and pops got kicked in the cheese. But those multi-multi-billionaires that own these big corporations, they had record-setting profits. How'd that happen? You know, everybody's struggling to pay the rent and uh the stock market's at r record highs. How'd that happen? It doesn't add up. Something doesn't make sense. You know, that's that's cronyism. Like there's something The the right the wrong kinds of regulations are in place. Uh so we need somebody regulating the regulators at that point. Uh so I guess we're we're probably pretty good on on that front, right? I mean I'm still I'm still more of an advocate for a family being a lot more intertwined financially than what most conservatives would probably have in in America. But that's a different topic than the well-regulated um. But the economy in in at large, yes, I think more more free Even at the family level, the family should operate as a regulated uh free market. Sure. Some more regulated, very minimal regulation. Meaning that like you s you you indicated last week, it's not like the patriarchy of the family has all the money and Yeah, well in the in the family it's uh it's relationally regulated Right. And I think that the regulations should be relatively minimal, by the way. I agree. Regulating to keep people from doing things that are dishonest, uh you know, b basically some sort of theft or grift or you know, that sort of thing, partiality being so uh being shown. Those sorts of things should be stealing intellectual pro property. Exactly. Yeah. That so so we we are incredibly, in my opinion, over regulated. We're regulated on steroids and we have so many regulations that you can't even keep tabs. That's part of our problem. You can't keep tabs on this beast that's been created. Yeah, um was it Ben the Carson that that said uh the regulations add what forty percent to the b uh cost of a house Wow. I hadn't heard that but he's tournament of HUD, so he knows. Wow. Yeah, wow. That's crazy. Yeah. We'd have a lot more homeownership if he could knock the price down by forty percent. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. All right. Oh you had no this is a long this is a little bit of tangent but I it came up and uh as I was thinking about what we're talking about. is I want to uh maybe go in the direction of compromise and define the word compromise and how it's used because we're talking about cop politics and talking about Yeah, cronyism. And I think compromise is is really where it starts where I believe as a Christian and I define the word Christian as a believer in Christ as my savior that will save me from the sin that I cause because I am a sinner. Um, what is compromise from that standpoint? We are not allowed to compromise when and anything that is biblically stated do this or do not do this. Like a you know, if God says do not kill, there's no compromising in that If God says do not covet, there's no compromising in that. And the and the political system is really built on compromise and and I've seen so many movies and articles and books and And but if you're in politics you have to compromise. And it's held up as an ideal. Absolutely. And that is absolutely wrong. And and I've seen the left not compromise But force the right to compromise. So as the left goes further and further and left, the right is moving along with them because they're being forced to compromise. So what happens is Daniel's already brought up about, you know, give you a king and he's going to attack you to death. He's brought up that passage of the Bible a couple of weeks in a row And so you got somebody who says, I want no taxes. And somebody else says, I want to tax you ten percent It's like, no, I want no taxes. Ten percent. No taxes. Ten percent. Oh, it's compromised, five percent. Okay. Now all of a sudden you've got taxes where there were none. Right And so they've moved the needle. And then five years later, 15%, no, five percent. Fifteen percent, no, five percent, compromise, ten percent. And within five, ten years they're where they wanted to be. They just gradualized it into place because we compromised their way and left it brilliant at that. A more recent uh uh example of that in the that that many people listening may may have remembered from the news is this um uh build back better plan that the so-called that uh Biden's been been pushing and Democrats have been pushing and they said this is gonna be a three or four trillion dollar spending plan for social priorities and and so on. And there were a whole long list of things in the bill and some of them many people were upset about and so on, but it was a lot of stuff. And it was a radical increase in spending and increase in programs and and so on. And so they launched this idea and they get a lot of pushback And then they compromise and say, Oh, well we're only gonna spend now one trillion out of this and they're still gonna have a lot of the really bad stuff that everybody was uh w worried about, but it feels like an achievement and a victory for the right. Oh, we talked 'em down. Two trillion dollars less in spending. Well they're still doing all the stuff that they were gonna do and probably what they expected to get done in the first place. They just Ask for a lot more so when you negotiate them down, they're still getting most of what their agenda is. Imagine you're in a marriage or counseling session. And uh the wife wants to not be beat at all. And the husband wants to beat her twice a day. And so the marriage counselor said, let's talk about the compromise. How about your husband just beats you once a day? And that's what happens when you compromise biblical principles, right? No, wrong is wrong, right is right. Same with adultery. How you know if the husband wants to go it or the wife wants to go and think with other people. Let's just compromise. Let's just do that every other Tuesday, not every week. Right. Yeah, we have a a regulated open relationship. So that's why I I I really feel that compromise is what's really been causing a lot of downfall. You cannot compromise on biblical principles And the breakdown of the family unit in America is what's caused the great shift and compromise of our principles, compromise of our um beliefs and You know, one of the things my wife is adamant about saying when when all these um conservatives are raging about this bill in Texas about abortion or this thing in Georgia about abortion. We won a great victory. We limited abortion to this. No. We gotta go back to abortion is killing a baby. It doesn't have to be six weeks, it doesn't have to be twelve weeks, it doesn't have to be first or second or th third trimester. It's killing a baby. It's by conception. And when you give that argument over and compromise that, oh, but what if it's rape or incest? No, you're still compromising. You cannot compromise. And because they're willing to compromise, but I mean in certain states it would it would be impossible like Maryland it would be impossible uh to do what I'm about to suggest, but in other states, let's use Oklahoma as a really good example, they almost always have a Republican governor who runs as a pro-life candidate. They have an overwhelmingly Republican uh uh legislature. I mean a a a filibuster-proof, veto-proof, I think, uh majority of Republicans uh in Oklahoma, why couldn't they abolish not limit, but abolish abortion in their state Maybe like slavery? Abolish slavery, abolish abortion. Yeah, it's yeah. I think slavery's actually better than abortion, 'cause at least you get to live. Abortion you're dead. Right, right But they they don't have the political will to do it and they end up compromising and and there's all these flavors of compromise along the way, which is why even the political bases get so fractured. That's why we had close to twenty Republicans run in two thousand sixteen in the primary, had somewhere around twenty Democrats run in the primary in twenty twenty. Even even the political bases are incredibly fragile. It's starting to look like Central Europe a a little bit there with all the political interests and We don't quite have the this the multitude of political parties that they have, but we're heading in that direction. So let's let's but speaking of compromise, let's do a a transition and talk about where this leads us culturally. Because if you're willing to compromise politically and fiscally and those sorts of things, you compromise other principles and we see that play out in our culture in in with some big high-profile names that have been involved in sex scandals. We talked about, you know, um you know adultery. You know, so let's talk a little bit about we're shifting away from the politics and maybe hope this is our chance to uh shift away more into some some cultural uh issues that have been dominating uh the Western world, the American world, our world here in in Frederick, Maryland even uh in recent years. And you know, Donald Trump A hero for many on the right, you know, an adulterer. Right? He had some personal uh compromise there. We can't let him off the hook. But on the left you got, you know, Harvey Weinstein or Weinstein, I don't know how he uh I can't remember. how he's supposed to say his last name, so no disrespect is meant to Harvey there, but I don't remember. Um and then even inside the church or if Depending on how you want to define the church, uh high profile uh problems with Roman Catholic priests uh over the years with uh pedophilia and homosexual behavior with uh with underage minors. Uh uh Um and more recently, the Southern Baptist Convention has had some uh accusations. One of the guys that uh that ran for president was accused. It seems now like it might have been a false accusation. some some accusations about some sexual uh improprieties there. I mean it's it's all over the place. And then the most wild story we've heard in recent years, I think, is a Jeff Jeffrey Epstein story where they had a bunch of sex slaves on an island somewhere and high-profile people were visiting there. Um this open-ended, what do we say either generally or specifically to that culture as pastors who are trying to lead people to Christ but in the process influence the culture for good at the same time. So I would say that especially when you have some of these high profile examples of so-called pastors or religious people, people in the in the church, the media loves to jump on those and say, look, here's this Christian who's a hypocrite and he did all these things, he's a problem. Well actually Um that that's that's kind of the opposite of being a hypocrite because if y if if assuming the person is actually saved, they would have preached something to the effect of, I'm a sinner. So the all they proved by sinning was that they were correct and they're preaching that they were themselves sinners. The question is what happens after the sin is is discovered or noticed or what happened w whatever. I mean, you get an example example in the Bible of David, David committed adultery as well. Not only did he commit adultery, he committed adultery with one of his best friend's wife. Uriah the Hittite was what actually one of his mighty men. Um then murdered him. And then he murder had a murder. So there uh just because there's a sin doesn't make the person n uh necessarily uh uh unbeliever or ungodly. It it's how you deal with the sin once you're convicted and hopefully you are convicted about it Um but certainly people can make excuses for bad behavior and say, Oh it's not that bad when it really is. There's a difference between making excuses for behavior and recognizing that behavior will continue to exist because we still are in a fallen world. Whether it's adultery, whether it's you know, taking ten bucks from a a cash register, there's there's a I think the things we were talking about before connect here too. We're talking about a regulated free market trying to define what we meant. uh uh define what we meant by that. Uh hopefully we did an okay job by the time we got through all that. What we're talking about with a regulated free market is regulating the behaviors within the economy, within the economic uh happenings, economic practices, regulating the behaviors that individuals and groups of individuals uh engage in. So we're talking about regulating behavior economically, and now we're talking about regulating behavior, in this particular case, sexually. You know, people need to have personal responsibility and families need to hold other family members to account and you know, we need to because if we don't properly regulate and we say, well You know, sex before marriage isn't really that big of a deal. Well, the Bible says it's adultery. And if you're gonna compromise on that issue, well then it gets an awful lot easier to compromise on sex uh inside of marriage with someone who's not your spouse and having that kind of adultery But even that's not as frowned on as it used to be because we've got the rise of uh of open marriages and getting and then you start losing your mind on stuff. And so we've got uh you know, our our first openly uh homosexual Uh cabinet secretary with a Pete Buddha judge right now? That would have been culturally unacceptable when I was a kid Uh and yet the the needle on that is moved. We got uh transgenderism. We got a transgender who's involved with uh leading our health uh decisions in this uh country. Isn't that an oxymoron? He's mentally ill and he leading the help. But that's where we end up. You got people who are celebrated for it, you know. Um formerly Bruce Jenner, now Caitlin Jenner. Uh he's, you know, living the life of uh or trying to live a life or portray himself a as a woman and is celebrated for it. And I'm gonna get a bunch of hate for the way I just phrased that um by referring to Caitlin as a he. Um I mean I'll call I'll call them Caitlyn. He can call him whatever he wants. I don't care what you call you can he change your name. I have no problem with that. But you can't just you can't force me to enter into your Psychosis. Right. So we get we get lost. And and then women's sports, collegiate sports and high school sports are going to be destroyed by this if if if something's not done about it because you've got young men competing against women. It's it's a slippery slope because if you recall, back in 2008, Obama ran on a platform that was anti-gay marriage. Obama. Yeah on a platform. As recently as less than fifty less than ten oh twelve years. Twelve years ago. Thirteen years ago. And not only have we gotten rid of traditional marriage, we've now had we've gotten rid of male and female, and it's only been twelve or thirteen years. So things change rapidly and there's a there's a very slippery slope when you compromise on one thing then you start compromising on other things. There's many Christians who aren't really bothered You know, if you corner them on it, they'll say, Oh yeah, that's wrong. But they are not really bothered when they see a gay couple in public or otherwise, as they might have been fifteen or twenty years ago. And I think we're desensitized to evil that's in that that's existing in the society. And many people are still angered or um uh you know uh revolt re uh revolted when they um see you know somebody that's pretending to be a pedophile or somebody that's claiming to be a woman when they're a man or vice versa. But how how many mere more years is it gonna be before Christians are desensitized to that and they say, Oh yeah, that's I mean that's bad, but it's it's kinda normal now. Yes, but if you are um growth by or or uh reject it then you're a hater. So they've changed the vocabulary to make it anything that uh you are against and you're biblically in the right, you become a hater or uh it's hate speech and so forth. So I want to bring this back a little bit. We went back into politics and into the general and to the leaders, but How is your life? Have you ever lied? Well, then the Bible says you're a liar. Have you ever slept with somebody before you got married? Well, then the Bible says you're an adulterer. Have you ever hated somebody in your heart? Well, Jesus said that you're you're a murderer. So you're a lying, murderous, adulterer. I mean, those are real live sins. If that is in your life, there is hope for you So what we're talking about is not that that once you've done this you're beyond hope and you're terrible and you're labeled somet something and uh everything's gonna go bad. Yes, everything is bad, but there is hope for you. You must repent and that's what Daniel was saying earlier is how do you react to it? When when this happens, when you're found out or when you realize, how did David react to his sin You can also react that same way and repent. What does repent mean? Repent means that you will make an effort to change. And to please God. Now, that in itself is not going to save you. No matter what you do, you cannot save yourself from your sin and your evil. Only Jesus can So what you have to do is repent and seek Jesus and ask for his forgiveness, and you are a new person and you will have life eternal. And there is hope. So those all of us who are mired in sin Recognize it. And how do you recognize it? You must pick up the rule book. Where are the rules? In the Bible. Get to know who God is and what he says. Find out and seek him and he will come to you. So my thought to the you right now is yes, all these sins, these compromises, we have them all of us have them in our lives. But when we see them and and recognize them we need to re And that's where the differences between somebody that is out there pointing fingers and somebody that says, Oh, thank you for pointing that out to me. You're right. I should not have done that. I'm going to repent. I'm going to spend time So I would urge you if you don't know how to do that, reach out to Troy Skinner through this uh radio station and he'll tell you all the all the details on that. on that. But this is a very real problem and only you can fix that. Nobody else can fix it for you. And only you can fix it through Christ who's going to fix it for you. Because you can't do yourself. And that's where the truth is. Obviously all four of us are committed. The truth is found in God's Word. Uh somebody who hears us say that who doesn't believe in God or isn't a follower of Jesus has ever read the Bible, they're gonna don't want to reject that. And that's what has has ended up happening in our in our world as well. Um the the the rules of engagement get changed. You have the American Medical Association uh that uh says that science says that gender is not binary. And it gets back to what David said uh last week or the week before that show uh talking about the worldviews and the Bible shaping the worldview because that is the rule book, right? That is the guidebook. Um but that seems to be one of the challenges you have the the science whether it's true science or not, the science versus the Bible. And we have to clarify and I think we can if we're willing to engage and have those conversations We can actually persuade people that, you know, the science isn't really always very scientific in its method. And you can sh because it's going against the natural order of things, it's going what we've we've known for a long time, it's going against proven discoveries of things. And uh and that and if we can get them to understand that, okay, what they've been told is the science isn't true, maybe they'd be open to hearing what the truth is um in the Bible. We don't have to fall prey to using different pronouns and uh all those sorts of things. I by the way it popped into my head, I uh if it was this week or last week we were talking about the Covington uh uh boys uh and um uh Nick Sandman being stared down by the Native American. I said I thought his name was Nate and it popped into my head. I was it might his friends might call him Nate, but his name was Nathan Phillips So just for the record, uh my my my my brain fog uh lifted for just a moment and I and I remembered his name. Um we've got about a minute left. So I guess we're going to wrap up. Hopefully we can pull this panel together for for next week to continue these sorts of discussions. I think we're going to shift pretty pretty much further away from political stuff and get more and more into the cultural and worldview and and uh and applying some of these philosophies that we're being bombarded with, you know, applying a Christian perspective to some of these as we move forward. So if that sounds good to you guys. Thank you for for for joining us again. Imran Razvi is uh on the show and Daniel Razvi is on the show and David Forcy is on the show and Oh, I'm on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. And you're And you are also on the show, well, because you're listening. That's right. This is your show. This is a regulated free market show. Anyway, till next we find us online. Find me online. The easiest way to do that is household of faith in Christ. com You can find the show online also at wfmd. com till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. I say you know I know you want to discute. Do you have time to do one more or not? Um I'd rather not if we can, but if we can if we if we have to do those the ground. If we uh I mean we're gonna be meeting earlier than we normally do. Mm-hmm. So do can we determine when we want to do that? No. I mean if I guess just the next available Tuesday for all of us. I think that's very real quick. So we got four shows tonight, which gets us through the twelve. So it would The second Tuesday would be down to the wire there again. Yeah, the first Tuesday in December is the seventh Which would be the Tuesday right before the show we just did. And then the next okay I'll do that. That works and we can do all of December and maybe one or two in January. And we'll try not to be late so we can have more time. I'll try not to send any of my family out of town so we're gonna have to prove that. Yeah, last time I didn't show up because I was picking my wife off from the airport, remember? Oh, is that right? Okay. Yeah. Okay. This nice thing. Well then with all that said we're going to draw a close to the Facebook Live part of this. So if you've been following along at all, if you're watching this later, you can comment and uh I'll interact with the comments. Elements later on.