We're gonna start recording our fake-to-bate shows this evening that'll air. Starting in a couple of weeks and into the new year, so you can eavesdrop in, you can try to comment and we can get to those later. I doubt that we'll be able to interact with your comments as we're doing this. We get a little bit preoccupied doing the shows So do you want the door open still? It it it doesn't it doesn't matter. I think we're gonna be fine. I think everybody's pretty much gone from down here and it'll get a little stuffy in here. But if you want it closed, that's fine. If you worry about a sniper attack or something, I I've got I got Oh. I don't ever go anywhere without it. Oh it shouldn't be more shouldn't be more because it's just like it's a very thing. Welcome to the Faith Debate. Thank you for making us a part of your Sunday morning as you listen in on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of the Faith Debate these last 17 plus years. I'll sit for It's a pleasure having you guys meet us, uh uh this uh this is like our third month, fourth month uh doing the show and hopefully we'll be doing it for many, many months to come, uh, God willing. And if the Lord Jesus doesn't return in the meantime. So let's let's start with um Kind of a umbrella topic of you know COVID has provided uh an opportunity um for fascists uh to rule the day with tyranny. That's been a big issue in the news as we've had a as we've had a big change in political landscape. We've had a growth in the power of the political machine, the deep state, the, you know, whatever what have you. So let's talk about some of those kinds of issues. I'll throw a few out and we'll just have a a discussion about those until we run out of some steam and I'll throw out a few more and we'll spur each other on. So there's been a lot of talk in recent years about the open southern border. Uh, you know, we need to build a wall, don't build a wall. Uh the the the migration, the caravans of people coming, not just in this country, but in in uh in Europe as well. Uh there's said to be a migrant crisis. Some people are suspicious that it's a created migrant crisis. Are they seeking asylum or not? And when they get here, they're separated from their family, but are they really even family? All those sorts of issues uh universal basic income and would it apply to these migrant families that uh that enter the country uh legally or otherwise? As the government, meantime, is spending trillions and trillions of dollars, but none of it to secure the borders of the various nation-states that exist. um or to defend the interests of the current citizens perhaps that they have. So there's there's kind of a scatter shot shotgun blast and it aimed in a general direction. Any initial thoughts and or do you need to be very specific with a question to get us going? Uh I'll I'll just make a a comment, maybe. Um so I I think in general uh mankind has a tendency to think that We're in control of uh of something uh and I think that the people in power have a tendency to become really diluted and really think that they have some sort of control or you know, seek after gaining gaining power. Uh and I you know I I think that's that's a that's part of the human condition, you know, on uh you know and uh uh going unchecked. Um but I I think uh another maybe another comment I would say is that uh that uh that God never lets a a good crisis go to waste. So you're saying God says that Uh no, I'm I'm saying that that's uh no no no crisis, uh no true crisis, no No difficult, bad situation is uh i is something that God is not using. But you're not meaning by the the powers that they don't have any power to control Right, or the individuals don't have some sense of control in their in their lives, right. Just clarifying what your meaning to to say. Yeah. Uh I I think Uh I think we have a tendency to believe that we have a lot more control than we actually do. Um You know, and that and maybe this would uh that and maybe this bleeds over theologically into uh you know, the idea of uh free will that's uh a popular popular thing to to talk about in uh in Christian circles and even in in general I think when when people in the world are feeling uh So are you suggesting that this that this uh propensity to want to have more control than perhaps we think we do is what's driving some of those who have authority in government spheres? uh to say we're we want to have so much control we're going to control how much money people make by giving them a universal basic income. We're going to control the the cultural direction of pr of society by allowing certain people groups to uh quote unquote migrate or immigrate. Uh in Yeah, I mean isn't I mean isn't the purpose of any kind of policy to effect some sort of change or to reach some kind of objective? I would say yes. That's why they're spending trillions and trillions of dollars. You know. And you're suggesting they might not really be able to control the outcome all that well. Oh yeah. But for sure. But but given the the aims of what they're hoping to have as the outcome, what do we think about that Well I think that uh since their basic philosophy in on life and God is flawed, that they tend to try to do things for their own benefits and when you try to push in against the natural uh order what God has put in place, you're gonna have repercussions. Uh one of the biggest problems with the migrant uh crisis, I don't have any problem with people migrating to this country or to Europe or anything else. The problem I have is the freebies. Uh who wouldn't food and lodging and health care and everything for undefin uh indefinite uh amount of time without contributing to society That's well that's what's causing the problem. If there was a responsibility attached to that, if there were no freebies, I know when my uh parents came over, they were sponsored by my aunt and And th my aunt and my uncle were responsible for us. We couldn't just decide to go on the government to dole and and do that. But whenever uh the government starts doing that, there's always strings attached. So So the purpose of the government doing uh putting in place the the uh strategies that they have is to control the populace. The more migrants they have that are dependent Yeah, that's one of the things I've said over the years as well, echoing that is because one of the things that those who have concerns about uh you know the the we get accused of being xenophobic. You know anybody who's different than you coming here. Um and you know this whole country is all immigrants. Everybody here is immigrants. But they're missing the point that years ago when the i the waves of immigrants came and helped to build this country into what it became, there weren't there wasn't the social welfare safety net in place on the backs of all the people who are already here. So that's a big difference. And so the rules I think it's only fair the rules would change if all of a sudden you're asking everybody to pay for these newcomers. The other thing is the welfare state. Well yeah. Good luck though, right? Once you once you give somebody a cookie, man They just want more cookies. You can't eat just one. You know what I'm saying? So that's a real challenge. In addition to the echo you 'cause I agree with everything you just said, Imran, but one of the things I also uh have concerns about that bothers me is the the deception and dishonesty that seems to be going on. Because people who are seeking asylum, they're traveling thousands of miles through Mexico to get here when they're much closer to some other Central American countries where they could also seek asylum. but they're seeking to come here. So are they really fleeing from something horrible? And why if they if they just need political asylum, why don't they go somewhere closer and easier? Well that to me that's an easy answer. If I'm in an alley and I'm going to into the back of the restaurant there's a bathroom first. I'm not gonna stop in the bathroom, I'm gonna go to the front of the restaurant to eat. Why would I stop in a place that I'm not gonna find the the quality of life that I want. The reason I'm fleeing may be because of war or famine or other things, but if I'm gonna move move my family hundreds, thousands of miles, why not go all the way to the best possible scenario I can find and if that uh scenario is the US, I'm gonna go there. And that's not really a problem so long as you can contribute. You know, if there is a a graduated, hey we're gonna help everybody that comes here and we're gonna have to help you for eighteen months or two years and it's gonna gradually go down and if you commit any crime you're gonna be forcibly um removed immediately Th those are policies you can put in place and they can really make a big difference and there are people that can contribute to the society and the the whole purpose is I think everybody should have a chance. I don't have a problem with immigration. I have a problem with free stuff Because if a man won't work, he can't eat. Absolutely. Right? So what the Bible says. Yep. Well, uh but I'm not sure they're all families. See, a lot of the videos doesn't matter. I mean it's a lot of like twenty-eight-year-old men. Does it matter? If those twenty-eight-year-old men will work and contribute Pay their taxes. But it begs the question to me. They're being portrayed as their political uh you know, they're seeking political asylum and a better way of life, but they're not bringing their family. They're a bunch of you know, strong military age men who come in unvetted in across the the continent of Europe and into the continent of North America And we're supposed to just take that at face value, yeah, they're just coming in for where's their wife? Where's their mom? Where are their real kids? Troy. What if they're coming here to get some money to send back to the family because they can't afford to bring their family or the family can't survive the trip. I don't think that's a real problem so long as those people are followed and make sure that they are they are doing the right thing. If they're committing crimes, then they need to be punished severely And there should be consequences. But if I have a family in Africa someplace and they're they're under a lot of stress and I have two little babies and my wife is nursing. I may not be able to travel with all of my family over there and I'm only be twenty eight, twenty-nine. I might say, hey, just hang out with with grandma and grandpa for a little bit, I'm gonna go find some place, set up shop, get some money, get a job and then I'll bring you over or I'll I'll send money to bring you over. I don't think that's that's a dishonorable way to go, but a lot of people assume these people are criminals. I don't know if they are. But the if they're coming for the free stuff and they're not gonna actually work, they're just gonna go form gangs and and go and r uh uh rob and rape and and pillage, that's the problem. And that's really what's happening because they don't have any consequences Yeah, yeah, I don't know the which to be assuming that anybody's a criminal, but the you know the look is bad. You know, because it's not families of six, you know, it's it's single guys kind of of thing. It's just like and then there's all this the talk about it being funded by guys like George Soros and stuff, bringing people from other parts of the world into Mexico so they can cross the southern border. And there's always there's always people that are gonna stir up violence and stir up the um uh division and that's that's kind of the plan. It's in the Communist Manifesto, it's in it's in the the um you know, New World Order plans and and and all of that is that in order to control again back to what you're saying, control the population, you need them you need everyone to be on a different team from each other. other. As soon as you have people that are united by a common belief or goal, then that is a threat to the powers of bees. It's a threat to the government. And And so the government, a a communist or totalitarian, or fascist government cannot allow people to band together in a common belief. That's why the all the intersectionality uh stuff is really popular now. same religion and we're the same height and oh but you know uh you like football and I like soccer. Oh well we have to hate each other now. It it's it it's getting to that point where you can't have something that unites ever somebody f uh unite different people from a common belief and that's really the goal but uh so putting our pastoral hats on for now. Sounds a lot like Babel. Right, so we're uh um right, where where God confuses uh the languages, you know, so that there are now divisions among mankind mankind so that they can't all unite around themselves essentially and you know and worship the works of their hands rather than give glory to God, which is what what they were doing At uh at battle. And so um Yeah, but You know, what what uh I I yeah, just I mean this sort of this idea of dividing people up, you know, getting people on um separating people but in order to maintain um You know, ma maintain some sort of uh to to keep everyone off balance essentially. Right. Is maybe the the idea. Which is is something that God did, you know, for for his purposes, for his good purposes. But I think the devil often tries to copy what God did. Uh-huh. Exactly. And and you know Corrupted. Yeah. You brought one of those terms up. I know talking about that idea. And I do think that's a method uh to the madness here, if if they can tear down the institutional structures and the and the cohesiveness within societal culture, uh, then everybody's like, Holy cow, everything's a mess. We need some sort of centralized authority to fix this all. Exactly. Who do you mean by they? Um the big financiers of the of the uh Build Back Better movement, the the Great Reset, the World Economic Forum people, Clara uh uh Schwab and then the and the money backers, George Soros and the big tech people as well. You got Bill Gates and and all the you know, all these people all the financiers and the the um the banking people in Europe and in this country. for example, that they're aiming at, they haven't for a while now, and they're really going for broke, it seems like, lately, to try to uh establish a uh global government. A European Union for the whole globe, if you will, kind of thing. And um and that's why there was such a such a bucking against what was going on with uh Britain with the Brexit. Like that was no no, we can't that's going completely in the wrong direction. We we want to have that's bad for business. So well we know I mean well, I guess it depends on your eschatology, but I know and believe to be true that that has to happen at the end is there has to be a global government that is totalitarian, it is um you the whole world united in evil against Christianity and again against uh true believers. And Now we've only got a few minutes left really in this episode, but I do want to uh pivot from the you know the political and social commentary into biblical applications here. What how Christians should be thinking about universal basic income, should be thinking about governments being in like just oodles and oodles of debt and if that sh is is that a concern or not. Um you know uh should we talk about the sovereignty of borders I think last week or the week before So we might not need to talk too much about the importance of individual nations, but if we have something we want to add to that. Well, I mean, um my dad brought up if you know, you not work, you should not eat. So that's c kind of variance or two universal basic income I I think is you shouldn't just get money because you know people that need help the church should help help them and part of the reason the government is trying to help is because you know they believe or claim that the church and the charities are not doing enough. And, you know, maybe the churches and tyrannies are not doing enough because they figure the government's taking care of it. So it's kind of uh a circular reasoning and Maybe we need to get back away from that because I think individual charities we we were talking about the Salvation Army and how they vet different people for um the the toys for the the children we were talking about the before we went on air. And I think individual charities are better equipped to determine who really needs help than the government who just hands money out to everybody willy-nilly. I I think one of the things that Christians should think about is what does God say the responsibilities of the individual are um and to whom do they have responsibilities and you know how much does God say about actual you know what what are actually the government's responsibilities God ordained. You know, what has God said are the uh the rights of of government versus what does he call And they are few. The rights of God are few. Biblically speaking, there's Yeah. Just just a small handful. So the whole social welfare state is not something that the government biblically would be advocating for for as a example, right? Right. Biblically we weren't even supposed to advocate. It was supposed to be just God. And uh rely on God and not government or not man to rule over man. And that was uh for the heathen nations but uh Israel wanted it. And so God said, Well, then you'll get it and you'll get all the all the worst things of it too. Connecting back to the Tower of Babel uh idea, you know, they were trying to build uh their tower to heaven, you know, and make a name for themselves kind of idea and see they're putting all their energy, all their resources into that. And that is very similar to what's happening now I mean we've got governments all across the world, but we'll talk about the one we live in, the United States of America is now trillions and trillions of debt uh of dollars in debt. And and if you include the unfunded liabilities, I mean it's over a hundred trillion dollars. uh in in debt. But we're not gonna spend our way to heaven. The I there's this false idea that there's utopia out there. If we can only just get it right, if we can just throw enough money at it, if we can just demonstrate enough willpower and control We can have heaven on earth. And it's never going to happen, no matter how much money we throw at it, because you don't have enough money to buy it. Which is interesting 'cause it ties right into the gospel message. The th the the cost of heaven is immense. You think trillions of dollars is a lot of money, trillions of dollars is nothing The cost of heaven is immense. It costs God his son. Right? Condescending to become a man and then to live a perfect life only to be mocked and ridiculed for, beaten to within an inch of his life, and then hung on a cross to die. But then he of course he raises from the dead, proving that everything he said about himself was true. And now he rules, uh, awaiting his second coming. However you think that's going to play out in your eschatological view. Uh Daniel is hinting at you know, his escatol uh eschatological view, but all Bible believers understand Christ is returning. And when he does, all of his people who are his people will be with him in that utopia in that heaven because it was paid for by him, not with trillions of dollars, but with his own precious blood. And so if you don't understand the truth of that and haven't applied that to your own life, then you haven't heard the gospel before. And so hopefully now you've heard it for the first time And if you'd like to learn more about it, reach out to the show, any one of the four of us would would love to interact with you and and flesh that out. If you have angry questions, we're good with those too. If you have lots of doubts, you've never been able to get those fully figured out. We're glad to help you try to work through those as well. Uh go go to the uh Household of Faith in Christ website at the easiest way to come connect because my my cell phone number email, all the different ways that you can reach with reach to me. And then if you want to talk to one of the other guys, you just say, hey Troy, I was hoping to talk with Imran. Can you hook me up? And then I'll uh I'll talk with Imron. We'll figure out how to get you guys hooked up in that in that example So anyway, so that's uh that's what we got for this week. We're gonna pick up with more of this next week. I know it's not exactly advent season kind of stuff, is it? But That's true, the second advent. That's right. So anyway, so um I always get this wrong. The Rasvies founded an um a paramin a parachurch ministry a number of years ago, Conquered by Love Ministries, and it's conqueredbylove. org. That's right. So if you want to visit their website, it's conqueredbylove. org. Uh David doesn't have a website yet. We'll we'll get him up on the So up to speed on that pretty soon. David Forcy, Daniel Razvy, Imran Razvy, I'm Froy Skinner, URU. Thanks so much for listening. We'll be back at this about 167 and a half hours from right about now. Till then, God bless. Actually this uh This is uh more a single line, so I just don't particularly like the sound of electric guitar, but that's more of a personal thing. There'sn't there's not a lot of things. It is a single line. It's not following a uh Yeah. Yeah, it's more of a cadenza. So I don't I don't view I don't view this particularly bad. It's just I don't I don't Really? Oh I love electric guitar. A lot of songs, my favorite part of the song is the guitar solo. That plant right there was five leaves like a marijuana plant Oh. Maybe it is. I don't know. Let's find out. Well Facebook Live, so we're getting somebody in trouble if it is. Uh well, it's called the Money Tree. Makes one wonder. I I don't think I don't think uh it's a cash drop Yeah, I have I have no idea what a marijuana plant looks like. Yeah, I don't know. I really wouldn't go on one if I saw one either, to be honest. I don't know So the next one is actually going to air on the twenty-sixth the day after Christmas. So we can wish people a Merry Merry Christmas. Yep. So actually a bunch of pe a bunch of people mistake the two pretty commonly. According to Google, many people mistake the money tree for That's funny. Well they always have the diagrams. I don't think I've ever seen a live plant. No, but the diagrams. But the diagrams look just like that. Yep. Five to seven, apparently they can vary. With the plans? Always an odd number though. Well that has six six five is seven. Oh okay. Not not five or seven. Some of them have five. Yeah, some of them have five. This is really theological stuff right here. What is that? That's true. Moderation. I'm actually for the nation of the thing. Even your your urb inspects. Welcome to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. Thank you so much for making us part of your Sunday morning. Hopefully each and every week at 9 o'clock. I think we're also on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. So if you go to 99. 9 HD1, you find the country station. This is not country music. But um so that's how you know you're not listening to the country station right now. You guys can't hear it. They can't see you dancing there in in the seat on the side. Oh they missed it. That was worth the cost of admission right there, wasn't it? Anyway, I got the cover charge from you when you came in, didn't I? I'll get you on the way out. So anyway, I'm talking to Imron Razby, Daniel Razby, and David Forcy, those three along with me, Troy Skinner, are all house church pastors, believe it or not. You can connect with us a variety of ways. The easiest thing to do though might be go to householdfaithinchrist. com. That's my church's website, and I can help you connect with the other guys if that's what you're trying to do. And of course if you're trying to connect with me directly personally, then that's a good way to do it too. Household of FaithInChrist. com. Of course you can follow the show on the radio station's website as well. I think they still have one of those, WFMD. com We can we can plug the radio station too, I guess that's okay. So um ho ho ho Bah, humbug and all that good stuff. Uh somebody want to uh put the non-frosty the snowman Rudolph the Red Nosed reindeer spin on uh what's happening this weekend? Well I wish you a Merry Christmas and celebrate the birth of our Lord Jesus Christ so that uh you know there is hope. That's really what this season is about. It's about hope. and that every one of you, every one of us, has that hope in Christ and He came for each one of us to save us. So if you're at all hurting, desperate, depressed, you know there's hope. And if If you want to find out more, contact Troy Skinner at his home church and uh find out where the hope is and how you can take part of that. Amen. Yeah. I don't know if I don't think either of you should add anything 'cause you'll just ruin what he just said, probably. Very well said, so Let's jump right back into the nastiness that's got everybody depressed and concerned and feeling there's no hope. We were talking about it last week. We'll pick up this week Uh and the the general theme of last week's show had to do with the powers that be, the they, right? The they that are trying to control everything. And uh as David Forcy rightly pointed out, they don't have anywhere near as much control control as they think they have. But they do have some control because they're making a lot of people's lives miserable right now. So they don't have ultimate control, but they are wielding some um proximate control uh at that the at the very least it would seem uh to me. And if you want to get into the uh the really deeper aspects of this, the conspiracy theory particular virus which shall for now go unnamed just because we want to you know not get caught up in the algorithm swamp until we actually absolutely have to Um but also the election from last year, the November election, highly controversial, uh still to this day. And and um I mentioned this a few weeks ago how I'm completely uh I I was persuaded as it was happening that something funny was going on 'cause I was watching it happen in real time. I was like, wait a minute, that doesn't make any sense. And then sure enough come to find out that all the things I was wondering about there's You know, there there are people who are testifying to it and there's video evidence and there's all sorts of data stuff. I don't want to talk about that so much because we did at least brush over it slightly a few weeks ago I think. But I do want to talk about what happened a couple of months later on January sixth in uh Washington DC there was a I don't know what they called it. It was an election integrity rally. It might some people might have positioned it as a stop the steal rally. I can't remember what the official name If he'd even had one, maybe it was just a variety of groups who got down there. And it was at least hundreds of thousands of people were there. Some are suggesting it might have been a million or more, two million. I I don't know. And a few of them walked through an open door into the people's building. Yeah, so I I do want to talk a little bit about that in the context of this thing that I never really thought about. before, but this it but it's become invogue to use the term psyop. Right? Some sort of a psychological warfare, psychological operation with a false flag, a false flag operation So in fact there was just one um the first weekend in December where the what they call it the the Patriot Front or something like that, uh some bunch a couple hundred guys maybe while wearing khakis and blue tops and and white masks over their face, uh went marching through DC and a lot of people are saying that those aren't actual patriots, that they're not protesting the government, that they're a bunch of FBI agents in Halloween costumes idea. How do we know? How do we figure out and how does a Christian try to have discernment With something like I mean even Ashley Babbitt that's the woman who was shot and killed on January sixth as she was trying to climb through the window Exactly, allegedly. Exactly. I mean you see the video looks like she was shot and killed, but other people oh she that's a psyop, that's a false flag. She was in on it. She wasn't actually killed. They were trying to stir people up and get there to be a larger ro How do we know? How does a Christian figure out how to exercise discernment figure this stuff out? I think a lot of it has to do th with f finding and staying with your priorities. priorities. What are our priorities as a believer? There's plenty of things that we can wonder about and and have questions about, but in the end do they really matter? What does matter is the gospel. Keep preaching the gospel. and do our best to understand who's uh you know uh uh who's on the Lord's side and fellowship with other believers, but uh there are there's a lot of things that are on the fringe that really are hard to It's hard to discern and and maybe not possible to really know for sure. But are they are they all extremely important? I I don't think they they should have as much importance as people assign to them them sometimes. I I would I would say they're not ultimate. Right. But they're important. We want to know if we can trust our government. Well we already no, we already know we can't. Right. For the last two hundred years we knew we can't. So does that mean that we should just kind of have our default position be everything the government says is ninety nine point nine nine nine percent chance it's not true? Is should that be the default position? Is that a healthy position for us? So everything that they do is is a problem. That's why the County Fathers put so many checks and balances to prevent the government from doing things. Changes all that, turns it on its head. Seriously, and that my concern is I don't want us The four of us in the room, but I don't want us as believers to fall prey to something that has really is a tsunami through the culture, through society, and that's this postmodern idea that Sometimes postmodernism is defined as there is no truth. And sometimes it gets lived out as, well, you have your truth, I have my truth But I think as I've I think it's gotten to be a little more nuanced uh of over time. And now I think that most of the postmoderns, what they're arguing is there may or may not be truth, but we can't know it for sure That's the postmodern mindset. We can't really know the truth for sure. Well Okay. With regards to our government, we've just said maybe that's the case. With regards to our media, maybe that's the case. With regards to what's coming out of my mouth right now, maybe that's the case. How would anybody know? Well, I mean I think One thing to that we sort of have to make uh come to grips with, be at at peace with, is that there There is only so much that there is only so much that we can know. You know, I'm I'm not saying that, you know, that we can't know anything. I'm saying We can know a lot of things, but in the large scheme of all that there is to know, there's very few things that we can actually know. Um what we we live in an interesting informational age And I think that makes us feel like you know maybe we should know a lot more and should have a lot better grasp on all the ins and outs of all the things, all the happenings, you know, all the all the doings of all the powers. uh that be but um I I think one of the things that uh I I I feel like we we're becoming more and more uh I I don't know, like a nation of of busybodies. You know, like of uh of uh of of rumor mongers and and gossips. I mean that's You know, i if we are trying to go beyond our actual knowledge, what we can actually know and actually do something useful with a piece of information, then you know, I anyway, I I think I think that connects into how Christians should should think about, you know, the all the things out there that people have different stories about. I think it comes down to where does your hope lie? Where does your faith lie? God is not any respecter of man or king or k or kingdom or or government. Um Look at Pharaoh. He thought he was in control. But God hardened his heart for his purposes, for his glory. Look at uh an any number, look what was that king that was uh uh seven years in the fields eating grass. He was in charge of the whole world. And that was a conversation. In charge of the whole world at that point. And God was no respecter of man and his power. Same thing now. Look at uh Judas Iscariot. You know, he thought he was doing something But it was in God's plan. All this is God's plan. So those of you that are worried and not knowing what's going to happen and how scary things are and how the government's lying or the sources lying, it doesn't really matter If your hope lies in God, then you study his word and you put build your faith on him. And the amazing thing is the more you study his word, the more hungry you become for his word. And the more grounded you become, and the less fearful you are, and then these things don't really matter. I I I don't know that um we're we're given too many good things to do. Like God has tasked us with plenty to keep us busy without Um worrying about all of the things that there are to worry about. Um, you know, working so that we can meet our own needs and have something to give to others Um you know, caring for our families, loving our neighbors. Um yeah. No, I I think David m uh mentioned something in passing which you can dive a little deeper and and and focus on where you know we live in the information overload. We see a lot of evidence lately that things that certain people say are not true. And it's very easy to find evidence contradicting any viewpoint you want. You even on Google and and people argue Google's bias, you can still find opposing views on pretty much every subject just by using In Google search, right? That's something that wasn't really possible. Ten, fifteen, twenty, fifty, a hundred years ago, there was much less readily available information. And so I don't know that it's necessarily true that things are more li misleading and or government is less trustworthy now than they were in the past. It's more that it's easier to find evidence that that is the case now than it was in the past. It's easier to manipulate data and and um and news than it was in the past because It was easier to be visible now, I think. Now, at the same time, there's been more and more of falling away from Christ, especially in this country and less moral people in general in our citizenry I think that has an impact as well because those people are the government. They are the majority corporations. They are the uh the mom and pop stores, they're made up of people that live in this country and if less of us are saved now than were before, that is going to have an impact on the uh amount of lies that are told by everybody. I think as as uh as a matter of scale, uh things have changed. change. And so you're I mean, absolutely, there's there's been uh deception and lying from the government for as long as there's been human government. Uh so it's not like that's a new thing. And you're right that we can go and we can find more of it because of the technology that it exists. So that's all true, but also it can happen at a larger scale and it can happen faster now because of that same technology I I find it hard to imagine how how easily it would be to orchestrate um If the suspicions of the people like Mike Lindell are true, Mike Lindell, who uh would appear to be a Christian brother, by the way, has spent a lot of money and has lost a lot of his personal fortune because of boycotts against his My Pillow products. as he's advanced uh his investigation into the election results of November 2020. It's hard to imagine what happened in 2020 happening in 1920 if what Mike Lindell and those who agree with him are alleging when we're talking about the switching or the addition of potentially tens of millions of votes. The technology is has allowed that to happen. the same technology allowing to dig and compare different points of view is the same technology that's allowing for all these bad things maybe to happen on a scale that's up until now not been possible. And so a guy like Mike Lindell He's, I think he would argue, I'm trying to put myself in his shoes, he's a Christian. I think he's motivated by righteous ideals. honoring God and he might argue that the way to love our neighbors in this country is to ensure that we have free and fair elections moving forward. And if we didn't just have one, we need to call that out, have it be identified. Those who are guilty, uh be you know, pulled into court uh to deal with it, uh and to put measures in place to make sure it doesn't happen again. That's all good stuff, right? He's not merely providing for his needs and his family needs, but he is Providing for the larger year. In his mind anyway. Yeah. you know, uh that different different people will have different different uh types of work to do. And And uh you know, and the the more you know, God gives some people more more wealth and more influence, more resources, you know, a a larger voice. And so uh Um you know, and so so with that comes a responsibility to love well all those who, you know, are within the sound of their voice and all those who they are able to um um you know, help whether it's you know, by bringing the truth to light. So that does that make sense? Yeah, kind of either know your lane or find your n lane and then stay in your lane and not be distracted. I guess I see a lot of people worried about things. that are that are that are that that are bigger than they are that they won't be able to do anything about. I mean I mean we can you know w we can also go on the internet and and find, you know, all of the disasters and horrible things that have happened all over the world, you know, in the last you know, few months that have, you know, brought devastation to groups of people and families and, you know, nations and things. You know, does it does it help us to continually stay abreast of that? Like are we able to do something with that information? Or or do we just become numb to you know, to to the horrible state that so many people live in around the world. Yeah, we end up living voyeuristic virtual lives. Exactly. And and I think that ties in I I think that's something we need to check in ourselves Because that is that's the busybody aspect that you know, that God says is is is wicked, is evil And the the personal responsibility part is something that's not hammered home nearly as well as it could be, in my opinion. So um I I'm agreeing with your heart on that. So many people I know are railing against, you know, the school system is doing a horrible job and they're indoctrinating my children and they're not even keeping them safe. You know, there's a story this month with uh Frederick County Public Schools getting in trouble for uh abusing special needs children, you know, uh you know, basically locking them in closets and that kind of thing, you know, I mean it's uh uh horrible stuff. And yeah, that should be fixed and changed and addressed, but if you've got a child in the school system start with what you can most directly affect, which is get your kids out of the public school system. Continue to affect change for all the other families who maybe are still, you know, have their kids in that system. But get your kids out of the burning building. Well you then call the fire department to try to put the fire out. Yeah, that that cannot be emphasized enough. You know, those this there's so many parents that are very angry supp Supposedly, apparently, with the things that are going on in the schools and and they're the what they're doing about it is waiting until next quarter's board meeting meeting and show up and speak for two minutes. Well that means your kid is in that school for ninety more days until that happens. You pull him out of school. If if you're concerned they're being You know I just don't know that the parents, most of them really have come to terms with how dangerous intellectually, emotionally, developmentally that the situation is. I think also it doesn't occur to people that That's an option. Many people do not consider that homeschooling is even an option. Maybe we should have a uh a couple of uh talks about how that works, but You know, people have this imagination that you must be a college professor level of an educator to be able to and and and the stay at home uh a uh person uh parent at the same time to be able to adequately teach your child, which is just not the case. Right. Yeah. Yeah, we will maybe yeah, maybe we will devote uh a show or two specifically to those kinda we have touched on that in the past a little bit here and there. We peppered it in. Uh and sometimes your skill set, I mean we we picked a really simple one. You have kids in school and you're upset about how the school are handling things, get them out But if you happen to have the connections and the wherewithal and the in the uh you know the resume, you know when um Facebook and Instagram and and uh Twitter and all those things were censoring so with their quote unquote fact checkers. Andrew Turba, I don't know if that name means anything thing to you guys, but he decided I'm going to do something about that and he founded his own platform called Gab. Now he has put his platform up as a it's a free speech platform and um almost nothing will get taken down off of Gab is my understanding. It has to be a really overtly like threatened against somebody's life or something like that for it to get taken down. Otherwise it's pretty much anything goes, so it's a little bit of the wild, wild west. Which is of course what's attractive about it, right? Hey, anything goes, it's free speech. But then a lot of people who are bashing Jewish people or or uh advocating for white supremacy or things like that. They they they end up having a voice in Gab. And so Andrew Torba ends up getting uh accused of being an anti Semitic and a white supremacist Premicist and I d I don't know how true any of that is. Apparently he's he's recently converted to Christianity within the last few years, so Hopefully he's not anti-Semitic. But that but the point of me bringing that up though is there's a guy who obviously knew something about that, had some connections. that he was able to, you know, wield and become the contractor on his new business venture. And he's put up a very competitive product that has a lot of people jumping on. It's still Not as big as Twitter and Facebook, but it's growing and growing. Maybe so what are you good at? You know, w what what's your sphere of influence? You know, what's your talent level? What's your education prepared you to do? And then figure out how to do that And go about doing that work and not worry about what uh what the the mayor of a small city in Indonesia decided to do last week, right? Yeah. Um we've got uh let me see here, we've got like one and a half minutes. So we started off with a ho ho ho and and all that stuff. sort of stuff. Do we want to put a bow on it and uh kind of a a holiday, seasons, greetings, Christmas message? Johnny Walrus. Johnny the Walrus book. I I like to plug the Johnny the Walrus book. It's a great book. It really does address the LGBTQ movement and it's the number one selling book for children in LGBTQ, so if you get a chance Check it out. Is that a Christmas book? You can use it as a Christmas gift like any of it. It could be a Christmas gift. Or well if Eastern Orthodox, you haven't celebrated Christmas yet. So it's by Matt Walsh and uh you know, if you can't argue with them, then join them and uh become a best selling uh author in their own uh platform. Yeah, there you go. I mean we've got you know just a few seconds. What we're doing right now is an example With what we're talking about. You know, we could be keyboard warriors and blast out on social media, and sometimes we do that maybe. But also we've got an opportunity to do a half-hour show on WFMD and turn it into a podcast and do Facebook Live with it and all that sort of stuff. So that's something we're able to do. What can we personally do to try to make a difference, to try to share the truth and that sort of thing? So this this is one of our things, being the pastors of house churches. You know, what can we do? The church has lost its freaking mind. What are we going to do about it? I know. We'll do our own thing and know that it's going to be biblical because, you know Uh we haven't lost our mind, like the LGBTQ pastors that are out there, right? So um all right, well that's gonna be the last word. I get the last word this week. I love it. with that. Um oh I for what the heck? We we're going out with no music? Oh I hate when that happened. I hate when that happened. I don't know what happened. I thought I timed it out right. I must have mistimed it. So Just imagine jingle bells or uh Batman Smells, Robin Laid an Egg, or something like that going on in the background as as we say. Merry Christmas. Till next week, Douglass. You had to say you don't like the music, huh? I I'm the one who brought it up. I'll I'll take response. I wouldn't I wouldn't have said it otherwise. He actually asked if I thought it was healthy music based on our heads. Right right Yeah, that that giant devolvers book is actually pretty good. Uh this it's about a kid who um pretends to be a lot of things like kids do and he pretends to be a walrus, so he stuck sticks some uh spoo uh wooden spoons in his mouth and walks around, you know, pretending to be a walrus and his mom reads on her phone that that that you know it what the kids say they are, that's what they are. So she takes him to the zoo, make him live with the walruses, she takes him to the doctor, wants to cut his feet up into webbed feet to m like a walrus, and finally they figure out oh actually He's n he's really just a boy, he's just pretending. Um it's a board book. It's a board book. It's it's meant for little kids. Um which is I mean we have to we have to start having those conversations because otherwise the world's gonna have them with them. That's just world they're growing up in. But it quickly became not only the number one selling children's book on Amazon, but the number one selling LGBT book on Amazon. So so Matt Walsh, the the writer of this book, obviously very conservative guy, he says uh well you may have already heard of this Yeah. Anybody who criticizes it uh he criticizes the book or me is now homophobic officially. It is a trip. I actually bought it though. I I Oh you have a copy. Yeah I do. Nice. It's awesome. It's um You got it before they sold out. Actually th after they sold out on Amazon I just went and bought it from the Daily Wire directly And they said it was shipped in early next year, but it shipped the next day. So Yeah, it's it's it is definitely a little bit mature for babies, so having it as a board book is a little bit goofy, I think, but it it is something to share with kids though I I'm sure that was part of that. This is gonna be the first show of the new year. Yep. How exciting is that. There's a video on YouTube of him reading it to a bunch of kids. Like six year olds, seven year olds. Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, also at WFMD. com and on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. And um you can listen to us as a live stream on WFMD. com and you can also go to the Faith Debate page there and and get a description description of of shows that are coming up or see the podcast and shows that have come as happened recently. We have a tendency to do shows in what I call arcs. So we'll cover similar themes over a series of two, three, four, five, sometimes ten, fifteen shows in a row. And uh if you joined in the middle of that, sometimes it's interesting to go back and do a binge and just listen to a whole bunch in a row because they are kind of one threaded together episode that's broken out into pieces here. So Who am I doing the show with? Well, if you've been listening the last six months or so, you've begun grown to know these voices and these names. We've got Daniel Razby with his proud papa Imran Razi, his friends call him Raz. And uh I wonder if it's because they like the Raz you a lot. I don't know. And then uh David Forcy, all four all four of us are pastors of house churches. Mine is called the Household of Faith and House let me say this slower so you can uh type it. Household of faith in Christ, and we're online at household of faith in Christ dot com. If you go there you'll find all my contact information and I can help you get in contact with the the uh other three gentlemen uh on the panel every week as well. So uh how is that uh how is that URL uh available Household of faith in Christ? Yeah. I have no idea. Apparently there aren't enough Christians in America who wanted a lesson. Like like when you go to the DMB, you know, and you or the MBA sorry, I grew up in Virginia. And uh you know y you want a particular license plate, you figure out a bunch of different ways to spell it, right? 'Cause somebody else had to add you come up with a list of church names that you're going to do. So when I when I decided that you know I was going to move in the house church direction and and And uh Open4 is a long story, but it it kind of happened, it almost kind of fell together. I was pastoring another church, and then when COVID happened, that church fell apart. get into the details of that now, maybe someday, but right now I don't need the details. And so we were already doing church stuff with a couple of people in my house and then also doing stuff with with the uh stream for other people who uh um wouldn't join us in our house. And when the the church just disappeared, it was like, well, we're already doing it and we already had the stream set up, so well we're gonna just keep doing this for a while because We had way more people watching the stream initially than we had in the church. It was a small s you know startup church, um very small number of people in it, and we had like a hundred and fifty people watching our live stream Because all the churches back then and the spring of twenty twenty had shut down to I guess there was a b more of a need for it or something. And so we had a lot of people watching the stream and I was like, Well, I'm not gonna just pull the plug on those hundred plus people. So we're going to keep doing this. And so over the course of a couple of months we decided that, you know, maybe we'll just keep doing this and we'll actually do house church. I had been thinking about it for years anyway. And I wanted to have a name. I don't know why. You guys never thought it was all that important to have a name. You're just, you know, the church that meets at Imran's house or the church that meets at David's house or you know, whatever. But I I don't know from in in my mind I felt like it needed a name. But I wanted it to have something that felt like a biblical name. And the the body of Christ is referred to as the household of faith in Galatians, and so I thought we're gonna call it the household of faith. But that uh in today's context, faith in what? That's important. Right? Because it could be faith in faith. It could be faith in anything. It could be a Buddhist temple or something. It could be anything. No, I'm going to make it very clear. This is a Christian church, household of faith in Christ. Now there are some churches apparently or at least one church that has householdoffaith. com. Uh huh. So that wouldn't have been available to us But I didn't want that one. I wanted household debate input, which is more letters and it's harder to say and remember right now. Yeah. Probably I get it. It can be a mouthful to say you know, think how many how many uh uh syllables is that? Household of faith in Christ six dot com, eight syllables I don't know, it's not as good as David. com would be or you know Raz. com would be. Ooh, that one might be available. You should look up Raz. I'm sure I'm sure that one's pretty close. That'd be a fun one Anyway, so that's how the whole thing came together. And then when I decided we're gonna do a website, I was like, you know, I want this to I'm a big believer. We were talking about this last week about personal responsibility and and what you can do personally And I feel like anything that you do, you know, personally or otherwise, anything that you personally do, you should be trying to do it with excellence. So I didn't want to just put a single page site up or just slap something up. I've actually, you know, using WordPress have built a website myself before But it's it's okay. You know, it was a great learning experience. Well I did, I was like, I want to see if I can figure out how to do this and learn how to do it. And so I did and it it's functional. It's the decor decorating date night. com website. But I wanted something way better than that, if it's going to be representing Christ's church, you know, some expression of Christ's church. So hired a company and worked with them to put together what is a pretty professional looking website. It's it's It could give the impression that the church is much larger and that it's not even a house church. So the language on the side is very clear. We are a house church. Our intention is to always be a house church, because a lot of people they find out you're meeting in your house and say, oh, you're planting a church. Well, yes, but I'm planting a house church. It's never going to outgrow our space. As it does, we're going to hopefully subdivide and and establish additional house churches. That's our growth plan. So we're not you know, three years from now we won't be renting a uh cafeteria in a local school or something like that. That's not part of our You won't be allowed to three years from the U. S. Oh, that could be, yeah. So anyway, I don't even know how you asked me a question and got me off on that tangent. I don't even know where that's like. Oh yeah, happ uh Happy New Year. Yeah, nobody thought we'd make it to 2022. Here we are. Although we're recording this in advance, so maybe we don't make it. Maybe this one's being lost to the ether somewhere. I don't know. Anyway, so we've been talking about some uh some of the big issues that have dominated our lives the last few years and put putting kind of the the faith debate stamp uh on it. There have been a lot of changes. in in recent times. I mean big sea change kinds of changes. I mean somebody that was in place for a long time. I mean somebody who's your age, Daniel actually, somebody who's my daughter's age and her husband's age and stuff Up until recently, you uh basically, well, you're you matured early and you were deep into studies. Like he graduated with a doctorate when he was four for something like that. It was close something I'm I'm slightly exaggerating, maybe he was eight. Something like that. Uh so he might be the exception. But the typical person, the young person, they can't remember a world until recently when Benjamin Netanyahu wasn't the leader of Israel. And all of a sudden, he's not the leader of Israel. People couldn't imagine a time. Even me. There was never a time when Alice Trebek wasn't on TV hosting Jeopardy. And now he's not. There was never a time when Larry King wasn't some sort of television icon. And now he's not. Those are cultural things. But those are kind the kinds of things that knit the society together. That's one of the things that we've lost with uh all the streaming platforms and stuff now and the proprietary uh proprietary uh uh products that they put out there for us to watch When we were younger, you'd go to school or you'd hang out with your friends the next day, and you would talk about what was on TV the night before, and everybody watched it. The bet when there were three channels? Yeah, yeah. Or or you know, even even when there were more than three channels, like even in the nineties, you know, must see TV really was. Like, you know, you I mean people fell out of the loop and they couldn't They had a hard time navigating social uh situations if you couldn't reference Seinfeld, if you couldn't reference Friends, if you didn't know what was going on with Fraser, like if you couldn't do those things you were kind of out of the loop. That's no longer the case. And there's no however many seasons there are. And that's but and that's a that's a loss I think that's a cultural loss. People aren't going into the workplace and they say, oh, did you see the fill-in-the-blank TV show last night Nobody's doing that because that's not how we consume the media anymore. And I think it's a loss. So there's been these these big changes. One of the big changes when I was growing up, when Im Rahmen you were growing up, I'm not so sure about the other two young whippersnap But when I was growing up, um the Soviet Union was like the big bad evil empire. Well, now it's China And that's a change. That's a big change. That China's their enemy rather than you know Russia, even though the Russia, Russia, Russia collusion hoax uh they they tried to do something Somebody who's been an icon on the left at the Supreme Court level, Ruth Bader-Ginsburg. She died just last year Well, yeah. Now that it's twenty twenty two. She died a year and a half ago. So two calendar years ago I guess she died. Um and actually let's talk about that. Let's use that to pivot into something that you guys can contribute about it. just reminiscing. Um during the Trump presidency, uh Gorsuch, Kavanaugh, and Coney Barrett were added to the bench with much fanfare and celebration. premature in my opinion as as it's turned out because they made a lot of decisions that uh didn't go the way we would have expected them to go. Uh so this might just give you a chance to bang your same drum, uh David about what we can't control why are we going to worry about these things. So how much weight should we place on the court system. Uh as we're battling let me put it this way. Let's change the nature of the question. Christians are should be all about what's right and good and true. So we should be defenders and advocates for righteousness. And justice. And justice. What's the right way, best way, biblical way for us to pursue that in our lives and in our families' lives and in our communities' lives? Hm. That was a thought proposal. I mean the impetus for that question is I don't know that we can trust our court systems all that much. So where do we turn? That's kind of the concern. Yeah. Well I think there's within the church there are tools that the church can use for justice and righteousness that I think are are often not utilized as well as they could be. For example, types of church discipline. And you know just look at Matthew eighteen, it explains how to resolve disputes. There's a very specific method. You go to your brother that you have a problem with and you talk to him and if he doesn't hear you then you go take somebody else with you and talk to him and if they he doesn't hear you then you go take it to the the the uh elders and you take it to the church and so there there are there's processes and those are not secular processes, they're religious processes, but they're they're commanded by God of what we need to do when we have disputes with other believers. Now unfortunately when it's not with another believer who's not under of the dir uh uh uh with it somebody who's not under the jurisdiction of the church, then we do follow to the legal system and whether it's it's just or I mean Jesus talked about the woman who went to the unjust judge and just kept being persistent and eventually even the corrupt judge had to give in to her. So that's I think But we are still in this world and it's a fallen and corrupt world but we And and so yeah, I mean so whatever uh you know, system of government uh people find themselves in, right, they can still be faithful. believers. Um and yeah, I I I guess, you know, first and foremost for for believers I think the important thing is to um to just r remember that you know, that there is a standard of what is what is good and true and right, which is you know, which God communicates to us through through his word. And so I I think that's why there there is so much wrestling in society is because so many people have are coming from a different idea of what is good. you know, what is true, what is what is just. Um you know, and uh yeah, I I think I think, you know, here we can again just be be reminded of of the gospel that uh you know the God's standard of what is good and and true and and right we we don't live up to, you know, what uh and you know because of our sin. Um You know, and so so Christ is that example. Um He he's the only one who has lived up to uh you know what God says is is a good a good right perfect life um and that's that's why he is our only hope and you know our our only our only way of salvation is uh So David, you were talking about what is good and what is right. The problem today society is they don't know what is good and what is right. They have left the gospel, they have left the absolute truth, and now whatever feels right is right, and that's what's causing a lot of the angst in society. That's what's causing a lot of um transsexual people a few years ago, but now it's right, now it's demanded and if you and not only that it it silences violence. So y not even if you don't oppose it but but you don't verbally uh agree with it, then you're being violent. So those things are being forced upon society because there is no absolute truth according to society. Yeah, there's there's not a a universal objective standard that uh that everyone is is going to. Which, you know, getting back to the courts, right, and our whole system of government, the the constitution was supposed to be that uh universal objective, you know, how the government is going to operate, what the government can and can't do, uh, you know, and therefore the people have uh freedom everywhere else kind of deal. And uh so that's something that comes interesting into play with the the court system is you have judges with different perspectives of Right. But the judges were supposed to interpret the law and not to make law. And the left decided a long time ago that since they could not get the laws made according to their will and what they felt was good, they decided decided to go uh around the system and have the judges make the laws and that's what's really started to change this country in a very profound way fifty years ago. Because the judges started making laws. Yeah, it's almost like they they began to use the Supreme Court as a as an oligarchy to uh sort of override everything else. Yeah And ever since the Civil War happened, the states are afraid to be the the the check on that balance. if you will. Um because the Supreme Court can make a ruling and the states can say, Yeah, you know what, not so much for us. We're a sovereign state and we're we we don't agree, you don't have any jurisdiction here. The problem is the Civil War happened and the states that tried to say, Yeah, not so much. Uh you know, they got their butts kicked in the war between the states. And And every ever since then the states are afraid to assert themselves. It's putting a great frustration. Talk about an injustice. I mean, tens of millions of uh unborn babies have been slaughtered in the womb, quote unquote legally, and all these conservative states have the power to pass a law today saying No abortions. No objections. But they won't because, you know, the Supreme Court said, but it doesn't matter what the Supreme Court said. And what did they even say? They said that a specific Texas law in the nineteen seventies was unconstitutional Okay. Even if you take that as the premise, that doesn't mean your law is they have to you have to decide that in court. And part of that's a p uh uh we've got to take our language back. You know, ever since Roe v. Wade, w my whole life practically, I've heard, you know, you know, legal abortion is the law of the land. It's not a law at all, much less the law of the land. But we've we've we use that sort of language all the time and it that's just one example of where we've got to take the language back. Like I refuse unless I'm gonna try to clarify for a moment to what I'm talking about, and I'll say quote unquote race. Other than that, I don't use the word race or racism because there's one human race And to use the language of the left, or the left, the language of the pagans, to use the language of the pagans is a surrender to language of of the Bible. The Bible teaches there's one human race Now there are different ethnic groups, so we can talk about ethnicity or ethnic bias or things like that, but as soon as we use the word race, we've already lost the argument before it started. And that brings me back to the point where you had made earlier that uh what can you do? So I know in my family what we do is we actually any time we fill out any government forms, we actually actually make a little circle or a little square and check that off and saying human race. We don't check any of the other choices that they have of the races. We actually Make make our own slot of human race. And uh I love that you do that. That's that's a small thing that we can do, that everyone can do that. Yeah, everybody should do that. We I have often gotten responses incredulous by people. What what you do in it? Oh that's great. I agree with that Ma and nobody thought to do it or or everybody's too scared to do that. I never thought of it, but sometimes they'll have an other box and you and you can write your own and not write human. And sometimes if it's in electronic form, sometimes there's no other boxes and I check all the boxes. Yeah, interesting. I'm liking that. I'm I'm uh you but if you don't like steal that please do. Yeah. If it's a paper form then you know you can you can write your own box And uh you know, be emphabet in fact this is my religious belief. You can't tell me I have to check a box about a race. Well, I've I'm inspired. You know what I'm gonna start doing too? I'm gonna start crossing out the word gender and writing in the word sex Because gender really is a literature term. It's not a biological term. And it's been co-opted for political purposes and applied in a biological sphere. And again, literarily, there are multiple genders. But biologically there are two. So again, if we use their language, we've surrendered so much ground that we're playing catch-up in the argument the whole time. I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna start doing that too. You're gonna flip up biological sex. Biological sex, yeah, absolutely. So talking about you know what's just and right, to show you how the different worldviews Those who would disagree with our point of view, the people in this room, on the kinds of things we've talked about so far, they would say that it's it's a stroke of justice that we had our have our first, you know, uh black or multi-ethnic uh female vice president. That's justice. You know, the fact that we had our first black president uh you know a decade ago. That uh was justice. We have our first openly gay uh transportation secretary. That's evidence of justice. So we uh Caitlin Jenner, he ran for uh governor for as a governor, I think he was the first transgender candidate for governor in California, that's progress. That's justice. You know, their their voices being heard. Um All these identity politics things are positioned as issues of justice. And we've talked about this before. Social justice. is very important. Because maybe it is justice if you define justice to be um you know you finally get what you want that you didn't get before. Okay, well then then sure it's justice. But um in the It's important to have the definition of the terms that we can agree on. And I think when people say justice, they mean something right has happened that r that fixes wrongs that have happened in the past. And I'm not sure there's a very logical train of thought that you can follow that arrives at that conclusion Um so people say it and and everybody just takes it as try it. Oh okay, yeah whatever, address this. Okay, fine, next next thing. But we don't stop and think. Well, no, that doesn't actually fix any specific wrong that um now, if this person is now governor and you know, it's justice because this person ran in the last election and the opponent cheated and threw out all the votes and now this person won Okay, now I could say that's justice, because there now you had a specific instance where, you know, something has happened where someone got what they deserve. when they had not gotten that before. But uh I think people try to cast large categories and because somebody that sort of was similar to you in a in a in one way um had something bad done to them fifty years ago, that means you deserve everything. Yeah, and um I'll I I'll end with this because we talk about justice and I think it's important when pastors get together and we might have Christian who are listening, we need to remind Christians this we do want justice. But we want to be careful about how insistent and firmly we demand justice because If we received justice from God, we would have no hope whatsoever. Right. It is because God is also a merciful God and demonstrates mercy towards us that we can that we can be rescued from the justice that's due to us. It's not that he exercised injustice. He he put the penalty due. that justice demanded on the back of Jesus Christ. And so justice was fulfilled, but to our benefit out of God's mercy and grace. And that's something we can carry with us too. Like, you know, we can advocate for justice and the right thing, but uh as circumstances merit it, say, you know what, the right thing here is this and we'll figure out how to deal with that so that people don't get away with doing wrong things. But we can do it in a gracious, merciful attitude and try to navigate that so we're not these hardcore mean-spirited mercenaries for an ill uh an ill-conceived idea of justice. So I'll end on that as we start our new year. Daniel and Imron Razvi, thank you, gentlemen. David Forcey, thank you. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening to the Faith Debate. Find us online at WFMD. com. The Faith Debate page is there. You can also find the Faith Debate by going to householdfaith in Christ. com because it links to the faith debate page of the FMD website. there as well. That's household of faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from just about right now. God bless. And we missed it. Mr. Rachel Levine who is mentally ill leading the human health health human services. I mean, how can you have a mental mentally ill person leading mentally? That's God turning us over to our own That's what that is. He's just turning us over to our own insanity. Yeah, next thing you know, Biden will be out in the front lawn, you're munching on the grass thinking he's a farm animal We can only hope. That would be good for it. Yeah, it caused Nebuchadnezzar to turn. Right. After six after what? A year? Three years? Seven years. Seven years. years. Hmm. He was wondering what like what everybody else did in the did in the kingdom during that time. I guess maybe his son was King all the supervisors and all the actually run the game. Yeah, keep keep the press away. He's still fine. He's still fine. Keep the press away. He's busy right now. He's not taking questions. He has not extended his scepter to anybody in the court today. Not for the next seven years. We asked the doctor as much as that was January 2nd? Yeah, so the next one is January 9th. Okay. And this is the last one or we're doing another one after this? Uh this is number four, so if you guys are up for doing another one, do the last one. This will be number five now, right? Um did the twelve. We had already done the twelve. No, this is Yes, this will be the fourth one. This is the fourth one. Yeah, so uh I think our our our goal is to try to do five as often as we can. So this is number four, so we're hoping to do two more, but if we get tired we just can't do it. So fast Oh, there you go. Do it in double speed. Oh man. There are some people who could do that. Oh my wife was still a difficult pink that w that her website now allows her to have Oh my gosh. Somebody had to be speaking really, really slow for me to keep up with that. Bit shoot. Bit shoot now allows quadruple speed. And she can actually understand that quite a bit. But my wife, man, she could she could hear them on f on quadruple speed and be okay. You know what's weird? If if you listen to like an entire podcast, it's like you know, let's think of two out 'cause those are the ones I'll typically put on double speed. hours to watch this, but I'm interested to see what the person has to say. So I'll put it on double speed. So it takes an hour to listen to the two hour podcast, which is fine. And I you know, I might miss a word here or there because, you know, but I I Um I can fill in the gaps. But I'll tell you, when that hour is up, after an hour of double speed, everything sounds like You emphasize everything and I somehow like to put you on double speed. I'd like to put me on double speed. Give me the cocaine? Wow. You got the marijuana plan. It's like you've got to pay attention. When you speak, it's like pay attention It's so deep soothing. Alright. Don't lie down upon your bed Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD on the FM at 99. 9 HD2, also online worldwide at WFMD You can connect with us at wffd. com, find the faith debate page there. You can also connect through my church's website, household of faith in Christ. com. There you'll find uh links to uh the This show also to the YouTube channel for this show because we're doing these shows now on Facebook Live and then converting that video uh into something that's housed on YouTube so you can You can watch that as well. You get some behind the scenes stuff like, you know, um, you know, drug deals, things like that that happen on occasion. You never know what's gonna happen in the studio of the faith debate, I'm telling you. Put four pastors together and it gets just a little bit zany Uh I'm joking, by the way, joking. Uh Imran Razvie. Um uh I probably should have said somebody else's name first since you're the one talking about the drug deal stuff. I don't know. But Uh Daniel Razby and Yes They're Related, uh father and son team. They're both with the uh house, the church that meets at um So the church at Imran's house, I think they call it. David Forcy, he's a house church pastor as well. He's the no-name church pastor. He still hasn't come up with a name And uh my church, I'm Troy Skinner, and my church is Household of Faith in Christ. And so we actually have a website and everything, so nanny nanny boo-boo. How so the faith in Christ. com. So this week we're going to talk about a really uplifting, fun, you know, post-holiday topic, death. You are all going to die. So I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago. You know where you're going when you die? I mentioned uh I do. Yeah, well if you go skipped to your resolution and lose those forty pounds, you're going to die. How's that for motivation? Oh man I'm a soft taskmaster. To be honest, even if you lose the forty pounds you're gonna die. You know, we're all gonna die and uh and you wanna tell us where we go when we die, Daniel? Well it depends on whether you have faith in Christ If you're one of the household that has faith in Christ, that he died for your sins, that you don't have to be in hell for eternity, you're still gonna die, but you get to go to heaven. But you must repent first. Yes. Cannot just say, oh, I I believe in God. Even the demons believe in God. They're going to pe they're going to hell. So um the demons know there is one God and they believe believe what he uh does and they know what he did, but they're not putting their faith in him and obeying him. But I said a big word. I said repent. David, you want to tell us what repent means? Sure. Yeah. R E P E N T six le I don't know if that's not that big of a word. It's a big l big word in today's vocabulary when nobody knows what the repent means. Well, uh to to repent is to um it in the context of the gospel is to to turn from our sin, turn from uh trusting in in ourselves and anything else and uh turn to Christ uh to trust in him for uh to save us to rescue us from our sin and um Uh and yeah, I mean it's it it begins with agreeing with God that we are sinners and that he's righteous and that uh that You know, I mean with the understanding like we like we started, we are we're yes, we all all all of our bodies will die. Uh all of our spirits are are eternal. Um Um but uh but that that eternity will either be spent with God for those who are have turned from their sin and trusted in Christ. Right, uh to to rescue them from their sin or um uh apart from God in this sense of apart from his uh uh um from the the glory of his goodness but not apart from um from his just wrath Very well said, and glad we kicked off the show that way because that helps to put things in context with what we're going to be saying because talking about things in our world that uh either dead or dying. And um it's kind of been a theme, a loose theme these last few weeks about let's not overemphasize things to the ultimate. So the ultimate are the concerns of what we were just talking about these last few minutes. So these aren't ultimate concerns, and yet they are important concerns nonetheless. We've seen a lot of depth. I mentioned I think it was last week I mentioned the death of some icons like Ruth Bader-Ginsburg and uh Alex Trubeck and Larry King. Um Prince Philip, Colin Powell, I'd be remiss on a station like WFMD not not mention the uh not so long ago death of Rush Limbaugh Um these are iconic figures that have died. Um and so who knows what the eternal questi answers to the question are for them. What we were just talking about these last few minutes. We've also seen the you know the the death of history in a sense. You know I I jokingly referred to 1619 project, either last week or the week before, uh being taught in our schools. when I say death of history meaning the history we've all grown up knowing and trusting and believing as is we're being told no that's not true. You need to replace it with this new version, this revisionist kind of a of a version that's based in critical race theory and and cultural Marxism or ethnic Gnosticism or whatever label you want to apply to that sort of thinking. Um but it's not just sixteen nineteen project being taught in schools, it's the removal of statues and monuments all around uh the the country. Um and the renaming of streets and buildings, you know, school buildings or other government buildings that were named for presidents, but now those presidents are said to have been bad guys because Maybe they had slaves in their, you know, working at their household or something, and so we have to rename. So we're losing a sense of some history. There's also I think, you know, the death of learning, not just 1619 project replacing our history, but things being canceled like Dr. Seuss was famously or infamously famously uh canceled uh year, year and a half ago. Um the schools were closed because of the uh the the dreaded Rona. You know, so uh learning kind of died because everything went went virtual. There was virtual learning, but I'm not sure how much learning was taking place with the virtual learning when they were doing that. Um So we've got these these indicators of something being broken and dead and decaying in our culture. I think these are indicators of but some other things I could throw out to get us get us talking about. But you have anything you want to say about those things? I throw an awful lot out there at once. Well this is a dying world. When sin was entered into the world, the world started dying. And uh as Daniel and I both uh believe in the the eschatology of the world ending soon, with Christ coming back, all these things have to come to an end so that Christ will come back and uh we will reign with him. Yeah. Probably let me think about this. I'm gonna guess that Maybe in three or four recording sessions from now, we're probably gonna have to get around to tackling the eschatological uh questions because I think there's probably some nuanced differences between the the four of us in the room. That'll be a fun fun discussion for us to have. But uh in in a sense, yes, the world is is dying, but it's also um Through the salt and light that is the church, there's there's a there's a life that's that's brought into the dying world as well. And that's what we've been talking about, advocating for justice and for what's right and true and good and trying to make a good difference. It's why we share the gospel. It's why we try to be good parents and good citizens and good neighbors. So I d I I I don't know that I'm taking an ultra pessimistic view. I'm not sure that you guys are either, but I um that's why it might be an interesting discussion on eschatological views to to have that But a lot of this death and decay, it's playing out with the I mess mentioned the term postmodernism, uh, I think two weeks ago and kind of gave a loose definition of what that what that means, this idea that we can't really grasp what truth is And so then life becomes nihilistic, it becomes meaningless. There's no ultimate because you can't know what's true. So if you don't really know what's true, what's it matter if I lie? What's it matter if I do this other thing? You say it's wrong, but who's to say you're right in saying it's wrong? Who's you know? It's true for you that it's wrong, but it's true for me that it's right. So getting this weird, it's unlivable philosophy. It really is, but part of me thinks it's being It's part of the de the deconstructionism that's taking place. uh maybe more than a year ago when mostly peaceful protests when the bur buildings are burning in the background when AOC in December said, Oh, um there's no real evidence of these flash mobs even though there's video evidence What is she talking about? Because that's what you're t you're talking about. It's just absolute nonsense and truth doesn't matter. feel. Is it Michael Brown, I think, uh the hands up don't shoot? But turns out that never happened, he never said it, but that was the narrative that was you know perpetrat uh uh put out there in the mainstream news forever. And and I can't breathe was said by Doris Boyd before he even got out of the cop car. He was sitting in the in the seat saying that. Yeah, although there was a New York case too where somebody was uh was uh brought to the ground by the police and said he couldn't breathe and so there's that one and he apparently did sit but yeah How well okay that's let's let's pivot a little bit. Let's talk about that. There's there's so many of them. Brianna Taylor about uh uh um uh Arbery, uh you mentioned George Floyd. Um what are some others I I I'm gonna get Michael Brown I mentioned There are others, but I can't Trayvon. Trayvon Martin. Yeah, there's there's and and it's a big thing in the BLM music um movement to say their name. Right. Calling in a spirit of a dead person to Yeah, talk about that. I don't know if most people know what that is. When you say if if you're affiliated with the BLM and you're saying say her name or say his name You're inviting demons to possess you. That's literally what you're doing. You're a asking you're talking to a dead person, and the actual dead person is not going to hear you. Anything that does hear you is going to be demonic And it is possible to invite demonic possession and I think that's what a lot of people are doing with that. And if that seems like too out there, you're like, what the heck is Daniel saying there are videos with these the the the the people who founded BLM And they're basically having seances and they're calling forth their ancestors. That's what they're attempting to do. Now, if any entity is called forth, we know one thing. It's not their ancestors. They may think it's their ancestors, but it's not their ancestors. But this is they're really doing it. So he's not making that up. This is actually there's video proof and Uh I think that there's actually things they've written that talk about this too. So he's not making as as crazy as that kind of sounds to the typical person, I think. It's actually true. Another thing that ties into this BLM movement thing was remember Bubba Wallace, the NASCAR driver. And this is going back uh year, year plus probably now. Um with the uh garage door opener hanging in Yeah, and they thought there was a noose uh hanging in his c car stall and they thought that it was supposed to be intimidating. Uh you know, a r a a And let's not forget Jesse Smollett. Okay, Jesse Smollett who cla who yeah claimed to uh uh claimed to have been mugged by uh Meg America Great when he hired to mug him. Uh one of whom was one of his lovers. Oh, I didn't that part I didn't know. The one of the people that supposedly mugged him was his lover. Came out came out on the trial recently. So just so Jesse's gay? That's what he was all that that that is supposedly why he was being beat up. Because he was black and he was gay. Oh I didn't know he was gay. Yeah Oh. See I unlike you listening to the radio right now, I pay attention when David Forcy tells me not to be a busybody and to stick my nose at this stuff that I really have no control over, I listen. Sure you Detroit. Sure you another big story. Um and actually the the last time we recorded some shows for the Faith Debate, this show the This topic, this issue was like right about to happen, but it hadn't happened yet, so we just missed the window. But this is our chance maybe to uh dive into the Kyle Rittenhouse waters. Uh following the uh oh that's another name, Jacob Blake, right? The Jacob Blake shooting because he was uh in his car and and the police shot him a whole bunch of times, which I still can't quite understand how how he got shot so many times But apparently Jacob Blake did have a a knife, a weapon on him, and so it does seem like it was a justified shooting. But how he got shot so many times still doesn't register like he was a domestic abuser. got c the police got called for that and he resisted arrest and went for a knife and got shot. That was that's what the police call a good shoot, meaning one that's that that there's absolutely no question about whether it was justified. Yeah no yeah I'm not I'm not questioning the shoot. He was shot like seven times, wasn't he? Something like that? Something like that. It it's it's actually pretty pretty easy to shoot the gun a lot of times in a row. Like when you're when you're when you're tense and you're uh and you're um stressed, yeah, you know, your hand can just shake and say But besides besides that. Um when somebody has a knife and it's coming at at you, you shoot them, they're still coming at you. Then you shoot them again, they're still moving in your direction. Unless you have a really, really powerful gun that actually hits them throws them back like in the movies, that doesn't happen. The cops don't have guns that are gonna blow something back ten feet. The the pig person's gonna continue their motion forward until they're shot multiple times and they don't have the power to move forward. And that's and if you're if you're intent when you're when you're shooting a gun is to stop the person from coming at you. You know, the the the zone that you're in is to just keep pulling the trigger until the person actually stops coming. So right. Yeah. It's Alec Baldwin by the way, right? I think it's at Alex, but it's Alec, I think. Yeah. Yeah. His brother Stephen is is uh a believer, I I think. Right? One of the Balbo brothers is in a lot of those really cheesy Christian movies, so I think he's a I think he's a believer. I hope so. So Kyle Rittenhouse. to the um what it it's r it's really interesting the way these things are spun, right? So he basically drives to the next town over, which just happens to be in another state, but it's like fifteen miles. It's not that far. I grew up in that area, so I know how close it is. We're in Frederick. This is like me going home to Thurmont. It's it's not very far. Um right on the Illinois-Wisconsin border in Illinois, and that's where his par one of his parents lives, Kyle. And Kenosha is right on the border. So that being on the other side. This vigilante travels to another state to go attack people. No. I mean yeah, yes, he was in another state, but again it's it's all how you spin it. Right. So technically that's true, he went to another state But he also lived in that state because his parents were divorced, I guess, and I forget which one's which. I think the mom lived in Antioch, Illinois, and his father lived in Kenosha. Wisconsin and so he was spending time in both places, so it was one of his two hometowns. So that doesn't I don't think it portrayed very well as interesting either. Yeah, I I mean If if it wasn't for politics, that's a case that would never have made it to trial. Because you have clear video evidence of people shooting at him, people chasing him. with dangerous and deadly weapons. Hit him hitting him the over the head with a skateboard. Multiple times. Right. And so you you don't e there's no not no question that he was in fear for his life and So he defended himself. So tha that really shouldn't have been ever on trial. Um and I think that's uh he he was he was acquitted on all charges, but his life is ruined now. I mean he's I if he's um wise, he'll probably change his name and and move to another place and be in witness protection or something. Get facial surgery. I mean he went to Arizona State and now you have all these groups at Arizona State that are complaining to the Arizona we don't want a killer on our campus. He was obviously acquitted. In fact the prosecutor's star witness is the reason that he was acquitted Because the prosecutor's dark witness said, Yeah, I pulled a gun on him and then he shot me. He didn't shoot me until then. Yeah, now this is such a Uh I if it were funny it'd be a comedy of errors. Because all the things, all the dominoes had to fall for this thing to happen. First of all, you've got this big movement to defund the police. Because we can take care of ourselves. We don't need the police. We trust ourselves. And so you hear a seventeen year old who decides that he's gonna do that. And the people who are advocating for defunding the police will take care of themselves are the ones critical of them. So that's bizarre. The fact that the police are so afraid to uh exacerbate an existing riot or to to spur on a riot if there hadn't been one break, the police are just standing by they're like watchmen. They're they don't actually ever act it seems. And so I think they're they were actually told to stand down. The police would actually do something, but the their the people in power, the mayors, the governors, they've asked them to And they're powerless because they're not allowed to do anything. And what I found really, really amusing is at Rittenhouse's trial, there was a bunch of people outside the courthouse BLM. There was not one black person shot. There was not one black person involved in that whole case. But BLM, Black Lives Matter, Black Lives In it if in fact that they're trying to paint Wittenhouse as some racist white supremacist guy. There's there was one person involved in that incident that used the N-word and it was actually the guy that you know attacked Rittenhouse and Rittenhouse killed. And he wasn't even a w uh a a black person either. But it politics, right? Because If this was really about justice and really about enforcing all the laws and make sure we get to the truth, um why did they have this guy on the stand that had in Illegal gun that he was waving around in people's faces and he didn't get arrested or charged with a single crime and he's still walking free. Now I'm a big gun rights person. I think all guns should be should be legal all the time for everybody. You should be allowed to carry around bazookas with no registration But the fact of the matter is there is a law that says you can't carry in Wisconsin without uh a permit and you can't own a gun unless it's it the know, i you pa pass a background check or whatever and a handgun and and he so he didn't yeah, handgun different than than a rifle. And this guy didn't do any of those things. He was obviously a criminal under those laws. and was not prosecuted because he did not fit that narrative of some uh you know, guy with an AR-15 that wanted to go shoot some people, which is is total baloney. Yeah, I think that one of the almost an accidental accidental lesson that we can learn from it is the strength in numbers Um he somehow got separated from other people that were there doing similar things that he was doing and he and he became isolated and an an easier target because apparently he was threatened earlier saying, uh later on if I find you alone, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna you know teach you a lesson kind of thing and then they found him alone. And we can apply that to what's going on in in the in the larger case where somebody takes a stand against their employer because of mandates and one employer being let go isn't a big deal. So I think we've got to do a better job if we're trying to stand for what's right, trying to do what we think is right, we've got to figure out how to connect with people who are like-minded and do it w in unison, do it with some unity. So if you work in a in a place that's got a hundred employees and so they're the you know they're gonna make everybody do something that you don't want to be doing, if you can find a you know do kind of a straw poll and find out if there's some people that agree with you. Maybe there's ten or twelve or fifteen or thirty or fifty of your employees, fellow employees who agree with you. Then you don't have to go out by yourself and get picked off. And then have somebody else go by themselves and everybody's picked off one by one. But if you all do it together, we're not very good at at at doing that. I mean the the important thing is to not to not be afraid. Right? And to be to be open about what we what we believe. Um You know, and uh Christians especially should should be that way. You know, should uh should be trusting in God's provision for them and care of them. Uh Um yeah, so I'm I'm in I'm I'm agreeing with you, Troy. But there are too many people that are afraid. I can give you a real life example With I actually uh voiced my opinion that I don't believe this country is systemically racist. And the company that was hiring me and was onboarding me pulled back because one of the uh ladies that worked there was black and she said no, it is systemic w racist. I said, No people are racist. The coun country itself is not. We have more rights here than any other country country, we ha it's the best country in the world. And very quickly, um I was told not in that that same hour, but the very next day I was told, No, we're not looking to hire you now And so I actually said, Why? and it wouldn't give me any answer I actually went to the uh senior vice president and the president of the company and voice and said, No, we've decided not to go in that direction. So nobody would have Nämä