And it looks like we're rolling. Looks like I got to adjust this just slightly. Let's try Zach. Hello, Facebook Live. And if you're watching this later, YouTube, thank you for joining us. It's been about a month or so since uh we've gotten together. I'll tell you that story maybe in a few weeks. Um we're blessed to have Daniel Razley from uh another house church in in the area, the a church that we partner with. He's gonna handle the preaching and teaching today. We're gonna have our typical group discussion. And you're as always welcome to participate if you like with uh with comments in the comment section. We will incorporate those into our discussion time, which will start in about a half hour or so and remind you that if you want to find out more about the household of faith in church or faith in Christ Church or access some trusted resources to learn more about the Bible and God and that sort of stuff, I encourage you to go to householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. There you'll find my email and cell phone number. So if you want to contact me, you can get all that information there. All the links to my social media is there. Anything that you want to know about me and the church and what we're doing, it's kind of a one-stop shop for that sort of thing. So I encourage you to uh can check that out if you haven't done so already. Um before Daniel gets into the the the sermon and we have our discussion, um I'm going to open us with a word of prayer and then we will uh we will get started. Father, you are so good. We know that we can trust you. We can depend on you because you are a provider and a sustainer. You equip your people to understand your word and to understand the way we should live in this world through the power of your Holy Spirit. We know that we can rest on the sufficiency and the work accomplished by Jesus Christ of Nazareth. in his perfect life lived, his perfect sacrifice offered, and his complete victory over even death in his resurrection. And his ascension, where he now stands at your right hand, Father, ruling over the universe you've created We ask that you would open our minds and soften our hearts to receive your truth today as Pastor Daniel shares your word with us. We ask that it would not just resonate in our minds intellectually, but that it would truly stir us to action so that we would alter the path in our life to be more in alignment with your will for us. that we will be obedient uh subjects to you as our Lord and King. We ask for your blessing on the time of discussion that will follow. That everything that we do and say here today would be to your honor, to your glory, and for the mutual edification of your people. It's in Christ's name that we pray. Amen. Well, if you want to have it up on you you can. You want to clip it on? You can clip it on. I can put it there. I'm not gonna be uh so hopefully you can hear me. Uh yeah. So um Sometimes there's verses that are very commonly understood and actually misunderstood. Um you know there's a line in the Princess Bride, the movie Princess Bride, if you've ever seen that movie That you know, uh you keep using that word, I don't know, think it means what you think it means. I don't know if you've if you've watched that movie you you know what I'm talking about. But anyway, there's a famous verse, Philippians four thirteen, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And I think a lot of people take that to out of context to mean something that was not intended by Paul when he's talking flipping. So I want to start there briefly. We're not going to spend much time there, but it ties into what I'm going to talk about today. So Philippians four, we want to actually start um earlier in that passage, so in verse ten, Philippians four, verse ten. So so Philippians four verse ten. And remember, you know, if you've heard uh that verse, I mean it's stitched on all the pillows and everything, I can do everything through Christ. We have all power through Christ because he's able to do everything. and uh you know, just be be confident then and uh he'll take care of terror uh care of everything that we need to do. You can move mountains if you have enough faith. That's usually the context that people use it uh in. But what does it the passage actually talk about? Verse 10. But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again. meaning uh they they're caring for him and they they they want to make sure he's he's provided for, wherein you you were also careful, but you lacked opportunity. Not that I speak in respect of want, for I have learned in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content. I know both how to be abase and I know how to abound. Everywhere and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need. I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me Notwithstanding ye have well done that ye did communicate with my affliction. So he's praising them for you know caring about his need and that he's uh in such a bad uh state, and he's he's writing this from prison. And the verse, while it's true that Christ has the power to have to help us do whatever He wants to do, we can move mountains by faith and so on. This verse is really talking about you have the power to be content in all things. I can be content in all things through Christ who strengthens me, no matter whether great things are happening perceived in your life or terrible things are happening to you. And so that's the that's what you should when you hear that verse, think about that. It's really about being content with wherever God has you, not wishing for something else that you could do because Christ is so powerful and he's gonna make this happened for you in your life, which is very inconsequential in the grand scheme. So now with that in mind, let's go to Job. I'm going to spend a bunch of uh time in Job today and then we'll come back to the New Testament and in a minute. But my uh wife and I and our baby we read through the Bible. Um Every day. I was just saying we read through the Bible every day, meaning not that we read the whole Bible every day, but that every day we read the Bible when we go through in order from Genesis to Revelation. And we start over once we get there. And sometimes we read chapter two sometimes two or three or four chapters, uh, but always we read and we don't ever skip. Um I'm gonna go to Job. I'm I'm I'm gonna start near the beginning and we're gonna continue for uh uh I'll I'll I'll skip around a few places through through the story of Job. If you're not familiar with the story of Job, a lot of really bad things happened to him in chapter one. He was a very wealthy man, all his possessions got destroyed and all of the um his kids died and he got sick and uh and everything. Um and it was because uh God was allowing uh Satan to tempt Job and to see if his faith was going to be Shaken, right? And one of my favorite verses, probably my favorite verse in all of um the Bible, really, uh which Because it gives a good picture of what kind of uh attitude we're supposed to have when circumstances befall us, and and that's in Job one, verse So starting starting verse 20. His servants have come to tell him that his cattle uh were all taken and his camels were all taken and his kids all died and and all these things happened to him. and the house is is destroyed. Then Job arose and rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down upon the ground and worshipped. And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither. The Lord gave, and the Lord hath taken away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And to be able to say that when such a calamity is is befalling you, that's just I think it's really encouraging. Uh you can tell if he was a man of God. I mean he followed followed God. And a lot of people will say, Well, this is in the Old Testament. He didn't have the full picture of of Christ and and all of that. Well and that that may be somewhat true but we'll we'll we'll read on and and find um find out something with is which is interesting. We were actually reading through this since we read through it by the Bible and in July, my birthday uh was in July, and uh right before my birthday, the day uh day before I think We had read Job 1 and Job 2. And I decided we were going to read something else on my birthday instead of Job 3, because I didn't want to start my birthday by saying, after this, Job opened his mouth and cursed And James broke and he was cursing his birthday. A whole chapter about how terrible his birthday was. So I I I uh we w we did go we did read that, but we waited a day and then we we read I think some psalms that day. Anyway, um let's keep on because he did start to get a little bit agitated and his three friends came to comfort him and they didn't say anything for the first seven days. Um which is probably the best thing they did for him in hindsight, is not to speak for seven days. And then they started accusing him and saying, Look, you must be a really terrible duck guy, 'cause God wouldn't let this happen to anything anybody that was really good. You must have some Sin, maybe you know about it, maybe you don't know about it, but you must be doing something wrong, otherwise, you know, why would this happen to you? And Joe keeps saying, No, no, I don't I didn't do anything wrong, I don't I don't know uh you know of any sin And he's getting more and more annoyed with these people. Um, so I will Skip a little bit ahead. We're gonna um let's say in chapter twelve, for example. Job chapter twelve. And Job answered his friends, who had been accusing him, and said, No doubt, but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you. Meaning, sarcastically, you guys are so smart, you think you're so smart, you know. Um but I have understanding as well as you. I am not inferior to you. Yea, who knoweth not such things as these? Well, it's common knowledge that you know bad things happen to bad people. That's what he's saying. He doesn't understand why he's having troubles, but he's still honoring God and praising God during this. And eventually he does start to get angry at God towards the end of the book and God rebukes him for that. And that's not really the focus I'm I'm growing today. I want to show what was in the mind of Job and So the way the book of Job is structured is you have a couple chapters of his friends uh saying nasty stuff to him and then he responds and then they talk again and then he talks. So in verse um Or in chapter, sorry, chapter of chapter 16, he gets even more annoyed. Then Job answered and said, I have heard many such things. Miserable comforters are ye all. Um I was this the the King James sometimes has some really funny uh sounding praises there, but they're really they're really powerful. Miserable comforters. You are not very good. Okay. So here's where we get to the the the passage I was uh wanted to spend a little more time on. Chapter nineteen. So Job chapter nineteen. He is Is it? Yeah. So I'll just I'll just read uh a a longer part of the passage. So for starting um Starting in uh let's see, chapter uh verse twenty-one, chapter nineteen, verse twenty-one Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O my friends, for the hand of God hath touched me. Why do ye persecute me as God and are not satisfied with my flesh? Oh, that my words were now written! Oh, that they were printed in the book Well, he got his wish. That they were graven with an iron pen and led in the rock forever. And then notice what he says here. This is Job in the Old Testament talking. For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God whom I shall see for myself, and my eyes shall behold, and not another, though my reins be consumed within me. Rains meaning like his his bowels, um his uh his his body is wasting away. And uh and so it's interesting to me that he had a really good picture of Christ in this. He knows His Redeemer liveth. Job, Job says, My Redeemer liveth, and he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And My flesh shall see God. So that is what his faith is about. It's not just about, oh, you know, this this powerful creator that, you know, I'm I I'm lesser than him, so I need to honor him. He actually has this picture of salvation that his Redeemer, somebody that his paid for his sins is there. And um he explains a few chapters later, um another a little longer passage, um chapter twenty-three Job is complaining um why isn't God answering him? He does have faith in God and he faith in in uh in my opinion, it's faith in Christ as well here, but he's despairing a little bit. And he says, um Even today, sorry in the beginning, even today is my complaint bitter. My stroke is heavier than my groaning. Oh, that I knew where I might find him, that I might come even to his seat He's wishing he could be next to God. So he doesn't have the clear uh the quite as clear picture of that he can just talk to God on a uh on a personal level. Um or maybe he's he's been trying that and he hasn't heard God's answer yet. God will answer out of the whirlwind in a few chapters, but He says, verse 4, I would order my cause before him and fill my mouth with arguments. I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand what he would say unto me. Will he plead against me with his great power? No. But he would put strength in me. There the righteous might dispute with him, so should I be delivered for ever from my judge. Behold, I go forward, but he is not there, and backward, but I cannot perceive him. On the left hand where he doth work, but I cannot behold him. He hides himself on the right hand, that I cannot see him. But he knoweth the way that I take. When he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold. My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept and not declined, neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips. I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food. How many of us can say that? That we are more concerned about reading the Bible than eating? And I'm not I don't want anybody answer this question out loud, but think back. Have you when was the last time that you skipped a day of reading the Bible? And then think. Did you eat that day? If you have time to eat, you have time to read the Bible. That's more important. And that's what you should have in your head. The Bible is more important than food. It is it is the the uh the Word of God is our food. And Job is has recognized here the words of God are more important than food. It's better to go without eating than it is to skip uh reading the Bible. And you will feel all the more blessed for doing that. And so I urge you, if you don't have such a commitment, make sure you have that commitment to every day read something from the Bible. The more the better. Certainly whatever time you spend each You could instead spend time reading the Bible if you feel like your day is already hectic enough. Um and uh if you're hungry enough you'll find time to eat too, I'm sure. Sure. But anyway, think about that. That's a little bit of a side note. But I wanted to get to when he has tried me, I c I shall come forth as gold. So the way um you you work with gold if you're um a goldsmith is you're gonna burn it in the fire and all the impurities are gonna wash away or melt away and what comes out is very pure And that's the picture he's giving. And there's a lot of passages in scripture that talk about the um trying of gold and the fire and But you know, the idea that in c uh with the analogy that hard times also for the believer will breed more strong faith. In those who already have it, Jesus said, if you don't have faith, then you're going to really fall away easily in those times. And so just remember that. I want to turn now to the New Testament some. We're going to be in 1 Peter, and I'll read a decent amount of 1 Peter, but I want to remind you of a verse in Matthew real quick. Matthew 5 has something that goes with this, which says let's see. In verse eleven, he's talking about all the blessed. Blessed are you, blessed are you, blessed are you, and in verse eleven of Matthew chapter five He says, Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice. And be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets worship were before you. And remember how Job um reacted the first time when all these bad things were happening. He sat down and he said, Bless the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord. He was I don't know if if you could really call it rejoicing, but we are called to rejoice when bad things happen, and we're supposed to expect that they happen. If you're not being persecuted, then you ought to be looking carefully at your life and thinking, are you actually a believer? Are you or are you following God? You had to go to court and the devil had to prove in court that you were a Christian, would they be able to would he be able to do that? Is there enough evidence in your life that you are a believer that you're following God. Anyway, moving on to the first First Peter, which has a very similar statement about trials and and uh And what what we're supposed supposed to do and and the type of faith that we're supposed to have. Um let's see. Let's start in verse 13. 1 Peter chapter 1. I've been jumping around, but this is actually the passage I was trying to get to. So that was kind of a very long introduction, but uh we'll uh we're not we're not gonna go uh all night or anything. Verse 13, wherefore gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the formal lusts in your ignorance, but as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation. Because it is written, Be ye holy, for I am holy. And if ye call on the Father, who without respect to persons, judgeth according to every man's work, Pass the time of your sojourning here in fear, for as much as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world that's how Job knew about it. But was manifest in these last times for you. So now we have a fuller picture. Job was aware of the a a Savior, but uh we have a full picture now. Um not quite as full as we're gonna have when we get to heaven. It says, you know. But it says verse twenty, again, Verily was who who verily? Christ was verily or foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you. who by him do believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, and gave him glory, that your faith and hope might be in God. Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit, unto unfeigned love of the brethren See that you love one another with a pure heart fervently, being a born again not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away, but the word of the Lord endureth for ever, and this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you And uh continue on for a couple verses. Wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and evil speakings As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby, if so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious. So again there's this picture that the Word of God, the Bible, is like our food Or in this case our milk as a newborn baby needs milk. Um and so make sure if you have that have that picture in your head. This is the most important thing. And it says, what what is going to last? Everything else in this world falls away, but the word of the Lord endureth forever. We should be spending time in the Word, and we should be expecting trials, we should be expecting bad things to be happening, and very terrible things, and persecutions. Because if we're not being persecuted, that it probably means the devil is not really afraid of us. He doesn't deem us much of a threat. And so he's not wasting his time trying to stop us from uh doing whatever we're doing. And so we should expect that there will be persecution. And we can do all things through Christ who strengthens us. All things meaning we can be content in all things, all things that are happening. God is obviously powerful. Christ is more powerful than the devil, and there's a lot of spiritual warfare that needs to go on, and that's a whole nother sermon. But the point here is rely on the word. Spend time in the Word, spend more time in the Word, so that when you are tried, you do come forth as gold. And that you constantly have your focus on heavenly things and things that matter, things that are um of actual eternal consequence, rather than what does it say, the grass that withereth and the flower falleth away. the everything is falling apart. Job's whole uh family fell apart, his his whole pos all his possessions were destroyed, he had nothing left except God and the Word of God, and that's what he clung to. And all throughout the book of Job you can see Joe uh he is continuing to say, no, God is uh powerful. We need to honor him. His Job's wife at one point was saying, you know, hey, you should just curse God, then he's gonna kill you and you can get to go to heaven. I mean that's the way it's kinda cheating and getting there faster. You don't have to go through all this trial and tribulation. Which um is interesting also. uh picture 'cause I think they had that picture that they, you know, even if God was going to strike him down for sinning there, that wasn't going to affect his salvation. He was saved. The problem is That's not what we're called to do. We can't take the easy way out. We can't just give up. We have to continue to Follow God, obey his commandments. How do we know what the commandments are? Read the Bible. Spend more time in the Bible. Both Peter and Job have this picture and there's several other places in the Bible where it talks about. I mean j uh Jesus talks about it when he was being tempted by the devil and uh I guess Matthew four, um and uh the parallel passages, they both of the all those pa passages have that constant picture of this is our food. And I don't mean to go actually eat too often swallow the paper in the Bible. That's probably not going to do you a whole lot of good. Um, although there's some prophets that were told to eat paper and Uh it was the like to eat the scroll, um and it was sweet in their in their mouth and then that was but that was that was a different word picture. The point is Remember that this is more important. This is more important than food. It's more important than anything else than life itself because God is where all life comes from. So that's basically what what I have um as the the message the source and I I don't know what what comments people have and we can go from there. Yeah, and uh we you you can kinda lead an overseas discussion from there if you want to come join us here, whatever's most comfortable for you and do you know. I can stay here, that's fine. Okay So any initial thoughts or questions or need for clarification or anything before you know we maybe dive into some deep nitty-gritty stuff? Well, I mean the the first thing that came to my mind is, you know, I'm I'm because I know I'm depraved. I'm thankful that my obedience is is something I can't even do. on my own. It's through the power of the Holy Spirit that causes me to be obedient. So I'm thankful for that because I would I Sheep. I would certainly fall away, but there's that comfort knowing that um through being in the word, through prayer, through the you know There's the perseverance of the saints, that is the work of the Holy Spirit. And the sanctification process, again, is that work of the Holy Spirit. So for me there's a lot less pressure knowing that even that is a work of God and it's not through my works because there's like filthy rags, the scripture tells us. So I'm thankful for that. I don't know. That's just what struck me initially. I um I know I missed some of the the discussion. Um but uh thank you for uh assisting. Yeah, I appreciate that. Actually I'm gonna uh cent make this more center in the room actually so we can pick up more of a discussion. Um but I um how about was actually in Philippians earlier today. Not knowing, of course, that was gonna be something that's gonna be shared from it tonight, but Um you know, we we do have these natures that are, I mean, it's just effortless, effortless to sin. Um but this gave me such comfort when I was reminded of this scripture. Um Philippians two, thirteen and And uh I'm reading out of the ampli out of the um actually it's 12 through 13. And um it tells us uh out of the amplified it says therefore my dear friends as you have always obeyed my suggestions this is Paul speaking of course so now not only with the enthusiasm you would show in my presence but much more because I am absent work out and then the amplification is cultivate carry out to the goal and fully complete your own salvation with reverence and awe and trust Trembling, self-distrust with serious caution, tenderness of conscience, watchfulness against temptation, timidly shrinking from whatever might offend God and discredit the name of Christ, not in your own strength, for it is God who is all the while effectually at work in you, energizing and creating in you the power and the Desire both to will and to work for his good pleasure and satisfaction and delight. And when I come across such uh such a powerful and a wonderful promise like that. It is my habit to say, to just speak it back to the Lord as a confession, like, Lord, I thank you. That you are at work in me, energizing and creating in me the power and the desire to do your will. You know, I I just repeat the words right back to him. Because Um, we can't we can't in our we can't be good. I mean only God can work on us and make us approach being good. Uh and And and um uh this kind of a scripture comforts me because I realize it's not My effort. Right. Uh not not my let me put it this way, it's not my human-based effort alone. I have I have to I have to be wanting to we all do, we have to be wanting to um do the will of God. We have to be willing to but but in in terms of the ultimate getting there and and and doing what pleases the Lord and walking in a holy life and working out our salvation It is the Holy Spirit who is in us effectually and effectively you know doing that and that to me is glory. Yes. comment there in in that verse thirteen, right? When I I have for it is God which worketh in you both to will and do and to do of his good pleasure. And I think a lot of people especially Especially people that follow the some of the mainstream church and some of the prosperity gospel is they read this as God does our pleasure for us. And it's really not. It's it's what he wants for us, which very often includes extremely difficult times. And that's one of the things that I'm uh uh worried about many professing believers is that when hard times come they don't expect them. And not to get into in end times discussion but whether you believe that that you're gonna be raptured, you know, before tribulation starts or during or after or whatever. The let's say let's say you believe and you've been taught that, you know, we'll be raptured before tribulation A lot of people kind of have that change their thinking to the point where they expect to be raptured or taken away before tribulation with a small T, not big T. Meaning They're not going to ever experience anything bad. And I think when that happens, then people start to lose faith because they don't expect it. But it's all through scripture. Everybody had hard times And you got that's how it's designed, that's how God tries us and purify helps us to be purified. Um is is one of those ways is is through uh trials and situations. And I'd like to um add something because I don't know that it would jump out at most of us, but in uh Philippians two verses twelve and thirteen in those in those two verses In a sense, the most important word of those, I don't know how many words it is, you know. 20, 30 words. The most important word, believe it or not, is probably the first word of chapter 13. I'm pretty sure almost all of our translations the first word is four. So everything that comes before that that's the hinge for that sentence. So everything that comes before that, its purpose, its reason For having been said is what follows. So what comes before it is, uh, my dear friends, as you have always obeyed, so it's about what you do, and not only in my presence but now much more in my absence, continue to do this good thing, to work out your salvation with fear and trembling. So it's about what we do, but how do we do it? For it is God who works in you. So it's not about us. That's kind of what Dan Daniel was getting to with it what his point was. It's not about us. It's about what God does, who he is, and how does he work in us He works in us by the Spirit of Christ. So everything is about Christ and what he has done. And even Jobs through Christ to strengthen me. Yep. And even Job kind of sorta in his own way understood that in the Old Testament. It was friends who they knew their Bible, but they might not have been reading it every day. Because they didn't know well enough. So you've got a lot of people. So they've got friends. Yeah, so they've got his his friends are giving him a lot of things we would actually hear today. understood a particular way. Some of his friends come across as legalists. Some of his friends come off as uh uh Prosperity, speak it into existence, have your best life now, kind of you know, prosperity gospel kind of stuff that's very common these days. A lot of the friends are kind of Saying that, hey Job, all you gotta do is start you know believing and it'll happen. Or you gotta start you know s you know living a better life. Don't sin so much. You'll be blessed. It's like quid pro quid pro quo. I mean God owes it to you if you if you live this life And that's not exactly what the Bible, uh the Bible. And then one of the uh best moments of Job, and one of the best moments of anybody in all of Scripture, happens in chapter 19 Which you you read as part of your sermon. Um where he's talking about uh He he's responding to his friends and he and he knows that, you know, he's in a tough time, uh but I know that my Redeemer lives and that in the The end he will stand upon the earth, and after my skin has been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God. I myself will see him with my own eyes, uh I and not another, how my heart yearns within me. This is a comment of confidence. He's standing on the promises of God. And without again, he's not gonna have a full understanding of Jesus Christ the way that we do. But as well as anybody in the Old Testament understands the coming Messiah, this is a glorious moment in scripture. And I mean I mean w we sh if we get into the story, I don't know how how uh um How theatrical we allow our minds to get in something like Job. But Job is a story, it's a narrative, it almost reads like a play. And so you can kind of enter into the stage and you can kind of enter into the lives of the characters. And if you do that and you really are reading it through like a story and you hit a moment like this, there are times when like it'll give you the shudders. Like, wow. That's what it's all about. And then it gets echoed in Philippians 2, verses 12 and 13, with it's about what God does. All the Job's friends are saying, Job, you've got to stop sinning. Job, you've got to believe. Job, you've got to overcome. Job, you've got to stop your whining. Job, you, You and child Jove in this particular moment says stop It's about my Redeemer. Amen. That is so powerful. This is kind of the high point of Joe's theology right there and it does go a little bit downhill toward the end of the end of the book. He gets worn down. And we get worn down. That's why we gotta stay in the word. That's why we have to come together and gather in fellowship. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me, which again doesn't mean what most people think it means. Uh it means that you can be content. And you might remember um uh we've watched almost every episode of the TV show Survivor over the years. years. And in in one of the episodes, I think it was Gervais, the character people who are big fans of Survivor will uh will will know the character. He was on the season a number of seasons. I think it was him. Uh my uh anyway, they were struggling, their tribe was getting beat up, if you know the show, you people get voted off and your tribe gets smaller and smaller and it gets harder and harder to win. And so you start to get depressed and you're and you're hungry, you know, and they're not reading the Bible usually on the show, and so they're spiritually hungry. And uh and they come back to win one of the challenges, these physical challenges. The guy comes back to win like a in a surprising upset to to stave off further elimination for their tribe. And the guy who helped them to win really was the reason they won. At the conclusion of the competition, he's so excited, he exclaims, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And I could imagine Christians all across the country watching the show saying, Yeah, brother, say it But that's not what the passage means. It doesn't mean you can win a survivor competition in Christ who strengthens you. That's not what it means. No. take it to me. He just doesn't say that here. Like there's other passages that talk about, you know, whatever God wants you to do, you can do. You can move him out. Right. If you have no faith. And I think that that passage is a little bit better in context um the moving out of the far at least means closer to what people think it means. But here it's really just talking about contentment. And that's what you need to think e every time you hear that phrase, it's about contentment. It's about being not wanting to do other things, but being satisfied in the things that God has for you. Uh and not wishing for something else, not accompanying something else. Yeah. It's good stuff. The one thing that the book of Job is by far my favorite book in the whole Bible. I love the book of Job because I love the rawness of Job. Um the author authenticity of Job getting to the moment where he's like, God, I don't understand where are you? I I need to talk to you And how many times do we go through trials, which is why the body of Christ is so important, where we're like, I don't understand. I thought I was doing everything you told me to do. What's happening? I just need to hear from you you and then God in his mercy disciplines Job so he puts him back on track. I think the one thing we don't understand is when we are disciplined, it's God's mercy Mercy on us. It's his it's his love for us. It's his mercy. So in his mercy, he didn't destroy Job. I mean he could have. But in his mercy he says, Alright, you want a question? Let me question you. Who made the Leviathan? Who did this? Who did that? And Job's like, Whoa. Okay. I get it. God never really answers Job's question. Oh why is a righteous person like me suffering? God doesn't even bother to answer the question. He comes up and says, Me, God, you, man, shut up. Which is the is basically the last couple chapters of Job is is is that's what he's saying and and he's justified in saying that, obviously. Um they get some really cool. But then he loves them so much he doesn't even remember And to put a more mundane illustration uh to help us apply this into our own lives, think about you know the the team teenager who's a pretty good kid, you know, good student. They work hard, maybe they they participate in sports and good at it and all that sort of stuff. They they play the piano and you know all that sort of stuff. But they have their moment. They're a teenage kid. They have a hard time. get beaten down by the things of life. They don't like the restrictions that mom and dad put on them. So they begin to get a little bit of attitude. That's kind of what happened with Jovi was beaten down to begin to get a little bit of attitude With my children, my daughter, you know, she had a little bit of attitude, but she hadn't crossed the line yet. But she's starting to put her toe right up next to it. And then times like that I say, Hey You watch yourself. You need to remember who pays the bills around here. Right? Who's in charge of this house? You know, don't you be careful how you talk to your mother. Who brought you into this world? Like that's what God is doing there. He's like, hey, Joe, who pays the bills around here? Who brought you into this world? Before you go any further and sin in a way that would cause me to lose my bet with Satan, let's stop right now. And he repents. many verses he repents. And then what does God do? Restores him. God restores us. That's the whole purpose of the discipline is to restore. He's a restorative God. And I think Job represents us when we're suffering. I mean e the the the the the the best of us might initially respond the way he did, like Lord You're in charge, I trust you. But after a while you you know, and then the human you, the the fallen you starts going really God? You know, um and then you start You know, maybe reciting all the things you've done for him and how you bless his kingdom and, you know, why is the sinner over here, you know, living in, you know um, the lap of luxury and and without a care in the world and I'm over here and I barely have two nickels to rub together and then you know. And um yeah, it's just it's just a very honest book. And the body is Christ to pray for you. Mm-hmm. By the way, thank this side of the room is a kind of runaway freight train I realize. You know, we've got some people that aren't used to our freewheeling discussions. Did you have anything you wanted to ask or contribute? Um I uh I was trying to remember that verse that regarding perseverance, uh you know, this produces this produces this Oh, thank you. What is that first? Right. Perseverance and then you're kindness and love, yeah. the point. That one? Well it's like this does this does this. Yeah and and then the final does not have the point. James, yeah. Oh no it is James. It is James. Right. It is changing. When you're suffering, you know, the end. Right. The end is good. Where you're stronger and I think that's important um when you encounter suffering and persecution. And I know people that they they were Christians. I mean I don't know if they were Christians, but when they encountered suffering like they had a a child die or some horrible thing and they immediately that was it you know turned against God and so So I mean that's real suffering, but um I mean makes me think of that verse that's okay. It's from Rowan's side as Yeah, ch yeah. So in in fairness to the people in the room, I mean Peter in chapter one does talk about perseverance and pushing through um uh persecution and stuff. I mean Peter, one of his major themes is about persecution. And James chapter one talks about uh you know faith develops perseverance. Right. So we weren't off as far as the subject, but the change. Yeah, the one the but I think the verse you're looking for is is Romans five. Uh by whom we have access Christ. Grace, rejoice in the hope of glory of God. We know that tribulation will get patience, patience experience, and experience hope, and hope makes not ashamed. Because the love of God is shame. I think that's the passage you were before. But the tribulation breeds faith or pain. Patience and and and uh and faith and hope. Yeah, and it it is hard to stay the course and trust God. But you will be stronger, you know, if you You can pull through that and then you can't. Yeah, exult in our hand. Sometimes you feel kind of twisted and torn out of shape in the process, but it's he he's he's making us into something even more beautiful. Yeah Yeah. Yeah, like the gold, right? Well and so Weakney says, but Red Shack, Meat Shack, and Veget Why can't I have that kind of a trial, Laura? How about that one? But in a sense, you know, uh um this E we could almost turn this into a sermon, but again, remember everything we've I've made this a theme pretty recurringly during our our our our teaching time. Everything in the Bible is about Jesus and what he's done for us. Everything. We know that's true because Jesus tells us so. Right? We know from Luke chapter 24 and John chapter 5 that that is true. So when you look at a story like that, it is tr you're a follower of Christ. That is true for you. You're going through the fires of persecution now, and in the end, you'll be glorified and you won't even smell smoke. Right. So even that story is true of you in Christ. So we you know, we gotta always keep that in mind. And I I I don't We were yeah, we got a little more time. Uh one of your uh you almost had it as a throwaway, but it was an important throwaway about read your Bible and being the word every day and uh and then you were reading because they both passed And then you were reading from the end of chapter one, but you s decided almo almost spontaneously that just continue and spill into chapter two, which is interesting. I think in the King James, uh the early part of chapter two, verse two, it talks about the pure spiritual milk. And I said this I think this King James says desire. Yes, uh desire the sincere milk of the word. Yeah. the Greek there, desire is a really good word uh to translate there, but I think the word desire possibly meant something stronger 400 years ago than it does today. I would desire to buy a new car, you know. Uh that's the desire of my heart. Like it's we're talking about we're talking about desire. Yearning. Yearning. Burning with passion for. Or to use the uh the uh illustration that Daniel had in the sermon about uh the Bible being food, we've been dealing with this recently. We've had some strange cravings. I've been craving beets and pickles and weird things like that. He's not pregnant. We should we should crave God's word. We should crave the spiritual milk. newborn babies who want to uh definitely have some experience of that recently. Yeah. And those newborn babies, I mean, when they're hung when the it's time for feeding. Yeah. And I'm you know, if the mama's breastfeeding The mama knows that baby's latching on Yearning. They're craving, they're yearning, they're desiring. So that should be, but it's not, because why? We're frail, fallen sinners still who are overcoming the weakness of our flesh through strength. Through Christ who strengthens us. And so we need to have discipline and train ourselves up and to walk through life in our sanctification with fear and trembling. and like tying all these different things we brought up together. But all of that needs to come together and not to overemphasize the point, but in today's day and age where for the last year and a half a lot of churches chose not to meet at all There's a reason we shouldn't forsake gathering together. You know, we need to help build each other up and encourage other and hold each other accountable and if you know when you show up to church and you're gonna run into that one friend who isn't shy and say, so what was the favorite thing you read in the Bible this week? And you know you can get asked that question You know you gotta have an answer. And so you're like, oh when I get asked that question this week this weekend, I better have read at least something from the Bible so that I can answer honestly. Even if you only read one day, it might be one more day than you would have You say, Oh, my favorite passage I read this week was uh from Peter chapter one and two. That might have been all you read, but you read it because you had a friend who was in their own way helping to keep you accountable. You know, it's it it's all woven together. Need to be obedient to every piece of God's word. And it's like that that uh illustration from Job, he says, he values Is it more than his necessary food? It's more necessary to him than food is. Um and so I encourage everybody to make that commitment to keep that commitment. To don't skip. Skip your dinner before you skip reading the Bible. Or do them both at the same time. Do them both, but if you skip one, it's gotta be food. It can't be the Bible. Oh that wouldn't go well for me. I'll do them both at the same time. So I would be testing God. Anyone else have anything else that they're uh Wanted to c to to bring up or shake your I we don't very often get Facebook questions, but did we get any? Mm-hmm. Okay. Um well then we're gonna draw uh uh the the Facebook live portion of our gathering uh to a close here, but we Would you mind maybe closing this portion with prayer? Sure. Let's pray. Dear Heavenly Father, we love and praise you. We thank you for all the um teaching you've given us from your word and the and the uh uh the illustrations you've given us on how to act and how to obey you. And we ask that you help us to always have that heavenly heavenly picture of what's really important. Help us to keep your word uh first and foremost. Help us to be strengthened through Christ, to do all things, to be content in all things, in the hard times as well as the easy Help us to not be surprised when bad things happen or persecution happens, but to rejoice and to keep our strength and our faith in you. Amen. Well thank you all for a great conversation. Thank you for uh participating by watching on Facebook Live. If you have a question later, if you watch this later and you see a question spark, you can always add your comment. I do interact with things that happen there you can come either on Facebook or on our YouTube channel. Uh we'll be back next week and we're gonna be blessed with another guest preacher, David Forcy, who is uh the pastor of one of our other partner house Churches is gonna have the message next week. I don't know what he's preaching on, but I do know this. It's gonna be great. So until next week, God bless.