Hello, so we're rolling. Hello, Facebook. Welcome back to the Household of Faith in Christ. Last week we were blessed with a message from From a guest uh pastor and preacher, uh Daniel Razby. This week we're blessed again with another uh guest pastor and preacher, uh David Forcy. He uh leads So I've been picked an name for it. So is the name. Don't try to find it online. I don't think you will. But if you want to find stuff online, we are online. So Household of Faith in Christ dot com is our website and you can find connect with all the different things we're involved with as a church. In fact we've got a really cool picture of you up there wearing like a bow tie or something. Oh nice. Very fancy I should check it out. And and if you ever join one of these Facebook Lives in progress or you want to refer back to them later, um all of these videos end up within usually forty eight to seventy two hours getting placed. on to our YouTube channel. And the easiest way to find our YouTube channel, really, go to our website and find a little YouTube icon and click on it. It takes you right to our channel. So all of our messages our i archive there as well. So that's going to be most of what I had to contribute today. So I'm going to take my seat over here. Angela's going to open us with a word of prayer and then David is gonna uh lead us through a a a tour of Genesis twenty through twenty two I believe and we'll have our group discussion like we do and you are encouraged as always. if you'd like to to participate in our discussion in the comments section. We'll try to incorporate your comments into our discussion. All right? Angela. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for bringing us together. for another time of fellowship, another time of going through your world, Lord, to learn from it. We pray, Father, that as the word is read, that you miss To each of our hearts exactly what we need. We ask that as we discuss that iron will sharpen iron. And we ask, Lord, that by the power of your spirit that we put together and we put into practice whatever it is, Lord, that you would issue correction or or guidance. guidance through through the reading of and the and the um explanation the discussion of your word. We thank you for this time together and we ask that you be glorified in it In Jesus' name. Amen. So uh yeah, so I'll I'll start off reading and Genesis chapter twenty. And uh we'll be reading for a little while. Um we're used to that at my house. I don't know how how long readings you all do, but uh I think three chap twenty four three chapters will be in the record. Excellent. Go daisy. Excellent. Okay. Um yeah, so this is uh This uh just a by way of brief introduction, um this is sort of right in the um in the in the middle of or toward toward the end of Abraham's life story uh that we have in Genesis that starts in chapter twelve and um And so we have you know uh the promised son, uh Isaac is born in here. Um And uh the one one of the things that I think that we'll we'll see and and probably talk about is um is uh is that that God um sees uh the individual situations that people are in and and uh uh and And he he hears them uh when they call to him and um and so we can uh You know, we we can take encouragement from that. Um knowing that God sees us, that he hears us, that he that he knows um what's going on even even inside of us. Um and uh and he helps us. So uh yeah, so let's read starting in in Genesis chapter twenty. Uh now Abraham journeyed from there toward the land of the negative. And settled between Kadesh and Shur, and he sojourned in Gerar. Abraham said of his wife, She is my sister. So Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. But God came to Abimelech in a dream of Of the night, and said to him, Behold, you are a dead man because of the woman whom you have taken, for she is married. Now Abimelech had not come near her And he said, Lord, will you slay a nation, even though blameless? Did you not himself say to me, She is my sister? And she herself said, He is my brother. In the integrity of my heart and the innocence of my hands I have died. Then God said to him in the dream, Yes, I know that in the integrity of your heart you have done this, and I also kept you from sinning again. against me. Therefore I did not let you touch her. Now therefore restore the man's wife, for he is a prophet, and he will pray for you, and you will live. But if you do not restore her, know that you shall surely die, you and all who are yours. So Abimelech arose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their hearing, and the men were greatly fed. Frightened. Then Abimelech called Abraham and said to him, What have you done to us? And how have I sinned against you that you have brought on me and on my kingdom a great And Abimelech said to Abraham And Abimelech said to Abraham, What have you encountered that you have done this thing? Abraham said, Because I thought, surely there is no fear of God in this place, and they will kill me because of my wife. Besides, she is actually is my sister, the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother, and she became my wife. And it came about when God caused me to wander from my father's house that I said to her, This is the kindness Which you will show to me. Everywhere we go, say of me, he is my brother. Abimelech then took sheep and oxen, and male and female servants, and gave them to Abraham. Silver. Behold it is your vindication before all who are with you, and before all men you are cleared. The Lord had closed fast all the wounds of the household of Abimelech because of Sarah, Abraham's wife. Then the Lord took note of Sarah as he had said, and the Lord did for Sarah as he had promised. So Sarah conceived and bore a son. Son to Abraham in his old age, at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him. Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him, whom Sarah bore to him, Isaac. Then Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him. Now Abraham was one hundred years old when his son Isaac was born. Sarah said, God has made laughter for me. Everyone who hears will laugh with me. And she said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age. The child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. Now Sarah saw the son of Hagar. The Egyptian, whom she had born to Abraham, mocking. Therefore she said to Abraham, Drive out this maid and her son, for the son of this maid shall not be heir with my son Isaac. The matter distressed Abraham greatly because of his son. But God said to Abraham, Do not be distressed because of the lad and your maid. Whatever Sarah tells you, listen to her. For through Isaac your descendants shall be named. And of the son of the maid, I will make a great nation also, because he is your descendant. So Abraham arose early in the morning. And took bread and a skin of water and gave them to Hagar, putting them on her shoulder, and gave her the boy, and sent her away, and she departed and wandered about in the wilderness of Beersheba. When the water in the skin was used up, she left the boy under one of the bushes. Then she went and sat down opposite him, about a bowshot away, for she said, Do not let me see the boy. And she sat opposite him and lifted up her voice and wept. God heard the lad cry, and the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to him, What is the matter with you, Hagar? Do not fear, for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is. Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him by the hand, for I will make a great nation of him. Then God opened her eyes and she saw a well of water. And she went and filled the skin with water and gave the lad a drink. God was with the lad, and he grew, and he lived in the wilderness and became an archer. He lived in the wilderness of Peran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt. Now it came about at that time that Abimelech and Fikal, the commander of his army, spoke to Abraham, saying, God is with you in all that you do. Now therefore, swear to me here by God that you will not deal falsely with me, or with my offspring, or with my posterity, but according to the kindness that I have shown you You shall show to me and to the land in which you have served him. Abraham said, I swear. But Abraham complained to Abimelech because of the well of water which the servants of Abimelech had seized And Abimelech said, I do not know who has done this thing. You did not tell me, nor did I hear of it until today. Abraham took sheep and oxen, gave them to Abimelech, and the two of them made a covenant. Then Abraham set seven ew lambs of the flock by themselves. Abimelech said to Abraham, What do these seven Ewambs mean? Would you have set by themselves? said, You shall take these seven new lambs from my hand, so that it may be a witness to me that I dug this well. Therefore he called the place Beersheba, because there the two of them took an oath. So they made a covenant in Beersheba, and Abimelech and Fichal, the commander of his army, arose and returned to the land of the Philistines. Abraham planted The Tamrisk tree at Beer Sheba, and there he called on the name of the Lord, the everlasting God. And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines for many days. Now it came about after these things that God tested Abraham and said to him, Abraham, and he said, Here I am. He said, Take now your son, your only son. Whom you love, Isaac, and go to the land of Moriah, and offer him there as a burnt offering on one of the mountains of which I will tell you So Abraham rose early in the morning and saddled his donkey and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and he split wood for the burnt offering, and arose and went to the place Of which God had told him. On the third day, Abraham raised his eyes and saw the place from a distance. Abraham said to his son, Young men, stay here with the donkey, and I and the lad will go over there. We will worship and return to you. Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering and laid it on his son Isaac. And he took in his hand the fire and the knife. So the two of them walked on together. Isaac spoke to Abraham his father and said, My father. And he said, Here I am, my son. And he said, Behold, the fire and the wood, but where's the lamb for the burnt offering? Abraham said, God will provide for himself the lamb for the burnt offering Then they came to the place of which God had told had told him, and Abraham built the altar there, and arranged the wood, and bound his son Isaac and Laid him on the altar on top of the wood. Abraham stretched out his hand and took the knife to slay his son. But the angel of the Lord called to him from heaven and said, Abraham, Abraham. And And he said, Here I am. He said, Do not stretch out your hand against the lad, and do nothing to him. For now I know that you fear God, since you have not withheld your son. Minä olen MINKINAMINAL TIMENT MINE TARINI NAR NARL NILE MALLINE MINE NOLLINE TIMÄ NE Large part of it is uh i is is humbling ourselves before god, submitting ourselves to God. And trusting that that he that that only he can provide, that only he really knows. You know, what the good life is because he's the one who who created it. Um and It's a nuanced thing, but I think it can influence how we share the gospel. I think that's the point I'm that I'm kind of in my mind is my pastor's heart again for what it's worth. at some level, right? We we're all working on priests, you know, we're all lead witnesses. We should be thinking one of these terms. So yeah so we get somebody to understand You know, the person's like, boy, I have a problem. You know, I have a need. So I'm gonna say the sinner's prayer and I'm gonna be saved. And that whole process becomes about them. As opposed to there is a holy, righteous, perfect God who made me, and I have sinned against him. So God made me, I've sinned against him Him, but he rescued me through his son. It's the exact same thing, but the perspective is more focused on God, who he is, what he's done, his glory. And then our response is out of a humility like oh I need to repent and turn to him as opposed to oh I said a sinner's prayer so now I'm good. And there's so many people who are walking around today who oh And so now I'm good and I can do whatever I want. And they've never come to terms with they were made by a holy right Righteous yes, merciful, but also just God. And so that whole idea about we do it for selfish interest just you know it it just it it it's Struck me as probably there's an element of truth that I get that there is an element of truth, but the way the folks phrased it was the main reason. I was like, that that's an ancillary aspect, but it is not the main thing. We gotta keep the main thing the main thing. So that's a bit of an aside, I know, but no I agree with that because y you know but I I think a lot of people just aren't disciples. They never come out of that selfishness. And I think I think cycling helps people come out of that. They stop being self focused and they start understanding that they are listening For Christ. You know, the Bible says even our bodies are not our own. You know, we get when when we get saved, you know, we our bodies are instruments of Christ You know, he he owns us. He he gives us his spirit and we're we're a temple of the Holy Spirit and and and a lot of people, at least in our culture, never get to that point. You know, and um and and people it it does manifest into some bad fruit. I mean people I'll just I won't share the name, but I'll give you an example In my circles I I I I encountered a woman who um was really struggling, a personal struggle and she was praying a lot and the Lord just wasn't answering her prayer and time and um she was just very angry about it but he wasn't answering the prayer in the time that she believed he should answer and She contacted me and told me that how she was struggling with with the Lord and how she you know she had to forgive him. Huh? She had to forgive God. Yeah She had it forgiven. Well how big of her. She she was up in a very place. You know, she was angry with and she had it forgiven and I just I responded to her And I just gave her one sentence. I said, God doesn't need your forgiveness, you need his. Amen. And she And one of the things she needed forgiveness was arrogance. And she she got mad at me. Wow. She got angry with me, told me I was harsh, told me she shared something with me when she really needed somebody to be understanding and she had been suicidal. And I tell her back and I I'm sorry you went through that. You know, I've been suicidal too. The Bible says that there's not any suffering that's not common to all men. I get it You were spinning like a big thing. But I had to pull you out of this thing where you thought that you need to forgive God because of blasphemy, because only sinners need to give God. Yeah, that's and so but but it's to your point. Um of a a self uh a selfish orientation that apparently she would notice disciple daughter and it made her you know it made her crazy in her you know in her thinking that she had to because she's angry at God She's got to forgive him. She's got to, you know, you you've disappointed me and so I've got to release you from this. Like, no, no, no, no, no. No, no, no. That's not the way to view that So there there are some real consequences for people not to be able to do that. Now since I I thought I was off the rails, let me see if I can swing this back into the text. a holy sovereign God. He's gonna try to figure things out himself. You know, the whole Ishmael thing happens because they weren't trusting in a sovereign God, they're gonna try to figure it out themselves to get what they want Uh Abraham sends you know Ishmael away, but then the text tells us that God was with the boy as he grew up. So Abraham's like, go away, son. And God's like, don't worry, I'm still with you kind of thing. And then of course, uh he finally um has his heroic good moment when he is obedient in chapter Well, just you know, continuing through, it's fine. Um So that that is one thing that's interesting about Abraham, right? He doesn't have he doesn't have any God's word written down at all. So you we have to remember uh he doesn't All he has is is God who you know said, Abraham, like leave your father's household and go to this place and I'll give it to you. And so Abraham recognizes that that this this this person who talked to him is you know uh is is significant Is far above him, you know, in every way. And so I mean part of what we see here too is is Abraham learning just who God Who who is God? What is He like? You know? And after the point. And and so and and so that that's where I would believe for him for Christ. And and too we see God's patience, right? And God's commitment to Abraham despite Abraham. I can't say I've never made this before. Well I go around the block a lot. Yeah. And and I I think one of the things that that's interesting here about um So God tests Abraham, right, is the word that we have. And uh yeah, it's it's interesting to think about. So so God is not uh he's not a proctor. He he's not trying to figure out you know what you actually know. God is well aware of not just what you know but how you And uh and so this test for Abraham I I'm convinced is is for for Abraham. For Abraham's right. Yeah, we also take tests right to because after we take a test we know now we know what we want. Right. We don't know necessarily we aren't necessarily aware of that until after And uh and so and so Abraham you know puts on puts on this I mean we're able to see it. Um you know, but but Abraham experiences it himself, you know, a a trust in God that he is not. had before. And um and one of the things that one of the one of the hints that we have to to it here is is in 22 verse 5 where Abraham said to his young men, Stay here with the donkey. And I and the lad will go over there. And we will worship and return to you. And you know, we we might not want to infer too much from this except that Later in scripture we're we're told that Abraham believed that when Abraham said, you know, we will return, he will He was in that moment trusting that God would make a way, right? That even if he sacrificed Isaac, right, that God would return Isaac. Right, to raise him from the dead or Yeah, yeah. Abraham at that point was he already had the promise that I that Isaac would become a great nation, so it can't truly end there. Yeah, yeah. But he's you know But he's he's trusting that you know. Uh and it's interesting, right? Before he was afraid of someone else taking his life. And now God is saying, Okay, now Now you take now you are going to be the one who takes a life that you want to preserve. Maybe actually Abraham was thinking about his past experience with God and how he didn't trust him those two times with his wife. So maybe by this time he had learned the lesson. And he's committed, you know, like like in the New Testament the lingo's about, you know, finishing the race and all that sort of stuff. Uh this is like a three day Um testing and spiritual race, if you will. The verse right before the one you just read, you know, on the third day Abraham looked up and saw the place in the distance. It took him three days to get there. They and they tr and they were hoping it apparently because they started out in Versheba, ended up at Mount Moriah, as the crow flies uh my understanding that's like fifty miles and then you're following the terrain to get there. They walk sixty miles in three days. They're doing twenty miles a day. That's not thirteen. Difficult consuming journey and he's committed to being obedient in what God has asked him to do. So there's a call on us to kind of do the same thing. You mentioned in chapter twenty-one how one of the themes there is about seeing. God sees Ishmael and Hagar and stuff. And well, seeing is a is it's not as easy to see in our English Bibles, unfortunately. In chapter 22, seeing is a huge theme as well because what typically gets provide uh gets um translated as provide, the Hebrew word there, it's a it's actually difficult Hebrew word to translate into English with 100% confidence of exactly how to best handle it. And so we might some of our English translation might have slightly different words and how they handle certain passages in chapter twenty-two. But the uh in chapter eight when it says, you know, God Himself, this again IV, God Himself will provide The Lamb. The word provide there is actually the Hebrew word for see. So you could say, you know, God Himself will see the Lamb. If that's an uh a way of thinking. about it, well, if we were to see the lamb, who would who do we know to be the lamb? The lamb. And seeing that lamb, so is there a a hint possibly, I won't press it too far, but is there a hint it possibly a precursor to what's to come and be revealed to us in the uh in the New Testament. And then on on the Mountain of the Lord, uh Abraham God will see the Lamb, God will see to it that there is a Lamb. There's different ways of trying to understand how that and then the last part of verse 14. And to this day it is that on the map Mountain of the Lord, it will be provided, or it will be seen. Or, again, with the difficulty of how to best translate that Hebrew and English. It's fair. It wouldn't be wrong. Let me put it this way. I'm not saying it's the way our Bible should read necessarily, but it wouldn't be wrong to translate that the um uh On the mountain of the Lord, the Lord will be seen. That wouldn't be a wrong translation. Now, in this context, it might not be the best translation. But do we what do we know about Mount Moriah? In biblical history. Is anybody it's in that where the um Ten Commandment No, that was Sinai. Um There you go. It's where the temple was built and uh it's a it's a hugely important place in the biblical area. So many important things. But the temple is a picture of of heaven on earth. That's what it's supposed to be. It's like a new Eden, and of course Eden is a s is a type and a picture for heaven. And the the recreation that awaits us, which we're going to finally get to eventually, as we're doing our push through the book of Revelation. So it's all tied together. So you can see if this is the place where the Lord will be seen, well, if it makes sense. It's a picture of heaven, it's a picture of where Christ will be, all you know, uh where God's presence is, um with the temple, all those things uh tie together, uh and that's on purpose. Right, that's gotta be that that's not I don't think it's me trying to push the text too far or look for an allegory is not there. It's just it's too plain. It's too much of a connection that's got to be something that we should see in the text. I just thought of something. The Abraham's walk, you said the sixty miles He was a hundred about a hundred and twelve years old. I thought they said they brought donkeys. There there's there's at least one there. Yeah. They seemed to live a little longer back then. I think it's a They didn't genetically modify their food. But you thought right about one animal year and I think that's a good idea. I mean even riding on an animal for someone like us that was a hundred and twelve years old. I mean, back you know, fifty mi I don't know what it's like to ride on a donkey fifty miles, I wouldn't want to do it. And they had to bring a lot of water, I'd imagine, so that was a head Unless they happen to know wells along the way. I'm not an expert on this, so I think Beersheba has a lot of wells. Okay. So must there happen to be nice green. Yeah. But anyway. California. Like gee uh climate wise it's kind of similar. Deserty. Doesn't rain very much like Napa area. I don't know what now. So it's a right, there's a a a strenuous it was a test, right, that God called a for him to do. Um And you know, I think going back, you know, Troy, you were you're sh sort of saying I think that right it was several days of knowing that the This was calling Abraham knowing what he had to do. You know, and uh yeah, and so it I mean it's interesting, right? We have Abraham who Um even when he was Abram father is in his name. And you have uh you have Sarah, who's not able to have children, has a son. Bears a son. And then you have Isaac who is the son, the only son. Right. So you have this family that is really heavily picturing right the Christ. In the coming of Christ. And you have Isaac carrying the wood that he's going to be sacrificed on. Right. Up the mountain. Right. Right. Christ carries his cross. And uh and Isaac only lays down on the altar. He's still a kid, and there is there is something about him Abraham by Yeah. So we don't know we don't know exactly what what the situation was. Ha ha joke's gone far enough, don't you think? Yeah. Yeah. And you know, but and God Abraham is is going to do it. And God stops him and says, Abraham Abraham. Um and uh do you think Isaac could hear God too, or would he just have trust trust issues with his Well that's a good question. We don't we don't know. If he trusted him enough to to lay on that altar, I think he probably could have sheer fear could have No, there was, but only afterwards. Because the moment I where's the sacrifice After the lamb shows up miraculously. I Isa Isaac knows that it I mean, he experiences it turning out okay in me. Yeah. And I just me personally I would be like, Dad Would you really come through with it if that if that ram didn't show up if you think you're God? So so Isaac personally experiences, right, that uh being uh God providing a substitute for his life. Right. Yeah. Amen. Yes, God God provides the Lamb and you know the Lamb is is Christ. isn't something that comes from us, it's a gift from God. So I would imagine in that moment, God, because God, you know, He's always before us. you know, gave him an extra measure of faith in that moment to be because I mean when you think about it, someone said to me, go take Tyler, strap him to your side, carry him I'd be like, are you kidding me right now? So no button, you know, in our own uh um fleshy self. But spiritually if you know y you know you belong to God, God gives you that measure of faith to be able to be obedient. We c we we're fooling ourselves if we think that we're obedient. You know our own self. It's only because we have faith, which is a gift from God. That's scripture. Scripture tells us faith is a gift from God. And and and Isaac must have have that God must have given Isaac that same thing. Yeah. Because right. To your point, Annie, if if Isaac couldn't hear the voice, why would he You're a hundred years old. Why are you female now? Screaming and running away. Yeah, you've lost your mind, Dad. I'm not doing that, you know. I'm not gonna let you because you thought you heard from God, you know that I'm not gonna do that That he must the Lord must have given him that faith to believe that his father really was hearing from God. Right. Yeah. Abraham's heart and mind, but it doesn't tell us what was in Isaac's heart and mind, so we we we can't know. I was just always kinda curious because he seems so passive about the whole thing. He was aware that something was something. Dad, Dad, where's the what what are we sacrificing with? Oh I made this point earlier, you know, again The Old Testament hadn't been written yet, so you have no text to go on. And the culture of the time, it I mean, it wouldn't make it any easier for Isaac, but there was a lot of That's right. So absolutely ever heard he's like oh my god is just like all the other gods who wants me to su sacrifice my child or Abraham obviously wasn't thinking that or he's thinking if I do sacrifice sacrifice and he's gonna bring him right back to life somehow or whatever his thinking was. But Isaac might have been like, okay, this is a it kind of stinks that it's me, but this is a cultural norm. I guess it's my But then we do know I forget the exact chapter and verse, but in Leviticus, it's Leviticus it's very Oh yeah. So God doesn't merely spare him here, but he goes on to say, I'm spare you're not doing this to any of your children, that's my law. Of course, interestingly, another Christ-like thing going on here, right? That Abraham uh has his sons spared by God, but God doesn't do that for himself. And and I think that well, right. People people get hung up on that, right? God being a a bad dad. Christ goes of his own. Exactly. I'm not a bad dad. Yeah. Okay. Um at the end of the day he lived anyway, so he did rise again. Yes. Yeah. Yeah, we're um we're around that time we normally might begin to wrap up the discussion, but you know we have a really good discussion going. If anybody has more things they wanted to add, we can keep it going if necessary. necessary but otherwise we can begin to wind it down. Anybody else have any additional like last thoughts or something as I said in the discussion that's for you guys over here. Uh the people Probably off camera. I've been rather quiet. Anything you wanted to throw into the next? No? Okay. Hey, speaking of him being old, he also had to wrestle around And actually the ram, this is one thing I probably we normally in this passage would get pointed out, uh the ram gets caught in the thicket by its horn. And it almost like, why'd it give us that detail? Well, because for it to be a an appropriate sacrifice, it needed to be a sacrifice without blemish. So if the rammet or the lamb however in the thicket in the brush, it would have gotten all damaged. So being caught by the horns, it was an undamaged, unblemished sacrifice. And of course that pictures Christ as well, who was the perfect unblender sacrifice. So nice detail. So we can, I guess, unless I mean if anything else will end on that note. Um Ray, would you mind closing us in prayer tonight? Yeah, yeah, sure. Uh dear Lord, we thank you for this message for this gathering and just just deep dive into your word and you know just seeing how all all scripture points to the gospel and certainly a more explicit text, but you know, nonetheless we just thank you. for the promises you had starting you know through Abraham and through Isaac and you know eventually to Christ. We just thank you for that here. We thank you for this gathering. We thank you for this worship. And we pray that this message would you know just resonate in our lives and we bring glory to you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. Well thank you. Well we're we're gonna be blessed by another uh guest, uh pastor and preacher next week as Imran Rasby, Daniel, who preached last week, his father is gonna be here next week handling the message. Thank you very much Yeah. I think I can speak for the group. We're all incredibly blessed. So thank you. So we'll be back next week on Facebook Live at 6 o'clock. Until then, God bless.