Hello Facebook, welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ a weekly gathering on Saturday evening. It's or if you're watching this later on our YouTube channel, hello YouTube. For the third week in a row, we are blessed to have a guest, pastor, uh handling the teaching, the preaching, and orchestrating the the uh the discussion that we're going to be having after the message is done. This week it's uh Imran Rajve. And if the last name sounds familiar, it's because two weeks ago Daniel Razby and I'm not sure there's a distant relation between them, I'm pretty sure. Uh Imron is Daniel's father and uh they're they're both involved with uh another house church in the area. And it's been my honor to know them for a number of years and it's a absolute honor and privilege for us all to hear the message he's going to uh be sharing with us today. So thank you for joining us. And if you have any comments or questions, you are certainly welcome and encouraged to add them into the comment section. We will try to incorporate those into our discussion this evening if if you have any comments or questions you want to interact with. Um and if you want to connect with this later on, you lose track with trying to find things on the Facebook feed can be difficult. So it's quite a bit easier to just go to the the uh website for the church, find our YouTube channel and all of these videos are housed there. So go to household of faith in Christ dot com and you can find everything we do with social media, all the stuff about what we believe, what we're all about, all that sort of stuff. is there. So I'm going to uh open us with a word of prayer and then I'm going to hand off the reins to Imran and it's going to then be his show for like the next hour or so. So here Sit over here. Oh, we sit here? Oh that's right, because we don't need to worry about that spot. Okay. Father, we praise you and thank you that you have called the people unto yourself, knowing that we are not worthy of such an honor, and yet through Christ and his blood you have deemed uh to treat us as though we are. And that uh you call us to be your people to be uh a kingdom of of priests to be saints who are procla busy about proclaiming the message of the kingdom. We praise you and thank you that we are still able to do so freely in our national context right now to have a meeting, a gathering such as this. We pray that your your truth would be magnified and clarified for us, that we would uh discern ways to apply it to our lives so we We'd be faithful and obedient to your word upon your call in our life that we would by the prodding of your Holy Spirit be moved to loving our neighbors enough to share the truth with them And to do so uh with winsome character and gentleness and those sorts of things when the the opportunity would call for such a thing, but to not shy away from being bold being firm in what your rude uh your word truly says to a lost and lonely and wanting world. We ask your blessing upon the message, upon the time of discussion that will follow. May hearts be convicted, and may your people be edified. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Oh wow. My name is Imran Rasley. I thank you for speaking too. I appreciate the opportunity to I just want to put this closer. Sure. I want to read from uh Genesis chapter eighteen. I wanna read the entire chapter first, then I'll come back and go through it uh line by line for a few things. that it can squeeze my thoughts. And feel free to ask questions. I actually do enjoy being interrupted. And uh sometimes it gets me thinking in a better thought. So please feel free to ask a question. So Genesis chapter 18. You want to turn there, Genesis chapter 18. Verse 1. And the Lord appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre, and he sat in the front in the tent door in the heat of the day. And he lifted up his eyes and looked, and lo, three men stood by him, and when he saw them he ran to meet them from the tent door and bowed himself toward the ground And said, My Lord, if now I have found favor in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from my from thy servant. Let a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree. And I will fetch a morsel of bread and comfort ye your hearts. After that ye shall pass on, for therefore are ye come to your servants. And they said, So do as thou hast said. And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quick, three measures of fine meal, meet it, and make cakes upon the hearth. And Abraham ran unto the herd and fetched a calf tender and good, and gave it unto a young man, and he hasted to dress it. And he took butter and milk and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them, and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat. And they said unto him, Where is Sarah, thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent. And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life. And lo, Sarah, thy wife, shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door which was behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age, and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women. Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old, shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also? And the Lord said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of assurity bear a child which which am old Is anything too hard for the Lord? At the time appointed, I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son. Then Sarah denied, saying, I laugh not, for she was afraid. And he said, Nay, but thou didst laugh. And the men rose up from thence and looked toward Sodom, and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way. And the Lord said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do, seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him For I know him, and that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the Lord, to do justice and judgment, that the Lord may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him And the Lord said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous, I will go down now and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it which has come unto me, and if not, I will know And the men turned their faces from thence and went toward the Sodom. But Abraham stood yet before the Lord. And Abraham drew near and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked? Peradventure there be f fifty righteous within the city. Wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? That be far from thee, to do after such a manner, to slay the righteous with the w with the wicked, and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee Shall not the judge of all earth do right? And the Lord said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes. And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord, which am as but dust and ashes. Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous. Wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it. And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty sake And he said unto him, Oh, let not the Lord be angry, and I will speak. Peradventure there shall be thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do it if I find thirty there. And he said, Behold now I have taken upon me to speak unto the Lord. Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake. And he said, Oh, let not the Lord be angry, and I will seek yet but this once. Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten things. And the Lord went his way, and as soon as he had left communing with Abraham, and Abraham returned unto his place. So there's actually two separate things going on here There's a first part of Genesis chapter 18 that really deals with something totally different, and the second part. So I'm going to focus on the first part and we have time we may go into the second part. So the first part Abraham is sitting in near his tent and he sees three people and he immediately recognizes the Lord. You'll see that in in there. And he lifted up his eyes and looked, and lo, three men stood by him. So it's described as three men. And when he saw them, he ran to meet them and from the door and bowed himself up toward the ground, and said, My Lord, if now I have found favor in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee from thy. So to me it sounds like Abraham immediately recognized him as the Lord. He ran to meet him, bowed down to him, and invited him there. And one of the things this chapter reads so fast, but if you look at it, He goes and tells Sarah, his wife, to n need bread, right? Let it rise. Let it it's it's not a short you know, five minute, ten minute, you go to the fridge and pull something out, you know, you see somebody going down the street and say, Oh yeah, come on in, I got some food for you Take something out, put in the microwave, and in ten minutes you got a meal there. No. She's gotta knead the the the bread, let it rise, uh cake uh baked cakes. It's not unleavened, it doesn't say unleavened bread. Baked cakes. Cakes are usually leavened Okay? But that's okay. He had ti she had time. Because he had to go into the field and find a a tender calf. Right? Uh let's see. He fetched a tender calf in uh verse seven. He ran into the herd. Okay, while the Lord's waiting, he ran out to the herd and he had hundreds, if not thousands, of of animals there. He was a very rich rich man and we can see that in other parts of the Bible. But he ran and found a tender calf, got somebody to kill it, to dress it, to prepare it. All that takes time Okay, so it's not an easy process. So one of the things that really bites on my heart in this today's culture is we have so little time that if we if we're in a line with just two people ahead of us, we're impatient. And we're so not ready to be host to somebody because we're not ready. We're not prepared. We don't have things ready. We're more afraid of looking good than actually being welcoming and welcoming people into our heart house in our heart and serving them. And so this to me, Abraham's showing that look, it's not a small thing. It probably took several hours to get the cake made, to get the calf uh dressed and and cooked and everything else. It does it doesn't it's not a very short period. No matter how good you are, it's not gonna take but at least three or three hours. Okay? Um two or three hours. So to me, it this is a Different time, yes, but I think it's teaching us that we should have the time to welcome people into our home. to welcome people into our hearts and to not be so w worried about time, what we have to do, and where we have to get to, to ignore that calling of being hospitable. uh and recognizing God, that's very important here. So if you see further down, it's very obvious that he recognizes, but then when Sarah, um he's she's in the tent, when Uh God said, I will certainly return unto the unto thee according to the time of life, which is uh verse ten. Lo, Sarah, thy wife shall have a son, and Sarah heard it in the front door which was behind him. Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age, and it ceased to be with Sarah in the manner of women. Therefore Sarah lacked within herself. Now if you notice here She laughed. Everybody focuses on her laughing. But it says she laughed within herself. She didn't laugh out loud. She thought within herself, laughed within herself, and God knew it. Obviously God knows our thoughts Right? And so the Lord said to Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of assurity bear a child which am old? So to me, what what really comes out of this is Sarah did not recognize God. Because I don't think Sarah would have laughed at that because when when he said that she knew she didn't laugh out loud, she laughed within herself. She me now she recognized only God could know that. I laughed, yes, but not outwardly. Nobody could have possibly heard me laugh. Okay? So this now she realizes this is God and now she becomes afraid. Whereas Abraham recognized God from the very beginning, Sarah did not. So to me that that's a very distinctive point. Are we able to recognize God? In this time of antichrist, in this time of all these things going in directions that we don't expect and don't want, and hope, you know, for God, how do we recognize an Antichrist versus a Christ? I think the more time we spend in the words, the more we know about him, the truth. And oftentimes you when somebody is looking for counterfeits, they don't study counterfeits. What do they study? They study the real thing. Then they can recognize the counterfeit. You the the real thing is is Jesus his word tells us and describes how who God is, how he behaves, what he says, what he does, and the more time you spend in his word the more we know him and the better chance we have of recognizing him immediately as opposed to Sarah later when she realizes Oh, shoot, I laughed within myself and there's nobody could have heard, but God knew that must be God. Now I'm afraid because I laughed at what God said to me. Does that make sense Okay. So you know, for the longest time I never even thought about that, but I read this and it k it really bit me. that she's laughed within herself. Everybody sits there and laugh, but she never laughed out loud. And how many times have I laughed within myself? Not to offend somebody, but yeah, right you know, just in my head, rolled my eyes, didn't even think about it, didn't made sure it didn't offend somebody, but I didn't believe where I mocked somebody within my heart. And that's what Sarah was doing. So she didn't actually do it out loud. But God knew. God knows. God knew then and God knows now when we act the same way. But my point really was to recognize God. You have to be able to recognize him. Not only from fear, Sarah recognized him from fear because she knew that she did something wrong, but recognize him as he's passing by. How awful would it be that God passes right by you and you don't recognize him and only later find out he was right here and you didn't even see him So Abraham was in his tent door and he immediately recognized and said, Come, Lord, eat with me, sup with me, I will provide a little bit of morsel, a little food, a little drink. So I think it's important for us, especially in this in these days, and I keep coming back to it and and Troy and I were talking earlier about what's happening in the world these days. I think it's very important, and it's always been important, important, to be able to recognize God. The Jews, Pharisees, uh they did not recognize Jesus when he came. Their scriptures, God's word, clearly describes what was going to happen, yet they did not recognize him. So my fear has always been, will I recognize him if he's right here? What will it take for me to recognize God and not miss that opportunity? Because God is everywhere. And I'm sure He's been near me, He's been around me, and how many times did I miss? Because I know He's protected me from things that I only in retrospect like wow God was definitely with me because he protected me provided for me in different ways there's so many things and And I can go on and on, but God tells us to make a memorial of those things. And that's a different uh sermon for a different time. But in your lives, if you do that, because I can tell I'm sure in each one of your lives you've had times where God has been very evident. There's been some miracles, some pro providence, some things that have happened. And we if we d if we don't memorialize it and put it down and write it and member it, how are our kids gonna remember? And how do we recognize it? The more we spend time with God, the more we recognize it. recognize him. So in the first part of this this uh these verses I really wanted to focus on that part is spend time in God's Word because that's the only way we're gonna know him. And the better we know him, the easier we'll know when there's a counterfeit. Right? The better we know him, the easier will be know when we uh when we recognize him, but we'll also be able to know when there's a counterfeit Because there will be counterfeits. It's said very clearly in the Bible. There will be and I think uh Troy's gonna keep going into Revelation, we're gonna uh read some of that Antichrist and what's gonna happen and how he's gonna be healed and but only Jesus has that, right? We have to be able to recognize that. So recognizing God will help us and protect us from falling away and going after something that is not God. So I would urge all of you here and at home on Facebook or YouTube to spend time with God so that when he is nearby you will recognize him. And what a beautiful thing. Can you just imagine you're sitting down on a park bench and somebody sits next to you and you recognize it's God. Wow. You know But he's alive and well. God is walking with us, walking around us, and He does so many things for us, and there's so many things we don't even recognize that He's He does for us. We gotta be able to recognize him. And so I wanted to bring this to you today and really talk about that. Now it's only about 623, so we can continue on a little further. And Sarah denied again she was very afraid now that she recognized this is God. It took a took a moment for her to see that only God would have heard me laugh because I didn't laugh out loud, left within myself But now she's afraid and now she says and she denies. So you can't deny any of your sin to God. He knows it. You can't hide it Whatever you do, whatever you say, whatever your thoughts are, nothing is hidden from God. And that's what made it very poignant for Sarah here to realize who was out there sitting with Abraham. And then she became fearful because she knew that she had laughed at what God had said. If God said it it said something, then it's true. He didn't lie. And that really helped me to understand that uh why Sarah became afraid. Because before I you know, when I first read it, the the one thing with with God's word is everytime you read it you get something else out of it. I don't remember when this was, but uh just light went off, like, oh, now I get it. So Sarah became afraid. Why Because nobody else could have heard her laugh. So then God it seemed like God made a specific decision to come and visit Abraham before he went to Sahara. And I've heard several uh sermons on Abraham pleading for Lot's life. I don't see that in the in the in the actual text. Abraham is not pleading. The people conjecture from the words that Abraham's pleading for Lot's life because he knows Lot went into s into Sodom. But nowhere in this does Abraham plead for Lot's life. He's leading righteousness. He's asking. And I was always like, wow. Would I have the courage to ask God The the way Abraham asked him, Peradventure, you know what there's five less, or there's five less, the ten less. Would you still be a righteous God and and and destroy that city for those righteous people? But he had the courage because he why would he have the courage? Because he knew who God was. He spent time with him. When you know somebody, you have the fear because uh the way he asks it is fearful, but it's is respectful, but it is bold in that he knows that if he uh he's asking God, he's asking someone, he knows who God is. Okay. Imagine going to court, right? For whatever reason, whether it's a traffic ticket, whether whatever it was or lawsuit. You don't know the judge. You have no idea what the judge is gonna say, what he's gonna take uh the wrong way, and you have to be very respectful. There's only certain things you can say. There's a lot of decorum of what you can say and how you can say when it's your turn to say things and things like that. This is a judge of the entire universe, creator of the entire universe For Abraham to be able to speak to God the way he did, he had to know him. I know I've been to court several times. Not that I'm a very bad criminal, but I've been to court several times for different things. And every time it's an intimidating thing when that judge has the power to throw the case out that you're trying to bring to somebody else or to find against you when you know you're right. The judge has all that power And it's intimidating to a point where you're many times afraid to say something because anything you say can and will be held against you. Right? The judge can make a decision and veer in a different direction. But here Abraham asks very clearly and says, uh let's say, um in verse twenty four, Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city. Wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein? If Abraham did not know God, That'd be really almost accusatory. Won't you agree? And a judge could take it many different ways But because Abraham had that relationship with God, he was able to come and and talk to him and ask him. And when Jesus came and died for our sins, we now have that relationship. Through Christ's blood, we can talk to him as our best friend, as our brother, as our father. We can talk to Jesus, and he is there, and nothing is hid from him. So this shows us an example of Abraham talking to God without the the restrictions of that that I would have when I'm talking to a judge that I don't know. When you know somebody, you have a little bit of freedom in that. And freedom in how you s how you approach that person. Now, obviously, he's still at fear here. And nowhere did I talk about don't have fear. Yes, we have that relationship with Christ and we can talk to him, but there should still be a fear. And not fear abject fear of just you know of unjust fear, but he is the creator of the universe. Okay? One of the greatest things, lines that I've that in in Genesis that I that really always boggled my mind is, and he created the stars also. And it's just like pfft, like this, there's billions of stars. He and he created stars also. It's like an afterthought, you know? He put so much thought into this all the things he created for us. And then stars, he just threw it out there. So that's how powerful of a God we have. Yet we have that relationship with him that he provided. There was nothing we could have done but he came down, died on the cross And fixed that wedge that was between us and God. That now we can be with him, we can recognize him. He's given us all that we need to be able to recognize him, to become close to him, and to have that conversation with him. But never forget, he is the creator of the universe. There is there should be fear there. So speaking that way, and I wanted to bring up that nowhere in here Abraham was really pleading for Lot or any specific person. He just was but God, what if there's even ten, ten righteous people? Would you Destroy the whole city for ten righteous people there? And God said no. Even for ten. And the sad thing is there wasn't even ten when he got there. Not even ten righteous people in a whole city. And later on in the Bible, you know, it's very God says, Come out over my people, right? He brought Lot out and destroyed the city. It's a warning for us not to be surrounded by people that are in that situation, that we shouldn't be there. But it also gives us light that that if you're really spending time with God and being there Then you have an opportunity. And the fact that you're already saved, it doesn't matter. If the the house collapses we all die. We know where we're going. What really we should be afraid of and we really feel passionate for are those that are not saved. To me it's even more urgent now than it's ever been in the past. It never clicked to me because I I really feel that the time is getting short because all these things that are happening that you see in the news. And that that's again, we go into Revelations later and hopefully in the next few weeks when uh uh Brother Troy speaks But I wanted you to be very, very secure in the fact that you can know God. He is a knowable friendly, awesome God that provides for each one of us, that has saved us, and we can know him and we can recognize him, and this is a clear example of why we should. And I think that's where I'm going to end it here. Anybody have any questions? Comments? Nope? Well the implication from the winding down from fifty to ten is that the actual number in Sodom is zero. Because again I don't think Lot was righteous at all. I think the Bible's pretty clear that you know he was in Sodom and he was of Sodom. And then he just got moved removed from Sodom pretty much kind of against his will. And then even like Like his closing after story is him and his daughters. Well, it it seemed like Lot was eventually saved in spite of being Lot. And then all of us. Well then why why would God save him? If he wasn't righteous if if if I mean he offered up his daughters instead of the Lord and the two angels there Um so obviously he recognized God. Well those are the angels, right? Yeah, th there are three, three of them. with him and uh the men of of uh Sodom wanted to know them in the biblical way and he offered up his daughters instead of them To me as a father, I don't know if I'd be able to offer up my daughters to a crowd like that. Yeah. Um that's a that's a very but you know if I if I recognize this God, okay, maybe, I don't know. But I I I would have a real hard time offering up my daughters. So I would have a uh I would have different understanding that I believe that Lot was righteous. He was in the wrong place. He should have left. I agree. He should've he should not have been there. But I don't think God would have saved him. I don't think God would have brought him out Well if you think about it, there is a lineage of Jesus that's in well because aren't there isn't there like a mellobitus in in the lineage of Jesus? Because I don't I I I don't think Lot was really righteous and I don't really see in Genesis nineteen where Lot really recognizes God 'cause I only I only see two in the city, I don't see three. But I don't know. I I don't know how him having sex with a daughter both of his daughters two angels. Yeah. Uh but they they got him Yeah. Come on. No, he didn't. That's what the Bible says. No, they took advantage of his drunk and state, but locked daughters. They got him drunk. Yeah. They got him drunk. He didn't I mean they only alcohol can only make you do so much that you already wanted to do. They're eating from excess. There's also the fact that they did manage to do it twice. I'm not sure I completely agree with Ray that that he was you know he didn't have a never again moment. But it it is impressive that they managed to do the exact same thing again when you would think That he Right, right, but but the word says he didn't know they're coming and they're going. So he didn't realize he didn't realize the from the first time that it happened He probably figured it out after they both wound up pregnant. He's like, uh excuse me, what? How did this happen? Uh it's just playing with the words there. I I don't think the Bible paints a favorable picture of a lie. He might not be the greatest guy or a even as a righteous person. Yeah, I mean he he might not be the greatest and it there's always the possibility that he was saved for Abraham's sake um even if Abraham didn't directly plead for it. Um but I also don't think that he was necessarily quite as bad as the rest of Sodom was. fleshly though. Yeah. You know, there's this it's just the type of Christian that it's not that they're not saved but they're just they're immature. They they're kinda going along with the world maybe they shouldn't be worldly than they sh really oughta be, you know and they need to grow up a little bit. My impression is extensive for him, I'm just saying. My impression is that he was always kind of like in between Like he wasn't he wasn't on Sodom's level, but at the same time he wasn't as uh truly faithful as Abraham was. Or you know Yeah, but he's not a Samson. One of the things that to me is that God could have destroyed Sodom from a distance. He did not need to go down there. So the purpose of him going down there was for Lot. And why would God go down there for an unrighteous man that is just like Sodom and all the Sodomites? He would not, in my opinion. Now again, there's nothing from the from this text. God can destroy Sodom from anywhere. But he actually went specifically to Sodom to get locked and get him out. And so that was a a uh you know uh Navy SEAL six team going in and getting one person out and getting out. You know It's God went in. He would not have gone in for an unrighteous man. And so I think Abraham and Lot, and if you look at the genealogy and the time frame, they were both in the same same household as Noah. Noah was still alive. Okay? For both Abraham and Lot. So Noah was able to have that conversation with them. They knew who God was. So it was not a godless time. Noah was still alive 38 years into Abraham's life. Okay? So they were taught who God was by Noah. And Noah had definitely first had experience of what God was, right? Yeah. So I would find it very hard to believe that Lot was not righteous in his heart. I think he followed his wife to la to Saddam, and his wife didn't want to leave, and that's why she kind of stayed as a pillar of salt. And that's that's another story, another sermon for how many times men don't lead, they'll follow their wives into doing things that they shouldn't have done, and that's what a lot of the kings of um the Old Testament show. you know, when uh they marry all these wives, these wives take them away from God and worship other things. We have we're called to be leaders and that's a totally different sermon, but I I I would find it really hard to accept. I may not like Lot, but I I wouldn't I find it very hard to accept that God would specifically go into Sodom to save that person if he was not overtaken. I mean that's the best argument you can you can come up with. And that's I'm not trying to dip that argument. That's like the strongest case. And and the other thing is also, it may be an example of saying that no one is beyond saving Okay. That even somebody that's committed murder right now is worth talking to and bringing out of that. And maybe God's teaching us that. But I don't see that lot as sinful in itself, I think his wife may have been, but she was also given the opportunity to come with him because she was protected under under his wing because he was a leader. Uh but this this has a double meaning. And you could be very well right in saying, hey, th what the this shows to me out of this context about this text is that no And bring them out because they're worth saving. And yes, they are. So that is a double message. I could easily go with you on that. I just Don't see the other side that Lot was unrighteous, you could have been. There's a the Holy Spirit just reminded me, there's a scripture in the New Testament where it says Lot was grieved by what he saw and saw them. So he he didn't agree with their lifestyle. He but uh I I I think Pastor um um I'm sorry Imran made an excellent point where he said he probably followed his wife. Yeah. I think there's some uh larger theological points we could draw from this too. And part of the points I'm gonna make Um would probably be the kind some of the kinds of points that somebody who wants to advocate for the uh the questions and the comments that Ray was was was putting forward might bolster the point of view. I'm not necessarily putting them forward to accomplish that, but I'm just uh throwing that out there. So a few things to keep in mind um as we're reading uh through this. Oh yeah. Um it's not like God saying like well yeah might be fifty, I don't know. Let's find out. I I don't really know. Or yeah there might be you know forty or thirty or ten or whatever. There are. And to and to Ray's point, um I think theologically and looking at the whole of scripture, it's fair to s to draw it to a philosophical conclusion, okay, we got down to ten. Are we infer that that means there were less than 10 or were there none? And we might find, just for the sake of argument anyway, we might find our answer to that question in Psalm 14 and Romans chapter three which quotes Psalm thirteen where it says, None are righteous, no not one. And so we have a dip a tendency to redefine how we understand righteous. Righteous based on upon our own human uh definitions and experiences and understanding. But biblically speaking, none of us deserves to be saved. All of us are unrighteous saved only by the mercy and grace of God. And so we don't want to lose sight of that. And so you you could say, well then why would he choose lot out of everybody? Well God gives us the answer You know, Jacob have I loved, Esau have I hated. I will have mercy upon whom I will have mercy. Like we can't understand the mysteries of God's purposes. He will save who he will save, and he will punish whom he will punish, and we trust that his judgments are perfect and righteous and holy and never duplicitous. So there's there's an answer in that too. And I understand that, you know, he was grieved by what happened, but you know, Judas was grieved by what he did as well, but that's not the same as being grieved under repentance. And then in your repentance being accounted as righteous in God's eyes. It doesn't necessarily so it might. It could be uh argument in that direction. But in the very next chapter, um in chapter 19 of Genesis Um when the the the two angels of the Lord are trying to get them out, Lob doesn't want to leave. He has this case, they grab by the arm and he And they drag him out, like, no, you're coming with us. So he wanted to stay, and so did his wife, which is why she looks back, it's like she's pining for what was, like she's pining for that sinful environment. So even after they're dragged out, she still wants it. And so she has a permanent physical punishment at that point. So there's an there is there's a compelling argument that would that would end up supporting I think what Ray was was hinting at at least And it allow at least allows us to try to begin to understand some of the larger issues. And you were summary on um Sarah recognizing it well not recognizing the lore where Abraham did. And it could be reading too much into it and our English translations don't always do us justice. And boy, it would be nice if all of us Christians understood Yeah, ancient Hebrew and ancient Greek. But I'm going off of memory, I don't have my Hebrew Bible in front of me or or my my my uh software to help me navigate the Hebrew as well, but I believe, and maybe our English Bibles can help us a little bit. In chapter 18, In verse 3, he said, if I have found favor in your eyes, my Lord, do not pass Your servant died. That's my lord. I'm wondering mine has it uh it's my lord. Does anybody have old lord? Wait, for what verse again? Mine says oh Lord The Lord is not capitalizing mine. And mine says my Lord if I now have five So and it's not it's just capital L, correct? Capital L, yep. So it's interesting. So anyway, so make a note, there's some ambiguity there. But in the first verse, it and the Lourdes, and the Lourdes all is capitalized L O R D All the captions. Yeah. In verse one. That usually means it's Yahweh. So for translation. Right. So he appeared, but now I'm trying again, I'm just trying to bring us like into the narrative of the story. Like we're there with Abraham. And so when he responds again, I might be making too much of this, but I think it's interesting, uh, so I'm gonna mention it even if I'm going too far with the text. So let's just for the sake of argument have a little fun with the idea that My Lord, O Lord, the way that the translators have decided to handle uh the the Hebrew text there, some have opted for capital L, some have opted for lowercase L. Well then that's important because you know hello sir is different than I don't think anybody had lowercase. I think everybody Uh there is oh yeah, so mine actually had yeah, mine said oh lord, but it has a note that said that it could also be translated as my lord and in that case the L was lowercase Or O Lord, which is both uh uppercase as the note that's still capital of my lord. I think it has more to do with the fact that it's not saying it's not translating Yahweh, it's translating Translating like Malord as in like you would be kind of like uh we're we're getting bought down more than one of those two, but the NIV is uh uh lowercase L, lowercase R, O, lowercase R Anyway, it's just a translation translational translational decision they made of how to best handle that. So now in verse 10, then the Lord said, I will surely return to you. So right there, the uh some translations I believe are going to say all caps, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, and some are gonna merely be capital L, lowercase R. RG. Does anybody have catching it? I didn't say Lord at all in mind. It says and he said. Oh and some say, yes, that's right, and he said. Others are even more uh they're not even saying Lord, they're just saying he So now note if after that Sarah listening, if then she laughs to herself. And then in verse thirteen and then the Lord said to Abraham, and I'm assuming every single one of our English Bibles has Lord all four letters capitalized. So my point is this is them as humans, they're at camp. Abraham sees them, recognizes it's the Lord, but Sarah's perspective maybe is she's not sure from her perspective, so we can From her perspective, we're not seeing it to the Lord so much until after she laughs, and then the text becomes really unambiguous. And for those who don't know, uh when you have read in your English Bibles The word Lord, all caps, all four letters are capitalized. That's the English translator's way of telling you it's the word, it's the name of God, it's Yahweh. regular tango. Right, so it's a little so we go through a couple of paragraphs or it's a little ambiguous how the text And that's why the translators are a little bit they're a little bit uh there's some differentiation in how they choose to handle the text because there's a little ambiguity there in the original language, but any ambiguity that's there is removed in verse 13 where now it's clearly Hey, this is Yahweh talking. So I don't again that we spent more time on that than I anticipated we would. I just thought it was kind of an interesting way for us to try to put ourselves in their shoes a little bit and see that Sarah wasn't seeing what was there. Because you're right, in the very first verse of the chapter, it's clear who's there. And uh Ray you talked about you made the point that two went into the city. Well that's because you know in the text it talks about uh the Lord uh well again the English translators a little unsure. Some English translation will talk about how the Lord remained behind with Abraham or some the translations are going to be in Abraham remained with the Lord with the idea that the Yahweh stayed behind and sent his two angels uh into the city. So that's why it starts out with three and then there's two that go into the city. I just mentioned that so that we don't think there's a a mistake, an error, or a contradiction, like, oh it said there's three now there's two. Now the text clearly lets us know why it starts out that with three and there's only two going into the city. So can can I just point out something just for clarity? Uh because I felt like the Holy Spirit surfaced this in my heart. So I was thinking about And um the Holy Spirit reminded me of 2 Peter chapter 2 where Peter says speaking of God says this is verse 6, he says, and if he referring to God, condemned the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah to destruction by reducing them to ashes, having made them an example to those who would live ungodly lives thereafter. And if he rescued righteous lot, oppressed by the sensual conduct of unprincipled men, for by what he saw and heard, that righteous righteous man while living among them felt his righteous soul tormented day after day by their lawless deeds. I mean the word righteous is used in connection with Lot over and over and over again. It seems to be pretty definitive. But that I just it that's what makes it make makes me feel that L he was I think he was a believer. I I believe appreciated Pastor Emrod um um connecting you know connecting the dots there by saying these these people look they were contemporaries of no You know, and so they knew about God. They had this fantastic flood story that they heard from Noah. They knew who God was. There's something about I just think that i it lot is a representation of a kind of believer who just compromises maybe a little bit too much for whatever reason, but he really does believe in the Lord. He really does believe in God, you know, but He just he needs to spiritually mature or something. Um excellent point. He kinda hesitated. Wha why would he hesitate if he was there being oppressed by the sensual conduct of a principal Because I don't know tomorrow were very rich. There's a lot of wealth there and that's the same thing we're seeing now in in the US. A lot of wealth and so people go after other things once they have when we're not Fighting to survive, then we go after entertainment and entertainment slowly devolves into other sources up and that's what's happened in inside of the moral. Yeah, I I don't want yeah, I don't I mean that's not completely clear in the text, but there's other texts that this that really indicates Assad and Gamora were probably very wealthy and that's why Lot went there Mm-hmm. But again, this is not clearly from the from God's word. But it's also a beautiful place too, because when when they first set out, uh when when Lot and Abraham were their servants were arguing over pasture land Abraham said, okay, choose the one you want. And Lot looked at toward the east, I think it says. And he saw the beautiful rich place. So it must have been a beautiful place as well. There was something very alluring about Sodom. Um Yeah, I don't want us to misunderstand uh uh uh on the other side of it. I'm I'm not I mean I don't think Ray is either necessarily suggesting that uh um you know come the return of Christ and we're all glorified that we won't see lot in heaven. I I don't think we're arguing for that. Um but the the the point I was trying to to help us to make sure we understood It's not like Lot was this pristine uh example. But he was a sort of pre-Christ Christ. Like he didn't have any sin. He was a perfectly righteous person. David was a king after God's own heart, and yet we know that he was a murderer and an adulterer. And so yes, Lot is right so Peter's not wrong to call him righteous in Christ. As far as humans go. So that's an indicator that Lot we will see him in heaven But Lot's not rescued from Sodom and Gorum Gamora from uh uh from Sodom because he is deserving necessarily He's accounted worthy in Christ. So I think that's that's the point I wanted to make sure we didn't miss. It's not like, oh, boy, unless we live perfect lives like Lot, we face destruction Well, first of all, we have to leave live a perfect life. The only one who did is Christ, and we can't live that perfect life. So I don't want us to feel like it's a workspace kind of a thing. So that was the point I was trying to make sure that Yeah, Lot didn't say himself. God Right. There's nothing he could have done to get him out of there. In fact he had to be dragged out of there. We have to be dragged away from our sin. You know? Uh so I I think uh there's several points that we made And as I said, you know we we can go in different directions multiple meanings. That's what I find so beautiful about God's Word is the more you read it, the more you can it opens up and then more things you can see what's happening. So I I agree, I mean none of us are righteous. Um that's it. Oh sorry, I was looking up the uh thing about the Oh Lord thing again. And it looks like going off of the um you know original words and stuff like that that it uh Actually uh that m my lord and it was supposed to be just a term of respect that you would use to any stranger that hold. Um you know, uh and does not necessarily mean that he recognized him. Right. At least not when he said that. That is not the I always find that in general especially probably the most of any book in the Bible. It's very oral. Like it's meant to be read out loud and that I don't think that changes regardless of transliteration or translation. Like, you know, no matter what language you translate it in, it reads the way it reads is meant to be read out loud and it just flows and you can kinda tell that you know this was oral and written down So maybe the and then maybe with that there's like a dramatic unveiling as it becomes more and more clear that this is God. Just circle back to that whole ambiguity. Yeah, I again I mean clearly if if we're reading this aloud and we wanted to make it clear what version of the word Lord we were saying. We would open up verse one in chapter eighteen with Yahweh appeared to Abraham. So that would be the way to Eliminate I almost wish they would keep it in there to be honest. But right, and the the the the the the tradition of that is that the Jews wouldn't even use the name Yeah, but you're right, when you say a Lord, but you have to see it to see which Lord or the Great I Am. There's no they would know that I don't know if that's an All right. Um I'm going to ask kind of a Sunday school question. So where do we see Christ in this chapter? Well the uh to interact with Abram Okay, so that would be called a Christophany. Yeah. So so that's one way. So that's the literal that we can see. We can see I mean that's a very specific In in in what ways are things happening that tell us, oh, that's something Christ He becomes a nice and does things in the ways that we wouldn't expect too, like um excuse me, a baby? And he right and he gives us his righteousness I think there's that exchange there. I'm pulling you out. I'm taking you with me. And he does he does it for us. And he oh, he saved the daughters, although they're gonna do this really ended it right there and been like, Yeah, sorry, I know what you're gonna do. We're just gonna let you stay here where you wanted to be Anyway. And they and they wind up creating from from from that sin the the nations of uh of Moab and And um what's the other um other nations I can't think of which winds up being Israel's enemies. I mean, there's just so much grace Um in saving those daughters, you know. Um, I mean they Well that that would sound harsh. But um i if they if they their behavior so bad that you y you know I mean it's all became very worldly than worldly things logical. Yeah, I mean they were and I never I never took their actions as rational Like really? No one's gonna marry you now? Really? Well they were i I think I think back then though it was you know it was it w they were in a very remote very remote place. I know, but they could've saved themselves for Isaac or something. And instead they had to go to was it whoever like Abraham or was it Sarah's sister or something? I don't know I don't know, it was weird. Remember also where they grew up in Sodom. To them, there was probably a little bit more logic in it, even if it was total But really what it comes down to is we oftentimes rationalize in helping God achieve what we think God wants for us. I'm sure this is what God would actually want me to do if he would just remember this. We will help him along. And so the girls were helping him God along. So instead of waiting for it. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Yep. So it all comes in there. What about Abraham? Because he never once brought up lot, but he was interested for the city of Sodom. He's like, Are you sure there's no one in there that you want to save? Like, are they really all that bad Well maybe his his reasoning was maybe there's at least ten people there. I I haven't seen them. But maybe there's at least and maybe the lesson we need to take from that is, you know, you can look at Just like okay. Like Washington DC. Okay. Lord, if if somebody can be saved out of that washing White House. If that's you know, that uh that kind if you know that kind of thing is is probably what Abraham is illustrating for us there, like, you know, just pray uh for for somebody to be saved if possible. The idea that you know just because you can't see Where somebody might be saved doesn't mean that they can't, because we can't see their hearts. We can't know if You know, let's just say that maybe Ray's original idea of, oh, lot wasn't that great. Well, maybe the angel's going there with the test. Like can you are you going are you willing to walk out of this sin that you put the the sinful area that you put yourself in. And that's what Christ does all the time 'cause like we've mentioned, he he he knows the outcome. But he continually gives us the opportunity to to try again to to turn away from our sin. Um Um that's right if I can't. No, no, I've completely lost my train of thought now. Sorry. Um either the two ladies on the end have anything they wanted to ask about or China in? Let's look for ourselves. You know, what are some examples of us in this story? Who are who might we be? The wife probably. Depends on the day. It does Sadly. I think I'm all of those except for Yahweh. Really? Abraham was Abraham wondering, you know, are there really that few of us out there that are You know, worshiping God, are there really that few of us? Yeah. And we're just counting down from fifty? I feel like that sometimes. I think I can identify with with fair. You have your moments where you doubt, you know, like seriously guys? Like uh this isn't really possible. You sh you sure? Are you sure? You know, I mean I think that's an easy one to identify with. I mean you know, it's easy for us on the other side of the story, we know what's gonna happen. It's easy for us to say, Oh you shouldn't have doubted Sarah, but you know, she was what mind be by this time. No one n none of us has been told something physically impossible And that's a like there's a reference to there where it basically suggests that you know she's menopausal. So that's a good thing. No, but that's what it says right there, which is why she's laughing about it. Oh yeah. I'm just saying if but if she's still considered hot as we talked about last week at ninety, that was the whole conversation. I I don't know whether and you know, Noah's living like six hundred plus years. I don't know what the rules were back then as far as I mean they obviously considered themselves to be way past childbearing years. Right. I mean look at also Moses. Moses was Everybody pictures Moses as gray beard, gray hair, but no, and the Bible is very clear it says he was very robust, his eyesight was perfect, his every stature was perfect, his friends were perfect. everything and then God didn't. He never his health never deteriorated. Mm-hmm. He lived to a certain age and God said that's it. He lived to like a hundred and twenty, or hundred and twenty and that was the end People might have aged more slowly back then because they lived so much longer. Otherwise they didn't have GMOs. didn't have money. And before but before the flood, you know, because it had never rained, they I I heard this somewhere. I don't know if it's true, but they said the the even the the blocking Like the radiation from the sun, the earth was way better at that. And you know, the radiation from sun radiation ages you. And so, um and and you know, People live people can easily live to be five, six hundred years old. I mean i if you're not if you break down at ninety You know, you're gonna live a miserable rest of your life. So I can't say I was thinking like their ninety no their ninety might have been five hundred years old. Alternatively, the fact that they are closest to the original creation of Adam Mm. Might have you know boosted their uh virility and a little bit along the way. Yeah, genetically breaking down as a result of the fall. Mm-hmm You know, an incest. But I meant genetically it was um so like with Abraham and Sarah they were they were half siblings. Um and there was nothing wrong with that at that time. Right, but my point is that that might have shortened our life life spans a little bit if you just want to go off of like what biologically might have happened along the way. But yeah. Not to get us off on an evolutionary thing, but I mean that is one of the central arguments against evolution because that worldview requires that we're getting sort of any sort of genetic mutations are gonna make And we know that the reality is the genetic mutations they're making things worse. Always, not often. I have not uh there's not one instance instance anyone which is sure that something has made anything better. Yeah, or it's like equal like a different color eye. There I I I think that there are cases within some animal animals where they adapted in a nice way to a new environment, stuff like that. But certain adaptation that's not a good thing. Oh that's not what I meant either. That that's intentional breeding and we often screw that up too. But then again, even that new breed of dog doesn't become a s It's still a dog. It is. I'll try to put a bow tie on something and then um we'll we'll close out this portion of what we're doing in prayer. So one thing I want us to to see, you know, again I want us to enter into the text as much as we can. And so outside of Christ we're all Sarah. Right. God has given us a promise and she's laughing at the promise that you're going to get pregnant beyond your childbearing years. And we're saying, Well, who of us have been given such ridiculous promise. We might laugh if we got such a ridiculous ridiculous promise too. Well those outside of Christ are given an even more ridiculous promise. Which is when you die you can still live forever. You will be raised from the dead. Uh-huh. That's my promise to those who follow me. And those who are outside of Christ will laugh at or mock or discount or believe that would be impossible. And we'll come up with all these excuses. You know, Sarah's excuses, oh, I'm so old, now I'm gonna have a kid. Like you know how hard that would be? Or yay And then uh those who are outside of Christ are saying, Oh, you don't know the half of what I've done. I can never be forgiven. I can never raise so we we all so in a sense all of us outside of Christ were Sarah And all of us inside of Christ are Abraham, because we're supposed to be interceding on the behalf of the world and our family and our Neighbors and and things like Abraham does. Let's be Christlike in that regard. And we are to one of the main points you started out in your message, we are to rap the recognize God when we see him and Abraham seems like he does. And he and uh don't want to press that too far, but we should be treating everybody, whether we recognize them as God or not, we should be hospitable. We should be able to open our homes and our refrigerators to them. Hebrews chapter 13 tells us you never know. He might be entertaining angels. You know, so we so we We're both Sarah and Abraham. Even in our fleshly, still being sanctified selves, there are still too many moments when we are Sarah and we're doubting. And it's interesting, not only does she have the doubt and stuff, but then she lies about it to cover it up. And God calls her out and says, no no, you lied. Yeah, you laughed. Don't you tell me. And it's interesting he just drops it there. He just calls her out and moves on. You just stew on that for a while. You know Yeah, that's all that. Yeah, don't you try to pull so uh there's so much richness in this and part of what I guess I'm trying to impress upon us, you could spend five minutes reading this chapter, but then spend an hour meditating. upon it and trying to find Christ in the text, find yourself in the text, find the world view in the text. I mean Sodom and Gomorrah and the destruction, that's a picture of what awaits at the end time. Right? Christ comes in judgment and will destroy his enemies and destroy evil once And so we have a little miniature picture of the macro story of all of history. Right in the history. So in this in this well chapter 18 is filling into 19. So 18 and 19, those two chapters is kind of just a miniature picture of All of history. So I just I don't want us to miss how much richness and depth. We could talk even further about this, but we'll so much in there. But we will pause there. Would you mind uh closing this out with prayer? Dear Heavenly Father, you are so holy and wonderful and amazing. Lord, we worship you and only you and lift your name high, glorify you, and give all the praises to you. Lord, we thank you for saving us. Thank you for doing what it's impossible for us to do. That you bridge the gap, that we are able to be adopted into your family and call ourselves sons and daughters of you the most high. Lord we ask that you would bless our family, that you would protect us from spiritual attack, that you would watch over your people. To protect each one of us and guide us and help us to come out as our people as as you've called Lot out, we ask that you call us out and help us to walk with you. Lord, we ask that you would bless our families, that you would encourage us and Give us a desire, a strong desire to reach people for you, Lord. A harvest is very rich, and let us not be fearful of talking about you. Let us not be fearful for our lives here, but be bold to reach people in your name that you may save those who you will save. That we would also be used as instruments for your work here. these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well thank you for joining us. We're going to end the uh live stream portion of what we do together every week. I want to encourage you to understand that the world is broken. You are broken, that brokenness is caused by sin. So the world and you have a sin problem, but there is a sin solution. His name is Jesus Christ. If this is something fresh and new to you and you want to learn more about it, I encourage you, go to our website, get my contact information, reach out to me. My cell number is listed, my email is there. I would love to have the opportunity to talk with you about it. And if you already count yourself a follower of Christ, but you're looking for a a church that's faithful to the teachings of the Scripture and is uh is is committed to having relationship with one another. uh and with Christ uh and you haven't been able to find that and you live within driving distance of Frederick, reach out to me. We can talk about maybe you joining us with what we do on Saturday. What you see with us here on video is just a portion of what we do and what we're all about. So I would welcome you to do that if at all interested or moved by God to do so. Till next week, 6 o'clock here on Facebook Live or later on in YouTube. God bless.