So welcome Facebook and if you're watching this later on our YouTube channel, welcome. YouTube. If you want to know how to access our YouTube channel, the easiest way to do that is to go to our website, householdoffaith in Christ. com You can access all of our social media, including the YouTube channel. You can see our blog, which is beginning to get updated now more than it was originally. And links to what I believe are trusted resources. If you want to dig deep on certain issues and stuff, not everything out there is trustworthy, so I'm trying to ferret that out as best as I can for you. So if it's on our website, it's got my endorsement If you find something connected on our website that you don't think should be endorsed, please let me know. Maybe you know something I don't know, but I've tried to be conscientious about that. If you've been following along online in uh recent months, and you know we've had a disruption in how we've been doing things here at the Household of Faith in Christ. I was just talking to Dina earlier today. Over the last three months, we've missed more Facebook Lives than than we've actually done. Uh we actually as a church missed meeting a total of five weeks uh over over the course of a couple of months. And then we had a uh a big gathering last week that didn't involve a Facebook Live and heads up we're gonna have another big gathering next week that will not involve a Facebook Live. So over the course of like three months I think we will have missed seven or eight Facebook lives, which means we've done, you know, less than half of the weeks. And uh some people who follow us on on social media know what's going on or why that's happened. Not everybody does, so I figured I'd bring you up to speed. And in the process of doing that, um uh bring up some other things of what to expect. But maybe I'll save some of that part uh for the end. So I'll jump into what we're going to do here after we have a word of prayer. So I'm going to have Dina open us with a word of prayer and then I'll uh get into the message portion for tonight. Okay. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for our time together and where we come before you, worship you, make you the focal point. Have all the words that we say here tonight be glorifying to you. We know that you work together all things for our good, even the trials. that we go through so that you might be glorified. You train us up to be like you so that there's less of us and more of you. That a broken and hurting world can See the light of Jesus Christ through our lives. Let us be a sermon and choose that the gospel that we know true to be in our hearts exudes out of Of everything that we do and say for your glory. Father, we pray that those watching tonight will be blessed. We pray that you keep away anyone who doesn't need to say See this, we pray that you would touch and bless those who are seeing it and hearing it. Pray that you would use the word spoken tonight to change hearts to be more like you. Thank you, Lord. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen. Amen. So people are probably used to us Grappling with a specific passage of scripture and uh working through it basically verse by verse in expository fashion Uh we're in the midst of our revelation series. Um and we'll be picking back up with that pretty soon. But like everything got disrupted, and it's not just our meeting that got disrupted, but My ability to prepare for upcoming messages has been disrupted as well. And so we got some different things coming up in the coming weeks, which I'll mention here at the end of our time. online with you. But in the meantime, here's an update update on where we have been. I was sick and I spent some time in the hospital. And um the reason I'm taking the time to do this, one is explain what's been going on, but also because I really do sincerely believe that it uh I've learned some things and I think it could be important for me to kind of share through my experience things that might end up being beneficial to anyone and everyone uh else who uh who we know. So I want to begin by saying, and this might be w maybe the singular most controversial thing I'll say for the evening, so This is the part if you want to really attenuate your ears. I truly believe that it is not truly accurate to say that we have a COVID crisis in our country right now. It is far more accurate to say that we have a treatment crisis in our country right now. We live in a country with doctors and hospitals and pharmacies that refuse to provide health care and barely provide sick care For COVID. And that is a huge, huge problem. I'm going to expand on what I mean by that probably controversial statement by sharing my story. A number of weeks ago, actually I guess it was almost three months ago, I felt the lymph nodes in my neck like you know underneath your jaw. Sometimes they get a little swollen or tender. You probably had that experience. I felt that I was like, oh, you know, that maybe I'm fighting something, coming down with something. A couple of days later I had a slight headache, uh was feeling just a little bit lethargic, had a bit of a scratchy throat, and that was about it. And after five days I was fine. Totally better. So okay. Now I will say during those five days, because everything's going on in the news and whatever, the thought did briefly cross my mind. I wonder if this is the beginnings of some form of COVID illness or something, but it never progressed anything serious. And like I said, after five days was completely gone. So uh You know, I moved on. I chalked it up to one of those like summertime colds. This is like the last week of August, I think. One of those summertime colds that sometimes we can get and it came and went You know, it left as quickly as it came, so that was the end of it for me. And to be honest, looking back, I still feel like that's probably the case. I don't think I had COVID at that point But you know, who's to say? Anyway, after several days of feeling great, no symptoms at all Suddenly I had diarrhea like out of the blue. And it lasted almost a week. Now it wasn't debilitating, so you know, um I was going to the bathroom, you know, but like only once or twice a day. It wasn't like I was constantly running to the bathroom, couldn't make it. I was only going once a day, sometimes twice a day. And when I went, you know, it was diarrhea, but it was manageable is what I'm saying. It wasn't like, you know my world was ending. But given my cold from the previous or what I think was a cold from the previous week, I thought, you know, it was a little out of the weather last week and I felt better, but now I got this other issue going on Maybe I should uh you know brush up on my knowledge on what I think I know about COVID and treatments and all that. I'm I've been paying pretty good attention all along, but I thought you're gonna brush up and I'm gonna build a plan of action. That was a piece that was missing in my game And so I thought I gotta build a plan of action in case this is something serious. I wanna be able to jump on it. But as I finished up kind of being ready to jump on it, um the the diarrhea went away. You know, Um I work from home. Yeah, so no, that's okay. Yeah. So I um Um after it lasted just a few days, I thought, okay, maybe it was something I ate or you know, maybe it was some some something irritated my bowels, no you know, no big deal. The cold that I think I had and this diarrhea thing seemed completely unrelated because I was like totally totally fine for like three days in between. And then I was totally fine for like another two or three days. So I'm moving on with my life and then Believe it or not, the diarrhea came back. So I didn't have it for like two or three days and all of a sudden it was back. Same as before, but this time I felt like I might have I never took my temperature, but I felt like I possibly had a low grade fever. Um I did have just a slight cough, like a scratchy kind of a cough, nothing nothing too too big. But at this point Dina started having a few mild symptoms of her own. She had a sore throat, mild, I think, uh a little bit of a headache and some congestion and uh she was beginning to cough just every once in a while, nothing nothing big. But the fact that I had now been sick going on my third week of some sort of illness and she's starting now thinking, okay, I need to play it safe, assume that this could be COVID, and get myself some treatment and get Dina some treatment. And so Uh in the meantime, before we got anything specific to COVID, we loaded up on vitamin C and vitamin D and Dina's a big fan of airborne, so we drank lots of airborne and we did some homeopathic uh remedy options and things like that and to be honest And to be honest, it it uh well I didn't do it as regularly as you wanted me to. But it really did seemed to help because we you know both felt like we were turning the corner, things were moving forward in the right direction, but still I thought, you know All the things I've heard and a few things I feel like I know, it would hurt to have some hydroxychloroquine with zinc and maybe some ivermectin thrown in the mix, so I'm gonna go ahead and get me some of that. Well, good luck finding it. Almost no doctor will prescribe these things. Almost no pharmacy fulfill the prescription if you can get one. I've heard reports that there are as few as five hundred doctors nationally, maybe a thousand doctors nationally that will actually be proactive and treat COVID with these controversial uh drugs. So it's tough. I feel like it's beginning to gain some momentum now. It's a little easier perhaps to find a doctor now than it was a couple of months ago. But it was tough sledding. So Uh one of the uh better known options for getting access to these things is America's frontline doctors. But because America's frontline doctors are so high profile and so well known, they're a little overwhelmed by the demand. They have basically a skeletal crew of of doctors that uh that can help patients, so they're overwhelmed I didn't know this at the time, but I learned that they are just not equipped to meet the demand that's been placed on them. And so Um I reached out to them and I filled out all their information online that they asked you to do, your medical history, all that sort of stuff, and then I, you know, was waiting for their doctor to call me. And I waited and I waited and I waited and more than a week went by. And then I got an email from America's frontline doctors telling me that they had canceled my uh on l my telephone visit with the doctor because it had been more than a week and I guess they assumed I no longer was interested. So I immediately contacted them back, like, Yeah, no, uh I still want the appointment. Uh so please put me back in your queue. And so they did, and uh then several more days went by. before I finally did actually have a short conversation with the doctor. Now in the meantime, of course, you know, a week and a half goes by, my symptoms are progressing. And uh the diarrhea at this point, I had diarrhea with a vengeance. And uh in all, just to kind of hold the the story together, uh in all I had diarrhea for 17 days over a three-week span. So uh wasn't doing so well and I threw up uh couple of times. One was like a really intense like knock your socks off uh throw up kind of situation. And um and I had nausea that kicked in that just would not go away. It is the worst nausea, most horrible nausea I've ever had in my life. You know that feeling when you're like I think I have to go throw up. And then you like run to the bathroom hoping you make it before you do. You've probably had that experience in your life. I had that kind of feeling non-stop for days. It was horrible. So there were a couple of times like I think I'm gonna make myself throw up just to try to see if I get some relief. But then when I actually did throw up I had relief for like fifteen minutes and it was right back. So it was it was miserable. So as as you can imagine, I couldn't eat. You can't eat when you're feeling like that. I could barely drink anything. And so that in combination with the diarrhea I was horribly dehydrated. And then I developed a much higher fever. My fever spiked to 104. Dina just told me today that she didn't tell me, but I thought it spiked to 104. Apparently it went to 105 And uh we were able to knock it down with Motron down to like 101, but then after Motrin wore off after a few hours it would jump right back up to where it was, and so So now by this point, the uh the COVID doctor for American Frontline Doctors had called me. And uh he said he was going to contact the pharmacy that they work with, I think it's a pharmacy out of Florida, and he'd have the treatment sent to me. You know, it's deep in the game But I was like, hey, yeah, I'll definitely take it. And so I expected this would play out over the course of a day or two, you know forty hour forty-eight hours max Um but it did not play out that quickly. So it was two, two and a half days later I get an email from the doctor telling me that he had finally at that moment sent in the prescription request. to the pharmacy. And so then it was three days after that that the pharmacy called me to confirm my payment information. And and I'm like, I'm really hurting and to be honest by this point I was having a hard time even talking. But I'll get into all that later. So I said, yeah, I'm really hurting, so if you can put a rush on this, I'll yeah, we'll get it out as quickly as we can. We're not gonna be able to get it out today, but we'll send it tomorrow. And they were gonna send it FedEx, they said. They said and that this was like a I don't know, like a Friday or something. They said, You'll have it by Monday. So Monday, uh, it came and went. And it didn't arrive on Monday. And and even as sick as I was growing, I still had it in my head, you know, if I can get this medicine uh you know, that that to help me. I feel like I can still turn the corner. I think like I can still get ahead of this and uh and and whoop it. So I waited for what I thought had been sent. But when it didn't arrive on the day it was supposed to, I thought, okay, if I got hung up in the in the mail a little bit, it'll definitely be here tomorrow. That didn't happen either. And so at this point now I contacted the pharmacy and the doctor emailed them, called them several times, did not get them, did not get a call back, no reply. I was very frustrated. And I thought at this time about calling the credit card company to cancel the payment 'cause I'm like, okay, they're not fulfilling the order and this is ridiculous, but honestly I was a little bit too weak and sick at that point to worry about calling my credit card company, so I just Just let it go, figure out deal with that some other time. Well eventually the package actually did arrive. Uh it arrived apparently ten days after they said it would. Which was I don't know several couple two, three weeks after I actually talked to the doctor. Uh now in fairness to them There are rumors, there are only rumors, but there are rumors that there are some people who are purposely sabotaging the pharmacy shipments. I don't know if that's true. Um but it's an interesting story and the way the world is right now, all interesting stories are unsafe. I mean, I don't know what to think of it. It it's crazy that it would take that long for the shipment to get to us. Anyway, from the time that I first contacted America's Frontline Doctors to the moment that the medication arrived was over four weeks. Now with an illness that is best treated early a month is far too long. So in the interim I became really dehydrated as was mentioned and uh and I developed pneumonia. And uh I really did enter a uh a time of significant distress. Uh we happen to own a pulse ox, uh a pulse oxometer. It's something you put on your finger, it tells you what your blood oxygen level is and also takes your pulse. Uh we have one of those in the house because of our son Tyler and his special medical needs over the years. protocol early on. Really? We had one for Tyler for years. Mm-hmm. We had a stethoscope for him. Oh. Well anyway, we had one in the house. I thought we've had it for years. We used to have one. Yeah, we did. I don't know what happened to it. Anyway, because I had it, I was able to check my blood oxygen level and keep tabs on it 'cause I knew that my breathing wasn't great and I could feel the pressure in my chest and you know and so I knew I had pneumonia. Uh and it and if you don't know much about this, if you had a perfect blood oxygen saturation level, it would be a hundred on the pulse ox. And if you have ninety-nine or a hundred, that's considered, you know, perfect because sometimes th these these actually here is one. This is a pull socks. Here you go. That's what they look like. A little rectangular thing you put on your fingers Anyway, um anything over 95 is considered to be okay. Uh anything under 95 is subnormal, suboptimal. If it's in the low 90s, uh doctors aren't really happy about that. Now if they happen to know what's causing your oxygen to be lower than 95, they don't panic, but If you're below 95, the doctor's like, okay, something's not right. You need to go come in and see us, you need to see what's going on. If it stays over 90, they don't panic. If it drops into the 80s, they get really nervous Well anyway, so now that you understand what these numbers mean, it was in the low nineties for several days, but then it slipped into the eighties. And at that point I I knew that, you know, there could be some trouble and looking back, and even in the moment, I kind of was beginning to wonder, have I reached the point of no return regarding me needing to go to the hospital You know, my oxygen was like eighty-seven, eighty-eight. Um but I was still holding out hope against hope that I'd get that delivery from America's frontline doctors and that that would be like the miracle cure at the last minute. But Then my oxygen dropped into the low eighties and then it actually dropped into the seventies and at that point I knew it was game over and I could barely get out of bed. I could barely raise my head. I was really having a hard time and I needed oxygen and I needed it. now. And truthfully, some of my memories from this period are just a little bit fuzzy because my thinking wasn't all that clear. I don't want to say I was delirious, but I wasn't I I wasn't fully myself, my mental cap capacity wasn't f you know, going at a you know, a hundred miles an hour, so um but that said, the lowest oxygen reading I remember seeing on the Pulse Ox was seventy two, which is insanely low. So anyway, uh Angela who's not here tonight. Uh Angela is able to uh help out and I felt like As sick as I felt and was, really the only thing I really had going on at that point, because the diarrhea was now gone, the only thing I really had going on was I was having a hard time breathing because of the pneumonia. I needed oxygen. So I'll go to the urgent care and they'll give me oxygen and then, you know, I'll once I get enough oxygen I'll be okay. But the urgent care wouldn't treat me and they said, You gotta go to the hospital, young man. So So I went to the ER and they did they gave me an IV to hydrate me and uh they gave me oxygen and they ran a lot of tests. LATA test. And uh no surprise I tested positive for COVID. And I'm not denying that I had COVID. I had some very interversion of COVID. I have no doubt about that. But I mean they could test a turnip and probably uh if if you test enough turnips you'll probably get up with a positive COVID test these days. But anyway, I went it was on a Wednesday. I w left the house on Wednesday morning and I was home Wednesday night And I was feeling better. Not 100% better. I still was under the weather, but I mean being hydrated and getting the oxygen and they got my oxygen back up into the nineties. And so I was like, yeah, I'm b I think now this is what I needed. I knew I needed the oxygen, the hydration certainly didn't hurt. And if when I get home that package from America's frontline doctors is waiting for me, I'm gonna be good to go Uh, but it wasn't home when I when I got home. Now as it turns out I came home it was a Wednesday night, Thursday morning. Dina went to the hospital and she'll share her story Uh when I'm done finishing mine, which won't be too much longer. And so they kept her um what what happened with Dina, I mean, just real quickly, uh she had like I was mentioned, she was a little bit sick. uh for a stretch, but then she took a dramatic turn for the worse, and her biggest problem was that her electrolytes got flushed from her system and uh so her body crashed. So anyway So the day after I was in the hospital, she goes to the hospital. They kept her overnight, so that was Thursday into Friday, and then Friday they sent her home just in time for me to go back to the hospital. And we actually crisscrossed and saw each other in the ER. She was leaving and I was going in. And uh this time, the second time we went in, they kept me for five days. And during I I need to emphasize this because what I said at the beginning about we have we don't really have a COVID crisis as much as we have a treatment crisis. I want to emphasize this. I was in the hospital for five days, and the hospital did nothing. Nada, zilch, zippo, okay that specifically treats COVID. So there was no high dose intravenous vitamin C or vitamin D. There were no monoclonal antibodies, uh no hydroxychloroquine, no ivermectin, nothing but fluids, which I appreciated, and oxygen, which I appreciated. And they did give me anti-blood clotting shocks because I had been bedridden so long and being bedridden in the hospital to make sure you don't get clots. Plus, one of the side effects that can happen with COVID is clotting, and so there is that. Um, but they weren't even giving me my regular vitamins until Dina took called and talked to him on the phone and was like, hey, you know, here's what he takes at home. Can you at least give him his regular supplements? So they did do that at uh Dina's prompting and urging. Now, in fairness, they did want to treat me with something for COVID, that they think is for COVID. They wanted to treat me with Ramdesavir. And boy oh boy did they want to give me Remdesivir. Every doctor and nurse and everybody I was interacting with was talking about how I needed to take Remdesivir. You really should take Remdesivir. I mean it was like a sales pitch. Uh, it was almost the kind of pressure you get when you go to a timeshare meeting, you know what I'm saying? I mean it was insane. And I kept telling 'em no And I made it a point. Every time I interact with a nurse or somebody, I said, I'm not taking any Remdesivir. I want to make that clear. And I have a hard time talking I had like no air, I had no oxygen. I I sounded horrible. I can't even try to mimic the voice that I had at the time, but I s didn't sound anything like I sound now But I've mustered the strength and told them no and then I finally had the idea, saying, Would you put it in my chart? This patient is not to be given Remdesivir under any circumstances. Now they said that they would. Whether they did or not, I don't know, but they said that they would. And but I was nervous. It's one one of the reasons I wanted to come home on Wednesday. I didn't want to spend an overnight there because they're pushing this remdesivir. I was nervous that I you know I'd fall asleep and all of a sudden they'd be giving me remdesivir. So um Every time a nurse would come in or a technician or whatever and they were going to give me something, do something with my IV or whatever, every time I was religious about it, I wanted to ask them, what is that you're doing? What's it called? What's it for? Is this what I've had before? Is this something new? I mean I was grilling them on what they were giving me to make sure it wasn't undesign here. So anyway. She's not here, I wish she were 'cause I want to give her kudos. My dear sister in Christ Angela. She uh she brought me a sign from my bed I don't know if if she made it or you made it. She made it. She brought it to my bed. It says, absolutely under no circumstances is Troy Skinner to be given Remdesivir And then she added at the bottom for good measure, and no vaccines. I thought that was funny. But anyway, as funny as it is, despite all of this My attending physician, the guy I saw most frequently, but only for a couple minutes each time he came into the room, he'd come in for like two minutes each day. I was there. And one of these times he came in for two minutes. He said that he was, you know, gonna get me some Ramdesavir. And I said, no, thank you. And he thought that was an odd response. He said, What do you mean, no thank you? And I said, Well, I'm not gonna be taking any remdesivir, thank you very much And he said, Well, no, you know, that's our protocol. You have COVID and that's our protocol for treating COVID patients in this hospital and So, uh you know, you're gonna be taking Ramdesavir and I said, Well, no, I'm not. Well, I've already put in the order for it, which seemed completely superfluous and irrelevant to me, but I was a little agitated at that point, so my hackles began to rise And so uh I I mustered a little more strength than I typically was demonstrating in the hospital. And I said, Well then you're gonna have to cancel the order. And he was still trying to sell me on, you really need to be on the Rumdesivir, and you know, you're not in good shape, and you know, you really need to do this. And so I actually sat up as best as I could in my bed, and I'm not even exaggerating, you know, that um it sounds like I'm being dramatic, but I just want you to feel the moment Looked him square in the eyes, which is all I could see because he wore a mask, so I couldn't see any other part of his face than his eyes. And I said, Doctor, if I am given Remdesivir, I will sue you personally and this hospital And his uh well, he was a bit astonished. The look in his eyes was one of astonishment. And he was taken aback, put on his heels a little bit. So for a couple of seconds he went and made himself busy over by the IV bag and stuff and gathered his thoughts to think what he wanted to say and then he turned and he said, you know, what is it exactly that you're so concerned about with the Ramdesavir? And so I said, Doctor, the kidney effects are terrible. And he said, Well, we've had, you know, good results with the Remdesavir here and uh you know with patients like you, because I want to exp I want to stress you're not in good shape and You know, with patients like you with the Ramdesavir, we you know we get them out of here in the hospital. They're only in the hospital for usually two, three months. Sometimes they don't. Yeah. But he said, you know, he's saying within two to three months and then added, but sometimes you know as quickly as within ten to fourteen days. And I'm thinking, well two to three months, that's ridiculous. And if I'm in here for ten to fourteen days, something's wrong. You know, so uh and he said they didn't have any problem with the side effects, you know, and their or the the side effects were minimal, the the risks from the side effects were minimal, that's what he said. And I said, look, you might think this the risks uh uh for side effects are minimal, but they're far too high for me. So I'm not changing my mind. There is no way that you're giving me Renesivir. And so he dropped it Now, while I was in the hospital that first day, I probably should add this because it's an interesting little tidbit, and I'm sharing this so you are equipped. You might find yourself in the hospital. And you gotta advocate hard, and that's why I'm glad Angela was hanging out in the hospital with me for hours. And when I was unable to speak and didn't have any energy and and had no oxygen, uh she was just She was a mama bear. I mean she was fighting for her cub. She uh she pushed the envelope harder than I would, and boy, I will push the envelope. So that tells you how hard Angela was fighting and advocating for me. So you gotta have advocates You gotta have somebody who's gonna fight with you and because they're putting so much pressure. If you're not firm, after a while you start to think, okay, fine, just to make them shut up, I'm gonna do or something. You might cave, you might doubt yourself. So hang But here's a confusing thing. The first day I went in, first thing I said to the first doctor I saw, the first actual doctor, was, just so you know, I'm not taking any Remdesivir. If you got COVID test that you gave me comes out positive, I'm not taking it. And he said, Oh I can put your your fears at ease. You don't have to worry about that. This hospital doesn't use room desivere. It's not part of our protocol for COVID. I was like, oh, well that's surprising, but okay, good to know. Well, as you just now know from my story, that's not accurate. So either That doctor was lying, which is weird, or he doesn't know what his own hospital protocols are for COVID, which is also weird. So I don't know what to Yeah, maybe he was just filling in for the minute or so. I don't know. It was really weird. But anyway, don't trust anything they tell you. Even if they say they don't give Ram Dezevir, maybe they do. So just be on guard Now, uh, when I told the doctor uh later on, the other doctor, that I was going to sue if I was gonna run desivir, there happened to be a nurse in the room at the time. And uh so after the doctor left the room, she actually left the room and then the doctor left the room and then she came back just a little bit later, you know, uh having to check my blood pressure maybe or something, I don't know, and she said, You might have asking a question? And I was like, sure. What exactly is your oppos opposition to Remdesivir? And I could tell by the way she asked the question that she wasn't challenging, she wasn't trying to position and pivot to try to sell me on it. It was a genuine curious curiosity. She wanted to know, man, this guy threatened to sue. What's the deal? And so I told her, I said, you know, there are myriad reports about remdesivir causing kidney damage and then what happens when your kidneys get uh and by the way the the odds here's the thing that I think is important for us to know there's different data sets and different reports out there so it depends on which one you want to look at But generally speaking, it seems like you can break it out into uh into quintiles. So you got about twenty percent of the people who are given remdezavir that maybe an argument could be made that they benefit from it. I'm not even persuaded that that's the case because of how Remdesavir is designed to work. It's an early treatment drug, if anything, for COVID. So by the time you're in the hospital with pneumonia Anything that Remdesivir was going to do to help you, probably that window is closed. But that aside, there are claims that maybe 20% of the patients actually have some benefit from remdesivir. Another 20% of the patients seem to maybe not really have any benefit, but don't seem to have any ill effects either. It's kind of a, you know, no harm, no foul sort of a situation. That leaves 60%. Well, those other 60% suffer adverse effects. And of that 60%, about half of them suffer serious adverse effects for their kidney shutdown. So those are not good odds. Those are horrible odds. And so I shared this with the with the nurse and um And and I said, you know, if your kidneys shut down, your body cavity fills with fluid, and if you have pneumonia, it just exacerbates the pneumonia, makes it worse, and it can cause all sorts of congestive issues. You can go into congestive heart failure. uh because of this. And so what do the doctors have to do at that point? What do they decide to do for the patient who's drowning on the inside? Well, they have to uh do something. They have to End up putting them on a ventilator in the ICU. That's what ends up happening. Well, fortunately, here's the good news: not everyone with COVID, with pneumonia in the hospital who ends up in an ICU, on a ventilator. Not everyone dies. That's the good news. The data would seem to indicate that only about four out of five do. That sucks. Now it depends on the data. Some of the data sets I've seen say it might be closer to point coin flip, more like 50% die. Okay, 50%, 80%. You do not want a ventilator. It is a death sentence, basically. You don't want one. And this is an aside really quickly. One of the things that I've I've I've seen, don't hear a whole lot of buzz about it now, but quite a number of months ago, there was actually a little bit more buzz about this. Apparently, some doctors are arguing it's the exact worst thing to do. Somebody that has pneumonia, somebody that is uh having their body back up with fluids from the rendesivir, their body can't handle the pressure that's caused by the ventilator and the intubation process. They become so susceptible to additional infections and being intubated makes you really prone to additional infections. So if the pneumonia doesn't kill you, the additional infections will. Like it's like the worst thing you could do. That's why I think so many, such a high percentage, died. Anyway, I wasn't anticipating going off on that uh lengthy of a tangent. So as I'm sharing all of that, the nurse is riveted. I mean she's hanging on everything I'm seeing. She's never heard any of it before. Which which was a little astounding, which tells me that you know what it makes sense to me in a sense. In this sense it makes sense. There's redundant words there. I in any industry or something, there are certain people that they're really good at um a particular aspect of the job. You know, their job is at connecting the antenna to the radio, but they don't know how to build the radio. They don't know how to deliver the radio. They don't know how to sell the radio. They just know how to connect the antenna to the radio. So here's a nurse who's probably really good at her job. She knows how to draw blood or check the blood pressure or knows all the lingo and she knows how to handle the computer systems and she can give you the proper medications and she can be on the alert for certain reactions. She probably does all those things well. But as far as the treatments and and what the ramifications of those treatments are, that's really the doctor's job, not the nurse's. So I don't blame this nurse for not really knowing this stuff before, but I will give her credit for having been curious because she's asking me because she's noticing something That's why she wanted to talk to somebody like me. She's like, finally maybe I found somebody who can scratch the itch that's going on inside my brain. And so after I shared this story, you know, all the information and stuff, which It took me longer than it's taking me because I shared additional stuff that I'm not even sharing here because I talked to her for like 45 minutes. And she said, man, that makes so much sense. We have so many COVID patients in our hospital who end up needing LASIKs to flush the fluids from their body and she couldn't make sense of why do all these COVID patients end up on LASIKs? Well, that's because of the rhinozavir. And then the the LASIKs doesn't work quickly enough or effectively enough because of the kidney damage or whatever that they end up having no choice but to transfer them into the ICU and put them on a ventilator. And then as we know the statistics there are not not good. And so she was thankful, but then she would wonder, like, how do you know all this? And I said, Well, you know, I'm one of those weird guys, you know, I'm like a research junkie. I spend a lot of time trying to I mean, I believe strongly in doing my homework on on on things that are going on in the news, particularly the things that deal with major worldview issues. It's one of the reasons that it it takes me twenty hours to prepare each sermon that I preach. Uh I'm really digging in deep. I want to make sure I understand what the truth of things are. And that I can also understand what the truth of things isn't, like what people would claim to be the truth. I want to check those things out and understand If they are true, how they incorporate into what's true, and if they're not true, why they're not true. I mean I dig in, so I'm just weird that way. And in this conversation, I ended up asking her if she was a follower of Jesus Christ And in fact while I was in the hospital, uh a lot of the time I wasn't all that lucid or able to talk very well. Uh but when I was, every time somebody came into the room, I would ask them, are you a follower? G do you mind if I ask you a question? Of course what are they gonna say? They say yes. Of course you can ask me a question. And I'd say, Are you a follower Jesus Christ? And um in all I ended up asking uh five people. It turns out they were all women, so I asked five ladies. If and uh surprisingly, all five said yes, which was interesting. Uh I can get into the details of what I've sussed out from them after they said yes, but Anyway, this nurse was one of the five, and so she said yes, we had a really nice conversation, nice chat about faith and the Bible and you know church and life in general, and that was So that was pretty cool. So God will use even your stays in the hospital as a lesson learned there. And uh it was really pretty cool. And something else that was really pretty cool, kinda related to this, is tr it's a kind of the dramatic kicker story to the whole thing. On the day that I went home from the hospital after my five day stay I still was needing oxygen. Not as much as originally, but I still needed some oxygen support and so we rented an oxygen uh machine, oxygen uh condenser, or what's it c something like that? Yeah, whatever they're called. Had one of those delivered to the house and uh Mm-hmm. Tyler's coming in to to serenade us with one of his songs. Anyway, so this uh oxygen compressor maybe it's called. Anyway, this machine comes and the technician who delivered it, um, you know Seem like a nice enough guy and you know I try to be as social as I can with people, you know, and so I struck up a little bit of a small talk chat, nothing Nothing too major, you know, typical stuff. You know, how's your day? Blah blah blah. He answers those questions. How is it out there today? How's the weather? That and by the way, you married, and uh he said, Well, I'm divorced. I said, Oh, yeah, it's That's too bad. I'm always sad to hear that. And then you shared, well, you know, it was an unusual situation and uh you know we still love each other, but it was just you know, because of circumstances, you know, the marriage needed to end, which was kind of an odd thing to hear. But I, you know, let it go. And then you know, whenever somebody tells me that they've been divorced, I can't help myself. I always wonder Are there any kids who were impacted by the breakup of the family and that sort of thing? So I asked him, so you guys have, you know, any children? And uh he said, uh Well, before he said anything, I could tell that a uh something shifted in him. And it wasn't too long before like I mean that question, like the floodgates opened. It's amazing what an innocent question can do. And in fairness, I don't know that it's my place to share too many specific details, but I do want to say that the dramatic story that he shared uh It it's gonna s I think it's likely it's gonna stay with me until the day I die. I mean, just a profound story. So basically, two of his children were killed in a horrible, horrifying way. And his two other surviving children, they were psychologically scarred by what happened because they saw it. And his ex-wife is now confined to a mental institution. I mean dramatic stuff. And this this man, this big strong man, uh he's stoically sharing his story and then suddenly I could tell he just, you know, something about him softened and he became less stoic. And then uh his voice quivered and his lips quivered and then his whole body quivered. And uh Hmm. And then he sobbed for many many hours actually. Yeah, so anyway he sobbed. And he sobbed one of those real grown man sobs, you know what I mean? Like he was sobbing and so I sobbed with him. And uh and and then Dina and Angela were both in the house at the time and they they overheard you know what was being said and uh and uh so they came over. Dina walked over and she began to pray. And uh, you know, she I gotta say, she prayed one of those warrior prayers, you know, one of those prayers where you just you're reminded of the the presence of the Holy Spirit. You know, and then Angela, she she prayed uh after Dina and she prayed with an earnestness, you know, and compassion and you know one of those prayers where you just know they're confident standing before the throne of the lamb kind of prayers, you know? I mean it's just moving prayers. And so by this point, I mean I'm pretty exhausted. Just got home from the hospital. I just had a pretty lengthy small talk conversation with the guy and I'm sobbing. So I'm struggling with my oxygen. I'm how and yet I couldn't help it. I was so moved in the moment, moved by the Spirit. So I prayed as best as as I could articulate and come and and gasping for air through my prayers. And uh and um anyway, without getting into too many more details, the man then prayed. Which really kind of took me aback in the moment. I was not expecting that. It was just such a beautiful thing to behold. You know, there's this this stranger he had just met him like you know minutes you know before kind of thing and and he felt moved by what was happening and all the other prayers, he felt moved to pray aloud. You know, as he continued to sob. begging God for forgiveness in his life. I mean and doing this in front of others. I I just I I I never would have That's why I said I don't think I'll ever f forget this whole happening. And anyway, um he ended up sharing one other time with us that part of his ongoing struggle with with everything in his life, um, is that he feels a sense of guilt over what happened to his family. Now, based on the things that he shared, I didn't see any reason to think that he bore any guilt, but you know, maybe I don't know the full story. I don't know Um and so, you know, I told them, look, based on what you said, I I don't think you're guilty of anything. But you know what? Even if You bear some guilt. And again, I'm not saying that you do, because it doesn't sound like you do, but even if you are guilty, I think you need to know that that guilt is no longer yours if you follow Jesus Christ. Because the blood of Jesus at the cross is sufficient for whatever burden you're carrying. And he takes your guilt upon himself and replaces it with his righteousness. He gives you his righteous record in exchange. And I gotta tell you, it seemed to me by the look in his eyes, I could be wrong, but it certainly felt to me like no one had ever told him that before. And he just melted. And he identifies himself as a Christian, but so many people do. But just like so many, he admitted he doesn't attend church, he doesn't read the Bible, he's never read the Bible all the way through, uh, typically doesn't pray. And uh part of the reason for this, he said, is he just has so many uh angry questions, you know, for God, you know. Um He just doesn't trust himself. You know, it's almost as if he's he's thinking, you know, uh if I go to God with with my hurts, I go to God with my my doubts and my anger and my guilt, you know Well, he was afraid that he would just end up completely rejecting God. And he's afraid to do that. And so he just settled for, you know, or it seems like he just would rather settle for a kinda sorta relationship with God. But we all know, you know, any of us who are truly following Christ, we know that that's no relationship at all with God. There's no kinda sorta, you know, you're either with him or you're not. So anyway, this man, his children, his family, they still remain in my in my petitions to the Father in the name of the Son. Uh and and and and they will hopefully, you know, f for a long stretch, and I hope to see him again. We actually did get to see him one more time, and I'm hoping to see him again one of these days soon. So anyway, that's uh A pretty cool part of the story. Now quickly getting back to the medical part of the story. The three doctors that primarily were kind of assigned to me uh during my hospital stay and right after my h hospital stay, uh they kind of had varying views about my prognosis. Um They on the oppos on the most optimistic side were saying I'd be in the hospital, as I mentioned, for like ten to fourteen days, maybe several months. Um And that when I got home I was going to need oxygen uh for at least a month, maybe three or four months. And my long-range prognosis was that I wouldn't really be back fully to myself for at least four to six months, maybe. You know, one of the doctors said more like eight to ten months. One of the doctors said, oh, it'll be at least a year, if ever, because you've probably suffered permanent lung damage. So they were all over the map. Well, they said I'd be in the hospital for as long as they said I was there for five days. They said I'd be in oxygen for weeks, months. I was on oxygen for less than three weeks. Actually, for two weeks to the day, I came off of the oxygen support two weeks after I got home from the hospital. So I'm beating their prognosis by miles and miles, and so I remain confident that uh, you know, they're they're longer range things. I I was feeling like Thanksgiving was possible. Now I'm feeling, oh, that's next week, I don't know if that's gonna happen But I really do feel like it's it's very possible, probable even, that by Christmas or New Year's, uh this whole episode will be behind me and It has changed my behaviors and the way I'm eating and and handling my life and and those sorts of things. So there's good things that come out of that. We'll talk about that more uh Yeah, we'll talk about all that maybe uh in in a couple of weeks because I do have some practical advice that I want you to hear, but I've already talked for a long time and I do want Dina to share her story as it relates to all of this. And then I'll update you on what's going to be happening in the coming weeks with Household of Faith in Christ. And then we'll wrap up the Facebook Live part of what we do. So I'll move this so they can hear you. Yeah, I mean my my story is very brief. Um I work with a homeopathic doctor and so he was I was telling him I was feeling a little bit off so you know he told me what to do and I was doing that. But I I like to drink w water a lot. And I drink a lot of water. Um and I for whatever reason in my head had that I had to drink my body weight in ounces in water. It's half your body weight. Times two. You were drinking. I was drinking. Yeah. Well, I thought double and I thought I don't know if I can get that. So then I was like, well if I can at least drink my body weight in ounces, I'll be okay. And I weigh around one forty. So I was like, okay, so I have to drink 140 ounces. Oh, wow, that's a lot. So anyway, that's a lot of water. I don't know how many gallons that is. There's what, sixty-four ounces in a gallon? Is that right? Is there sixty four ounces in a gallon? We should know this, right? I I can't remember from when it well anyway, it's a lot of water. Right. So um That's a couple of gallons. Yeah, so I drank more than a couple of gallons of water throughout the day. And for some so I came home from work and we had just done a very long broadcast because we were doing a fundraiser and he had not been well and so um and I was feeling a little bit under the weather but doing my airborne taking my remedy anyway I think just because I was run down and then worked so many hours in a row when I got home and I was obviously taking care of him. Um He had obviously so much virus in him that when I was in his space for so long, it kinda walloped me. So I kept thinking I'm gonna just flush whatever it is out of my system. So I drank even more water. And boy did I flush stuff out So God bless Angela, um, and the Lord had definitely has blessed her. I was feeling a little bit off, and I said to her, Do you mind spending the night because I don't I don't know what's going on with me, but I feel a little bit wonky and I just cause as you know our son has special needs. I said I would just I feel better if you're here because I don't know if I'll be able to take care of Tyler in the morning. I just might be so tired if you could get his breakfast of a oh yeah sure no problem. So she went home, got some clothes, came back. Long story short It was all night long. I had severe cramping all over my body. Now in hindsight, I know that my body was suffering from water poisoning. But I didn't realize that's what was going on, and I kept cramping. And one of the things I know from when I to run half marathons and stuff and train that if you take a bath with Epsom salt, it'll help with your muscle cramping. Well that was the worst thing I could could have done. So I took a bath and I just soaked and soaked in Epsom salt. And as a matter of fact, I put extra Epsom salt in the water I almost fell out of the tub when I got out because Epsom pulls everything out of your system. So if you have lactic acid in your muscles from working out, it'll pull that out. So I stripped my entire body of of essential electrolytes. One of the major ones being sodium, which your body needs. Not sodium as in salt, sodium the element, which is way different. It's easy. essential for keeping your heart rate going. Okay. So um I started to have severe I had nausea beyond measure The nausea that he was talking about, it was that, but coupled with um so when you give birth, you go to a point right before you're gonna push where you're cramping and your body is contracting. That's what was going on nonstop. Now I've given birth twice without drugs. This was worse. I I I was literally Screaming, crying out to Jesus. I said, I mean, it was all that I could do. I finally stumbled down the stairs at seven because I didn't want to wake anybody up. I'm sure I was waking people up, but I didn't want to call for an ambulance and disturb somebody in the middle of the night. So I waited till at least 7 a. m. I came downstairs and I said to Angela, you're gonna have to call 911. I'm not sure what's going on, but something's not right. So I was fading kind of in and out of consciousness. But I was al I was keeping myself in, if that makes any sense, because I knew that what was happening was dangerous, but I didn't know what was happening. It was just that you know that instinct that you get like this isn't good. And so, you know, the EMTs came and they were so good. Tyler, our son, was very concerned. you know, what is happening with my mother and you know they were reassuring him, we got your mom, she's gonna be I mean they were I wish I knew who they were. There were three young men and they were phenomenal, really extraordinary. Long story short, we get to the hospital, um, they say, Oh, you've got COVID, that's what it is, we're gonna send you home. And I was like And I was like, Oh, okay. And and I thought to myself, Gosh, something and so I kept begging them, you've got to give me something for the nausea and for the cramping. I'm cramping all over. So the doctor had this funny look on his face When I said I was cramping all over, he kinda did one of those like oh, that's that's interesting. So he came over and did an exam on me. He had not touched me the whole time. He comes over and did does an exam, he touched my stomach and I almost leapt off the table. I was so tender to the touch. And I kept going, oh, oh, oh Oh, and he thought, wow, that's odd. At the same time I happened to look up at the monitor and my blood pressure was like fifty something over forty something. I mean it was that low. Then like I and I can't remember the time frame because again I was I don't remember everything that happened because I was kind of in and out of consciousness. Um the doctor comes back in and says something to the nurse and then she says, we're gonna have to admit you, and then he said, admit her stat, like get a room immediately. And I said, What's going on? And she said, Well, we're just going to be giving you some things. So four things are now going in my IV and she said, This, her name was Sydney. She was wonderful. And she was explaining stuff that and this might burn, but we're gonna push it in slow and blah blah blah. We just want to stabilize you. What what's going on is your your your um Um your sodium is really low and it's very dangerous. And I kept saying, well, I just want to go home. She said, well, we can't force you to stay, but it's very dangerous. And so anyway, long story short, I did I was admitted and they told me three days, um, but God is good and gracious and he's You know, he's a guy who heals and in a day I was I was back. But they did have to knock me out because what happens when your body shuts down you get very irritable and very um anxious and so I kept feeling like I had to run, like I had to get out, like I had to get away from myself. And I kept saying there's like there's things on me and I look down I see two IVs which I don't do neither And I was like I was like trying to I was kept going like this and the nurse is like what hey what's going on? I was like you have to get them out, like you can't I can't do this anymore and she said I said you're gonna have to give me something to knock me out 'cause I can't can't do this and so she in ten minutes I was out. Um and then they did the shots in my stomach 'cause I do have deep vein thromb. already so they were giving me shots so I didn't clot and all that kind of stuff and I did struggle with that when I came home I had to go see my specialist I felt the clots in my body And that's a really big concern with whether you get the shots, you know, to get the shot for COVID or you get COVID itself. That's a huge concern. concern. So one of the things um that I did for quite some time was take the baby aspirin um to help with the clots to help. And the one thing I did learn if the clots move down towards the bottom of your legs you're good it's when they start to move up that you've got to be very concerned and very careful. So your electrolytes were all out of whack. Completely depleted. So you now I know you only drink half your body weight in ounces. Yes, emphasize that. Seventy ounces is the most water I should be drinking in a day. Not a hundred and forty So that's um And you shouldn't drink that much. On the other side, I'd never drank enough. Yeah, you yeah, you didn't start in a deficit. When I got the diarrhea, I was in a bad starting point. So that's one of the things I've changed. I'm now making sh And I'm stopping myself. Yes. Yes. Which I didn't think and the more you drink it literally f I kept going to the bathroom, so I kept thinking I have to drink more water. 'Cause it literally flushes everything out. So it's water. It is it can't be deadly. People die from I've heard I've heard of that, but it's rare. I mean you know And that's what they and that's what they were like, Wow, how much water did you drink? And when I said to the nurse, she was like, Oh my gosh. What are you doing? She said, Yeah, that's not a that's not good. radio station in San Francisco um did a contest that it was how long you could hold your bladder to to to win a prize. And so they had to do And then the last person who was standing who didn't run to the bathroom wins well. participants in this contest was a woman. She ended up collapsing during the contest. They rushed her to the hospital and she died at the hospital from water. poisoning. For for for the exact same issue that she had. I've I've heard that. Yeah. So it's you know it's really important that um and because your body so what happens your body goes into shock So they told me I'd be on bed rest for two weeks for that, for drinking too much water And I'll be darned 'cause I was like, not me, you know, I'm fine. That night I had to get up in the middle of the night and take electrolytes. I got nauseous again, I got crampy again, I was like, oh no, not this again And I had to make myself drink something with electrolytes in it because you get nauseous too. It's it's the very strange thing that happens to your body. And I'll for a week I had to do that. I had to keep supplementing throughout the day and the night. It wasn't until my second week which I was able to go back to work, but from home, that I was able to go through the night without needing electrolytes. That's really funny that you should mention that because Danny said something to me. I said, Oh, I heard you were in the air the other and she said, Yeah, I'm filling in for Dina. I said, Oh, that's really cool. Is she okay? She's on vacation for some time. She didn't want to get into it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it was uh it was a lot. It was uh it was a very um uh for my body a traumatic experience. That was worse than COVID. You know, and again because my body was a little bit more you know, I was following a protocol Troy that Troy couldn't take because he was already passed. So um, you know, COVID thankfully can be treated. It really can be, and that's the good news. It's just a matter of being able to treat it. Well I don't know why it's such a big secret in that Yeah, well there's a we know. We we can end up maybe talking a little bit about that sort of stuff in a couple of weeks. I kinda wish Angela's here because she was a big part of the story the whole time. She was a huge blessing to us. She was our nursemaid um twenty-four-seven, literally, for a week. And And so here's the thing, this is how we know having your body be so healthy is so important. She still has not gotten COVID. If anybody was going to get it, it should have been her. She was immersed in it. But she did the C, the D, the zinc, um, she did a drink that was organic odd Yeah, we'll talk about it all that all of that so good. Yeah. It's um it's amazing. Our bodies are extra machines absolutely no sugar in your diet, processed sugar. Zero processed sugar. It is it feeds the virus and it feeds cancers and everything. Yeah, so anyway, she doesn't get to share, but I'll just give her kudos. Um the way she's a woman of God and she is a bl The way things worked out, I mean she got me to the hospital on Wednesday, stayed there with me om pretty much almost the whole time I was there. got me home, uh uh got Dina uh to help get Dina to the hospital the next day and help and and she drove there and and she checked with me. She stayed with her Um and then when we need we we had coverage issues if you will with Tyler, she would, you know, fill in those gaps and uh and then when I was in the hospital I'm sure she was still helping take care of Tyler at the house between bouncing over to the hospital to uh to help visit me because Dina still was struggling and so she really wasn't able to visit me at the hospital. So I mean that between the three of us it was quite the Odyssey. Um So that's the update of why we've had such a disrupted thing. And I just want to add one thing. Shout out to mom. Um Troy's mom came and stayed with us for a week and helped us and that was a huge huge blessing. Um you know my brother helped out a little bit with my son with our son so that was a blessing too. But mom we love you. Thank you for coming And that's what family is for, and that's what yeah and that's what church is for. But uh Ray, who's a member of our church, uh he came and cut the grass. Um and uh And his wife ran to the store and and got some stuff for us and and uh uh I asked if they could pick up some flowers for Dina and they and they they did that. Um but even our sister in Christ in uh Florida She shopped for us via Instacart and food just showed up on our door. I mean it's just that but that's family, right? That's the body of Christ. That's what we're here to help one another and you know and and lift one another up and share with one another. So those are benefits of uh she they actually fellowship uh yeah they're in Florida now but we we know them from the Forces House church Yeah. They used to live up here and they were part of the Forcey House Church. So these house church relationship I mean any church relationship, but they they seem to get fostered a little more easily in a house church setting. You get deeper rooted in your relationships over time than you do in a regular kind of traditional institutional church model. And you could really feel it. It was like we had a bit of more of an extended family vibe than we would have. And my mom was involved and your brother was involved. But you know, nobody was in a vault as involved as Angela. You know, and like I said, Ray and Annie uh getting involved. And meals were Yeah, and then uh the Razvis uh who uh uh they're the pastors of the they preached here last month. Um their house church, they sent us new we had food for a week from them. So it's the church being family, taking care of what needs to be taken care of. So those are all the benefits. The downside is You know, we don't have a staff. You know, we have right now we have one pastor for Household of Faith in Christ, and that's me. And so when I'm down for the count, it disrupts things. We miss five weeks. together. I mean that's a pretty big gap in in meeting. So those are one of the downsides. And even now I'm I'm way better now than I was even a couple of weeks ago. So every day basically getting a little bit better. I would say my energy level and my ability to think clearly and all those sorts of things, I'm probably around eighty, eighty-five percent right now, so I'm not quite there yet. My oxygen, by the way, is uh consistently at least ninety-five, ninety-six, but for the most part if my rep if I like right now it would probably be low because I've been expending a lot of energy and a l and a lot of oxygen talking Um but otherwise uh throughout the day it might be 97, 98. I even hit 99 yesterday during one of my checks on my oxygen. So I'm doing way better. So I'm like right on the cusp of turning that corner But it slowed down my prep. I say all that to explain what's coming up next. So next week, we're not going to be on Facebook Live. All of the house churches that are part of our network, so the Razvees Church and the Force Church and the Household of Faith in Christ, we're all gathering together to do a a a a Christmas season gathering. We're gonna Yeah, we're gonna have some good food and we're gonna be singing Christmas carols, you know, uh and uh spending time together as an extended family, if you will. Really looking forward to that. So that's not a Facebook Live kind of a thing, so we won't be doing this on on on the the internet next week. The week after that we will be back. So a week from next uh two weeks from today at six o'clock, if you're curious to kind of hear the follow-up, the epilogue to what you heard today on the COVID stuff, we're going to walk through COVID protocols, things that you really need to know. uh before you get sick, things you can be doing before you get sick, things to do if you start to get sick, things to do when you're really concerned that not only am I sick, but I think it's COVID. Things to do if your early intervention treatments don't go the way you want and it progresses, like now what do I do? And then if all fails, you end up in the hospital. Things you must know to advocate properly in the hospital. So there's like, what is that, four or five different segments of your life. We're going to walk through all of that relatively quickly next week. There's more that could be said. I could talk for a week and a half with all I've learned. uh in the last few months on all of this. But we're going to condense it all as best as we can. Others have done a lot of homework and research too, and so if they have things where maybe I've missed have some gaps in what I've said. Uh it's it's gonna be a chance for you to take care of yourself for two reasons. One, only you take care of yourself, I want you to be around. And two We need to stop living our lives in fear and go on the offensive. Take control over the things in your life that you can so you're not afraid to go to church. You're not afraid to spend time with friends and family. You're not afraid to congregate with with people and live your life. We need to and we need to go to church, right? We need to not neglect the gathering together of the saints. We shouldn't do that. But we also need to minister to a lost and confused and lonely world. We need to get involved in their life. And if we're hiding in our basements, we're not doing that. And so we need to figure out how can I have bolster my confidence that I'm going to be okay. that I I'm lessening the odds of me getting sick and if I do I know how to treat it well to limit my odds of a serious illness or ending up in a casket or something. You know, we need to be equipped and so that's the church connection of why I'm spending time on this. during our church time, if you will. So that's what's coming up in two weeks. The week after that, I can't remember exactly what is up the top of my head, darn it. Uh this this this is the brain flaw. But but there might be one more th thing before that. Some sort of a special message. Man, I can't remember what it is. Maybe it'll come to me in a second. And then um last year we spent some time doing a uh a couple of messages on the book and the movie the the Shack. I don't know if you're familiar with the Shack. It was very popular, so popular within Christian circles that churches are using it for their Bible studies, which begads. And so I wanted to make sure people knew what the truth of all that was about. So we spent some time talking about it. On the heels of that, Angela said, you know, uh that was good and helpful, but you know, something that's now at least as popular if not more popular uh than the shack is the chosen. We might want to do something on the chosen. So I watched the whole first season of The Chosen. Uh I haven't watched season two yet, but I watched enough to have some pretty well formulated thoughts, and so I'm gonna have a special message. walking through uh how biblically accurate uh the chosen is and things that we as Christians should be paying attention to when it comes to that series. And then when we hit Christmas, we're not gonna in all likelihood do a Facebook Live then, uh Christmas weekend. Um we're gonna do something together as the Household of Faith in Christ, some sort of uh Christmas feast. And then the next weekend is New Year's weekend, and we have a family tradition that we're gonna bring into the household of faith in Christ. It's a prayer and worship. thing that we do every year. And I'll explain more about that to the people who are in our church in the coming weeks. So that is to say that we still have a stress before we're actually going to get into the Revelation series again. As things stand now, the first Saturday after New Year's weekend, we'll actually be jumping back into our Revelation series, picking up where we left off We're still relatively early. One of the early chapters of Revelation. We're getting into the uh the more uh what's the word I want to use there? I don't know. The the the parts of Revelation that people typically tend to think about when they think of the book of Revelation, we're going to be entering into that part uh of the book here when we get started back up. So that's That's what's coming up. We want to give you a heads up so you know what's going on. So there will be a few more weeks at least at least three more weeks between now and January when we won't be doing Facebook Live. And so I just wanted to give you a heads up about that. So anyway, does anybody else have anything else they wanted to add? No? Well then I'm gonna close us out in prayer unless you want to close us out in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time together. We pray that you would bless us as we go. Bless our fellowship time together. You would command your angels concerning us, and that you would be glorified through each and every moment of our lives. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Well, thank you for your attention if you're still watching. If you have anything you want to add or questions or comments, you know put them in the comment section on either this or the YouTube video when it posts in a couple of days, and I'll be glad to interact with you there. Until then, until uh on Facebook, until two weeks from today, 6 o'clock, two Saturdays from now. See you then. God bless.