Well, good evening. I think most of you might know who I am, but just in case there's one or two who don't, I'm Troy Skinner. Probably most well known in the community for a radio program I've been hosting for the last 17 years called The Faith Debate. It airs on Sunday mornings in WFMD at 9 o'clock. But I'm also a pastor, and so I bring you greetings from the Household of Faith in Christ. Brothers and sisters to our brothers and sisters here. It's always a pleasure to come in. do that here. Tonight we're going to be reading a letter together. It's uh not the type of letter that's usually read on Christmas weekend But actually this is by design, one, I assume that many might have already attended a Christmas-themed uh service uh either on Friday, yesterday, or sometime this morning. And besides, so many people these days, they only attend a church service, if at all, on Christmas and on Easter, and that's about it. They're called sometimes CEO Christmas uh Christians, you know. Christ uh Christmas and Easter only. Or uh creaster Christians, that sort of thing. Um and so they end up only hearing a handful of passages from the Bible because the the same kinds of passages are used for those and and it's appropriate. to do so. They're great passages. They make total sense to use those during Advent season or Palm Sunday, Resurrection Sunday, that sort of thing. So I get it. But if that's the only time people are coming to church, it's all they're ever hearing. And so tonight I wanted to make sure we were able to feed on some of the other meat that's found in God's Word for us. And so um the letter we read tonight, it's a letter of competing testimonies. It's a letter of challenge, but it's mostly a letter of encouragement. It's a letter in which the author doesn't use his name, nor does he use the name of Christ, interestingly. And yet it is a letter in which Names play a central role in understanding how it applies to our lives, especially as it relates to our lives in light of the name. So the sermon tonight focuses on 3 John verses 1 through 12. So if you want to get your Bibles ready for later, you can turn there. Message trying to 3 John, not to be confused with the Gospel of John or 1st and 2nd John. So 3 John, and we'll be covering the first 12 verses. And the census knight is titled The Good, The Bad and the Beautiful Truth, and it will be a personal exploration of truth and love and what this looks like in a world that is filled with error and hatred It's really rather unfortunate that this short epistle is one of the most neglected books of the New Testament. Because it is such a blessing to God's children. It's an intimate view of the early church. It's a veritable treasure to the church today, and so I'm glad to be bringing you a message from it. So let me say in the spirit of that letter, my beloved friends whom I love in the truth, I am really eager to enter into this special evening of worship with my brothers and sisters here. this evening. May God bless you exceedingly as he prepares your heart and mind to revel in what God has done through Jesus Christ, who Jesus is, and what this tells us about who we are. So all that said, if everybody who's able wouldn't mind standing up, we'll sing our first hymn of the evening. It's hymn number 124. Angels from the realms of glory. Hymn 1, 2, 4 in your blue hymn. They can come the breath of the glory, may the world here, yeah, you can't. God and worship, God and worship, worship Christ comes, names before me. Because the landing was trending. Everyone may be seated. Um we're gonna Jump right in and get the announcement portion of the evening out of the way if we can early. So I'm not sure who's handling that this evening. Well we're gonna have uh New York City spur of this, which is the very city Okay. And um just to wonder so we'll be able to do that. It'll just be an hour of quiet um contemplative prayer time. But I just felt led by God that we needed to have a watch night service and have the church. So I would be off. Seven to eight. And then you'll also be here on Sunday. Yep. And Sunday you are saying It's supposed to be reading some carols is what pass it Okay, great. So that's all I have for now. Okay. Thank you very much for coming for the first time. Oh it's it it's always a blessing to be in to be invited and uh actually I'll be here in a couple of weeks as it turns out. So looking forward to that. Trying to help fill out the uh the calendar while other people catch up and start signing up to come. So over to the I'm not sure who's going to handle taking up offerings for the monetary needs of Fairview Chapel. But uh what we're uh going to do here so that we're all on the same page, uh we're not gonna have any musical accompaniment. We're gonna have just, you know, a short period of of silent meditation where we can contemplate how richly God has blessed us in a variety of ways. And what we're giving to the ministry here at Fairview Chapel is just a very small, small token of appreciation, really, giving back what he's given us. So be thinking about the blessings in your life from God and that this is an act of worship whenever you support the work of the kingdom. So be focused on the worshipful aspect of it. Once the collection is is fully taken up, whoever's taking that up will wait at the back by the entrance door. And uh then we will do the sing the doxology together as the offering comes forward and we'll pray over it at that time. So uh who is it that's handling that tonight? All right, see you you do all the heavy lifting around here. I don't know what did you do? All who are able to please rise. We are from all the things wrong. Praise him all Christians here. Father in heaven, we greatly extol your name. We ask that what we do and say here this evening, we be a blessing to your name and a blessing to your people. We thank you for your blessings upon your people in a physical monetary means and that you have moved uh so many to to jointly share in the The fiscal requirements it takes to keep a ministry like this up and running and alive and well. We thank you for the work that it does in this community, calling people together to worship as one body. to hear the truth of the gospel proclaimed, as hopefully it will be faithfully proclaimed here this evening by myself. We ask that those who are charged of stewarding this money would do so with wisdom and discernment, always focusing on what is going to be best use for the advancement of your kingdom in this lost, broken, and wanting world. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Everyone may be seated. Now most of you have been here, I think, when I've been here before, so you know what's going to be coming next. We're going to do prayers of the people, and whenever I have an opportunity to do prayers of the people in a setting that's as intimate as this, I like to do the popcorn style prayer So if I could impose upon Teresa in a moment to open us with a word of prayer if you're comfortable doing so. If not, someone else can do that. But after she's nodded, so after uh Teresa opens with a word of prayer, anybody else would like to pray in turn aloud Praises, petitions, what have you. Uh if you've never prayed aloud before, this is maybe a good opportunity to stretch yourself and maybe do that for the first time. It will be a blessing, I promise you. if that's the case for you. If you're just not there, but you want to pray silently, that's totally okay too. And after a period of time when it feels like everyone's had ample opportunity uh to bring their praises and petitions before the Lord, I will close us. Um for before we sing our next hymn. Okay. So Teresa B it's ours. Thank you that your holy spirit will this this sacred place and that it has endured through the ages, Lord. Um even through COVID. We we weren't even sure we'd be back Together as a fellowship of here we are and to you be the glory. So Lord, thank you for this joyful season. Thank you that Even in the midst of sorrow, the joy of your salvation is just something that draws us to you and makes us glad. Thank you, Lord Jesus, for all the things you've done for us, Lord, through this year, Lord Jesus. No people feel like they're suffering, but you've just given us comfort. peaceful and just thank you for that. I just ask you to touch the people during the tornadoes to help you, Lord Jesus. And we'll go down with our cold right now, Lord Jesus. losing everything. And I just ask that you give them peace for give them all they need to survive those down the world whole. And those of all who are have people witness you, Lord Jesus, that you are there for them, whether they believe or not. Jesus' name. Amen. Please take care of Stanley Martin, his wife Bruce, Katie Martin, his son. Andy Martin, his daughter, Stacy Burge Martin, who all have the code that needs your health desperately. Take care of Carolyn LOEAT Old Client who is battling hand. And take care of everybody. The just needs your help, God, and especially the President of the United States needs with Zoom. Thank you. Laura lift up Shannon Seldon and her husband Aaron's AD with us. The loss of her pregnancy. And I also poking on as it continues to get better and better. I thank you for that so much. Jesus, you know all that I have to pray for for salvation, Lord, and my family and my friends, Lord. I just ask you if this is kind of Lord, and just at the very moment, I may ask you, Lord, touch their hearts. Let them know that you are William and that you're there for them. Just thank you. Because you touched my heart, Lord. Why I believe in you. You first touched me, and I thank you for that. In Jesus' name. Thank you, Lord. Father, we thank you for your goodness and mercy and for your many blessings that you've given us. We thank you for sending your only begotten Son. Redeem the people, Lord. And we thank Jesus for obeying the Father and allowing the Spirit to send back on. The people. Because of the sin that we have and that he cleanses us from all this unrighteousness. We give you praise and thanks and we We thank you, Lord Jesus. We thank you, Holy Spirit, and we thank you, Heavenly Father. For which in Jesus was the name we ask, praise, and be thanked. Amen. Right now, there are so many I just came in and keep that list straight, but we know that uh you know each one and you comfort them and you give them your peace We didn't bring that especially during the holidays when some people feel so joyful and others are just indeed. Thank you. Father, we praise you and thank you that we can't have assurances to come before you in prayer. That you hear the prayers of your people when they are in alignment with your will, and we know that we can more perfectly understand your will for our lives when we're rooted in in your word, not just your written word, but in the word become flesh, a historic happening that we Commemorate and celebrate this weekend in particular. We ask that you would give us the kind of confidence and competence That our Lord Jesus exhibited as He walked the earth prior to and during His earthly ministry, that we would have a boldness in proclaiming the truth We wouldn't shy away from sharing with people their need to repent, for the kingdom of God is at hand. And we recognize that those who are already walking the walk of faith are already walking in. And humble obedience, or walking along the way, that we have the assurance of victory. As our Lord and Warrior King said as he hung upon the cross, it is finished. The victory is one. So help us to have the confidence to be emboldened. We particularly ask these for our church leaders that they would inspire. Christ's flock, that they have been charged and tasked with serving as undershepherds, that the leaders within the church would lead well, would identify the wolves among the sheep and would root them out. And that those who are enemies of Christ, enemies of your kingdom, enemies of your people, that they would be brought to conversion. Or that they would swiftly be brought to destruction. And it has already been lifted up. We do pray for our worldly civic leaders as well. Our magistrates. Are in need of much wisdom during difficult times. International leaders for sure, even business leaders, not just political leaders But of course, our the administration of the executive branch of our federal government, all the congressmen and senators as well, our judicial branch Or locally, we pray for wisdom and discernment and uh and honest and goodness faith in you and actions that would uh coincide with such belief from our governor, Larry Hogan. County Executive, Jan Gardner, County Council, the various city councils and assembly men, the state, Senate and delegates, all of them need to have wisdom. And we ask that your people would embody that wisdom with the choices we make and the way we live our lives and the accountability that we institute as we hold each other accountable to walk a faithful walk. And it does a lot of love and compassion. But with seriousness. These are serious matters, Lord. We ask that your spirit would be felt in the Way among your people here this evening, that these acts of worship and these words of worship and these songs of worship, they would penetrate deeply within who we are and to our heart, into our psyche. And that we be constantly about the business of renewing our minds at each moment rededicating our lives. to living the lives you've called us to. Thank you. God, we love you. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right, those who are able, if you would stand, and we'll sing our next song, number 120 in the blue hymnals, the first Noel. It's easier to put it out of the way to put anything. Very highly Oh, this is prevent. Everyone may be seated. What is the shortest book of the Bible? Some might say Obadiah, and that would be a good guess. That's the shortest book of the Old Testament. Some might say 2 John. And that's a really good guess because if you're counting verses, then 2 John actually is the shortest book in the Bible. Has just thirteen verses. But 2 John it contains 245 words. 3 John contains just 219 words. And so, by the way, we're counting the Greek words, not the uh various wordings we find in our English translations. So if the dearly departed Alex Trebek would have ever walked up to you and said, I am the shortest book found in the Bible, you should have responded in the form of a question What is 3 John? This evening we're going to take a look at the first 12 verses of 3 John, or the first 185 words. And uh, God willing, we'll cover the final 34 words the next time I'm here in a couple of weeks. So let's read these uh first 12 verses together. And if you've got a big fat study Bible, it might actually take up two or three pages in your Bible, but in most Bibles it's a single page, because the original letter it would have easily fit on a single page of papyrus. And here's What it says, the elder, to my dear friend, Gaius, whom I love in the truth Dear friend, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well. It gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling how you continue to walk in it. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Dear friend, you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters, even though they are strangers to you. They have told the church about your love. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. We ought therefore to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. I wrote to the church, but Dioces, who loves to be first, will not welcome us So when I come, I will call attention to what he is doing, spreading malicious nonsense about us. Not satisfied with that, he even refuses to welcome other believers. He also stops those who want to do so and puts them out of the church. Dear friend, do not imitate what is evil. But what is good? Anyone who does what is good is from God. Anyone who does what is evil has not seen God. Demetrius is well spoken of by everyone, and even by the truth itself. We also speak well of him. And you know that our testimony is true. This is the inspired, inerrant, infallible word of God, and as such, it is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those with ears to hear. Let them hear. You ever wish that you could be a fly on a wall somewhere? Maybe you're traveled through time so you could experience what things were really like in a given situation. I'm tempted to say, of course, I think almost everybody has at some point in their life. I think it's one of the reasons that all of the The espionage kinds of stories that we hear about in the news, they always seem to capture so much attention. People still today are asking, what did Hillary's emails really say? What did Donald's people really say to the Russians, if anything? You know, our curiosity about these things, these sorts of things. I think it's why I don't know if you remember this. A few years ago, there was a O. J. Simpson docudrama on the FX network. It was called American Crime Story. I don't know if you watched it, but It was hugely successful. It was on the FX network, a secondary kind of TV network, and it had huge ratings. Because people wanted to know what happened with the double murder in the O. J. Simpson case and what went wrong in the trial to try to convict him. It was hugely popular just a few years ago. I think that this interest in these kinds of things, wishing we could be a fly on the wall or something like that, is part of why our culture is so wrapped up in so many conspiracy theories. One of the ones that's dominated almost my entire existence has been the assassination of JFK. People still talk about it even today. There are people that have questions about the moon landing. So I think this is why so many of us enjoy reality writing. Now as far as I know I've made up that term. Reality writing. It's what we had before the advent of reality television. Reality writing would include the Anne Frank diary that was discovered after World War II, and the correspondence between John Adams and Thomas Jefferson, the correspondence that lasted about a half of a century. It would include the love letters now preserved in the presidential library that Ronald Reagan penned to his beloved Nancy. And it would include another letter of love that's now preserved in our New Testament. One that John penned to his beloved Gaius. Now, Anne's words in her diary, they provide a glimpse into what life was like as a Jew living in Nazi Germany in the 20th century. John's words provide a glimpse into what life was like as a Christian living in Asia Minor in the first century. The letters between Adams and Jefferson, they provide insight for us into their minds so we can better understand what it is these men believed. And this letter of John, it provides insight into his mind and what was most important about what he believed. Ronnie's letters to Nancy while he was governor and then president, they reveal the loving heart of this leader. And John's letter, while he was the elder in Christ's church, revealed the loving heart of this leader What a treasure we have in 3 John. In it we read a testimony of joy in the truth. And we read a testimony of contrast between love of truth and love of self. And we also read a testimony that we would like to be true of us. It is written from the beloved to the beloved. It addresses truth in love. It celebrates the good, it exposes the bad, and it accentuates. The beautiful. Indeed, what a treasure we have in Third John. So let's again look at the beginning of the letter, verse 1, the elder, to my dear friend Gaius, whom I love in the truth. Just as is the case with 2 John, the writer, he opens with a simple statement of his identity. The elder. He doesn't say John. But I believe it's more than safe to assume that the writer of this letter is in fact the Apostle John The disciple whom Jesus tells to look after his mother while Christ was hanging on the cross at his crucifixion. The disciple whom Jesus loved. the beloved disciple. And this beloved disciple, he's writing this letter to one of his beloved disciples, a man named Gaius To my beloved Gaius, he says. Now I know if you're reading from the NIV, which is what I read, because I think that's what the few Bibles here are as NIV, so that's why I'm reading from that tonight. So in the NIV it says, to my dear friend Gaius. But some other English translations are, in my opinion, a bit better here. Now the Greek it allows for either Okay, the the the Greek word for beloved can also be translated dear friend. But beloved, it seems so much stronger for reasons that I think will become apparent as we proceed through this message here tonight John uses the word beloved in the Greek when addressing Gaius. The beloved, whom he says, I love in the truth. And with that phrase, John, he's not saying, I love you truly I do, or I love you, yes this is true. I mean he does actually have a true love for Gaius. As we can note from his use of the word beloved at the very start of this letter. But here, what he's writing here is that he loves Gaius in the truth. Who is the truth? Jesus is quoted in the gospel account written by John in chapter 14, verse 6, saying, I am the way and the truth and the life. Christ is the truth. John loves Gaius in the truth. John loves Gaius in Christ. Now I have spent a little bit of time here at the start drawing attention to this because right here we can see the theme for the entire letter. This is a love letter. In truth, of truth, and in defense of walking in truth, contrasted with the ways of error that fail to walk in the truth and result in an environment of hatred A testimony of hatred. John is putting a spotlight in this letter on two testimonies: a testimony of love in truth, and a testimony of hatred in error. And he also points us to an example that invites us to ask, which testimony is mine? Is it the one of love and truth, or is it the one of hatred and error? So we begin with the testimony of love in truth. So we're going to read verses 2, 3, and 4 again. And before we do, I want to say again, some of our Bibles are not as helpful here as they might be in this particular situation. John opens the body of the letter with a Greek word that is very easily translated, and perhaps I would argue more commonly translated as beloved Now the NIB it says, dear friend, and I want to say that's a fine translation, so I don't want you to be nervous about reading the NIB here. It's totally fine. It's not wrong. It's technically correct. And it's also contextually correct. Gaius is a dear friend. But Greek words, they have a range of what are called English glosses. You've got kind of a menu of options for translating into the English. that are appropriate to choose, that are totally acceptable, and dear friend is one of those acceptable options. But boy I wish the NIV translators had opted for beloved as so as do so many of our other English Bibles. Because it helps us to see the love theme all that much more clearly. So I'm mentioning this because for the rest of the night, I'm going to be substituting the word beloved, where the Greek word in the NIV is translated as dear friend. So, verses 2 through 4, John writes, Beloved, I pray that you may enjoy good health and that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well. Give me great joy. When some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling how you continue to walk in it, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children. Are walking in the truth. Now, first let's notice here in verse 2, John prays for Gaius to have both spiritual and physical health. It says, I pray that you may enjoy good health, that all may go well with you, even as your soul is getting along well. Now it's true that this is likely Just some sort of a standard greeting that would have been familiar to letter readers back in the day during the first century of the Roman Empire having control uh of that part of the uh the earth But you know, letter writers, we need not be slaves to convention. For example, when we're writing a letter, we might sign off with sincerely or cordially. Or much love, something like that. Do you ever run through the options when you're closing out a letter or, you know, some sort of a greeting card, trying to figure out what's the best way for me to sign off on this? You're thinking sincerely, it seems so average. Cordially, a little more unique, but kind of formal. Much love. Hmm, better be careful who gets that card or letter. Sometimes I'll sign off with God bless. or in Christ, or only by the blood of Christ, something like that. Sometimes it's just merely a thanks, comma Troy And I give a moment of thought to this normally. Do you? I mean, I don't misunderstand, I don't agonize over it. You know, but I think about what I'm writing. Sometimes to be honest, I can't make a really quick decision. I'm kind of in a hurry, and so I'll just simply sign my name. No sincerely, no cordially, no much love, no nothing. So even if it is a letter writing convention, we have choices to make within those conventions. So here we see John chooses to express concern for the spiritual And the physical well-being of his beloved Gaius. And some even speculate that this could mean that Gaius need some sort of a malady. Or maybe he was a man who was of weak constitution, kind of a sickly guy, perhaps. Or maybe he was recovering from some significant illness at the time that this letter was written. It's hard for us to say, but regardless From this we can learn that it is okay, even commendable, to pray for both the spiritual and physical strength. of your friends. And I'm emphasizing this because I know people, maybe you do too, where they tell you not to be so heavenly minded as you know earthly good and so You shouldn't be praying about the spiritual stuff, focus on their immediate felt needs in the physical realm. Or on the other side, you've got people who are of the opposite. They're saying, don't worry about the here and now, it's all going to end eventually anyway. Let's focus on the spiritual warfare and let's only pray for that. But here we have an example where we're basically told by example, pray for both. It's kind of hard to start a group up and keep pushing along if you got bad health. Amen. Amen. So now here comes the testimony that I mentioned of love in truth. Verses three and four. It gave me great joy when some believers came and testified about your faithfulness to the truth, telling or testifying how you continue to walk in it. I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. Love this. Here we have the elder as a proud papa. That's what we're reading in these verses. Gaius has brought great joy to John. And interestingly, the name Gaia, sometimes pronounced Gaius, it can actually mean rejoicing. Isn't that great? A man with a name rejoicing is bringing much rejoicing to John. And how? What has Gaius done for John? Nothing specifically for John. John has great joy because of the testimony of others about the beloved's faithfulness. And faithfulness to what? To the truth. Daias is faithful to the truth. He's faithful to Christ, who is the truth. And how does John know? Because others testify about Gaius that he is walking in the truth and he can continues to walk in it. And this report of faithfulness, it is so very exciting to John. It brings him great Joy. There is no greater joy for John than a report like this. And I'm going out of my way to emphasize this because the text emphasizes this. You're gonna have to trust me on this one, but I'm telling you, it pops up at you off the page in the Greek. But even in our English translations, we can still pretty much see it. Basically, John here is saying, I really, really have a huge amount of joy in my heart. Over you, because of what everyone is telling me about you. Can you relate? When my daughter achieved good grades when she was in school, I gotta say, that felt good to me as her father. But When I was told at the parent-teacher conference that your daughter, Danny, is an absolute treat to have in the class. She is well mannered, she's high-spirited, she is a leader among her peers. Well, I gotta tell you, that gave me great joy. When she helped her team to win points at a track meet, or she was named to the county all-star team in basketball, that felt good to me as her father. But when her coach pulled me aside Because he wanted to tell me, your daughter Danny, she is a competitor. She helps set the tone for the whole team during practice. She is a team captain in large part because She outworks everyone else. This sort of report brings great joy because it's the sort of report that is a testimony Of character. It's in moments like that that she is most Christ-like. Now, she still wrestles with sin, of course, as we all do. But hearing a testimony like this About her. I mean, that tells me she's on the right path. She's on the path of truth. She's walking in it. Well believe it or not. I mean as you can imagine, I have no greater joy than to hear that my children are walking in the truth. And believe it or not. If they're good pastors, this is how your pastors feel about you. And it's how God feels about his children. And it's how John feels about Gaius. Now, verses 2 through 4, they tell us that testimonies of walking in the truth, they bring us joy. I wonder what verses 5 through 10 tell us. Let's refresh our memory. We're going to read 5 through 10 here. Beloved, you are faithful in what you are doing for the brothers and sisters, even though they are strangers to you. They have told or they have testified to the church about your love. You will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. We ought, therefore, to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. I wrote to the church, but Diotrophes, who loves to be first, will not welcome us. So when I come I will call attention to what he is doing, spreading malicious nonsense about us. Not satisfied with that, he even refuses to welcome other believers. He also stops those who want to do so and puts them out of the church. These six verses, they offer us a compare and contrast. It's good versus bad, truth versus error, it's love versus hatred, Gaius versus diatrophes. Now I already told you, Gaius, it means rejoicing, and he lives up to his name. Diocapes that means God nurtured With a name like that, we should expect more of Diatrophes. But the testimony about him, it's not good. He fails to live up to his name. Now look again at Gaius. He is good to other believers, even those that he does not know well. He loves them. He shows these strangers hospitality. John in verse 6 says, you will do well to send them on their way in a manner that honors God. Now this is John's way, the ancient way. Of saying, please send them on their way in a way that honors God. And John is making this request of Gaius, knowing full well that Gaius will do it. He's simply encouraging him to continue in the walk of truth as he's already been doing. So now let's look at Diosophes. He's not good to the other believers. He ignores John the Elder, except to badmouth him. He doesn't welcome believers in hospitality. He gossips about them. Kicks them out the door In other words, his testimony is of a man who spreads false testimony. False testimony about others, and he therefore is hindering the testimony of the gospel. You know, for more than thirty years, Tom Baudette somewhat famously talked about keeping the light on. For folks going to the Motel 6. Ever since 1986, that's when that campaign began. That's mighty long time ago. Even so, as long a time ago as that was, there was no Motel 6 1900 years before that. I mean there were small inns, particularly in some of the bigger towns, but accommodations could be really tough to come by during a long journey back then. And itinerant preachers of the gospel Fellow travelers on the path of truth, they wouldn't always have money bulging out of their pockets to pay for any inns that might have happened along their path as they were traveling the road anyway. So hospitality It was hugely important. I mean it's true today too, but arguably far more important back in that context. And so with that sort of context. With this being the environment, Dioces not only won't take in fellow Christians himself, he won't let anyone else do so either. Is this as he's saying, yeah, you want to take in a traveling missionary? Fine. Then you can get your butt right on out of here. Won't have any of that where I'm in charge. That sounds pretty bad. It's even worse than it sounds. Look again, verses 7 and 8. It was for the sake of the name that they went out, receiving no help from the pagans. We ought therefore to show hospitality to such people so that we may work together for the truth. These traveling gospel workers were out there traveling in order to glorify Christ. For the sake of the name, they were in need of hospitality From Christian brothers and sisters, in order to become an unnecessary stumbling block to the unbelievers by appearing to be money-grubbing false prophets to the pagans And they ought to be helped because all believers in Christ are fellow workers. We're working together for the truth, for Christ, by demonstrating love. You know, when loving other believers, we participate in the work that they do for the sake of the name. The testimony about Gaius is that he gets it right. He is welcoming, filled with loving kindness, and supportive of other Christian workers. And the testimony about Diogenes is he gets it wrong. He is rejecting, he's full of jealousy, maliciously tears down Christian workers. One as a testimony of hospitality and love for others, and one as a testimony of being inhospitable and having love only for himself. Which one are you This is pretty much the question I take from verses eleven and twelve. Beloved, do not imitate what is evil, but what is good. Anyone who does what is good is from God. Anyone who does what is evil has not seen God. Demetrius is well spoken of, gets a good testimony from everyone. Even by the truth itself, we also speak, testify well of him. And you know our testimony is true Don't imitate what is evil. Don't imitate diotrophies. He speaks evil words. He's inhospitable. He hinders others wishing to be hospitable. He expels from his congregation his adversaries, and those who are walking in the truth, sadly, are his adversaries. Diotrophes fails to live up to his name. Gaius does live up to his name. Are you living up to your name? Need to always remember all that we do is for the sake of the name The name. The name of Christ. The name you now bear if you are a follower of Christ. Because you're a co-heir. If you say that you are a Christian, then you say that you bear the name of Christ. What is the testimony of others regarding what you are doing for the sake of the name? And which one is Demetrius, the third name that pops up here? Is he imitating evil like Diotrophes, or is he imitating good like Gaius? Now, if he's doing evil, well then Demetrius, he has not seen God. That's what the letter says. And it is fair actually to assume that maybe there was a time when Demetrius had not seen God, because his name means belonging to Demeter. Demeter was the Greek goddess of fruits and crops, so Demetrius, that's a good pagan name, perhaps indicating that Demetrius grew up in a pagan home. But good for Demetrius, by the time this letter is written, he had seen God. And John, he provides the testimony here of three witnesses to make the point. And we know of the biblical importance of three witnesses. We know this from Deuteronomy 19, verse 15. We also know it elsewhere from John in 1 John 5, verse 8. And these three witnesses here, about Demetrius and 3rd John, they are, one, all the people who know him, they say that he is a good ambassador for Christ. Two, the facts themselves say this as well. And three, John personally vouches for him as a representative of the leadership of Christ's church. That's pretty good. What a trifecta. Well, believe it or not, we can't identify with Demetrius. Now I understand he is a member of the early church more than 1900 years ago. So and yet he is in exactly the same place as you and me He stands there as an example next to two examples. Is he walking in the truth like Gaius, or is he rejecting the truth, even fighting against the truth like Diatrophes? We stand next to these very same two examples. And for Demetrius, the testimony is good. There is a good report from the three witnesses. What is the testimony of these three witnesses about you? The people who know you, all of them, as you live out your daily life, they say what about you? The facts themselves, the cold, hard, brute facts of your life They say what about you? The leaders of your church who, if they're doing their jobs, should know your life rather intimately if you let them. They say what about you You know, I titled this message The Good, the Bad, and the Beautiful Truth, because it shines a spotlight on the good It shines a spotlight on the bad, and it shines a spotlight on the beautiful truth. But you know, I almost titled this message, Beloved, Testify the Truth. Because that's what I sincerely want us all to take with us as we exit our time together here today. I want us to understand the truth. And testify to it. So here it is. Let me tell you plainly. Beloved testify the truth. The truth. Testify it, beloved. And I call you beloved, because if you're one of Christ That's who you are. That's the truth. Jesus Christ surrendered his glory in heaven and his His time away from heaven, and he also surrendered his life on a cross. Why? Because he loves you. You are beloved. In the life of Gaius, it it stood in testimony to this truth. Does your life stand in similar testimony? Now be encouraged. Because Gaius, he wasn't beloved because of his testimony. He had his testimony because he was beloved. And he walked in it. Are you trusting in the blood of Christ for your salvation? If your answer is yes, You are beloved. Walk in it. Now if you're concerned that your testimony is more like that of Diatrophys, if we seriously examine our hearts and our actions, we might be tempted to go there. Perhaps rightfully so. But you know, it is not too late to repent. Jesus paid the penalty that is due for your sin. And he did so because he loves you. You are beloved. Now go and sin no more. And you know, begin to have a new testimony if you need one right now And don't forget, for the true Christian, as one who is beloved of God In case you get fuzzy on this, let me tell you what your testimony is. I'm not going to ask you for your testimony. I'm going to tell you what your testimony is. This is your testimony. Your testimony is I was a sinner And I still struggle against sin. Now there are times when the testimony of my life had brings great rejoicing to others. And there are times, I must admit, this is not so, but God calls me his beloved. And he looks at me and he chooses to see the life of Jesus and his perfect record. Because Christ is right now standing before the Father, giving the Father testimony about me. Can you picture it? It's like John giving testimony about Demetrius here in verse 12 of his third letter. And just like what John says, this is what Jesus says to the Father about me. And this is your testimony. As chosen and loved children, as a chosen and loved child of God, this is what Jesus is saying to the Father about you. He's saying, Father, I speak well of him. I speak well of her And you, Father, know my testimony is true I'm sorry. Father, you're so good to us. We can't even begin to fully comprehend, come close to fully comprehending just how good a God you are and how good you are to us. But as we meditate upon this truth, as we press into the truth of your word, The truth that Jesus Christ paid the penalty for our sin. By the power of your Holy Spirit, we ask that you would help us to more consistently, more regularly, more definitively Walk in it. Don't allow us to get tempted into nagging doubts Help us to always remember we're not saved because of what we do, we're saved because of what your son has done. And out of immense gratitude for that fact, help us, Lord, to live lives that are obedient for the sake of the name. The name. The name we pray in. The name of Jesus Christ, our Lord, Savior, and King And intercessor. Amen. All right again, all who are willing and able, if you would stand, we're going to sing hymn number 197. 197, Blessed Assurance. Oh yeah, after the song. So let's show it, Jesus mine. Oh, what a glory is the world you might in the day. And right if there's nothing. This is next to the world we need to find the praise in my prayer and he gives a lot of things. This is my song. Bringing my same all the home is Where we should stand from the ball. Maybe looking at all this goodness, lots of this, this is my story. Break it. This is my stone, raising my kids all the way. This is my story. This is my straw. Everyone may be seated. I was informed that tonight is a communion evening, and so we are going to participate in the Lord's Supper together. I'm going to be using the text of Mark chapter 14 to help guide us through. I'm not sure if you have somebody who's designated for helping to distribute the elements or not or how we want to best handle that, but If there's no one who normally does that, if somebody would be willing maybe to pop forward and and distribute the uh the fruit of the vine and the the uh the bread wafers, that would be so much appreciated And what I'm going to uh do is give us a little bit of context. So I'm going to read a slightly longer portion of Mark than you might be used to. Thank you. when this particular text is used for the supper. I'm gonna pick up with uh let's see I'm going to pick up with verse twelve. Mark fourteen, verse twelve says. On the first day of the feast of unleavened bread, when it was customary to sacrifice the Passover lamb, Jesus' disciples asked him, Where do you want us to go and make preparations for you to eat the Passover? And so he sent two of his disciples, telling them, Go into the city, and a man carrying a jar of water will meet you. Follow him. Say to the owner of the house, he enters. The teacher asks, Where is my guest room, where I may eat the Passover with my disciples? He will show you an upper large room furnished and ready. Make preparations for us there The disciples left, went into the city, and found things just as Jesus had told them, so they prepared the Passover. And it continues here. I'm going to read a few more verses. When the evening came, Jesus arrived with the twelve. While they were reclining at the table, he said, I tell you the truth. One of you will betray me, one who is eating with me. And they were saddened, and one by one they said to him, Surely not I. It is one of the twelve, he replied, one who dips bread into the bowl with me. The Son of Man will go just as it is written about him, but woe to that man who betrays the Son of Man. It would be better for him if he had not been born. I read that run-up to the specific narrative about the supper for a couple of reasons. One, the context of the institution of the supper. comes inside the uh the reality of a covenant meal, the Passover meal, kind of the preeminent meal of the first covenant. And of course now Jesus is re- is uh is recasting this he's instituting a new covenant layered within The original covenant. So this is a meal for the people of God. This is a family meal And I mentioned that because I don't know everybody here well, and so this isn't meant to be rude or off-putting or anything like that, but if you don't count yourself as a Christian. You know, if you haven't professed faith, you don't belong to a Bible-believing, gospel-proclaiming church, you haven't been obedient under baptism, those sorts of things. then I would ask that you would consider uh refraining from participating in this uh spiritual meal that's going on here today because um There are warnings about that, and you don't want to reap any sort of condemnation on yourself, maybe similar to the kind of condemnation we just read about with Judas. So it's a serious thing. This is a family meal, but it's a family meal on steroids. So I just want us to have proper reverence and understanding what this is. Now if you are now some people go too far the other way, like oh well I've had a lot of sin in my life this week and I don't feel like I'm worthy. Remember the message of the sermon You are what in the song we just sang, we are washed clean by the blood of Christ if we're truly his. So if you are a Christian who has professed faith and all the other markers of a true Christian, this meal is for you. You have not been excommunicated from the family of Christ until you've been excommunicated from the family of Christ. Alright, so if you're a Christian who has not been excommunicated, then this is uh a me a meal that's for you. So I'm going to pause here in the reading of the narrative, and I'm going to say a prayer now, and then pick back up with our reading. Father, we thank you that you have forordained from before the foundations of the earth that such a celebration, such a family meal would take place for your people. As a reminder, as a tactile reminder, a physical reminder, with the tokens of the bread and the fruit of the vine. And I know that your people have different understandings of what exactly it is that is taking place in this meal that we are now endeavoring to uh share together. But at the very least, we can know that there is a heightened spiritual reality to what we're doing here. That there is sustenance and nourishment and strength drawn from the body of Christ. And that there is cleansing and renewal and life found in the blood of Christ. And that these things are represented in a dynamic kind of way here with the bread and the fruit of the vine. So picking up with verse 22. While they were eating, Jesus took bread and he gave thanks, as I just did, and he broke it and he gave it to his disciples. And he said, Take this is my body. And after blessing and breaking the bread and distributing it, he prayed again. As he took the cup. Father, this isn't just a symbolic happening It's it's at least that. It's more than that because there is something happening right now as we identify as the body of Christ, being nourished by the body of Christ. And reminding ourselves of the bloodshed on the cross. As Jesus our Savior hung there, paying the price for our sins. So we thank you for those reminders. May they these reminders serve to call us a renewed commitment to obedience. and a renewed understanding of the love that you have for your people. So Jesus took the cup and he gave thanks and he offered it to the disciples and these And they all drank from it. And he said, This is my blood, the covenant which is poured out for many. He said to them, I tell you the truth, I will not drink again of the fruit of the vine until the day when I drink it anew in the kingdom of God. And after they had the meal, before they left for the Mount of Olives, we're not going to be going to the Mount of Olives, but we'll be leaving it shortly. Before they left, before we leave, they sang a hymn So we will sing a hymn. Our final hymn of the evening, hymn number 29 in our hymnals. It is Joyful, Joyful, we adore thee. Again, that's hymn number twenty-nine. All who are able, do it stand and sing. Okay, who I was clear, I don't know. All my words would join all round me, and black my And we're rolling road and brain. We would have born and play and mountain glory. Hell I literally have literally everything every joy. Where's the Joyful in the eyes. Uh if you would just remain standing, I've got a uh our benediction is a slightly unusual text with a benediction, but I wanted to have something that would really emphasize what the the the the theme of this sermon was all about. Take them from 2 Kings chapter 4, it's verses 8 through 10, Elisha and the Shinemite Woman passage. One day Elisha went to Shunim where a wealthy woman lived who urged him to eat some food. So whenever he passed that way, he would turn in there to eat food. And she said to her husband, Behold, now I know that this is a holy man of God who is continually passing our way. Let us make a small room on the roof with walls, and put there for him a bed, a table, a chair, and a lamp. so that whenever he comes to us, he can go in there. Let's carry with us this attitude of hospitality and sharing in the work of our co-laborers in Christ for the sake of the name as we enter now the mission field that surrounds us in this lost and wanting and hurting world that so desperately needs the hearers the truth and needs God's people working together in advancing that cause. Um so if we I guess we'll end with our Alleluyos, which is I think they have it here, correct? Uh the bigger one. Praise God. Go in peace. Thank you for having me again today. Ma'am, you want to push your first time. You want to put your cross in there? Oh yeah. Yeah. You get a girl together like I would do my grandfather. Yeah, yeah. Oh yeah, I'm not sure. So anybody else? Oh yeah. And I don't see the difference to cover the words there because the word actually information is um I don't know if anybody who's outside of the uh true believers. Or what we count as true and tell me that the talk about the case. And uh very commonly testament. Well, it was going to be borrowed from the Old Testament Jewish heritage where the nation of Israel said people uh meant to be examples to other nations who are nations. Here for the presentation, that's it not. Oh no, I'm gonna be much of a fake In one case, it's often about non-believers. Right. Because the often about the word. Right. So yeah, hopefully I thought that. Yeah, well, these little things got getting replaced when it was We just put the half surface call it half percent. You know? Oh god, what are you? That's all right. Um I don't think so. Oh well the bottom might have cracked, I'm not sure. Maybe it just came loose in the middle. That's right. It's uh it's still okay. We're w you know when we started about a year and a half ago and uh as I like to joke sometimes I say we had to start with nobody because I wasn't even sure I wanted I know, I know. Okay. And so uh so we started with basically almost zero. And now we've got about Um eleven, twelve. Depends depends on how many, you know, show up every week. So so everybody comes to my house. Uh but we have a network of house churches so that somebody can't come to mine. House churches that we're kind of partnering with, ones on the south end of the county. But you're not a denomination, right? No, we're not connected with a denomination. So I have a uh kind of eclectic nominal background anyway. Uh but then I was uh pastor of Baptist Church, Pastor of the Church of God Church, pastor of every nine denominational church, so it kind of bounced away. So so we you know We come together, we have like a half hour of fellowship and singing a couple of songs, and then we have an hour of like a structured lesson time or a half hour of sermon and we talk about it for about a half hour. And then we close with some more singing and praying and fellowshiping. It's been a real it's it's been good. We've got a really interesting mix of all different ages. We meet on Saturdays. That's it. I mean sometimes like I'm getting together to counsel somebody or or something like that, but as far as everybody getting together, it's just once a week on Saturday So radio shift. I still do the radio show, yeah. Yeah, I wasn't on Monday. Okay. Yeah. Well I appreciate you asking. Yeah. I guess well because it's unusual in a to have a church. Yeah, although it's becoming more and more common these days. Um but I had the idea of doing the House Church and the network of House Church ideas about twelve years ago. And I didn't do anything with the idea right away. Um everything went crazy back in twenty twenty. But like you know, if I'm ever gonna do it now's the time to try. So so far, you know, having about a dozen people Um already is encouraging because once you get up to like a couple of dozen, the hope is to have somebody else that's been mentored and shaped and groomed. and have a call on their life to pastor a house church. Subdivide our church into two Yeah well they would have a lot Yeah um me doing the radio show helps. We have two people who are contracting because of the radio. And we do have a website and some people have found me online. And so they reach out to me because they find the website and they're like, Hey, the House Church thing looks interesting. What's it about? And so I was thinking maybe the yellow ones Um I don't know who's going to be able to do that. We've got we've got two little kids We've got one teenager, we've got uh two people in their twenties, uh we've got another couple in their thirties And then we've got uh they have children in the fifties and we have uh and we have three people in the fifties. We don't have anybody over sixties yet. If you'd ever like to thumb, you let me know. Yeah, I'm gonna let you type the thing out of the bottom. Yeah, so I can see that. Yeah, and it's really it's primarily compared to her. I don't really like that.