But you know, COVID and what to do about it, uh I learned it I knew a lot already. And uh I had serious brain fog on the back end of all of that, was having a hard time uh having any energy, being able to focus, uh wasn't really able to read for more than like five, ten minutes at a stretch, and I was So it used to be in the old days, oh, if I get sick, I'll go to the doctor, they'll give me what I need, and I'm good. You want to treat it early. But you could probably use grapefruit and orange or grapefruit and lime, but it's I think grapefruit is pretty important. We're not seeing people's facial expressions, we're not seeing their smiling faces, which can cheer you up if you're having a kind of a blue day. So I sometimes I tell my husband, you know, hold on your mask, I can't understand you. There weren't people there were more people dead from or with COVID this year than from or with COVID last year when there was no shot. They're like pig pen. Yes, it's a good idea. If you start to feel like you're getting sick or you actually are sick, take ten to twenty milligrams a day. Anything is going to be antiviral is going to have to help with the virus you want it. They're not comfortable going there. If I understand correctly, it's a five-day regimen. Artaminesin, maybe? You either have to write them down really fast or it's being recorded so you can go back and pause and stop or whatever. And everything that he says is going to come to pass. She's drinking. Oh I forgot. on my email, my cell phone number, all my social media accounts. Your son, the Lord Jesus Christ, and is it in his name that we ask these things. We're piggybacking on what we talked about two weeks ago. for the spiritual battle to be engaged in spiritual warfare, to know what the truth of the matter is, so we can recognize the lie and go about the business of defeating, exposing and defeating the lie. Cursutin, 500 milligrams a day. It probably should drink organic coffee anyway, but if it's decaffeinated, it's like a must-have. for for getting rid of COVID. If you're trying to eliminate some of the oils and stuff, apparently if you take sea salt and sprinkle that into your skillet before you cook your fish and vegetables and stuff, uh that will help the food keep from sticking. These days that's not as much of a job. Yeah, they don't do anything against COVID because it's an aerosol spread and so that well then why are you wearing one and why are you telling me I have to wear one? It doesn't do anything, it's merely a talisman symbol for the pagan religion everybody's embraced. You have to be on guard. And there is thankfully a throat gargle that you can get on Amazon, Betadine, which is part of now our protocol that we have. You you add NAC to help fight what you're fighting kind of thing. Like get rid of it completely because that's that's that's fighting that's fighting the virus's war against your body for I mean it's it's it's it you're doing all these good things and the processed sugar is just adding inflammation and and and and deoxygenating your blood and making it harder. Um like ivermectin works. for HIV, and apparently it didn't really work too well for that either. people that got it early, it seems to me. it it frees up your chest cavity in a way that allows your lungs to expand more readily and you can take in more oxygen. I think it takes several hours to go through the treatment process. You know, if it's because the other is such a hotel. Okay, so ivermectin, azethromyosin, and the uh the dexamethazone is is basically uh azethromyosin is just an alternative, I think, right? Yep. in in a number of cases can actually help you to access some of these uh pharmaceuticals and other treatments we've been talking about. Um you know, we just thank you and we pray that we can use it, apply it, and we just thank you for the ultimate truth that is in your Son, Jesus Christ. Uh looked back at the calendar to see how disruptive it was and it occurred to me that in uh in a three-month span we didn't meet for five weeks. And there were five additional weeks when we met but in different kinds of contexts, and so we didn't do Facebook Live for those of us that follow us on social media. And I want to talk about that and explain all the reasons why we're going to take time doing that in just a moment. Benefit from the truth, all who would be uplifted, all who would be enlightened, all who would be corrected. Like I would just lose my place in what I was reading. extension backlogs us. or that sort of thing and being able to recognize what those things really mean. I'm thinking we might do that on Christmas as a church family. cowering in the corner kind of fear. You can't wait till you're sick to get yourself prepared for being sick because we don't live in a free-form, liberty-embracing America anymore. For those that are here you don't have writing utensils, make a mental note or something. Uh don't listen to those cravings because uh those actually minimize the oxygen level in your blood. So maybe we need to we need to pay attention to our uh our cravings because they might be telling us something. Um quinine. and peel peel off half of the peel and or or something. Um the the peel into the crock pot with some just plain water and you just boil for about three hours and you strain it and you just keep it liquid. like we did. Apparently any sort of uh toxins or residual bad stuff that might be in the meat, uh a lot of it gets pulled out of the meat by the salt water and makes it healthier. after you cook it to eat. Curry every day. The A the AMA or the CDC guidelines or whatever. Or if you go to non-politically motivated people, it's very clear they don't do anything to stop COVID because COVID is spread as an aerosol virus. kind of a lie. You know somebody's goobering all over ya, it's like okay um enough of you That's kind of always been a known thing. meet with the doctor in. either. You need to show love to your neighbor by wearing the mask. uh it it's clear now that they're not working. you know, weapon has been released on the population. COVID cases. and they feel like they're the safest, so they're the ones that go out to the most places. I see those people as still the most cultishly devoted to the fear. How many of them have gotten it within two to three months? Because it actually neutralizes the virus. with the throat thing that happens and the brain fog comes back. uh in the betadine. worth it. Nasal spray something you could fake out a COVID test with? and then water it down and and be careful to follow the directions. freedom and so you get you get to make a choice. And start to self-quarantine. But at the end of the day that backs it up. You know, phase one, what do you do? And you know, be smart about it. And then um if you're not already doing your regimen of the the vitamins and supplements, do those, but step them up. Uh take ten thousand international units a day. This is D D and C. ingredient unless you just get the spanotidine. And also it actually seems to have some antiviral properties and so it helps to combat the virus. Yep. And this is where you've got to have it on hand already because if it's not already on hand, you're screwed because pharmacies won't give it to you even if you can find a doctor to prescribe it for you. Tylenol has a negative effect on the liver. uh for what it's worth. hands on something, it's probably too late for the hydroxychloroquine to do because it it what it does is it fights the virus during the viol virus replication stage Uh the other thing though, because it's made for horses, some of the brands that sell the fa the the uh ivermectin for horses, they include other medicinal ingredients for horses that are not intended for humans And it's not ivermectin mixed with these two or three other things, because those two other those two or three other things will also make you sick. what they call COVID pneumonia. Everyone wants to restrict aspirin now too. And those three fifths have adverse effects, and the majority of them have significant adverse effects, their kidney shutdowns, they end up um getting LASIKs to try to get rid of the fluid buildup in their chest cavity, they there's a threat of you're more prone to blood clotting anyway and then the COVID side effects are the blood clotting. Even more untrustworthy. Okay. I've got a hard copy of this. So people are in the room with me if you want to see a copy of what he pulled together, I've got a copy with me. the a doctor is a client. One of the ones he mentioned was to treat malaria. Toxic. from overseas without a prescription. Uh-huh. is what that stands for, the AAPSonline. uh I have a mectonym in the word can. That's you know, sometimes what the church needs to do. Yeah, you want to say it again next week? Not didn't feel very spiritual matters today. And then his resurrection, which proved that he was who he claimed to be, our Creator, God. Looking for a church that's biblically faithful, uh reach out to me. ten out of thirteen weeks we weren't around and so we ex kind of explained what was going on two weeks ago uh with all that and I mentioned at the time's a teaser we'd be picking up on that this week Together again in this household faith of Christ, Lord. or maybe better way to say that, we as a church face from our culture and we might not even recognize everything that's all the code words, all the little things that might sound good coming out of certain politicians' mouths or a sermon in our revelation series because several months ago we did a series on a short series on the book the sh and the movie The Shack. and do kind of a family Christmas meal for those that are able to and want to come. We focused on the first you know four or so chapters of Revelation. So the other frustration I've had is too many people, even to this day, across Christianity, at least in North America, as far as I can tell, almost around the world, certainly in the West, let's put it that way Some people are going to die from different things that happen even if you throw the best treatments at them. some misguided uh application of Romans chapter 13 or or whatever's going on there, uh we've got to wake up to what the truth is. If we're not going to live in fear, we've got to be prepared for the fight. Now it might take you two weeks, might take you ten days, I don't know, but if you get COVID, you don't have two weeks I don't know if I can express that any more urgently than I'm I'm trying to really emphasize this. You're derelict. So first thing is we want to make sure that we're ready prophylactically. body though. Salt. in your diet. add as a part of your nutritional regimen. in a YouTube feed or something. But it's important to put in the peel along with the flesh of the fruit. and zinc and vitamin D and you bombard it, bombard it, bombard it. Uh it's anecdotal I know, but it's pretty powerful. And then you take your store-bought meats and you put them in this sea salt that you've mixed together and let it soak for like three or four hours. And probiotics are important, particularly if you get sick and the doctor gives you an antibiotic, the antibiotic is killing the bad bacteria, but also killing the good bacteria. I did a And the aerosol, if you can breathe in and out of a mask, COVID's getting in and out. of them catching it are higher than you know but no I did uh towards the beginning of COVID I actually compiled a um a list of quotes and links directly from the CEC. Doesn't get emphasized enough. And so I said, you know, uh clearly we disagree about more than one thing. He said, Well I feel like, you know, if it makes people feel more comfortable to see me and others wearing a mask, then that's what we should do. So think about it, if somebody already feels isolated, and then you're walking around everybody wearing these these these face coverings, it's magnified. If you want to love your neighbor, don't wear the mask. Don't wear a mask. that um Israel, the nation of Israel, the highest COVID sacred nation had become the hotspot of the United States. Yeah, no, it was it was this it was months ago I saw this. I haven't been able to fully flesh them out and prove them in my own mind 100% yet, so I'm hedging just a little bit, but my lean is to agree with the most worst-case scenario. uh about all of this stuff, including the horrible motivations that are behind all of this. Now everybody takes a shot, gets horribly sick, or injured, or dies. When I ended up getting really sick and out of the hospital, we were in an environment where I was for a long amount of time sitting stationary around a bunch of people that were Trillions of these phyte proteins are then generated by your body as a result of these supposed inoculations. uh had gotten the shot and I really feel like that's what did me I can't prove it, but I don't know how else I would have even gotten it. with a like or like before the vaccine, they get careless afterwards. I'm not as sure about that. That there is this and it's and it's when you start to chat with people you realize that it's not uncommon. to other friends who are also not of childbearing age. something going on. And we would think. throat soreness, you would do that. Uh and they have nasal spray, betadine nasal spray that's ready to use and that sort of thing. people benefited from it. of what's happening and and and how they should respond to it. Well, first of all, play it safe, right? particularly with COVID, it seems to be that yeah, kryptonite for COVID is fresh air and sunshine. They blast their body with vitamin D. And just crush whatever's going on with vitamin D. kind of honey or just any honey? That's the black cumin seeds. a day, not double your weight in ounces because you can drink too much. And then you're going to need a prescription, so the doctor will give you the dosages and how to take it and all that sort of thing. The name brand there would be uh Advil or Motrin. compromise, you don't want your to allocate resources to fighting the the Tylenol in your liver. The ibuprofen, the advil and the motriin, is harsher on the stomach. Uh again, you're gonna need a prescription for this or you need to figure out how to get the horse paste version of it. significant benefit, not as good as early, but still has some significant benefit even if used late. is safe to use if you're pregnant. That is for like ten dollars a pill is the best price. That's another option in combination with the ZPAC and all the other things we talked about that can be helpful just like hydroxychloroquine or ivermectin. uh is it fudesenoide or something? advanced case of COVID setting in and one of the real big challenges with COVID, one of the big symptoms is blood clotting. I wouldn't if it were me, I wouldn't baby dose it. It's it's a spike and so it it it causes problem. because your hospital all the hospitals I know of, the one I went to, they won't tell you this. And they all have very similar protocols. The NAD drip or NAD plus drip. point here. You don't want Tums? That's called prone positioning. Uh you probably won't have to fight for that. It's game over, you're gonna have to go to a hospital at that point. and agitation and a propensity for self-injury. What are your protocols, what your procedures? uh they are resistant to giving it to you and it it it's harder to get. I'm under 65, I'm a healthy person, don't have high blood pressure, and think, would I be able to get monoclonal antibodies at your place if I needed them? educated about COVID. Almost yeah. And I'm probably preaching to the choir in this room, I'm guessing for the most part, or maybe pick up a couple of new tidbits. And yeah, you got dosages here. uh a thousand milligrams. thing. Me and a friend of mine and somebody else, just take all your money out of that account first before. And we just pray, uh praise your name. Father? Only one way to solve that, and that way is the way of truth and life. telemedicine approaches, taking some of the pressure off America's frontline doctors, and so they might be a a a better option than they were a few months ago when they just couldn't keep up with demand. over the course of weeks to begin to learn portions of the model prayer or the what's sometimes called the Lord's prayer. Eternity with Christ in glorification. And if you're stuck in a woke church, escape as soon as you can. If I'm right. flagged by the the the the uh the thought police or not but I I I don't th I can do a whole hour using code words so we'll see if we get flagged. probably has already taken the time now to do so. discussion. What's really hot right now is the chosen. So and if you're interested to see where we got, all those messages are available online on our YouTube channel. the very beginning, going all the way back to the beginning of the whole mess in early twenty twenty when panic set in. But we do want to be practical. But now it's more of a practical, physical thing that the church has to respond to as well. You've got to listen to what we're talking about tonight, and you've got to put it into action now, today, this week. Uh sodium and we're not talking about t table salt here. Foods that are rich in sodium, not the artificial sodium chloride that we sprinkle out of the shakers. Are rich in in rich in sulfur. Having foods that will help you to increase the oxygen level in your blood, there are foods that help you do this. I don't know the last time I had beats. You've got to go organic. Um and so um it it it's a proven it's been proven a proven remedy uh uh because you're adding the peel, it it does have a strong flavor, so if if you you could you could try maybe half of the you know, a little bit of the peel in other words, take uh half a grapefruit and you sweeten it to taste. that there is zero benefit from face coverings when it comes to a virus like COVID. were generated after the lockdowns went into effect in 2020 and they had to justify what they were doing to everybody. big virus particles are versus bacterial particles and all of that kind of stuff. system and she doesn't have a whole lot of choice in whether or not she does and she does wash hers um quite frequently or actually she basically does wear it So anyway, it's voodoo at this point. It's limiting your ability to fight viruses like COVID if you are exposed. increasingly exposed to contaminants and molds and things that are going to make them sick because every time you're putting on the mask, taking off the mask, adjusting the mask, pulling it down, pulling it up, doing whatever, you're touching your face with your hands that have been touching other things that are maybe spread by surface contamination and you're getting infected through your mouth, nose, eyes, whatever in ways that you wouldn't have otherwise. And it's getting molds and things in it and they're gonna contaminate themselves that way. Something that is not given enough attention, there's the social aspect. But even those who are seeing others wear a mask, there's a barrier put between us relationally. So that's what but anyway, here's something else for those who haven't gotten the shot or those who are not going to get any more shots to think about. The research seems to indicate that for at least the first three or four weeks, possibly the first eight or ten weeks after somebody's gotten a shot, they are super spreaders of the spike proteins that cause the illness And somebody who has gotten the shot it seems to indicate between two hundred and thirty and two hundred and fifty times the viral load is carried by these people compared to somebody who was naturally exposed to the virus and didn't get Now you're around that exact same person two weeks later after they got the shot and your risk from getting sick is 230 to 250 times higher than it was two weeks earlier when they didn't get the shot. Spew them out. to recently might have been my dad no, I think it was my dad was you know, this false sense of security that that people have after they get vaccinated with regardless of the actual risk of the virus anyway and so when I've been exposed to the spike protein I feel it in my throat. Anyway, so one last word of caution because some people might take us to heart and say, yeah, I'm gonna go get some. The wife is a nurse. And because this is so much more effective and stronger than the regular mouthwashes, too much of the concentrated stuff you could actually have a really adverse reaction. research we did. And based on their their view, they said this is great. got in the shop for example and you need to meet with them and the weather is good enough, meet with them outside because the soup the uh spike protein shed is could be less effective uh there too. So I just just a constant bombardment. Other than that, you should not and maybe you could take a a a vitamin B twelve supplement if if you're low on vitamin B or if you're but yeah, you don't you don't need to overdo it on the on the B, I would that's my experience on that, but Um cursetin. you need a prescription for that. like a a reflux issue, um ibuprofen tends to make stuff like that worse as well. Uh indicates it is safe for children and it seems like it's safe uh like you say if you're pregnant. Yeah. India. So there's more demand and they're restricting the supply because they're trying to kill you. is what I've been seeing, but that's not a hundred percent. Uh I don't know if I can say this right. I'm not exactly sure what that does. The monoclonal antibodies, you definitely want to look at doing uh getting that. What you don't want, and unfortunately, what the hospital will want to give you is remdesivir. If I'm right on that, $3,200 times five days is $16,000. There are risks, so there can be adverse side effects with the monoclonal antibodies. were all early because it seems like if remdesivir works at all, it works within the same timeframe that hydroxychloroquine works So if you're gonna use Remdesivir you gotta use it early it seems. And I'm collating them all because the data points are different, so I'm kind of blending them all, synthesizing them into easy to understand math. It can cause nausea and vomiting, can have an allergic reaction, all that sort of stuff, and that's bad enough. should not be taking it because the kind of mental and mood changes that happen is it's no joke. Um it's a remedy. It's like a medicinal foqua. And it's particularly true for children. relatively young, meaning you're like under seventy, you're not overweight, you're not diabetic, you don't have high blood pressure, you you didn't recently get a new liver or uh or kidney transplant or something. Okay. H T Q it's but it's instead of that. exploring for yourself. Yeah. a a a web link that's got a whole bunch of weird bizarre characters. this stuff. And uh we'll start this week. We're doing something a little bit different this week than it would be our norm. church setting gathering to to talk about that. the the the the the Christian population and say look we're in Christ and to to die is gain crisis in this country. At all, ever. A lot of us are running lives that are sulfur challenge. Because white sugar is feeds inflammation. Attack from the virus. It's a similar kind of thing that what hydrox hydroxychloroquine does. With less oil or maybe in lieu of oil, I know, but you might want to experiment with that as an option. saying why masks don't work for any for things like the flu and viruses like that. I think the FBI was trying to break in the one. Um so somebody that's already struggling with anxiety or has trust issues or is uh prone to becoming depressed or feeling lonely. immunocompromised situation where they're not just concerned about COVID, they're worried about other things that could devastate them and they I'm not talking I'm not talking about you. Tens of thousands of people are dead because they took the shop. Um, I'm up in my years, so I'm not of childbearing age, if you know what I'm saying. um you know to put forth. Betadine products. currently healthy, you're trying to be preventative, you're being exposed, people have gotten the shot, and you want to be proactive about that. Phase one of a multi-phase thing we need to talk about. coming down with something and I would take it um all through the day and I'd wake up in the middle of the night and I'd take two or three doses of two thousand IUs through the night with vitamin C So you can get it without a prescription. Hydroxychloroquine or HCQ, you want to have that in your house now. Back to normal. And so if you're going to get the horse version, make sure that it's not a blend of other things that it's only ivermectin. It's always because they didn't get advice of how to properly dose or they got the wrong kind of iromectin. You know, I want to have all the approaches developed. Abigan, A-B-I-G-A-N. You want that. First of all, rendezivir doesn't work that well. work or it's controversial, let's put it that way, over whether it works and there's any true benefits. It's not exactly a death sentence, but it's one step removed from a death sentence. We mentioned the monoclonal antibodies. Uh Asta Salavamir, Fasta, I don't know how whatever's in Tamil, the active ingredient, it causes serious mental and mood changes in a lot of people. Well you can figure out how to hold down the whole fort for a week until your stuff arrives. that that Google and the other more mainstream search engines do. America's Frontline Doctors. Um to flesh it out with regards to uh the dreaded Rona. So that's going to be different too in that it won't really be a sermon. that will be shared uh of that in a sermon and then a discussion to follow afterwards. But we can do things, but we gotta know what those things are, know how to advocate for them, how to prepare ourselves for them. You want to make sure you're eating right, and by eating right you want to make sure you have foods that are rich in vitamin B twelve and I got a list of foods here that we can talk about later. um pneumonia or something that's causing you to be oxygen challenged or if you're asthmatic for that matter, you want to get rid of the dairy and get rid of the processed white sugar and the processed white flour. And there's a residual amount of formaldehyde in your coffee if you're drinking non-organic so was I think you can probably use any citrus peel, but um grapefruit seemed to be at the top of the list. and you boil it for a certain amount of hours. So with that in mind, you get a lot of vitamin C with this grapefruit and lemon drink, uh, and that's fine, but if you want to get the full benefit of what you're going for, you want to make sure you're taking it with you think so Well that's the other thing, I mean who's do you know anybody personally that is addicted to wearing the mask and they wear a fresh mask every time they put one on? Their IQ is lower than generations before them were because they can't read facial expressions. that feels quite a bit more likely to be legit to me. Um and there is some benefit based on the research I've seen, there's some benefit from your mainstream mouthwashes like Scope or I don't know if you if you call it Act or ACT, but you know, the big ACT, that brand, or Crest. They all have the same kind of ingredients and then Listerine uses a different kind of ingredient, but it also can have some benefit. Use the betadine mouthwash. The the hydroxychloroquine is almost exclusively helpful early. Use them both because the because neither one of them is a hundred percent. And pretty much all of them have that in what they say you should treat a patient with. Without getting all the data points, let's just say this. It is strongly, strongly, strongly urged against. It's bad news. There's one that do you know what the name of it that you that you use a little that cowlets you put in your undercilium? If you don't already have the hydroxychloroquine and the ivermectin or whatever else you want to throw at this and the ZPAC, you don't already have that in your house Uh the virus is real, but because they won't treat it, it's almost like a Trojan horse kind of a thing. I'm gonna look up as soon as my phone comes on, but it's a um it's uh like the it's not in Uh and he and apparently do not take more than what we just said because I guess you can take too much of a good thing. Um it's also on YouTube later, so welcome YouTube if you're watching this later. If we would actually treat the illness, the number of deaths would be maybe exponentially smaller But those were the instincts are right, their teaching is mostly good, and yet they're still caving to pressure from certain segments of their congregation or So, if you're not already taking vitamin C supplement at least 2,000 milligrams a day, then you need to do that. Do we wait to take it until you're ready to go to bed though? uh sugar type of sweetener. You just jump on it immediately and you just bombard it with this with this hydroxychloroquine substitute drink. She has been Angela has been just exposed and immersed in COVID and she never got it. After I got out of the hospital, I had to go see my primary care physician and we had a big disagreement about the shots. My m uh wait they've done studies now with people this age. situations here. So I mentioned that because if you go online to try to find the beta dime, you're gonna be like, Holy cow, this is like two times as expensive as the other stuff. Well that makes sense because it kills they test by shoving the it up here. And after we pulled all this together, I sent it to them and said, hey, do I have anything like wrong or dangerous or incomplete? Uh to your regimen twice a day, before breakfast and dinner, before lunch and dinner. NAC, that's a new supplement we just learned about recently. Um I have a hopper. Um and all the other things are true. And they would tell you if they would. Which was my first word on all of this. And a good friend of mine, uh he also uh did some homework and and he's got his own I don't know if I have a copy of Uh and some people are taking I think for prevention as a pro as a prophylactic. We uh had a discussion about why we had our our time gathering as a church so radically disrupted. Here's the spiritual sins. But for the most part you want to take it before you go to bed because it will make you relax and want to fall asleep. So you want to use that. So I'm not exactly sure what the tonsils have to do with your sulfur, but apparently if you've got your tonsils removed, you're maybe more needing to pay attention to having enough sulfur. Um you know, onions, high in sulfur. Uh you want to have foods rich in amino acids, glycogen, lecithin, you want to have natural digestive aids, uh apples for example, grapefruit, papaya, whatever. That's terrible. But the other the other source is citrus peel. and you add tonic water to it. But you can do both. That's that's the quinine, that's the good stuff. Yeah, I mean she's never had a bad case. Yeah, if somebody is spitting on you or coughing on you, squeezing on you. However, here's the thing though that I want the lucky rabbit's foot would be better. Right. So they survived the shot, but their life is what's altered irreparably. It's worth the extra money. So once it's already gotten to the case, once the virus has gone crazy, hydroxychloroquine has nothing to do. The demand is higher. Now, although that fails because you didn't act fast enough, or you couldn't get your hands on it fast enough or whatever, and your systems get really, really bad, and you get respiratory symptoms, maybe you got the onset of some The risk with the monoclonal antibodies seem worth it at that point for sure. You're way behind the eight ball. And that is that they don't you know, it's bad enough when they won't give us health care. Now you have a place to start. Yeah, so the the two most predominantly prescribed uh antibiotics and in addition to ivermectin, the human form, the pill form of ivermectin, apparently were available to get Your bank account number. They're making decisions based on things that aren't true. Everybody know you know your weight and all that kind of stuff. It's when this natural these natural remedies really work the best. Um couple of tips that'll help us to cook and eat more healthily that I they stumble on as I was getting pulling all the stuff together. So I mentioned the shop. The point of this is to give you is to give everyone truth, to give everyone a balanced account of uh of of So um we're sharing that with you so that you can make the decision um that that you think is best for you to make. Yeah, which is a shame because it's it's a NAC is checked. What is exactly is non-organic honey? I didn't know this at first and boy how helpful it was when I learned it. Good for you. And that is the most important truth we really could share about all the things we shared tonight. They suppress your immune system because they limit your oxygen intake. Conglomeration of collection of collection of of of yeah yeah. Some studies have shown where they've tested people's uh sinus cavities and their and their uh their throats and stuff to see how much viral load they have in their body. Uh the turmeric or tum turmeric or turmeric turmeric. Very cool. So you gotta have some self-care and take some steps. Can you say our father? And a real easy, it's not fully as simple as this. That's right. So uh what happens is the hydroxychloroquine opens up the cells to allow the zinc to absorb into the cell more readily, and the zinc is what goes after the virus. Or it's based off the flu, which is water dry. Well she would be an exp exception, somebody who's washing it w and and changing it all the time. Technically the NAC is a uh FDA regulated drug that they claim would need a prescription. And forgive me on the pronunciation maybe someone else knows. And if you're getting sick and you're trying to fight something, if you haven't already, which you probably should, but you really want to get rid of the processed sugar. So that's if you you know, you feel like you're getting sick, you're gonna step it up for a day or two, and hopefully you turn the corner. You want them, if they will, you might have to sue them to get these things, but you want them to give you megadoses of vitamin C and vitamin D intravenously You should get a pulse oxometer in your house. So it's it's more of a supplement? So okay, so this will be an herbal approach. And uh to be honest, it wasn't cheap, but it wasn't outrageous. Now before I close, have us close maybe Dean or somebody else who wants to close in pr prayer. She is a parrot. Research you can't do that. The official narrative from the government agencies, I know it's different. So but part of the reason is she actually works with um severely immunocompromised people. But we are giving we are sharing information so that you can make a wise decision. Are we okay? Okay. All right, so for the record then, since this is all new, this is what we have here, this is all new information to me, but uh the suggestion here is that your first dose will be a hundred milligrams of this ardominicin. So True that. And it's not on my list, but if you're a coffee drinker and you like to opt for the uh decaffeinated because you like the taste but you don't want to get wired on the caffeine They're sending a message to your cells, so the RNA manufactures a spy protein that is what causes the illness. Yeah, it's a yeah, it's a uh like a supplement or product or uh uh uh there's a substitute for it by the way, um E G C G. It has an antiviral effect. It's not part of their protocol. Yes, Artaminesin. Uh well yeah, but you have to give him your well, you have to give him your bank account, checking account number. America's Frontline Doctors was completely overwhelmed months ago, but now there are more and more places that are stepping up with online Medicare, telemedicines what I meant to say. So oh it's it's funny my daughter shared how you know sometimes she's talking to her husband and she's like, I never she's joking. So if you can't get your hands on that, a third option, which doesn't get talked about almost at all, is uh severe uh If they have pneumonia, it gets worse. And you might be tempted, if you're coming down with COVID symptoms, or you know, it's a flu-like symptom, right? So anybody have anything else they want to add or say or I can't see the clock. All right, uh dear Lord, we thank you for uh just the time for the church to equip its uh participants, its its church, the church to be equipped in these times and not But you can learn from my mistakes. All you do is you take the uh about half of a grapefruit and about half of a lemon and you pulverize them in a food processor. But how does a hydroxychloricin work? So just something to think about. And there's some people that are suggesting and to be honest, I tend to give some credence to a lot of these suggestions. Think about it. So what do we do? She went out and bought an actual just a regular beet, not the cantor variety, and then uh made 'em. No, it's not going to help you catch the negative so you don't get a fake positive or anything that is being said here tonight, obviously you do your own Uh step up your your zinc. And I mentioned the melatonin before, step that up. Oh the honeycombs. No, no, well no, it's just on ISO. that it's also true for ivermectin to a point. The success stories that I've seen on this are amazing. And you want them to make sure that they're going to give you these. So you want to force them to give you pesticid, which is what we do when I was in the hospital. We also ask Father that you would bring to this discussion uh via um YouTube all who should hear this discussion, all who would benefit from it, all who would You know, he went and got a mask to hand me a mask so I could wear a mask as I walked out of I had been in there for a half hour without one, but he wanted me to have one as I walked out It's really interesting. And another one that's gotten a little bit of buzz lately is uh nit nitazinide, I think is how you say it. Hold on one second, basically. That's not normal. Right, exactly. I will tell you the last one I just mentioned, the nitazoxinide, as I think how you say it. You want pepsid? You know, like we shouldn't be living our lives out of fear. Vitamin D, same thing, you're going to be taking at least 3,000 international units of vitamin D3 every day. They've been in the field for 30 years. So that doesn't mean you shouldn't do your own homework and vet this yourselves, but yeah, because I'm not a medical doctor and so I'm not giving medical advice. So do that. Personally I wouldn't spend money on them, but if you want to get get one and think there's some values, they they do exist apparently. But it's his his own like resource guide, a whole bunch of websites and and doctors and and uh political information and medical information. Am I right? I don't know if you know this or not, but most most of the decaffeinated coffees, uh the process that's used to get rid of the caffeine, exposes the beans to formaldehyde. So I disagree with him on that. Stop feeding the lie. Unfortunately, that is true. Comes out in their breath. But it also is used for coughs and lung conditions and the flu and dry eye and so that's where it comes into play with COVID. Sometimes it's called Z PAC. Yeah, you gotta get the dosage right. He pulled all that together. I say a hundred, a thousand milligrams, and then about six to eight hours later five hundred milligrams. She whispered it. Well um the drug comes from something and uh uh there's uh the um the hydroxychloroquine that drug is derived from um Most mouthwashes do not have that. Amen. Hmm, my throat's a little scratchy, maybe a little bit sore, I'm a little hoarse, I feel a little off, I've got a headache, and I'm you know, what's going on? If that's not the case and you're 36 hours in, you're like, no, I'm not getting better. It's nine pages. Everything that I mentioned, I've dropped a lot of names and words and stuff and these are things if you hadn't heard them before. That should be a a reverent off field kind of fear. If they're woke churches, garbage churches, unbiblical churches, they can shut down and stay shut down forever, as far as I'm concerned. If you've already gotten one or two of the shots, don't get any more because you're just it it's a game of Russian roulette at some point. The black yeah, the black cumin seeds. Yeah, it's not using the act the acid and active ingredient isn't even all that active. She whenever she's got the sippy cup in her mouth, it's normally she'll repeat anything you say. I was like, wait, what am I reading? You're not loving your family. And the tonic water, you know, has a kind of a bitter bite to it, and the grapefruit, you know, particularly the rind has a a a bitter kind of bite to it, and you're like, oh this drink. They're like a fog of viral spike proteins walking around. You want to be taking you know 250 milligrams maybe five uh twice a day or five hundred milligrams all at once of the cursetin. Organic honey. It's an antiparasitical drug primarily. And also, the government is is uh is restricting the shipments of ivermectin uh from overseas into this country. Now d is this dosage this stuff available easily online or did you suddenly pull this together and send it to you? Artaminesin? We want to be smart, right? It's not just that they don't do anything positive to protect you. Like there's a mouthwash, a betadine mouthwash it's ready to just put in your mouth and gargle with. Yeah, they're gonna start restricting aspirin, I'm sure. And that posture on your stomach laying down, it expands your rib cage. I don't know if that means the iron you ingest or if it actually becomes toxic with like a physical form of iron. And it is highly toxic in the presence of iron. Can you say our father? So the next couple weeks are still going to be a little bit weird till we get fully back on track. Quinine. Um curry powder powder apparently is a is uh a seasoning that has a lot of uh turmeric in it. It costs twice as much as the other mouthwashes, but it's it's more than twice as effective. Yeah, do your own research, talk to your own trusted medical people. You're gonna need to get a uh uh cordosteroid uh inhaler. Go online, go to DuckDuckGo. Which is a little sketchy when you think about it, but I talked to someone who had already ordered it and it was fine. So we are living in a world filled with lies, which is why we had to spend so much time on practical Over the course of several weeks when I was lucid enough, I was just kind of running through my mind of the kinds of dangers that we face in our culture. So think about that. It's kind of a COVID fighting drink. You go up to somebody who's recently been exposed to COVID and they've never gotten the shock and you've got a factor of one of getting sick by being around them. I haven't seen enough details on that. Now the the uh mouthwash that Dina mentioned, vetadine, um that's the brand name. Don't, you know, be selfish and expose yourself to somebody else. No, but I meant like B is something that you like might want to be the Yeah. So I don't know what's going on with that but I think they recently did that because it was viewed as effective against COVID. About another 20% doesn't seem to hurt them or help them. And then we're gonna do the hard part. Once it gets past those first week or two, man, the odds of beating it get way worse. You want to have enough B complex? How's this happening? I asked that just because that is what would indicate that it's not an underlying health condition as opposed to that. So I would steer clear of using it if you're pregnant until you have some confidence that it would be safe for you. And that is like a uh just a natural form of high of hydroxychloroquine. All right, a little aside on the health, you know, nutritional and supplement uh tips, a note on face coverings. Uh hydrophylchlorapin for those who are wondering, uh every doctor report that I've seen that's tough that's willing to use hydrophylchloroquin. Think about that. Would still recommend talking to your doctor if you are concerned about cancer. Here, here. We're not uh we're not so firmly committed to the uh polar opposite narrative that we're saying, go out there and live your life. Uh I don't know exactly I don't remember now. I'd go regular aspirin, first strength aspirin if it were me, but that's up to you to decide, I guess. So you're gonna tell them no no no, I I I I use pepsid at home. One thing I want to say about that is you can get out of the clinic, you don't have to get that at the hospital, but you need to get in the clinic because it's an IV. Because it's it's now being rationed, and if you're not considered high risk, it's hard to get. But um there's a way to uh what I learned was that, you know, the the drug that treats COVID is called one of the drugs is called hydroxychloroquine. Also, though, try to be outside as much as possible, you know, uh out in your yard, getting fresh air, sunshine Yeah. So you could so you can you can maybe get up to ninety-eight, ninety-nine percent effectiveness maybe by multitasking your approach. Abigan, I think. So if you can't find a doctor or a farmer, you can't do it. So we have confidence that all of that is true. We do not have a COVID crisis. Zinc, 25 milligrams a day. I was craving beets. So So I use um it what's it risal, stevia, um, monk fruit or whatever to sweeten it. Uh they're going to uh you you might they won't automatically give you Pepsid. If you'd like to get a copy, I'd be happy to share it. org. You're gonna need audio. Uh we're gonna be walking through COVID protocols uh that we all be need to be thinking about uh and and prepared for. I I don't know if we've gotten it as far as being tested, but I mean she's ne she's never gotten seriously sick, never even had to think about going to the hospital. What a Dallas Fires Probe. I've begun to hear some good things about that. And so what do they do? You gotta start now because it's gonna it's gonna take you at least a week, just with normal shipping and stuff. So um now that everybody's here, hopefully it's going to be here. It's witch doctor. Obviously we're not we're not mandating what we're telling you. Organ you want organic is probably and I will say if you can get the stuff that's uh the the local honey that will help you with allergens. There's some variance and differences here, but the core of their treatment strategies are all essentially the same. Okay, so just Artaminicin. That is the good news. You can contact me any way you want, and we can see if maybe there's a good fit for what we're doing here, for what uh you might be looking for. So if you find yourself in a situation where you're out in a social setting and you're around a bunch of people that probably have gotten the shot, because the majority of people now have gotten it. Uh and it's and it's amazing. Is it the same type of iodine that they put on you for surgeries? They do fifty thousand IUs all in one day. But that's where you get to the honeycombs maybe it to it to fight. So people that are taking Tylenol regularly actually can go into liver failure uh over time. The the Z pack and the Pepsid and drinking lots of fluids, all that sort of stuff, is is true. I'm loading for bear. Do not delay. So you might not need a you don't need a prescription for this? Did you? Oh, okay. Uh regardless of how true that is or isn't, it's not working. I just know all of the protocols, because this is all collated from a variety of doctors who have been treating COVID successfully for the last year plus. Uh and see if we can't incorporate the youngest among us into what we do in our dialogue and and Nadia has become increasingly vocal. The aliens are coming. Uh there are those who would suggest uh strongly that it might be a biological warfare. You want to be smart about how you do that. That's cheaper than my options. The doctor who warned us about this couldn't have been more strident in his opposition to Tamil Flu. No no no not it. Well one of the other big lies is that we can save ourselves, that we got life under control, we're fine, we don't need anybody else. It was really a weird sensation. It will yeah. So think about the rotten eggs smell. So you want that bitter stuff. Well what's happening is for those who are the uninitiated, how the shot works, uh the mRNA vaccines particularly, vaccines uh particularly. Right. So and you also want to apparently limit your intake of carbs. Children are more prone to this particular adverse effect. So you want to figure that out as much in advance as possible. It's not it's not a pharmaceutical, it's a it's uh yeah, that's double wood supplements Okay, so that's something else for you to look in. And this has been a challenge to the church and a real bugaboo for me as a pastor since And there's a whole list of of uh sodium rich foods that I have, and it's a pretty extensive list. And then I said, Well also we disagree about the mask. Actually comes out through their pores. And it's only when I've been exposed to That would normally be actually like a cancer protein. Oh I have no idea. You have a hopper? You're giving Remdesivir five days in a row through an IV, and I think each dose costs $3,200. People on ventilators with COVID pneumonia in the hospital, the statistics there are dire. It's it's like a research paper really. And so she sent sent this to me. How loving is this if somebody is dependent on reading somebody's lips to navigate the world and communicate? Now a lot of the stuff was preamble to the phase one, so we're not going to be here for four hours. Use it two, three times a day. Yeah, there's a name brand, but you you want that ingredient. And that can be harder with the horse paste version. Did you? We want to be as healthy as we can be and f uh and and bolster our immune system as much as we can before we ever are exposed to any sort of a virus, whether it's COVID or flu or anything for that matter. But that that's it. Now vitamin B is something that you can't eventually overdose something. The reason you take that is one, it's it's a uh it's an anti-inflammatory, so it helps with that because a lot of these symptoms that come with COVID are inflammatory symptoms. So take take a pepsid pill twice a day. So if you're like eighty percent effective on hydroxychloroquine and then you throw in the ibermeccin, which is eighty percent effective Whatever. You want to ask them for ivermectin, because remember we said ivermectin, unlike hydroxychloroquine, it will work late. Some people talk about getting a COVID test at home. I mean people were participating in the conversation with this, so there might not be any additional Oh. That's all I can say about that. But the plan is to do a a Christmas family, Christian family, if you will, gathering for those that can make it to have like a Christmas feast. God has given us many blessings in our life, including our bodies. You're not prepared in case COVID should strike. Yeah well I don't you you're not gonna OD um two thousand milligrams of vitamin C No your body typically And um uh there's a couple of places that you can get this quinine. Now I I use a crock pot because they want you to boil it for like three hours. Uh step up your vitamin C. You don't want to do that for a third, fourth, fifth day. You might not be able to get it that readily, so you want to identify in advance where the clinics are, where the hospital is that are doing this. org, uh COVID19 Critical Care dot com, Early Treatment Report. And we're just thankful for the opportunity and the willpower and the courage to do that. So if you're watching this online, get out pen and paper and jot down a shopping list. We're talking about the mineral sodium that's actually in the food itself. They have different active ingredients or ingredients that help to fight bacteria or whatever. I'm confused about that because bees make honey. You're gonna you're gonna wanna have uh that um as well. It's used for like the flu instead of it. Uh unless you happen to have an oxygen ox you know oxygenated uh oxygen concentrator in your house, maybe you can avoid going to the hospital at that point Jesus' name, amen. Who who knows the answer to that? We're reinforcing the lie. And they're both differently based, kind of like how you can take isoprofen and pollen all at the same time because it's It causes things to get clogged up and stick. So it's a it's kind of a failed drug it seems to me at this point. You can check your oxygen in case you start to be challenged. Next week, um, while I was bedridden and my mind was going in a bunch of different places and um They're there and you can get fully up to speed if you feel like you want to do that. Asparagus, high in sulfur. Uh if anyone's gonna get really, really sick from it, it would have been Angela based on her exposure. Um I'm not gonna get into details of of the shop. Now not everybody has that response. You need one of those inhalers. I mean we're talking about bad news. She she said father. Who art in heaven? Hold on a second. It's witchcraft. Wear the mask is the loving thing to do. We've added that into uh into our regimen. They put you in the ICU and they put you on a ventilator. And but I'm not I have to look it up because it's one of those It's something that's due in Louis Hydrostochor points? No. Oh wow, I was getting rid of that. And I said, do we have beets? Other supplements, not going to spend a lot of time on this, but we want to make sure we have enough magnesium, vitamin K, uh is it curcumin? Vote for Angela. Some people are actually finding some success when they feel like they're getting sick of coming down with something Fabapiravir, I think is how you say it. Well by the time you're in the hospital, it's no longer early. So that's all the notes that I had. Oh hydroxychloric was to treat malaria, right? Right now we are soured by sin, but we will one day be in glory with God if we trust the truth. So that's those are the plans for the coming weeks. So we just thank you for that opportunity. It's something I've figured out as I'm looking at the list of foods that are on the list. And does it just do it once and then you're back to Um it does it for a couple of days. Is I think it might be Nigella Sativa? They're going to give you antibiotics. For most people it'll make you tired. Uh Angela, I'm not sure where she found out about it, but you can give the recipe and tell the story about that. And so you're trying to get rid of inflammation because a lot of times your lungs will get inflamed with Suggests. They're showing that there has been a negative impact on childhood development and IQ among children that are under the age of three. And then there's hundreds of thousands that has uh other forms of adverse effects. I'm not trusting that, but I I do feel like the super spreading for the first month or two I don't know. You know some websites some web links have this a thousand bizarre characters. They might be telling you otherwise, but all these new reports I remember reading the headline uh while back when w it the headline said Uh oh no a couple days ago I saw it as part of a uh uh a Some are suggesting that the super spreading aspect might be much longer, might be a year or more. What'd you say? I would do it. If you don't already have all these supplements and nutritional aids in your house, Um it's a malaria drug. I quote my Bible on my phone. I learned a heck of a lot more through my experience that I shared two weeks ago So we've got to know what is true. I don't know. They actually shared it with uh several people um right after and those three So if you're battling nausea and you just can't handle the ibuprofen because it's making you that much more nauseous, Tylenol is gentler on the stomach and Or if you have an acid issue. The the studies I've seen show that they're they're both pretty similar in their effectiveness, if they're used appropriately and at the right time, that they both seem to have like eighty, eighty-five percent effectiveness. You do not want tampa flu because the side effects are really bad if you get them. We can get it at Walmart. A-R-T-E-M-I-N-I-S-I-N. We're in a weird transition phase. I can provide this to you, a hard copy of this. When it becomes a full blown thing, th th they're they're a little less they're less effective. Uh usually if you're taking a of a multivitamin, any good multivitamin's got all the B complex stuff you need, so if if you're not taking a multivitamin, add that to your regimen And we trust them implicitly, explicitly, whatever the Use the phone. And you in other words, you can adjust how peppery that taste is by how much of the peel that you put in Yeah. Seriously. I mean you're not gonna survive just on Tepsid, but it's it's just another bullet in the chamber kind of a thing. Ivermectin works way better early, but it does also seem to have significant And so it can be used in lieu of or even some people use it in combination. So and y you might want to do the baby dose, but if you actually are sick with with COVID or something like COVID, go the full dose If you don't know what that is, it's an alternative to Google. So that happens. I think I said two to six milligrams at night as part of your regular prophylactic measures. That's that's going to be better than Tylenol. So if you're hospitalized, you want them to give you an IV with the NAD uh drip involved. So you might have to advocate, but if you can steer clear of that in advance, just make the phone call and say, hey, I'm I don't think I'm high risk. And then um if I send you the whole thing you'll see I've got uh AAPSonline. We need to understand if everybody has a sin problem, every single person can't solve that on their own. We welcome your Holy Spirit, Father. We're in a spiritual battle, and usually what we do in this context is we prepare one another for that fight. Melatonin. The other thing that you can do to make this um this um hydroxychloroquine is you can just simply take the peel of the fruit And you will need to add something to sweeten it because after all it's grapefruit and linen. And based on anecdotal evidence, I don't know if you wanna talk about your experience with being around people who have recently gotten a shot or a booster. Yeah, it's harder on the stomach, so if you're having a stomach thing and you're like, I gotta do something about my fever, okay fine. Give some benefit of the doubt. No? But um no, I I I I just I I compile a list of quotes and and stuff directly from the CDC's website about what masks are actually used for, how You want to stay away from them anyway. But most people that are wearing the exact same death rag over and over and over again But yeah, although I've heard stories that avocados can fake out a PCR test. Uh you want to step that up and and take add more of that into your diet. So you add that into your diet. Yeah, you got to get the dosage right. You said father? We would still meet at a regular time, but we would do it as just a festive uh the kind of thing you might do in a Thanksgiving thing with your biological family. But you do have to do something to take that edge off of the honey or or something that's not like sugar. They're forcing you to re-breathe in what you've already exhaled. Um ex exactly. Yeah, it's very similar because that's what um telling me. For the flu in Japan. You want to lay on your stomach and put your arms above your head and lay like this And Dina actually, or Angela suddenly ran out to the house and bought beets. Now it doesn't work as well as hydroxychloroquine, so don't misunderstand. He said, What's that? You know, I might as well put a lucky rabbit's foot in my pocket. It really does work. Um and and you know, this is a this is this is a country of freedom That is Ivor Mackenzie's like ten dollars a pill. Yeah, make make a separate account. All my contact information is on our website, household of faith in Christ dot com. I know that your doctor, if you're abiding by the ADA or AMA, right? The um Make sure you're kicking that virus out. Huh? The other one, the Favera Peer, however you say that, uh, it's very commonly given under the uh brand name But you can do your own homework. And do your own homework, you know, if you're watching online or even if you're in the room. There you go. And those that he calls to himself, they respond, and then they live a life of obedience to Christ and eventually live a life of for eternity. Anyway, that derailed a lot of my prep time, uh spending time in the materials getting ready for sermons. What is true is that we have a treatment crisis. And it's particularly true if you've had your tonsils removed, apparently. So go and fully inform knowing that it's not without some risk. And people say, Oh, we don't have health care in this cu in this country, we have uh we have sick care. His name is Jesus Christ. Okay, don't take a juice. So um a couple of weeks ago So anyway, welcome everybody who's going to jump online We shouldn't be afraid of the darts and slings and arrows the world is throwing at us, even viruses. I need to see your lips move. If you feel like you're sick I mean don't do that with the flu either. So you definitely want that. If you already have it, you can jump on it right away. So eggs, high in sulfur. And so the recipe that I came across And then you and again you add the the um the water the the tonic water to it and you It just I also I think I want to emphasize when you first feel a symptom coming on the What about that? Now I know there could be some exceptions where somebody has some sort of You know, take more of what you were taking, because now you're sick, you're fighting something. Oh. I don't really know what it does or how it works, but apparently you want it You do not want a ventilator. They don't push things way down on the list and and censor things in the same way, so you're likely to get better research results through DuckDuckGo. You have to use it in combination with something. Don't explode. We need to fight back and not wear the mask. And you can use a netipot even, but you'd want to use a netipot maybe with the concentrated version I once knew what it did. Uh step that up, you know, double it. You've been nominated. The following week will be a sermon, but it's not going to be Unbleafed flour we white flour is is worse. On top of that, um people who are wearing the mask are Similar things can happen to them and they're like, oh my gosh, I'm so glad you said something because I was concerned that I might have had a cancer or a whatever or something. So is the active ingredient intested is phamo femotines, F A Yeah, a hopper on here. So next week we're going to walk through some of the kinds of things we're being exposed to so we can be better at identifying the wolves in our midst In in the sense that, you know, if you were to spit on someone and you have COVID, the chance She she watched me do all of that actually with where the Or cheaper than what I did, it sounds like cheap though. There's a couple of different uh brand names for that. So things that cause odors tend to be high in sulfur, so that's a cheater's way to try to figure out how to do that. And it might take a few days before you feel like you've turned a corner, but you will not get very sick and you will turn a corner. Yeah. They're like, what was that character in peanuts? Yeah, right. And so we should probably talk about the chosen. Now you get sick, you go to the doctor, and they won't give you what you need, so you've got to get yourself. Um What else? But they also have a concentrated betadine. Um and at that point you you might be concerned that you've got an in a more Oh that's nice. Try the internet. Well assuming we have audio, welcome Facebook Live, joining our weekly gathering for the household of faith in Christ. People, you know, we die. Some people apparently it wires them and it actually makes them more t more awake. Those are things you should be doing right now, and if you're not, you need to start doing it. Um let's see. It's really scary if we pause to think about it. So good for you, you survive the shot. Oh yeah, that actually didn't we've just basically completed uh You got it without a prescription. And if you'd like to get a copy of that, you know, I I can get that to you as well. So he actually calls it his COVID white paper. Are there any things that you've learned that are you think are important that weren't shared that you think maybe should be shared? Until next week, uh next Saturday, six o'clock. Amen. At least I feel like we do. Might not be thinking about that, but really we should have it be our habit. I said, Well we disagree about the shot, clearly. Okay. But one or two days apparently that's where the you did that. If not, take steps today or tomorrow to get it in your house. Actually, I feel like I'm getting worse. Overdose of Tylenol can also kill you very quickly. They'll tell you the opposite of what you're going to hear. I I don't use Tums. You might be tempted to get tamaflu. So anyway, there are options, but you want to stay away from Standard Oh okay. We just thank you for you know just being equipped with the knowledge that we have, even though that the truth is being suppressed in our society. Uh I'm not sure if we're gonna get Angela, would you mind open us with a word of prayer? You need to have it in your house now. Quick little aside, when I came home from the hospital still in oxygen support with the oxygen concentrator, I was craving beets. By the way, an anecdotal story before I get into what I was just gonna launch into And I'm here to tell you that is a lie. If you're getting sick and you think it's a viral illness, uh you want to uh add pepsin So you gotta make sure you know what you're doing on because horses weigh like two thousand pounds. They don't want you to have it. They're making this as difficult as they can. But these are other online resources you can check that uh that have good information, at least good information and an Don't take a juice. Once we get into the new year, we will get back on track with our Revelation series. We shouldn't be driven by fear. So I'll do that. So what would make they spray. Now there are those who have have said, no, they gave it to me and it did work. I've seen a lot of mixed reviews on that. You don't want canophou. I think we have audio. I mean you don't need to have the cough cold, you know. They're also going to prescribe azethromyosin. Uh I'm not sure if you need a prescription for that. And I just recently heard about something called the NAD drip. It's actually pr something that comes from the liver of a goose or something like that. If you live somewhere within the Frederick area, uh within driving distance of Frederick anyway, and you're not currently at a church or you're in a church that's gone woke and you're looking And then after that I think it's Christmas. Also, if you uh take sea salt and uh about a quarter cup of it, put it in a half gallon of water Sometimes you're cheered up just by seeing somebody's pearly whites, right? Uh if you have a fever and if you're getting s increasing symptoms you might get a fever. The Dallas Fires Probe. And they're going to give you anticoagulants, they're going to give you shots in the stomach because you're bedridden. Before I do that though, I'm gonna say these pretty quickly. She freaked out when it first came into effect because she couldn't recognize that Right. But the biggest concern is that the uh active ingredient Right. And I mentioned this two weeks ago. If you're gonna do that, by the way, you wanna opt for the sea salt. I said, Because the masks they don't do anything. They're super spreaders. Or some people get careless afterwards. There are consumer ready When you're fighting an illness, carbs is suppress your immune system apparently. Drink lots of fluids. So um take an abs button. So it's an immensely expensive drug that doesn't No, and I they have they require India already doesn't trust their government. She has the sippy cup in her mouth and she's just like, Why? But here's the thing that I think Everything that I'm sharing tonight, we have we have dear friends who are a a married couple, one is a is a doctor and and Um cumins and tacos, right? Fabapiravir, also I think called T705 for short. Kinda no harm, no foul. Art of medicine. And you got all of this without uh prescription? According to something that I quickly looked up, so I have no idea what that actually is. And that in your in dealing with that'd be company overseas you could be a little sketchy, you may be nervous about that, but you have a good s good experience. And then his ascension, showing that he is in control and in rule right now. Oh. Amen. Yes. Don't drink it, gargle with it. Oh, and I'm glad you reminded me uh by saying that. And maybe you've heard stories about people using the horse version and getting sick. So if you can't find it in the States and you got a friend overseas in Japan, maybe they can hook you up. It was originally treated as uh developed as a drug treatment They're probably going to give you anti-inflammatories. I do have COVID protocols. Anybody here who wants to get a copy, I'm obviously glad to text or email a PDF to you or something like that. Yeah. Something I wanted to do uh each week and Because it's not just the masks don't do anything good, they actually do harm. I don't know if I put that down in my notes of what it does. I think is how you say it. You can kind of see. Yeah, and just put that little amount in there. org. Get ready now. They they they make it harder for your body to maintain its oxygen level. Yeah, absolutely. Some even do it for a second day. In addition to or in lieu of hydro hydroxychloroquine, there's ivermectin as an option. Um my mother has has a in Also this is uh malaria zika. And he didn't have an answer. And so that makes them more prone to becoming super spreaders because they're like, Oh, I'm fine. It's typically people who have a sensitive system, which I do. Not something that you have to do every day like you would do regular mouthwash. For B twelve you should be mostly trying to manage that through diet and then supplementing the B complex series of B vitamins with a multivitamin. Use DuckDuckGo as your search engine because they don't uh play the same kind of game. Why be in heaven? We ask this, Father, in honor of We want to take care of our bodies, preserve our bodies as best as we can based on what is true. So I don't want us towering in fear. I mentioned the sea salt Strongly Well that's the only name brand that has the ingredients. Um And we talked about this two weeks ago, so I'm not going to beat a dead horse, whether it's taking library or not. Say our father. If somebody wants to confirm that, I forgot to turn on the audio at first, but I think we have it now. I was only in the hospital for you know less than a week, but I was bedridden for a number of weeks. That's that's uh probably the one must-have. There are more COVID cases now than there were last year when there was no shock. But it's a way less surgery. No, this is D I'm sure we went way along what time did it. You get a the water droplets part was And why do the signs out front in your practice say everybody has to wear one? Like the government is trying to mandate things They got the kind of still with a bunch of other crap that humans shouldn't be taking. It's just vitamins. I don't want Tums. You might tell them that you want PepsiD and they're gonna want to give you Tums Like we we think the problem is this or the reality is that, but there's this insidious reality in the underbelly of it So there's myfreedoctor. Because of his death, which proved which uh which was a perfect atoning sacrifice for our sin. I think that's the American Association of Physicians and Surgeons, I think. Let's see how much you can say. We welcome your presence. Amen. If you look at studies that predate the outbreak of COVID, You know, people wearing masks being forced to wear masks. Immediately I start to feel a sore throat and I'm not sick and But what do you do if you actually start to feel a little bit sick? So if if if you can't get your hands on the hydroxyl chloride, you've been sick already for like a week or two and now you finally are going to get your hands on I think you I don't know if you can get those I think you can only get those with a prescription, but maybe you can get hooked up with that too So if you're oxygen challenged, the prone positioning is huge. So nobody should be taking camuflu, according to what I found out, but really kids. And it looks like they're taking 200 milligrams a day with when they eat with their meals. Try you know, try India. Um but the bacteria actually matters for her. And it's been three years since I've been of childbearing age and I will all of a sudden start to have a cycle But when I say some, the betodyne is way more effective. And if you do get pneumonia Uh if you want to catch up on all the sermons and discussions that So now, COVID, why are we talking about this? And so I've learned a lot and I want to share that. The things I'm going to mention, you need to have them in your house now They don't have this social interaction. The shop uh Yeah. But the other thing that happens, not to get way too personal, is So this yeah, so this is something to think uh instead of this for malaria. You want to have foods. Unless you're craving white sugar and white flour and lots of dairy There are some holistic options Well, I think that's one of the ones he mentioned was to treat Anyway, like the number one food item for helping to increase or maintain your oxygen level in your blood is beets. So it's it's a combination of grapefruit and lemon. And uh then uh I wasn't wearing a face covering, and so uh as I was leaving the little room that you So if you can be outside, if you have to meet with somebody, if they've been recently As it tries to multiply, you keep beating it back, beating it back. However, for whatever reason, there are a lot of over-the-counter substance supplements that have NAC Angela's done some of these things and within twenty-four hours she's feeling better already, and within forty-eight hours she's So they're doing everything they can to keep you from getting your hands on this stuff It causes confusion. Yeah, something like that So many that your body doesn't need all that it's generating, so it starts to We're we're sharing anecdotal information, you know, so we we believe very strongly in what we're saying Um but we've talked about what to do when you're Yeah, I have a hook. You do not want remdesivir, you do not want a ventilator So do not delay And then uh on the second day you do five hundred milligrams and the third day five hundred milligrams again I really feel like that's what got me. Yeah, I mean you don't want to be foolhardy, but it's it's noteworthy that We already talked about this before. The longer you get into your illness, uh the steeper the decline of effectiveness It used it used to be a lot cheaper. Because the spike protein is, for lack of a better way of putting it, is sticky, if you will. But there was another I don't know, but it just said that it can become And I was so frustrated, particularly with the leadership of the church, which needed to set the tone for the rest of And I said, Well what about people like me that are made to feel incredibly uncomfortable by seeing everybody wearing a mask It'll be just as effective as the mask. I never realized how dependent on him but looking somebody's mouth while they're talking. That's true. But they had they had become the num they had become the hotspot of the entire world for c Like it's not it's it it's so but ivermectin still seems to be helpful, something to to think about there It's the most expensive of the options we talk about. So it's not gonna do its it's not gonna have a chance to do its job. If it drops below 95, you've got a problem. Beans, high in sulfur. Hypermectin. The shot has been an utter failure. Nigella Sativa maybe? Now, if you go to the hospital, all has failed and you're in the hospital, people you need to hear this. And so a crock pot is really good for that kind of a thing. Don't be drinking it. Yeah, avoid if you feel like you're getting sick, avoid people and take precautions. Interesting, okay, because those are typically prescription meds. It seems like about twenty percent of the people that get rezeir might actually have some benefit. I know some people have gotten them, but boy, the PCR tests in the hospital are really untrustworthy, and the home test case seemed to be equal to So like like everything, too much of a good thing. Oh quick gesture. The only fear we should have is fear of God, and even that's not a fe But So you know these are all things you'll Tums Tums actually upsets my stomach. Well, I learned this through our through our experience. Can you say that? It just depends on how much exposure I meant like once cycle. So I mentioned that because you don't want to gargle with the concentrated betadine because that would be too much Then you gotta be quite a bit more aggressive, and here's where you gotta go for it. We mentioned Tylenol before, right? It might take you two weeks, three weeks, four weeks. But don't don't tempt I mean the best part about that is that people who have recently been vaccinated She's gonna survive that one. It's an antibiotic. It's just high dose IV. And it's very expensive, so it's very lucrative for the hospitals So if you're This week we're Basically foods that cause an odor He rolled his eyes and shrugged his shoulders and turned his back on me and walked away. You got to hear this. Is COVID Uh and just being unafraid of the censorship that may come or any Can you say, Our Father? What is true is we do not have a virus So anything that's the more processed it is, the worse it's gonna be. One is in tonic water. But it has a substitute for it. Oh. By the way, it's unclear, the stuff I've seen is unclear about whether Ivermectin. I mean the shots aren't safe. And at some point the gun's gonna go off. Uh I don't know you need to take it as p regular supplement, but if you get sick You want to add add honey, a gram of honey a day apparently is very medicinal when you're fighting a a virus. So you want to stay away from the Tylenol if you can't. I got it without a prescription. And so that leads to my final word on all of this. I mean do your own homework. So I mean she has been not full blown. So you're getting more and more carbon dioxide coming in or whatever other contaminants you've breathed out are coming back in. I'm talking about the 99. Pick them. I might be coming down with something. I I yeah, I superdosed. Didn't do anything good, but didn't do anything bad. Oh, I'm gonna let Angela take the floor on this one because she introduced us to a drink that you can He said, Well actually I don't disagree with you on that. It's actually more common than And I don't know if it's a bit of a So increase your zinc. And so we're gonna be have it won't be Facebook Live, I don't think A lot of doctors are saying don't just use hydroxychloroquine or ivermectin Nitoxoxinide. But if you're in the hospital with advanced COVID, advanced pneumonia, and you're you're fighting for your life We just thank you for the salvation that he brings and the spiritual healing that he brings You want to make sure you're not using sugar and use plant Right now he's gonna make So you really need to have probiotics to help replace the uh the the good bacteria that we need. But not just the deaths, there are tens of thousands of people that have been permanently disabled because they No, I I'll think it's funny with it. Methyl prednizolone. And this is a compilation of all of that, including some of the variants that I've uh that I've seen You want to do everything you can to avoid getting to the point where they even want to try to put you on a ventilator is is is the Make it make it like a a second checking account on your Well, you're basically writing an electronic check. Take two to six milligrams of melatonin every night before you go to bed as part of your prophylactic approach Okay. All right, that was our radio. Exactly. Oh yeah. We welcome you to have your way in this And so I don't want us to live in fear. We're limiting that. Oh I saw that it was like just a couple days ago, wasn't it? They spray it. Yeah, I'm just adding the They just deducted from your bank account. Okay, that's good. Love your neighbor by taking off the mask. There's a disclaimer that we probably should throw out there. Take more of the vitamin B. Now apparently, like with any drug, um Yeah. So If you don't have it in your house now and you have family members that live in the house with you Um I say this careless 'cause Um So It's mo its most common medicinal use by the way is uh to treat Tylenol poisoning, acetamed So it's it's hard for the liver to process and if you're fighting an illness, you want your liver to not become Artaminesin. We have shut them down. If you're around people who have been recently vaccinated Drink half your body weight in ounces. You know, like somebody who has uh ha has that does that anyway for other issues for I didn't even hear it. And so I've got some thoughts prepared in a message Based on her exposure. We're doing damage psychologically, emotionally, yeah, emotional intelligence is being dampened. We are unlike the government, we're not trying to mandate anything Q U E R C So com, IvermectinCan. It's one of those. Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for gathering us Fortunately, I beat it even though things, you know, went in a bad direction. So what does that mean? I don't know. It's a more natural occurring and not a processed kind of a I actually don't remember exactly where I where I got this, but I it was Oh A spike protein. You're looking for something that has uh povodone iodine in it, and that is the active ingredient in the Can you say our father I'll explain why I think that's so important for us to spend time in a It's seven thirty. I don't want churches closing down Sulfur is actually the third most abundant mineral in the human body, believe it or not. Zinc. Yeah. What do you do then? You'd think they'd be willing to give it to you, but hospitals, they just won't com, uh C, the letter C, 19 Protocols. And getting it yourself, it took me six weeks The ADA doesn't But then that in combination with any other citrus peel And in fact, when you add in all the adverse effects You all have that feeling, right? Yeah. So something to think about. Here's what you want if you go to the hospital That's a good start. And one of the things I learned I didn't really fully appreciate several months back So think about it. Tylenol is okay, just don't make it your first go-to Let's see. I can give you the list. However 9999999% of the planet that shouldn't be wearing a mask It's like it it's like uh So if you're if you have bronchitis or You gotta beat that down. Yeah. Again, you need you would need to get a prescription so you would talk to your doctor about the dosage on that Well I don't know what give tell them some reason you don't want to take Tums. It's kind of a soup the nuts resource guide for getting yourself This is an herb, apparently. Our father, that's a good start. We're picking up, I think Revelation chapter 5 is what we'll be picking up. You want to get rid of that. Now here's the thing. I'm not gonna spend the money. The uh you're gonna wanna if you're not already taking the uh the the Pepsid, add the Pepsi because any I mean you take a you take a horse dose and you're gonna OD Now it's way more expensive because well Yeah. So you when you feel the the discomfort in your throat for instance They spray the honey? Uh it works like um If it drops below 90, you've got a serious problem. But uh uh yes, it's it's that's important. It's not necessarily It's just if you have a symptom that is In other words, we've lived some of this stuff out The NAC is is used to fight Tylenol poisoning Might be a little homework and see where's the closest place near me that'll do it and call them up and ask them. And Angela said, you know, this was good and helpful for what it's worth, but you know Literally sleeping That I knew about and honey can also be used as a wound dry Well what happens if it takes two or three weeks and you get sick in a week? Even water, too much of a good thing. But anyway if you go to any one of those, that'll get you started on how to try to access So At least 2,000 milligrams a day. It has a small amount of quinine. So you're changing. And I know because it's in conjunction with So you can actually get that on Amazon or So I will say this. It works better early, but it will still work late. But unfortunately we've entered a new reality where you can't even get sick care So if you're taking iron supplements, you might want to be careful. No, I have juice. So Can you say that? You don't have to constantly wash it, right. Is it the radio? I don't know what that is exactly, but you can use that in lieu of cursetin for what that's gonna be. So okay, well you have a good source. Maybe your doctor would prescribe that. Don't take the shot, please, at this point. The worst thing to do is lay on your back. I'm a good enough person. If you're feeling like you're coming down with something, be smart So I just did more of the of of what I was already doing. So you wanna have Okay. But it has some of the benefits, particularly as a preventative kind of thing. I mean she has been a warrior through it the whole time. So it just it's just something to However, that said We're gonna do it again next week. Don't talk about the hard of hearing. You could OD on it if you will. And so it kind of backlogged us a little bit, or backlogged me, which by the way The masks Yep How many times have we heard somebody tell us Uh and by the way, because how it works Is that how you say it? Turns out I did that a lot more than I thought So it was an electronic check, like an AHC payment. And so I think it I don't know if it was my mom or they all saw And then Yeah, yeah, yeah. I might be coming down with something. So all that said, the the reports that I've seen Yes. And so that maybe can be used either in a combination Well I do. You do not want tamaflu. There are more people in the hospital now than there was last year when there was no shock. Well that leaves the other three-fifths Actually I do have a copy of it here. 200 milligrams a day it looks like. Oh dear Methylprednisone. So that's what you want. They spray the So something to think about. So we're gonna try to see if we can't get her The grapefruit Don't even talk about the e And it seems like those cases You wanna do you choose ibuprofen? Kircumin? Be careful and wash your hands extra numbers of times So you only want to get that if you can't find the others or you want to load for bear. I don't understand the the math on that, but Yeah, so we want to be smart about that. There's only It's spiky. The bitter bite's actually what you want. So the world's telling you lies. Is that okay with you? And he said I should get the shot anyway, which com She's a p It it it's it's better to use um a non So you just I just throw the the um the um Curcumin? That's what makes it tonic water apparently. If it drops below drops below 85 Actually m my so my mom works in the school. There are other reasons not to take Tums by the way I'm I have a And if you've already gotten the shot I have a very sensitive system And if you're gonna use it, unbleached flour. It just depends What do you do You do not want to be on your back And I'll tell you as a practical matter, I mean So So you want them to give it to you when you're in the hospital. So your own personal Alright. So you have what I have And in talking If you're not considered high risk Timeric is the other way or So It's impossible that it reacts with iron. Huh? I superdosed and I felt my These must be the We're here to tell And com. So That's It's