I think we're on. Says live. I'm assuming everybody's there. Hello? Hello, Facebook. Actually I'm not saying hello to Facebook. Although they're probably listening in. But uh hello to you on Facebook. And uh congratulations to the newest member of the Facebook world. My mom finally joined Facebook. Oh, yesterday. Hi Mom. Um, so we're if we have a joke. Do you have a joke ready? Yes, I'm on a halfway uh here. Oh, you're Glasses just roll off. Oh no. Two dollars don't go as far as it used to. Well you need a joke, Angela. Can I say the joke now? All right. What's a line of men waiting to get haircuts called? A line of men waiting to get a haircut. Haircuts. What are they what's that called? That's uh I can't even come over the woody Me neither. I can't go. A barbecue. A barbecue. That's a good one. That's a good one. And they have those at the military. Right? Can they get their heads They get them all lined up in the queue and then they buzz all their hair on. So uh I hope you're uh enjoying this Memorial Day weekend. Um It's an interesting weekend this year, isn't it? Memorial Day? Very different this time. Yeah. Uh so what we're gonna do, I'm gonna give you a heads up of if you want to grab your Bible, there's a couple of things we're gonna do different than we've done in recent weeks. Uh there are three passages, rather, you know, uh basically full chapters almost, I think, of the Bible that we're going to read. So if you want to read along, you're going to want to have uh Romans 14 1 Corinthians 8 and Galatians 5, and I'll mention those again later on in case you didn't hear all that really quick. But Romans 14 will be the first one, and then 1 Corinthians Eight. Um and we're going to try to make this as interactive as Facebook allows us to. So if there are things that we talk about that spark a comment, a question, an inter Insight, whatever, throw it into the comments section and at a couple of points throughout the uh evening tonight we're going to check the comments and try to respond to whatever you are asking or sharing and also we're gonna try to do some of that amongst ourselves uh as well as the evening goes on. And uh Dina does have a fan club in Orlando where the Orlando Air area so we will be doing a song. For you Cole. You're you're my only fan, but I'm thankful for you. So there will be there will be a song that we we uh it's a it's a song by a Christian artist and And it has a bit of a Christian feel and flair to it, but it we felt like it was a good appropriate song for Memorial Day weekend. Uh and so you'll understand why in a moment. So we're gonna have that song in just a minute, but first If Angela can open us with a word of prayer, if you don't mind, and then we'll uh we'll have the song, and then we'll get started with tonight's study on whether or not Jesus would wear a mask. Gracious Heavenly Father. Father, we thank you for this gathering, Lord, both here in person and virtually. Lord God, we just invite the Holy Spirit to come and and inspire us, um, Father, and to uh help guide this conversation along. Father, I pray that you know we enjoy ourselves and at the same time truth be shared and insights be shared. People walk away richer for having participated. And we thank you, Father, and we bless this time in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. Thank you. Alright, so do you need to uh say anything about the song before you sing it? Do you just want to start singing? No, it's Mark Schultz. Mark Schultz. Um what is the title of it? The Letters from Mark Of because we thought obviously for Memorial Day that it would be a good one. Alright. She walked to the mailbox on that Bright summer's day found a letter from her son in a wharf far away. He spoke of the weather and good friends That he'd made said I've been thinking about that and the life that he had, that's why I'm here today. And at the end he said You are what I'm frightened for. It was the first of his letters from war. She started writing your good and your brave. What a fight you'll be someday Make it home, make it sense She ruled every night as she prayed Late in December A day she'll not forget her tears stained the paper with every word that she read. It said I was up on a hill, I was out there Alone when the shots all rang out and bombs were exploding, and that's when I saw him. He came back for me, though he was captured, a man set me free and Y son he asked me to write to you. I told him I would owe a sword It was the last of the letters from war, and she prayed he would living, kept on believing, and wrote every night just to say You are good and you're brave. What a fight it will be someday. Make it home, make it safe. Still she kept riding each day and then two years later autumn leaves all the round A car pulled in the driveway and she fell to the ground and outstepped the captain Where boy used to stand. He said Mama following orders from all of your letters and I'd come home again. He ran into hold her. And dropped all his bags on the floor, holding all of her letters for war. Bring him home, bring him home, bring him Um good job. Makes me cry every cry. So one way that I get through it is I think of when she it's the part of the song where it says and he dropped off his bags on the floor and I'm like, figures. Of course he can for mom to pick 'em up. I have to try and make it light for myself. So clearly Memorial Day is uh is about those who didn't make it home. Yeah Um and through most of that song that's kinda where you think it's going. So I think it helps to capture the spirit and the mood and the emotionalism of what the families at home are going through. Wondering if their loved ones is gonna make it home or not. Um and the way the song is written that gives you a a reason to think that he didn't make it home and then there's a surprise ending and so Yeah, and uh this song actually caught the attention of the United States military and probably fixed the fifteen years ago now they invited Mark Schultz to perform this song live at the Pentagon and while he was there in the center part of the Pentagon that's like more open I think Yes, that's where he was performing it. And as he was singing it so he tells a story, a a whole bunch of people from the Pentagon were like, What's going on out there? And people gathered and heard him Sing the song and then afterwards one of the people in the military went up to one of the higher ranking Pentagon officials went up to uh Mark Schultz and said that he's been praying for a revival in the Pentagon for years and he was hoping that that song would be something that would help to spark that. So that's a pretty pretty powerful backstory. So anyway. So with that done we're entering our discussion for this evening. Would Jesus wear We're in a uh answering questions series. Last week what was the question last week? It was should churches reopen? Um this week is would Jesus wear a mask? Next week I think it's um it's either what happens to us when we die or um or what uh what are the biblical views of the last days, the end times. So so so if you've got additional questions, uh uh that are on your mind or things that might be spawned this evening can type them in the comment section or you can message me on Facebook or shop the mob balls and I get to have my Yeah, I hope to see. Will there be moat holes in heaven? Yes there will. So anyway, so we're on we're on question two in our series, and today's question is would Jesus wear a math? question. These are questions that people have from the audience. So the first thing I think it might be important to do is to is there's an implicit question uh behind the question, would Jesus wear a mask, it's it's kind of asking the question, what would Jesus do? And you've been in the church culture in this country for the last twenty years or more, then you're familiar with the whole WWJD, What Would Jesus Do? It was a big movement. It's about twenty years ago now. And there were bracelets and t-shirts and hats, and it was a it was a big And it was helpful in a lot of regards, but there's a danger in my opinion with that way of thinking. And and there's a caveat to the danger, so don't get me wrong. But I think more important than asking uh as important as asking the question what would Jesus do, as important as that is, a more important question question I think is what would Jesus have you do? Because you're not Jesus, I'm not Jesus, Jesus is Jesus. And so while we're We're all part of his as believers, we're all part of his body and he is the head, so he is connected and in union with that body, and so there is a a oneness or co airs with Christ and all of that is true and And yet, there is something distinct about Jesus. Jesus is he is the Son of God. The Son is judge and he is intercessor and he is high priest and he He is divinity. He is so many things that we are not. And so I we want to be careful about having a false equivalence and s and and try to put ourselves as the there are things Jesus could do we can't do unless he should somehow supernaturally in a particular moment provide us his power to do it. So I think it's it's It's kind of along the side here, but I I'm always suspicious of going too full bore on some of these uh these movements within the church that smack a little bit too much of church Christianity as opposed to Christianity. So that's just my my warning on that. However, all of that said, it is helpful uh uh in significant way to consider what it is that Jesus would do because it helps to inform us as to what he would have us do. Because as much as we are able, we should try to do what Jesus would do. So the first thing I think that makes sense To do and that Jesus might do if he were here and say, well, what is the situation? What do we know about this? What do the scientists say? The medical profession, the experts, what do they say about wearing masks That might help me as Jesus to decide whether or not I should wear a mask or not. So, do the masks work? Well, on the yes side of that, there's a study that was published on April 3rd, a little over a month ago, in the journal Nature Medicine, and it examined the effects of mass on seasonal coronaviruses, and it found that surgical masks, so maybe not all masks, but surgical masks at least, are helpful at reducing how much of a Virus, a sick person spreads. So if you're sick and you're wearing a surgical mask, this study says it might be helpful in keeping there from being spread. Another study by the International Journal of Nursing Studies suggest that masks worn by people who are not sick could be beneficial, where COVID-19 transmission may be in the presymptomatic So they might have it, not know it yet, and maybe it's possible this study says that a mask could be helpful. Research published by an international group focused on a model that suggests that the case Cases of coronavirus could be cut significantly if nearly universal masks were worn and adopted. So By universal, they're saying eighty percent of the people are wearing a mask basically all of the time. And so if at least eighty if if at least four out of five people are wearing a mask By the way, this is a study that hasn't yet been peer-reviewed. And then April 13th, uh, the United States uh Centers for Disease Control and Prevention uh recommended that Americans should wear cloth masks or face coverings when in public to try to limit the spread of the coronavirus. So there's just four examples. There are many more, but those are four examples of places where we would find the medical community and cool Experts and scientists saying masks are good, yes, you should wear them. On the no side, a study conducted by South Korean researchers Published on April 6th in the journal Annals of Internal Medicine. This study looked particularly at the SARS COV2 virus, found no effect of either surgical or fabric masks. Surgical or fabric masks are reducing virus spread. So this seems to be in disagreement With one of the other studies I mentioned. The amount of virus spread, according to this study, did not differ significantly when it compared coughing samples of COVID-19 patients who were wearing a mask. who were wearing just a cloth mask were wearing a surgical mask and those who weren't wearing a mask at all. They found no significant difference, suggesting that the masks are ineffective at filtering this particular virus. The World Health Organization has updated their guidelines for the use of preventive face masks and they warned that quote, the wide use of masks by healthy people in the community says Is not supported by current evidence and carries uncertainties and critical risks. In March of this year, the United States Surgeon General, Dr. Jerome Adams recommended against the use of facial masks at the time he I say that because people are changing what they say over time, but at the time he said, quote, the data doesn't show that wearing masks in public will help people during the coronavirus. Coronavirus pandemic, end quote. And he added that wearing a face mask, quote, can also give you a false sense of security, end quote. And so I did four of the other, we'll do four on this side, so here's one more Neurosurgeon Dr. Russell Blalock, he recently warned that not only do masks fail to protect the healthy, From getting sick, but they also create serious health risks to the wearer. He says, quote, now that we've established, this is his are his words, now that we've established that there is no scientific evidence evidence necessitating the wearing of a face mask for prevention? Are there dangers for wearing a face mask especially for long periods? Several studies have indeed found significant problems with wearing such a mask This can vary from headaches to increased airway resistance, carbon dioxide accumulation, to hypoxia, all the way to serious life-threatening complications. End quote. So, do masks work? Seems to depend on who you ask and when you ask them. So that's clear as mud. And so Jesus, would you wear a mask? He's like, Well, there's not enough evidence on that part of this equation for me to give you a firm answer. So Let's look at the practical reality of the situation. Maybe just let's not look at the all of that scientific data and studies, and let's just look more broadly at the situation and see if maybe that will help us. So on the pro-mask side, we've got all the major news outlets practically in unison reporting that wearing a mask is the way to go. these these agencies of information gathering and dissemination, they are they are staffed by professional people. These people may make a living doing this. They should be good at it. We should be able to trust that they know something about what they're talking about. And they do represent the prevailing conventional wisdom. There's no doubt about that. It is the prevailing conventional wisdom right now. Also all politicians, or almost all of them anyway uh advocate and in some cases they're even mandating that people wear masks. And they're purportedly following the advice of reputed uh ex Experts in the field of medicine, epidemiologists, and others who have impressive sounding credentials. This highly educated and highly experienced and highly influential Influential group of people, they seem to uh they seem to speak almost as a chorus of consensus, uh, at least for the moment. Uh there are you know, the o at least as the media covers it, that uh, you know, masks are the way to go. Particularly if you want to show love to your neighbor and show love to your late neighbor's grandmother, then the consensus is that you should wear a mask. And the majority of retail outlets uh they're requiring masks to be worn. The majority of people uh out in the world, uh at least in this country are wearing a mask at least some of the time. Even see people when they're driving alone in their car. Alone. A car that only they ever are in, they're wearing a mask. When they're walking alone in a park, they're wearing a mask. So public opinion for now is clear. Public opinion is pro-mask. Now on the con side, well there are quite a number. Even though there's this cacophony coming from the media, there are a number of pundits uh in the media and minority, but they are expressing concern about what appears to them to be what they call draconian measures Measures that they say are robbing people of foundational civil rights, foundational human rights even. They suggest that the media is spewing out a lot of propaganda. uh that the government is overreaching and then they're double down doubling down on their overreach, uh even using uh police force to enforce uh their rules and And uh now we actually even heard examples of neighbors who are uh snitching on fellow neighbors. And it's interesting this the uh having the the the civil rights taken away and threatened, having media uh push forward what might be perceived as a uh uh uh propaganda having the government uh overreach and support their overreach with force, with police force, and then encouraging citizens to snitch on fellow citizens, those four things are the four indicators when in combination that describe a police state And so this makes people very nervous. Are we heading into a police state? Have we already arrived in a police state? Should we push back against a police state? And police dates are only possible when there's an atmosphere form where there's fear. This is made possible by fear, which leads to mindless obedience And so people are pushing back and they're saying masks, they're symbols of all of this. All of this bad stuff, there's symbols of fear, and symbols that embolden the tyrants. And so we need to not wear masks so that we don't support that narrative. So there's an argument on the con. So interesting arguments in the pro, interesting arguments on the con. on the con. I still don't think it's definitive necessarily either way, it depends on who you talk to. Like you might feel like it's definitive in your heart. You feel like it's definitive in yours, I'm sure, and you do in yours, and I and I do in mine. And yet you go talk to somebody else and they've got a complete different and they're definitive in their own heart and mind on this. So who's to know if Jesus would agree with me or the other guy? So maybe we should finally get around So does the Bible talk about face coverings? Well, actually it does. The first mention uh that we find are face coverings in the Bible is in Genesis chapter twenty-four, verse sixty-five, where it says, For Rebecca said unto the servant, What man is this that walks in the field to meet us? And the servant said, It is my master. Therefore she, Rebecca, took a veil and covered herself. So there's a face covering. Now this Middle Eastern face covering tradition is still popular. It's a popular custom even to this day in the Middle East. Um but this sort of custom it has nothing really. to do with whether Jesus, a man, would wear a mask today in North America for purported medical reasons. Like there's enough differences there between what was going on with Rebecca that that's not a match. It's a it's a non sequitur it it it doesn't help us really. So then we turn to Exodus chapter 34, verse 33, where Moses had been in the presence of the Lord and his face was was shining, shining so bright that it actually was terrifying the people that were seeing him. And so Moses used a face covering to help uh calm people down. to uh to help to shield them from the reflected glory of God. So that's not the same as protecting somebody from a virus, so it's not really a match there. It's more about providing a veil because we you know I've often said over the years that you know why do you have to have a perfect record to be in heaven. Well in heaven you have an absolute presence in the a uh in the fa you you are present You are within the favorable presence of God in a full way where you really are experiencing God's glory. And we have too small an idea. And even the analogy I'm about to use is way too small. But imagine God's glory is the sun. As small and insignificant as our sun sun is within the universe, it's still a pretty magnificent thing, right? The sun? Imagine trying to stand on the face of the sun. The space shuttle can't even re-enter the the Earth's atmosphere because of the heat without those heat tiles. Imagine trying to stand on the face of the sun without the right kind of And the right kind of heat tiles is perfect righteousness. And so that's why you need the righteousness of Christ to stand within the glory of God. And so Moses reflecting that glory, just a small example of how frightening and awesome God's glory is Similarly in Isaiah chapter 2, there's a vision of heaven there, and it says, above it stood the seraphims, each one had six wings. With two, it covered his face, two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. So there you've got the wings being used as a face covering. And again, if in research Respect to the glory of God. These the these angelic beings are covering their faces with wings out of respect for the glory of God. But again, that's not really how Helping us with the coronavirus, exactly, right? We're not gonna wear a mask out shopping or in a park because uh because of God's glory being so powerful So um now by the way, if you've been in church for a long time, or if you start going to church, I promise you it won't be very many years uh before maybe it won't be even very many months before you will hear a pastor preach a sermon, maybe even do a sermon series about lessons against wearing masks. Christians are famous for wearing masks. We hide behind facades that we create. We're not authentic and transparent. own our sin in front of other believers because we're afraid that they'll judge us and then we won't be able to serve the church the way we want or and so you'll get but that's not what we're talking about here either. And in the New Testament, we read about veils, which are, you know, face coverings or veils. We thought we hear about veils over the heart. Uh it it talks about uh um in the Old Testament, under the Old Covenant, uh the people had veils over their heart, kinda like there was a veil uh in the temple at the Holy of Holies, or something that provided the separation between God and his people. And the people of the of the Old Testament era had veils over their heart and so they couldn't really connect with God in quite the same way that post resurrection Christians can, Jesus' resurrection and ascension, that we can because they Now we sent the Holy Spirit and we no longer have veils in our heart. Christ, through his Holy Spirit, has removed the veil from our hearts in the new covenant. read about that by the way in 2 Corinthians chapter 3. So there are lots of things in the Bible that have to do with veils and face coverings and wearing masks, but none Of these have to do with viruses. That said, though, however, they are instructive in showing us that mask wearing in general It's not sinful or inappropriate in and of itself. There's no command in the Bible that says, thou shalt not wear a mask under any circumstances ever. But also, of course, there's there's nothing that commands us to wear a mask necessarily either. So we're going to need to glean some general biblical principles to help us To apply wisdom in our present circumstances? Because it's a wisdom question. So the first place we're going to turn in our Bible is Romans chapter 4. Where it says, As for the one who is weak in faith, welcome him But not to quarrel over opinions. One person believes he may eat anything, while a weak person eats only vegetables. Let not the one who eats despise the one who abstains, and let the one not the one who abstains pass judgment on the one who eats. For God has welcomed him. Who are you to pass judgment on the servants of another? It is before his own master that he stands or falls, and he will be upheld, for the Lord is able to make him stand. One person esteems one day is better than another, while another esteems all day is alike. Each one should be fully convinced in his own mind. The one who observes the day observes it in honor of the Lord. The one who eats, eats in honor of the Lord, since he gives thanks to God. While the one who abstains, abstains in honor of the Lord and give thanks to God. To God. For none of us lives to himself, and none of us dies to himself. For if we live, we live to the Lord. And if we die, we die to the Lord. So then whether we live or whether we die, we are the Lord's. For to do to this end, Christ died Why do you pass judgment on your brother? Or why do you think that's the Besides your brother. For we will all stand before the judgment seat of God. For it is written, As I live, says the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God. So then each of us will give an account of himself to God. Therefore, let us not pass judgment on one another any longer, but rather decide never to put a stumbling Block or hindrance in the way of a brother. I know and am persuaded in the Lord Jesus that nothing is unclean in itself. But it is Is unclean for anyone who thinks it is unclean. For if your brother is grieved by what you eat, you are no longer walking in love. By what you eat, do not destroy the one whom Christ for whom Christ died So do not let what you regard as good be spoken of as evil, for the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, but of righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace and for mutual Do not for the sake of food destroy the work of God. Everything is indeed clean, but it is wrong for anyone to make another stumble by what he eats. It is good not to eat meat or drink wine or do anything that causes your brother to stumble. The faith that you have, keep between yourself and God God. Blessed is the one who has no reason to pass judgment on himself for what he approves. But whoever has doubts is condemned if he eats, because the e Eating is not from faith. For whatever does not proceed from faith is sin. So we're going to pause there and maybe have a discussion. I don't know if there's any comments by the way so far, but those of us in the room any reactions so far to what we've talked about Well the one thing that I'm able to glean is the fact that grace and mercy have to coexist in order for any of this to work. And I think both have gone out the window when you're when you look at just things that are on social media, there's lacking both. There's um aggressiveness, there's well I like to call social media trolls where they are just looking at people's to see where they can go on the attack and that's that's that's just not godly in any way, shape, or form. It's simple, actually. And it reveals the motives of the heart when that it when that comes into play. I think that there's a measure of humility that needs to come when you are addressing Addressing someone and trying to obviously share your own heart conviction, which you're allowed to do. You know, we or we all are allowed to do that. That's not a bad thing, but it's how it it's it it goes about, you know, that's what is um very sad actually. Very sad in the body of Christ To see how this has brought such division and such um hatred, really. And that's just not what God would have us do. You know, one of one of the things that always strikes me is when Jesus is on the cross, his words are that we would be one. And he says, it is finished. So it is finished so that we can be one. And we've been anything but that. Anything but that. And shame on us. Shame on us. It's really it's um it's embarrassing. It's embarrassing to a hurting world that's looking for answers and all we can do is is be nasty to one another. And that's not okay. That's my two sense. So um but maybe um yeah Dina she just addressed how Christians have not just walked in a way that's okay. With respect to this question, um They couldn't hear you Yeah, that I just knew that we have to speak louder. Oh, we need to speak louder. Okay. My bad. So um just kind of getting to the heart of the question Would Jesus wear a mask? Okay. The way that it hits me immediately is I I doubt it because um You know, Jesus, when he walked the earth, uh, you know, the first time he walked the earth during his ministry, he touched lepers, right? Uh disease uh was not uh something that he ever um had any any any reason to um k you know, shy away from. He confronted the disease and cured the person that had the the disease. Right. I I think that he would just go around and heal people. Right. I mean I don't know if that answer's too easy, but that just that's how it hits me. No, he wouldn't. He would he would heal it. And that kinda goes to try Like, let's not make a false equivalent, let's speak with Jesus because he's a healer. Right. He would heal it. That's what he would do, he would heal you. Right. He wouldn't wear a mask, he'd heal you. Right. Yeah, we'd all be trying to get to them. I hope that doesn't cut the conversation too soon, but that's a good thing. Sessions are due to around an hour. If they go a little over an hour, that's fine, but I'm trying to so I'm gonna go to the next passage. So if you have your Bible and you're trying to read along, this is gonna be first Corinthians chapter eight. And if you Gary says love that. We know the two, Jesus said. If you missed the citation before in Romans 14, if you want to look at that later, you can study it on on your own later. And this is 1 Corinthians chapter 8, also written by the Apostle Paul. And beginning with verse 1 again. Now about food again, this this isn't about masks. Again, we're we're trying to grapple with biblical principles. Principles that will help inform us how to have biblical wisdom on questions that aren't exactly nailed down with a nail driven straight down into the wood uh in scripture for us all the way through. That's uh some of this we have to figure out using biblical principles as our guidance. So beginning in verse 1 of 1 Corinthians 8. Now about food sacrificed to idols, we know that we all possess knowledge But knowledge puffs up while love builds up. Those who think they know something do not yet know as they ought to know, but whoever loves God is known by So then about eating food, sacrificed to idols. We know that an idol is nothing at all in the world, and that there is no God but one. But even if there are so-called gods Whether in heaven or on earth, as indeed there are many quote-unquote gods and many quote unquote lords. Yet for us there is but one God, the Father, from whom all things came And for whom we live. And there is but one Lord, Jesus Christ, through whom all things came, and through whom we live. But not everyone possesses this knowledge. Some people are still so accustomed to idols that when they eat sacrificial food, they think of it as having been sacrificed to a god. And since their conscience is weak It is defiled. But food does not bring us near to God. We are no worse if we do not eat and no better if we do. Be careful, however, that the exercise of your rights does not become a stumbling point For if someone with a weak conscience sees you with all your knowledge eating in an idol's temple, won't that person be emboldened to eat what is sacrificed And so this weak brother or sister, for whom Christ died, is destroyed by your knowledge. When you sin against them in this way and wound their weak conscience, you sin against them. Christ. Therefore, if what I eat causes my brother or sister to fall into sin, I will never eat meat again, so that I will not cause them to fall. Okay. So did you have any additional thoughts either on that or in response to what Angela said or well the one thing that that is is kind of ruminating in my My brain is, you know, when moving plans moving forward there's been rumblings about okay when they're finally allowed churches to meet again and there's already all these rules And Jan Gardner saying, well, we're not allowed to sing. Well, that's very offensive. That is so offensive. I am offended for God. Because part of worshiping God is singing. That's in the Bible we are to sing psalms and hymns and and pray and spiritual psalms. And so that That I'm not I don't know what to do with that because I know that if I were to go to service and wear a mask, I would be sinning in my heart my conscience would say, I'm sinning. And I'm also then witnessing as a believer that wearing a mask and not singing is glorifying to God when I know that it's not. And so I don't know what to do with that. Because then you're like, okay, well I guess you can go to jail. Okay, well then do you go to jail You then become a martyr for the faith because that's what that is. And here we are, martyrs of the faith. You know, we in America, we are constantly like, oh, that's a great thing they were marty for not that they were martyred, but it's like a badge of honor when we talk about people who have been martyred for the faith. But yet in America it's like shameful if you then speak out and hold steady that okay, wearing a mask in church and not and asking and telling people not to sing, well all of a sudden you're uh you know you're You're I don't even know if the I I don't even know how to explain it, but you're bad, basically. And and how dare you and and who do you think you are and you're not really a Christian because you're not loving your neighbor. Well, I'm sorry, but I love Jesus more than I love my neighbor. Because when I love Jesus, I do love my neighbor. And I think that's where for me me um people are trying to make it so that if me, you, any of us don't wear a mask and don't sing in church, that we've somehow stopped loving our neighbor. I'm sorry but that's not true. You don't know my heart. You don't you don't have you don't have any business telling me that I don't love my neighbor because I do. And so that That's very, very hurtful to me. Very hurtful. And it really um and I don't get upset. I really don't. But like I I cry out to God with that because I know that it's sinful. I know that it's sinful to not worship God with singing. I know that it is. Uh the way I I I'm also offended by that. order from Jan Gardner, our county executive. Um it's the reason why and I I'm just piggybacking a little bit off of what Dina said. I I I think fundamentally it's unconstitutional, frankly. Um there's um there are jurisdictions that um you know God has set up For in the universe. You know, there's jurisdictions that we have under his sovereignty. He's sovereign over everything, but human beings, you know, we have jurisdictions And the founders of our nation knew that because they were very steeped in the Bible, they were steeped in good uh uh biblical Christian philosophers like her. William Blackstone and people like that, John Locke and people like that. So our founders uh set up they based on from biblical principles They set up jurisdictions in our government. Our government was established that way. And so they recognize that there's a there's a government jurisdiction and there's a church jurisdiction. And you know, then there's a family. They they have a jurisdiction within our society. And when everybody operates within their jurisdictions, then society flows well. But with any one of those um jurisdictions cross over crosses into a different jurisdiction to regulate, then you get confusion And so um there's a uh the th there's a um there's a godly kind of separation of church and say I mean the concept has been badly uh misrepresented, but there's a godly version of it that was intended. And that separation was so that the state would stay out of the business of the church. And so um for a government official to tell us how to worship Is they're they're out of their government, they're out of their jurisdiction. And um so in and of itself that that's wrong, but I think it's doubly wrong in this case because um um I think the the the COVID nineteen um the I think it's a it's a hyped up health uh uh issue Um when you just look at the raw numbers and and there's there's no there's no uh um Troy quoted some numbers earlier where they were about the mask where there were there was con seemed to be conflicting data. Well there's no conflicting data with the fact uh of the the number of uh uh of influenza deaths as opposed to the the number of COVID nineteen deaths. There's just no conflicting data there that there's way, way, way, way, way more people who died from the flu. And so when you If you have a false pretense that you're building your case on, then your conclusions are going to be false. Your correction is going to be false. as well. So they you know they've hyped up the danger of COVID-19 and now they're correcting they're they're correcting the hyped up danger that that that that they've hike Um, why don't they come through it and never it never occurred to anybody to come through every flu season and say you can't sing in church. Right. Because you know you somebody might catch the flu and die. But COVID nineteen they're saying that. And so um and and I I I I think that the the the government um has you know stunt and and when I say the government I I want to s I want to really say it's really more individuals. There it's it's not the government in mass, I think, but there's certain people in our government who have shown some some tendencies, um some kind of dictatorial tendencies um that that's come out as a result of this This whole crisis. And they they've they've shown that they are willing to overstep their bounds in the name of safety. And I I um I'm I'm I'm I came across the C. S. Lewis quote. Um he talked about how the worst kind of tyrant is is a tyrant who who's doing things for the for your good. He says that's way worse than any other kind of target because their conscience gives them uh uh qu uh uh gives them um permission permission to do it. You know, w that the person who's doing it for your good. And I think that a lot of these government officials are doing this for our good with a clear conscience because they really think they're doing it for are good, but what they're doing is they're overstepping their constitutional boundaries to correct uh for a crisis that has been hyped up. And it is um Um it is robbing, you know, uh the church of of being able to be the church, you know, and and and and I just I think that's wrong. So I just think that at more than one level, you know, what they're doing, uh I I I I think it's basically a false a false um a false not a fal I don't want to say a false crisis, but it's um um from the perspective of being overhyped and overstated and and spear stoked, that aspect of it is fraudulent in my opinion And so therefore the correction for it is also faulty. So that's how I see it. Well what's in what I what struck me today, you know, being that it's memorial Day weekend is the people who fought and lost their lives and the families who have sacrificed so that we can have the freedom to worship. It's like Like spitting at them. Sorry. It just it's offensive. You know, it's like why would you do that? They served our country so that we can have these rights and just like that, just like that, it just it's gone. I don't understand. Anyway, Jerry Julian, by the way. Sorry, I'll gather myself. He says the new guidelines are very strange surrounding the reopening of the church. And I said, Yeah, they are and then he said the thing that is surprising is that some of the people as can't see in the church look down on those that that won't wear a mask. Um and then he also says, Did you see the new info that many New York that New York was not telling the truth about the mortality rate they wanted more money. Yeah, those reports sadly have been coming out. Yeah. And so there's there's a whole a whole bunch of uh uh a cloud of surrounding issues uh that swirl about, you know, the the question of whether Jesus wore a mask. And that's what we're getting at is like, you know, what would be the motivation to wear or not wear a mask? Because the heart motivation is what we're driving at We do need to have some biblical discernment to make a biblically wise determination of what the right path is. And that's what we're trying to grapple with. And so the media um is at least inconsistent. Depending on who you listen to, you get different stories. The government authorities have definitely done things that are uh highly unusual in my lifetime, I would say highly unusual in our nation's history, and perhaps highly unusual um in a a Western Democratic Republic kind of environment throughout the world's history. I don't think we've ever had a moment like this. We are living in historic times. So all of that is true. And the cultural stuff and the uh the the societal pressure and all of that stuff and the you know in and where we live, our county executive trying to dictate dictate uh when and how churches would gather and worship and all those sorts of things. All of that's part of the question. And so trying to drill back down into what does the Bible tell us because even if the governor of our state or your state uh said whatever you want to do in Elder County Executives said whatever you want to do, and all the media said whatever you want to do. Churches would still be of a mixed mind on this. At least that's been my Dialogue with with Christian brothers and sisters. Christians are not on the same page on this. We aren't on we're not sure. We haven't been sure, at least up until tonight. clarifying it tonight. But up until tonight we haven't been we haven't been sure about would Jesus wear a mask or not. Should Jesus wear a mask? Would Jesus have us wear a mask? And so some of the things from the passages we talked about when the Romans Passage and the Corinthians passage. We're talking about clean versus unclean food. We're talking about food uh that had been sacrificed to idols. Uh we're talking about one day being esteemed more than another that had to do with with the the festival days, the worship days, you know, uh uh the church still battles with that. There are those uh with uh you know within the Christian community that say you have And there are some that say you have to worship on Sunday. And there are some that say you don't have to worship on any particular day. We worship on Wednesday And there's a there's a dialogue and a debate, and Christians have chosen to agree to disagree on some of those things while they continue to debate because iron sharpens iron And so some of the guidelines and the passages that we read in Romans and in Corinthians, some of the guidelines we can draw from this are have to do with Christianity. Christian love, I think. You were talking about grace and mercy earlier, and that you know love uh is part of that mix. And so what the first rule uh it's been said of Christian Christian love is that we should receive others who are weaker in faith as brothers and sisters in Christ. So if we're going to love a Christian brother or sister and we identify them As somebody that we think is a little weaker in the faith, then we need to uh receive them where they are. And understand that every Christian, Paul emphasizes this Of what we read tonight, Paul emphasizes that every Christian is a servant of Christ. He is the master. Christ is every Christian's master. and judge. I'm not your master, I'm not your judge. Uh there are times when the leadership within churches have to make discernment dis uh uh disc uh decisions about excommunication and things like that. But that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about individual Christians as uh assigning judgment on somebody. Um Paul is Teaching against that were not to judge those who are Christs in matters such as these. These complicated, not clearly articulated in Scripture things. The second principle about Christian love, due to Chr that we learned from what Paul wrote for us, due to Christian liberty, a person should not be forced to act act according to another person's conscience with respect to matters of indifference. Now If Angela wants to go kill her neighbor and murder him in his sleep, I should do what I can to force her not to do that Because that is a moral question that is clear in Scripture. It's not a wisdom question, it's a moral question. But on this sort of thing, it's a wisdom question And I don't really know a hundred percent sure. I might be ninety-nine percent sure, but I have to have a measure of humility and recognize, you know, Angela might be right. And so So I'm not gonna force her. And even if I am right, if her conscience, her biblically informed conscience is telling her otherwise, I gotta let her be obedient to her master Because she's convinced that Christ is telling her that she should or shouldn't eat the meat or worship on a particular day or wear a mask or not wear a mask. Somebody with a stronger brother or sister in Christ should not cause a weaker brother or sister in Christ. To stumble. Instead, we should be considerate of where they are, and we shouldn't uh we have no reason to flaunt uh our own liberty in Christ with other believers. And if we were to do so, we would run the risk of coaxing them, the weaker brother or sister, to go against their conscience. Like, oh come on. I'm eating this food that had been dedicated to it. I know it's not a big deal. I'm gonna fall I'm free in Christ. I can do this, you can too. And if her conscience is otherwise, I somehow persuade her to go against Conscience, I have sinned against her, and I have sinned against God. That's something that that Paul is teaching us. Again, look at uh Romans chapter 14, I think verse 22 particularly is helpful. in regards to that. So in other words, the kingdom of God, and this is what the Bible is about. It's about our King Jesus Christ The kingdom of God, it is not about what we eat and drink, it is not about particular days versus other days, it is not about wearing a mask or not wearing a mask. That is not what the kingdom is about. Christ's kingdom is not A matter of what amounts to what some have called indifferent externals. There are things external to the core of the faith. They're not of critical importance They're not they're not part of the internal thing that holds the faith together. The external matters. And they're indifferent. They're not salvation questions. They're not really even obedience questions as far as the written law. They're obedience questions as to your conscience that is bound to Christ by the Holy Spirit. So So when it comes to things upon which we can afford to agree to disagree, we should have love for each other. This goes to Dina's point five. about ten fifteen minutes ago. And one way that we have love for one another is to respect the scruples, right? The conscience pangs that people have. individual has. We are to respect the scruples of each individual and we are to respect the liberty of each individual. So if I have scru if I feel like I have liberty I can do whatever I want I should be sensitive to those that don't feel like they have that liberty and meet them where they are. And it works in the reverse. It should work in the reverse as well. Patience and forbearance are needed in both sides of that equation. When it comes to what are called matters of the externals, the internal fruit of the Holy Spirit is what must be made manifest. So in the interest of time, let me jump into Galatians chapter 5, and then we'll have some concluding remarks. So, Galatians chapter 5, beginning with verse 1. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look, I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified. Justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace. For through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts For anything, but only faith working through love. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion is not from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens the whole I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is. But if I, brothers, still preach circumcision, why am I still being Persecuted. In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves. For you were called to freedom, brothers Well, and you not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh, for the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for These are opposed to each other to keep you from Doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evidence. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries. Dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God Of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, Let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Amen. So in conclusion, we're gonna wrap with a with a prayer. Uh we're not gonna do a big group prayer, we're not gonna have time for that. So I'm just after my concluding thoughts. I'll be crying if I close us in prayer. So the question we were tackling uh primarily today, hoping to tackle today, what would Jesus do? Would Jesus wear a mask? And more poignantly, would G what would Jesus Jesus have us to? Would he have us wear a mask or not wear a mask? It depends. It's a favorite answer from pastors, right? Christ has set us free. So Christians stand in that freedom and allow other believers to stand in that freedom freedom. In some cases, circumcision was absolutely the way to go in Paul's life story. In other cases it was the reverse. And it's the same with masks. So if you're visiting the s the the sick, uh the frail, the immune compromised Jesus might very well have you wear a mask. If we're sick ourselves, and as we're sick ourselves, we find ourselves in a situation where we're forced to go out into public, Jesus might very well have us wear a mask. If we are convinced in our heart that masks encourage tyranny, they signal fear of anything other than God. They might cause more harm than good if we're persuaded that wearing a mask is useless for medical protection. but is useful for supporting, providing a signal that supports the restrictions of economic freedom and religious freedom and freedom of speech. Well then Jesus might very well discourage you from wearing a mask. Now with regard to open up and the leaders come together and the congregations come together and what are they going to do? Should we require people to wear masks to church? Would Jesus ask us to do that? Or would he say, no, we're not going to require it? What would Jesus have us do? Or would he somehow tell us, you can't wear a mask? Why do you tell us that? Well, does God's word prohibit wearing a medical mask to church gatherings? I don't think so. No, I can't find a verse that would say, Thou shalt not wear a medical mask to church. Does God's word demand wearing a medical mask to church gatherings? Well no No. So make your choice and allow others in Christian freedom to make theirs. And getting angry with your brother or sister about the choice that they make. That exposes your heart. If somebody is exercising their Christian freedom and following their biblically informed conscience to the best of their ability, and you get angry with them for that, that exposes your sin, not theirs. So that's my final word on that. We're just a little bit like five minutes past an hour, so we'll have Angela close us with a Oh, well Jerry's thought? Yeah he's a big thing. Hey Jerry. Well he he had to leave, but he said, uh what I would like to add is that Jesus would run to those who were sick. All they had to to do was call out to him and the church call out to him. This church is sick. We need him and we need to call out to him. Amen. And Jesus would go to the sick and he would heal them. Now part of the qu the equation though in people's mind is yeah, but he would also, you know, mm want to make people sick. And so some people are saying, I'm not wearing a s a mask because I'm afraid of getting sick. I'm afraid that I might make somebody else sick. But if you're convinced any in your mind that I'm more likely to reinforce in their in their heart in their mind fear and ungodly submission and And uh and reinforce a narrative that is it that is taking away people's freedoms to flourish and experience shalom. Uh if that's a higher risk than me giving them a virus That might do them significant harm, that's part of the equation too. So that's why we can't we can't judge. We can try to persuade, we can engage with those who disagree with us, again being iron sharpening iron. And I am firmly convinced in my position, of course I am, and you're firmly convinced in your position, of course you are. And let's hash it out, and maybe I'll shift my position slightly. I'll learn something I learned something about myself from you and vice versa. It's one of the reasons I love doing the Faith Debate show all these years. Most of my positions are essentially the same, but there's some some shifts and some new Gracious Heavenly Father, we thank you for this time together, Lord and and I I I believe, Lord, that what you have helped to be uncovered for everyone to remember is that the highest law is the law of love, Lord. That is what you expect of us. You said love does no harm to to to a neighbor. And so Lord, come help us to walk in that law of love. as uh Troy explained to us, Lord, that th there's different levels of conviction about things that are not uh identified as sin, uh areas of freedom. Lord, and we need to respect one another, um, in in these areas where there is the freedom for everyone to act in accordance with his or her biblically and formed conscience. So Lord, um help us to take that as the take that away as the ultimate takeaway. It is the law of love that we need to be obedient to, Lord God. We've sinned because we've been so married to our own conviction, Lord, that we have uh not considered uh our neighbor. And and and that is sin, Lord. That is selfishness. Selfishness is always sin. So Lord, help um help us to help your church to repent from that. Help us to um remember to walk in that law of love. that law of consideration for the other person and to be kind with one another because your word says what you desire in a man is his kindness. So Father help us to do that and we thank you for this time together and we ask this in Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. We tackle the question of what happens to each person immediately upon their death. That ought to be fun