I mean we did short it on. Well welcome Facebook and if you're watching this later YouTube. We are starting a little bit early, so if you're catching this later on, my apologies for getting started early, but you know Early bird gets the worms. So anybody in the mood for worms? We're going to have you covered today. I want to share a list of words and terms to kick us off today. Male, female, agender or a gender, ambisexual, androgyny, androgynous, asexual, bigender, bisexual, cis, Cisgender, cis female, cis male. Cis man, ciswoman, cisgender female, cisgender male. Cisgender man, cisgender woman. Female to male or FTM for short. Gender fluid, gender nonconforming, gender questioning, gender variant, gender queer. Heterosocial intersex, male to female, or MTF for short Neither. Neutroi or neutro, maybe, um non-binary other, pangender, trans. Trans female, trans male, trans man, trans person, trans woman, trans feminine, transgender, transgender female transgender male, transgender man, transgender person, transgender woman, transmasculine, transsexual, transsexual female, transsexual male Transsexual man, transsexual person, transsexual woman to spirit. I know a lot of us thought are redundant. Look, those are all individual designations of what passes for accepted gender designations these days. I got this I think off of ABC News' website. These are the these are identifiers almost almost 60 different Genders. Wasn't it a lot easier when we just did what the Bible said? God made them male and female. Wasn't that a lot easier than trying to keep track of all of this? What exactly is the difference between a trans woman and a trans female? What's the difference? But obviously there's a difference because these are separate designations and you could offend somebody if you call them the wrong one. So you gotta get these clarify. Anyway, I I'm going to reference this again in a second, but I start us off there because we're going to be walking through some of the terms and phrases, things like these gender designations. That um I'm not gonna put too fine a point on it. The enemies of truth, the enemies of Christ, the enemies of the Church uh that they're they're using in our culture and they're catching us a little flat footed. We're how often do we flat man, I've never heard of that term before. After tonight, there are a few things that you'll be able to say that about uh for a stretch of time and there's a long list. We're going to work through the list in chunks and we're going to have a bit of discussion about those chunks as they go. So that's the plan for tonight. It'll all make sense in a minute, but this is going to be a very atypical kind of time for us. It's even a little atypical for our family style gatherings that we've been doing recently as well. So before we get uh any further along, let me see if who wants to open us in prayer. Ray's preoccupied with the child for the moment. Uh Angela, you want to open us with prayer? Thank you for this gathering. When we come together, Father, to hear the truth, to know the truth. We come, Father, to have the truth clarified. to all whom you would bring to this. We pray, Father, that um that your Holy Spirit, the spirit of truth, would permeate this gathering would um would use us to speak. We pray, Father, that your word is divided rightly in this gathering. And that Your word, which is powerful and sharper than a double-edged sword, will divide all the way down between um joints and marrow, will will judge the thoughts and intentions of every heart that listens to this uh this gathering and will correct every wrong every wrong thought every wrong inclination And will set them free by your truth. We thank you, and we are grateful to be your ministers in this regard. Have your way in us and through us. This evening. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. Well, in case you haven't noticed, we live in a world of lies. Feels as if everyone is lying about everything and everyone all the time. And it feels this way because it is mostly true that this is the case. Sadly. The prevailing worldview of this moment in time Sorry. Oops, okay. Is that truth doesn't matter. And this is the prevailing worldview because a very large percentage of people think that the truth is inaccessible. So if there's not A truth. Really, then we might as well lie to get what we want. Let's refresh our memories on some of these higher profile lies of recent years. Remember these steel dossier and Russia, Russia, Russia collusion lies. Remember the promise, if you like your doctor and your plan, you can keep your doctor and your plan? Lie. The riots in 2020 called peaceful protests, not true. The gathering on January 6th this uh past year in in Washington, D. C. , that instigators helped to turn in an unhealthy direction uh was called an insurrection. That's untrue. We were told that the 2020 election had no irregularities in it. The data, the testimony, the the the video evidence, it all says otherwise Republicans say that national debt is at crisis level, but yet they turn around and vote for bills with billions and billions of dollars of pork included. Is that honest? The GOP says that they defend life, that's what they say, but in states where the Republican legislator is a supermajority and they have a Republican governor in place, all claiming to be conservatives They still have legal baby killing. Bureaucrats tell us You don't need a mask. And then a few days later, you do need a mask. Then a few months later, maybe you need two or three masks. The injected uh therapeutics, if that's even what we can call them anymore, uh for COVID, they're they're called vaccines, even though they're really mRNA genetic manipulations. The CDC had to change the definition of a vaccine so that they would could qualify as vaccines. They've changed it so much now that if you take an aspirin, you've technically vaccinated yourself based on the new definition for a vaccine. We're told that well it's like six uh seven hundred thousand Americans now have died from COVID. That's the way it gets reported. Interesting how they changed that because the reality is that at best they've died with COVID, if even that is true Uh the the uh current power culture, it insists that men have babies. What? Oh yeah, no, they think men can have babies. Two plus two doesn't always equal four. And if you disagree with either of the last two things I said, well, you're a racist. Jesse Smolette says he was attacked, but he wasn't. NASCAR's Bubba Wallace was said to have a noose hanging in his garage, but didn't. Hands up, don't shoot, dominated the news for who knows how long, and it still comes up from time to time But it turns out Michael Brown never said it. It did not happen. And this listed could go on and on forever. How and why has this become so pervasive? How do we slide from merely having fake news to having fake everything? It's the culmination of a moment that has a movement rather that has been exceedingly patient. It is a movement that goes back more than 250 years, if you can believe it And they have been waiting for their moment, preparing the battlefield to give them optimal chances for success the whole time along. And now they feel like their moment is here and they are going for it. All out full all out dead sprint. They're going for it right now. And that's why everything feels like a lie. We're not going to go back 250-300 years, but just to give us some toeholds on the history of this Back in the 1800s there was the rise of Marxist idea, Karl Marx and his you know Marxism, the oppressed, oppressor thing. The early uh 1900s in this country and even in Europe, uh the rise of the progressivism, the progressive movement They got a bad name though, so they changed their name in the nineteen twenties to the left, leftists, leftism. Uh which was really too bad for the us true uh leftists because uh classical leftism, classical liberalism uh is uh what we today would call conservatism. So the uh the the progressives changed their label to liberalism in the twenties Then in the 1930s, critical race theory, or critical theory rather, gets birthed, uh the Frankfurt School in Germany and then travels to the United States. where it takes uh gets a stronghold in the uh in the academy, in the institutions of higher learning, particularly in law schools uh where critical legal theory uh became a big deal. And then all of this begins to come home to roots in the nineteen sixties with the uh the the rise of what's called postmodernism and deconstructionism, and we're not going to spend a lot a lot of time talking about all these different labels, what they all mean. Actually in the past we have talked about some of these before. And maybe in the future we will talk about them again. But the point is Marxism, progressivism, liberalism, critical theory, postmodernism, deconstructionism. All of them, they're independent disciplines. They're all separate. There's some overlap, but they're independent disciplines. They all got thrown into a blender Around 2007-2008. Coincidence or not, that's right when Barack Obama was first running for president. Now I don't know I'm not suggesting a connection, but just for the timeline purposes That's when all of the uh S began to hit the fan. And they thought they had they could make the run with the Obama administration. They thought they were gonna have a Clinton administration. That didn't happen. So when they got uh the Biden administration uh uh foisted upon us, they're going for broke. They're not gonna take the chance that they would ever lose another election. That's why they've turned the fire hoses on us So what's going on? Who are the names, the people behind some of this? Who are some of the voices that maybe we once thought we could trust and we can't trust them quite so much anymore? Who are the financiers for this? What are the organizations that they've created to hide behind so we can't keep track of who's who I'm going to wanna run through here now a chunk of uh of a long list. I don't know how I'll do maybe twenty names at a time or something like that. And then we'll pause and we'll we'll we'll allow for some conversation about some of these these names of people. Whoops. These names of people and organizations. Some of them you're going to recognize and some of them you will not. Well, I'm guessing that some of them you will not. Maybe you're going to know them all. Um and how this all came about, I was bedridden for a while, as some people know. I had nothing better to do than kind of just brainstorm some different things. And so just kind of stream of consciousness, I just started writing down names of people, names of organizations and And that sort of thing. And so this is my spontaneously generated list. So there's not much of an organization to it per se. Give you a window into the strangeness of my mind. So the first name on the list we probably all know George Soros. The World Economic Forum and its founder, Klaus Schwab. Again, these are enemies of Christ. Church, these are enemies of the truth. These are people we cannot trust. These are people who are not on our side, okay? The World Health Organization or WHO The Center for Disease Control and Prevention, or the CDC. The National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases as the NIAID, that's where Anthony Fauci works. He's on this list. So is Francis Collins, who's the head of the NIH for a couple more weeks, I think. And the Scarf Lady Deborah Burks. They all kind of go together as a team, as far as I'm concerned. Council on Foreign Relations, the UN Agenda 2030. The Chinese Communist Party or CCP for short, the European Union, the United Nations, Paris Climate Accords, the Rockefeller Program, the Labour Party in the United Kingdom, the London School of Economics. the ACLU, the Institute for Policy Studies, Occupy Wall Street, United We Dream, World Council of Churches, Black Lives Matter, or BLM, Antifa, or Antifa, however you prefer to pronounce that. Um the Black Hebrew Israelites, the Democratic National Committee, and the Republican National Committee, the GOP. Cannot trust them anymore. Like we once thought we could. I'll pause there, open this up for some conversation. Anybody have any uh uh thoughts they want to throw in reaction to those names? Were there any you didn't recognize on that list? Most of those were pretty high profile, a couple of them maybe not so much. Oh, Francis Collins is a celebrated figure evangelicalism, unfortunately, but yeah very true. Like they you know Christian Coast will always tell him for interviews or whatever and uh you certainly have your Ed Stetzers and other names that are huge in Christian media rent uh think very highly of him and you know for obvious reasons. Uh he's definitely an enemy of the church and is largely responsible for uh funding the Wuhan lab because that was his people, that was his department doing that. Now Francis has uh has resigned, I think he he's still the head of the NIH end of this calendar year if I'm not a mistake. Right. I don't know who's going to play. And he was celebrated as a Christian in government. Which is the irony of it. Yeah. Alright, well I'll move on. If if you wanted to say something about somebody but you're like I can't get out of my thoughts yet, next time you follow you can you can say something about any of these names we've mentioned so far. So next on the list Um the Frankfurt School and Herbert Marcusa, Carl Jung, or if you like his full name, Carl Gustav Jung, and Sigmund Freud. So anybody that's putting these guys forward as Good, you know you can't trust them. These are dead ones now, right? But if anything, oh well Sigmund Freud said that's somebody you should really have some control concerns about. And uh James Cohn and Gustavo Gutierrez. Walter Rauschenbusch Michelle Foucault, Richard Rorty, Margaret Sanger, founder of Planned Parenthood, the Southern Poverty Law Center, Russian Television, or RT for short, The Voice of Europe. Um a couple of these might surprise some people that are hearing my voice. Uh InfoWars, QAnon, NBA, NFL, Bank of America. I'll pause there. Anybody want to react to any of those? Yeah. Well, I got a reaction, I'll let you go first. Why InfoWars? Yeah, I was gonna ask that. Because InfoWars gets an awful lot right and they're on the leading edge uh very much of the time things other people won't say. Mm-hmm. They've gotten some uh they've gotten too many important things wrong. I think Okay. And so you gotta take everything that they say with a a a salt. What's the at what's the guy's name that He's an interesting personality. Um I've I've always kind of been a little skeptical. Obviously They're more on our side of trying to expose expose you know a lot of the um a lot of the people. Right. But yeah Yeah, you always wonder exactly what you're doing. I'm not saying that they're trying to trick us. I'm saying that sometimes we're so eager to catch the other guys, the enemies That we don't do our homework. And so I've I've been exposed to uh you know um info war stuff and a lot of times I'm like cheering them on like yeah uh what's the guy's name again? Alex Jones, sorry, yeah my my brain fog repeat And I don't know if he's really maybe conservative, right? But I don't think he's much of a Christian He claims he is, which is fascinating to me. A lot of people claim they are. Like and some of the interviews I've seen. I don't know. I'm fascinated. It's fascinating because 'cause to me it's kind of an i enigma. So I I don't know. So I included InfoWars and QAnon uh for some reasons in that they're saying a lot of things that we would want to have said, but they're also saying some things that, you know, that shouldn't be said because it's not right. And we've got to be careful as Christians, as you know, we're advocating for, you know, uh the way, the truth, and the life. We've got to do our homework and make sure we've got the truth on our side before we just go run full burrow ahead and I'm not so sure that they do that as well as they might. I'm not saying they're purposely trying to under So they don't fit on this list as a way of no, I would say Q on was an undercut. That was a psy-off to trip people. Well I mean they thought Jeff Sessions was a good guy. And I knew nothing about most of what Q was saying in the drops. I was like, okay, I have no frame of reference. I don't even know what that's supposed to mean. Uh and a lot of it was insider lingo and stuff, so how am I gonna know? How are any of us gonna know? But something I do know quite a bit about is the Bible and God and Christianity. And uh Q in some of the drops would include stuff that was specifically targeting Christianity, the Christian message, was supposed to be Christian truth. And I'm like, that couldn't be further from the truth Jeffrey Epstein didn't kill himself. Right. Like they glommed onto that issue, not the other way around. For the record, Jeffrey Epstein did not kill himself. And Alex Jones is actually uh on the Jeffrey Epstein thing. First, and he hates QAnon. Beef between those two competitors. Let me uh let me jump into this next chunk here. Uh there will be some unsurprising names to lead us off. Google and CEO Eric Schmidt, Facebook and CEO Mark Zuckerberg, Twitter and their longtime CEO Jack Dorsey. Also YouTube, Instagram uh the ERLC or the Ethics and Religious Liberty Commission, along headed by Russell Moore, another bad guy. Uh the North American Missions Board, sadly, of the SBC The Gospel Coalition and Tim Keller. T4G, also known as Together for the Gospel. The Moody Bible Institute, the Southern Baptist Convention, which I've grown to call the Southern Palladium Convention. Convention of late, uh Christianity Today, Sojourners, Lenses Institute, another sad one, Desiring God and John Piper. More in our neck of the woods, just down the road from us, McLean Bible Church. Right here in our own county in Frederick County, Damascus Road Community Church. Campus Crusade for Christ, which now calls themselves Crew. Relevant Magazine. The Anne's Campus. campaign. And here's a couple that will break some hearts and perhaps be a surprise to some. But we can no longer, if we ever really, really could, but we can no longer, if we ever could, trust Hill song, Bethel music and elevation worship. Anybody want to react to any of those? Uh I I think people underestimate the North American Mission Board one. Because to me if you want to look at what's wrong with the Southern Baptist convention uh and liken it to Star Wars. Uh Kevin Ezel, who's the president of the North American Mission Board, is your Phantom Menace. He is the pop Master uh he's now got the he's got the money to wield the power. You've got one. I left Yazel off the list. He should be on this list. Hey he he's your phantom menace. And like Ed Lydon is his creation. He's now president of the city. one that's pulling the strings. It's not Al Mahler who probably could have been on that session of the list. Yeah, well he's actually in the next session. Oh, there's rather list some more. Oh, there's more. Oh white. What about the folk Oh you guys are getting ahead of me let me just include Alburdi uh Sabidi and your wheel, easy for me to say Easy Brain Bird. Ron Burns. Eric Mason, Stephen Steven Furtick, Robert Jeffris, Jamar Sisby, David Platt, Ed Litton, Phil Visher, the creator of Veggie Tales. JD Greer, Matt Chandler, Beth Moore, Max Locato, Ligan Duncan, which breaks my heart, the president of Reformed Theological Seminary where I got my master's degree Matt Hall, Curtis Woods, Jarvis Williams, Danny Aiken, Abram X. Kendi, Karen Swallow Pryor, Pope Francis. Daniel or his friends call him Danny, Carol of Wheaton College, Jonathan Lehman and Mark Deborah of Nine Marks. And I'll uh I'll pause there. Anybody want to react to any of those? I think that's what we have have to understand and take with a grain of salt is that a lot of the people that are on the list, it's not that they were that they didn't give us things that we've used, like Tim Keller. like a maxokato. It's just that now they've decided to go woke or they've lost their way or whatever. Maybe they've been exposed for what was in there all along. That's not to say that God hasn't used them as giving us instruments and tools that have used like in vegetables that have been training us up. Absolutely. The Toy to Save Christmas was like I I still love the the original veggie tales. I think so anyway that so Just knowing that with these lists, I'm not saying that, oh, the list is wrong. Don't throw the baby out with the bathroom. Exactly. Yeah, these are song, Bethel Music Right. Elevation I could see thrown out completely. Right. But not for all that you can't say everything they have is just a lot of SCP I'm a very broad net and kind of on purpose because I was hoping there'd be a little bit of pushback, which I'm gonna accomplish that. I think most of the pushback I would have is the fact that a lot of those people are more social media personalities than actors. actually major players or influencers. I don't disagree, but in today's world if it doesn't look enough to I don't know how much the V relay really changes things. I don't know how much it a game changer he really is. To me, he's just someone who's you know, had a high profile Twitter. Uh remind me that I had an uh interesting thought about what he just said so I can ask Yeah, formerly times facts. Formerly known as Ron Burns. Oh his origin says his original name that's the same. So just one thing it's the overall theme so obviously there's some there's some ones in there. that are just anti-Christ. Right, right, right. And then there's ones in there that have done things for Christ, but I think the overall theme, it seems like, is they sold out and they have they've decided to go more towards um the the whims of secular secular culture worldview than the Bible Correct. Absolutely. Which is a disappointment. Yeah. So some of these names I'm mentioning are people that in my organizations are people or organizations that we absolutely cannot trust. For example But these other ones I put on here for the shock value and whatever So I'm hoping that those are the ones that were really stick. You can still read them. I still uh pay attention to what Keller is saying. Uh I will say increasingly I can't I'm finding it harder and harder and harder to find anything I agree with him of late Whereas ten, fifteen, twenty years ago, I agree with almost everything you had to say. have voices that are able to speak to the masses that they repent. You know, that they repent and then realize, oh man, I've sold out. You know, and then come back to Christ. So all right. There's a uh quite a few higher profile names on here and some political names too. And the reason I included uh some political stuff in this mix is We're in a multifront war. These lies that we're under assault by are pervasive. They're everywhere. And so we have to understand the enemies aren't just in the church. Sadly, they are in the church too. But it's everywhere. So some of these names you'll know. It's almost redundant to even say them out loud. Nancy Pelosi, Chuck Schumer, Bill de Blasio, Gavin Newsom, Tom Wolfe Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez. Ilhan Omar, Rashida Talib, Christy Noam. Good job. That might get some attention. Larry Hogan. Kelly Schnolz, Mitch McConnell, Lindsay Graham, Nitt Romney. Christine Lagarde, she's the president of the European Central Bank. Mark Carney, a noted Canadian economist. Antonio Gramsci, a very well-regarded 20th century Italian communist among the left, well regarded by them. Pop culture, you got Colin Kaepernick and Megan Rapino. Sadia Sayyid, an American university professor. Al Gore, John Terry, Henry Kissinger might raise a few eyebrows. Joe Biden, Kamala Harris. H. G. Wells and his world brain ideas, uh China's leader Xi Jinping, uh China's leader Bill Gates. Uh Prince Prince Charles, Tom Hanks who spoke at Bob Doole's funeral, don't figure that one out. Uh and Sol Olinsky and uh I'll pause there. Anybody want to react any of those I think you could put almost all of Hollywood on that list. Well, yeah, pretty much. That's not even a new one honestly. ridiculously false. Yeah, because he he got taken down with peg, but he was a power player I missed who did you say? Uh James Merritt. He was a power player, like not just a you know a lot of some of these people are so string of consciousness. I can't think of it. He's a power player. But he like basically shifted the he on the resolution shifted the southern protection to the right. In the same way Curtis Wood seems also Trump on there, right? I do not have Trump on there. I do not like Trump on Trump resonates on On the aspect of the state, he doesn't start uh giving up. He doesn't start giving up on the whole advocating the fact the vaccine thing. He's gonna have to lose he's gonna have to lose that if he's gonna keep the vaccine getting the vaccine. He cannot keep true leading the vaccine. That was the funny thing. But anyway, that's true. Enemy data suggestible. people like to use, but I got one more chunk of names before we get there. Uh Jack Ma, or his fuller name Jack Ma Yun, you'll hear it said that way. He's a relatively well known Chinese billionaire. He's talked favorably about the capitalist in America, but any capitalist that's speaking favorably about Jack Ma is a crony capitalist at best because they're advocating for the Chinese version of capital. Uh if you hear talk about the bad uh belt road initiative, that's bad news. Uh if you hear anything from Russia's Vladimir Putin, that's bad news. Bad news. Really? Easy in a news. Benjamin Nutan Netanyahu. He has uh BB Netany Netanyahu has endorsed the Great Reset George Bernard Shaw, famous dead guy. Carl Popper, atheist Richard Dawkins, dead atheist, Christopher Hitchen. Hitchens, uh Barbara Applebaum and her Good Whites ideas, Angela Davis, Gloria Watkins, who writes under the pen name of Bell's Hooks. Uh and more broadly I'm going to include as a broad term here, Dizra, which is bringing their Sharia law attitudes to the West via the Isra, that's that's that's their term for This uh hijra means a migration in the way of Allah. So if we think in terms of what Islam is trying to do, they have a three-part a three part or a three part aspect to what they're trying to do that the radical Muslim uh the Muslim, the the uh the the fundamentalists are pushing for in their jihad. So the first thing is faith, right? They're trying to drill down to the core fundamental truth of what Islam actually teaches, the moderate Islam, we need more of them, but they don't practice true Islam. unfortunately. So they want to have a truer, pure form of faith and they want to have more converts. So that's one aspect. A second aspect is migration. Conquering lands by overrunning them with people. Which And then if all that fails or even mixed in sometimes with all of that is all out physical war. And we see some of that with the burning down of churches and the beheadings and all that sort of stuff. But if they can't win by a con by conversions to the faith and uh overtaking a place with migration and then repopulating that place by making lata babies, uh, then if all that fails, then it's just all that war. So I put Islam as a significant threat to what's real and good and true and all that. So uh any reaction any then we'll be going through. I mean Benjamin Netanyahu Netanyahu shouldn't be a shock because that guy's an absolute spoiler. And to be honest, like if you look at the neighbors of Israel, I think Israel in general, I think conservatives uh put way too much of Steam in because they're not a free country. Like if you like uh Syria certainly pre 2011 had you know had religious freedom and internet and stuff like that and Israel is to the left of California. So the act uh so I don't get you know I don't get why conservatives celebrated Isra celebrate Israel so much because they're wacky and they're completely tyrants on COVID That that is true. Uh yeah. I think I have some input into that. And uh I mean it's eschatology and pre trib eschatology. I know that and dispensationalism, all that, which I don't agree with dispensationalism. Uh but it all goes back that way. And then uh he had something towards the end about Islam. Making babies? I comment a little bit on the um conservative support of Israel. It's really it's it's a political support. Um not really a religious support. It's a it's it's um Going back to the biblical land grant that God gave to Abraham forever and to his descendants, and it's simply a support of of the fact that Israel as a covenant people um have a a spot of land that God gave to them forever that um uh you know God said he will enter into judgment with people, with the nations who ta you know, divide that land take I mean I understand, but I think that I think that prophecy has more to do with those who are in God's covenant, which would be the Christians because you know again covenant theology versus dispensationalism is where that debate ends up but right what I'm saying though is that God God you know if if you read the eleventh chapter of Romans Paul says you know he has not forsaken him. Oh, I agree. There's a plan. I I agree that there's a plan for a mass conversion of Jews that's often talked about in eschatology. I agree that that exists. I don't agree with conservative Between what we understand biblically and spiritually and the land grant and the covenant that God gave to Israel forever Because see what the enemy wants to do is take that land away from the physical descendants of Abraham because they think that's going to I'm talking spiritually. Exactly. So, you know, but that that's how they think. And so but we're but but the the conservatives are saying listen Listen, God cut covenant with Abraham to give that land to his physical descendants for Abraham. So therefore, nobody should physically own that land except for the physical descendants of I don't know. I don't really agree with that latter part. Okay. Because I again I don't think a nation has the right to exist. That that includes any nation? Well it does uh everyone and I'm not against Israel taking the Sinai Peninsula or any of their land grabs or anything like that. To me it's like Nation A, nation B, obviously uh Palestinians don't have a claim. And if they lost a war for the case, we're not going to be able to do that. United States. We always suffer when we come against Israel. What if Israel comes against us? Well no, but but no that's that's not the point I'm making here. The point I'm making is if we come against Israel, any nation that comes against Israel to attack them and their right to exist always get dealt with by God. I don't see that as the case with the United States. I don't I don't necessarily when the United States has come against Israel and and given away their land for instance and and bargains and treaties and we suffer for it We suffer some kind of crazy natural disaster. We always get judged for that. So what so people that the Christians, the designists, you can call them, what they are supporting is Simply God covenant with Israel and their right to exist in the land he promised to them through Abraham. Now the the issue of salvation and and them accepting Jesus Christ is maybe closely related to that, but what I'm saying is um that, you know, that comes to a different that that avenue I mean I get what you're saying, but as far as the overarching arc of hu uh Christian church history, I believe that the uh kingdom of Jerusalem Jerusalem was more aspirational. Okay, I'm not sure what that means. But what's that was our crusader state. I just want to make the the distinction between Between I don't necessarily agree with the whole judgment thing, I think the kingdom of Jerusalem is more aspirational. I see what you're saying. and the covenant theology positions have a a bit of a fair hearing. I probably shouldn't have mentioned BB Netanyahu. No. No. Um seriously we could do this wherever we could. That's a whole lecture to explain like how that influences American. I've been doing a faith debate show for years and we've done dozens and dozens of shows on those kinds of questions. And then like the whole American first, where does that tie in? I mean I think both of you you know uh advocated your position as well and you know uh you can Yeah. Uh so now we're on the words, phrases, and labels. Uh that these people uh maybe not DVNA have but these other people use. Democratic socialism, revoice, woke, or wokeism, or woke church, social gospel, where it's a gospel issue. If you disagree with them, they say you have an incomplete gospel. Social justice, economic justice, research justice, reproductive justice, environmental justice. Ethnic justice, restorative justice, epistemic justice, climate justice, health equity, anti-racism, positionality, great reset, and we need a year zero for the great reset happen. Uh Build Back Better, the Fourth Industrial Revolution, Bibles, Badges, Business, which sounds good on the surface. Do you find out what they mean by Bibles badges business. We're always talking about a utopia. Deconstructionism, Jacques Ferada, pushing for an open society, open borders, that's really the ideology. of George Soros, by the way. Um and I'll pause there because that's a that's about twenty or so. Any reaction any of those phrases that they use? You mentioned reboard. in there. You mentioned Revoice, which it's hard because that's like a specific organization. But one thing that can't be disassociated with Revoice is side B theology Yeah, side A and side B. Do you want to unpack what those two are? Yeah, because I've been trying to do that uh use that terminology more often, which is their terminology, but I'm not against using it because 'cause it's not like I'm not softening or I'm putting a name on a theology that I disagree with that is more that is more broad than say revoice, because if you attach it to revoice then you miss when it's not revoices associated with that theology. So Revoice is a conference that promotes Psy theology, which is a phrase because you'll sometimes hear people refer to Right. Yeah, it's an organization, a conference, and a kind of a movement, but they push this thing called side B theology, which seeks to differentiate the behavior of homosexual So you can be a Christian and be a homosexual as long as you're not actually in the act of it. Right. And it's okay to still be that and say that you're that and own that and celebrate it. Right. And identify as a gay Christian. Right. That's side B. Side A is you can not only identify as a gay Christian, you can actually be a gay Christian. You can be engaged in a homosexual relationship. relations with people. And left side of left side A. Yeah, so they kinda use like album like that. No side B is trying to distinguish themselves from side A as a traditional something. But I identify that I'm not sure. I'm gonna be a celibate then or mixed orientation marriage. And the biblical version on that is those who are Christians are new creations in Christ and the blood at the cross covers all sin. So it's not like homosexuality is the one sin you can can't escape from. And so side B is an enemy of the gospel. Because it makes it seem like there's this one sin that's a rather prevalent sin in today's culture. Uh is something that people just can't defeat. You can't beat it, so you just have to own it. It'd be like saying, uh um, you know, I'm a I'm a wife beating Christian. I can't help it. It's just I was born that way and I beat my wife every afternoon at three o'clock. It's just Now doesn't mean you don't struggle with the temptations. That's not the point. Well I think that that's something that um But identifying by temptations. I mean I I I I think it's one thing to struggle with temptation towards homosexuality. You know, to recognize that that's a problem within yourself, just like it might be a problem to struggle with lust towards anything. You know, 'cause that's pro that's really what that falls under is is a a sexual sin. Um and many people struggle with different types of of sexual sexual temptation stuff like that. So while saying I'm a gay Christian isn't right, I think saying saying, you know, I'm a Christian and this is a sexual temptation Temptation that I struggle with every day, that I pray about, that I you know, I I don't think that that is contradictory. I think the problem is we have kind of redefined the what temptation means. Temptation is more of an external factor, whereas desire, original sin, is more in internal. Like Jesus when it says he was tempted in every way in which we are, that's an external thing. He did not have original sin to be tempt that we kind of deal with. But yet he was tempted in every way. Because temptation is external. Like if you need a good grade on a test and you didn't study the night before, you are tempted externally to cheat because you know you see someone's paper available. That's an external Temptation. Or you know the prostitute down the street or on the street corner. That that's an external temptation. Lots of good stuff here. One of the practical ways that this plays out and becomes a challenge for uh what I would argue the biblical Christians is biblical Christians are going to talk to somebody who's struggling with that particular kind of sin and is going to try to help them through it to come out on the other side. so that it doesn't dominate their lives, that there's maybe always to be on guard against it. It's like having a internet pornography edition, you know? People have to overcome that, but it can be It can be overcome, however. To your point, Pastor Fort, what you call yourself is a new creation of Christ Jesus. Because what When God was dealing with Jacob, who had a a bad problem with deceiving and cheating people, after he struggled with Jacob, he changed his name He said, What's your name? And he he he he gave him his old name. He said, Now you're Israel. So God renamed us to show us that we have been redeemed from what we were before. So we don't we're not supposed to identify with our central selves. Right. We're supposed to call ourselves what we are in Christ. Right, realizing that we we we will have to struggle. Right. You know, but we call ourselves what he calls us. We don't call ourselves by that. Right. I think my point is that I I hear a lot of people um who are on the right track saying things like, Oh, if you struggle with, you know, being a a attracted to the same sex then you can't be Christian. And that bothers me because you could then say, oh well if you struggle with attraction towards any kind of sin, then you're all oh now we're all together. And could that be mortified? That that's kind of a good thing. You know, just like you know, a man's attraction towards a woman that's not his wife would also be. I mean the Bible makes it clear we need to take our thoughts captive because that is w that that's but having the like But my my point is the this isn't like the one sin that you know if you ha if you struggle with it means you can't be Christian until you never struggle because I agree. The only reason it becomes an issue and it and that sort of thing makes the list like this is because the uh society said it's the liberal branch of the church, if they're even going to call the church, the uh the uh the wolves in sheep's clothing are telling us that this is an exception to the rule. There is something special about this. And actually this will be on my list of some of the languages And just as you have a full circle, like much of how yeah, even the church talks about it, even the Orthodox people in the church talk about it is too influenced by another name on the list. Sigmund Freud that you I hate Freud. He's the one who is influenced so much of how we even view this entire issue. So let's say somebody came to me and a pastor of a church and said, you know, I'm really struggling with uh Uh I'm a recent convert and I'm struggling with homosexu I've been a homosexual, you know, in my activities for the last twelve years and I realize it's a sin now. And I what do I do about it? And I'm gonna try to help him Well those who are wolves in sheep's clothing are going to call me all sorts of horrible bad names because I'm trying to convert him out of And he's hardwired that way and there's nothing he can do about it. In other words, they're saying God made him that way. Well, no, God made us in his image. We inherit a fallen human sin nature because of Adam and so we do have some things wired into us. But you know what? God can give us a brand new heart. He can remove from us our hearts of stone and give us a heart of flesh so whatever we feel is hardwired can be taken out and retrofitted and have something new replace it. So no sin can't be be And to say that being gay is the one sin that can't be beaten is is the challenge, and that's what this is all about. Climate change or global climate change or global warming, all things green, the Green New Deal. Their slogan, Save the Planet, the poster child for all of this, is Greta Thunberg. The Kyoto Protocol, United Nations, and their Framework Convention on Climate Change. Medicare for all, community organizing, diversity training led by diversity consultants. The alphabet community, LGBTQIA plus. So stand for lesbian, gay, bisexual, trans, which could be trans. sexual or transgender or any of those transes we listed earlier. Q is questioning or queer. The I is intersex. The A is offsexual and the plus is the catch-all. So if you're into bestiality or pedophilia, you've got to Uh an uh a character on the for you. Right. Right. Yeah, for feeling. Up again, up again. Up again. Uh and of course they're all about falling crying. Yeah. Make it a change Um where's the spraying back? We just talked about gay Christians, but that's that's a phrase they use, gay Christian. Uh we shouldn't be putting an adjective in front of any. We are you know we we can call ourselves a Christian, beloved, a saint. Right? Anyway. Uh they major in identifi uh identity first politics. Uh they really talk about elevating voices They like to say to to people in the church, people like me and uh those like us uh that the world is watching, be careful what you say, the world is watching. Um not so much worried about what if God is watching or not. Uh they love to say things like We're going to win our city, or we're going to transform our city, or we're going to be a blessing to our city. And we do want to be those things to salt and light, but that's not the major objective. Our major objective is to uh is to make disciples. And through the making of disciples the city will be be blessed. But they that's a catchphrase you hear a lot fr from them. They also like to say to uh to people in church, if your church disappeared tomorrow, would your city notice? And they say they say that in a way to guilt trip you into adopting their social agenda. They didn't they didn't notice last year when they all were closed. Right, right. That's yeah. Yeah, even even the so-called Christians didn't notice that. Um I'm gonna go through a little more on this list, um, and then we'll jump into some more conversation. Where'd I just leave? Um gender identity, saying there's more than two genders like the list we had at the beginning. uh sexual identity, sexual preference, endemic sexism, or just sexism or chauvinism, higher criticism, conflict theory False consciousness, they talk a lot about trauma and being victims and exploitation. They talk about ableism and ageism, misogyny Toxis toxic masculinity. They like to call those who disagree with homophobic, xenophobic, transphobic. They speak of whiteness, gender fluidity. The black conscious movement, the attractional church, the purpose-driven church. They say that Jesus was a revolutionary. He came to change the world. They speak of a black Jesus and a white Jesus. They say that Christianity is a white religion. They talk about fat shaming, heteronormativity, rape culture, women's empowerment, redistribution of power. And they're all about new technology, particularly facial recognition, transhumanism, singularity, and smart cities. So I'll stop there because that's a lot. Anybody want to react to any of that? Oh metaverse. Well probably wrote that list. It's interesting because if you look at Hollywood and you look at movies, they basically are grooming us for what's going on become the next thing. It's not by accident that the Matrix was. It's not by accident that the movie The Giver was out. It's not a good thing. They take elements of it. So you look at so w basically we're gonna do this for you, we're gonna take care of it for you. We're going to you know, that's kind of the mentality. And so it can go too far, but I think what they're doing now is they just didn't do it right. I mean even animal farm See where I disagree with is I think they just write good stories and they're s completely not self-aware that they're the villains in their own stories. But they write. I don't think they have that I don't think Hollywood specifically has that level of awareness. Like I was watching what was it? Man, what was that new? I think they're I think that's a good idea. Like watch when they try to actually do the propaganda. So I'll use Marvel as a good example because I'm I I watched uh Winter Soldier the other day And the deep state is the villain in that movie. It's the deep state. And the deep state tries to enact their final solution, so to speak, and you know, that's defeated. But then you look at a Marvel movie today And it's that's where they're trying to over that's where they're trying to be propaganda. They're trying to uh do messaging. Before there was at least an element we're trying to tell a story and good stories have elements of truth in them so they become good, right? But now they're trying to be Uh subversive to our society and culture. As far back as the nineteen forty. I I agree that that's a thing. I don't think that has I don't think like adapting a giver into a movie counts as one of those things things. I don't think adapting things that are anti communist m source material or anti Great Recess New World Order source material, I don't think that is grooming us to accept this or I don't know. I th I do too. I think also it could be it's like it it's it it it it's it ends up setting up uh The the platform for for making the accusation of tin foil hat wearing conspiracy theorists. What you watch the Giver over the weekend? You've been watching too many dystopian movies and they can discredit the tr true concerns because it happened to also be in a movie and that that's fantasy. So you're in a fantasy world. You're a conspiracy theorist. I mean I've only read the book. I've never I've only seen parts of the movie. But if it I think it doesn't get used that way on the back end, whether it was intended that way on the front of the side. Okay, so let's I don't know their motivations. Well I think I think they're predicting what I it it's a hiding in plain cry kind of thing. They're showing us what they're going to do. We would only listen and pay attention. But we don't take it seriously Seriously because they deliver to us in the form. They tell us everything they're gonna do and we're like, they would never do that and then they do it. Yeah. Or they tell us we're gonna do it. variant for now. Do you know that that's a movie? Uh I know that that's a alien species in Future One. Right, right. And so and so and so these ideas we think are new, but I think what's really happening I think it's all it's been planned all along and what they've been doing all along is now finally coming to the circle I just think there's nothing new to do this song. Greek alphabet XI. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. They skipped a couple names I think. Somebody singing us out right they didn't want XI because that's going to China, which is ironic is that we know that that's where the barber came from. So so they they think it through and they say well we won't give it that name but we'll give it another name army crunch who has ever heard of the word army crunch anybody who knows it Greek alphabet, I guess. Anyone who's watched Futurama. But how many people know the uh Greek alphabet? Right. Well they're just going how many people knew Lamba outside of Revenge of the Nerds? Well yeah. Yeah. Alright, let me jump back into our list. Um these people are all about worldwide mandates. They speak of the school to prison pipeline. They tell us that the Bible whispers about homosexuality What? Yeah. Doesn't come out hard against it just They love them some analytical tools such as intersectionality and standpoint epistemology. Let's talk about patriarchal hierarchy, critical legal theory, and uh Derek Bell and his convergence theory and uh Derek Bell's student, Kimberly Crenshaw, is a big uh proponent of all of this Uh critical theory or critical race theory, critical activism, uh cultural relativism, anti-normativity. They talk about tolerance. Underprivileged. The 1619 project to reinventing history. White privilege, white fragility. Well we've got to start with the Robin D'Angelo. book. White supremacy, white power, uh white hegemony, white adjacent, uh racial stamina, which is part of white fragility, unconscious bias, implicit bias, covert racism. Uh diversity, inclusion, equity. And if you take the first letters D I E it spells die. Interesting. When they speak about equity, they're talking about equal outcomes, not equal opportunity. They will steal from one to give to another so they end up with the same. Except for the ones who do the taking and distributing, because then they end up ahead. Uh biodiversity, which is a fancy way of saying you can't eat meat. Um Uh these we've probably heard, these are almost becoming passe now. Safe spaces, microaggression, marginalization, systemic power, systemic oppression. Systemic sexism, systemic racism, reparations, disparities, racial reconciliation, affirmative action, and the quotas that go along with it, egalitarianism as opposed to complementarianism Uh the whole oppressor-oppressed divide, the bourgeois, the proletariat. Um the matrix of domination, the matrix of oppression. And I'm saying again I'm in order to act in case you haven't heard them before, the next time you hear them I think I've heard that term before. This is the language of the left in large measure. They like to shout out tear down the hierarchy. They like to shout out power with a fist in the air. They love to engage in listening sessions, but only they're allowed to talk. Epistemic friction, they love the word race and racism, and I gotta tell you I'm hammering this home Every chance I get, please, please, please try to retrain yourself. Don't use those words. There's one human race. To uh to use the word race is to surrender the argument before it's been had Please try not to say right, say ethnicity or ethnic group or people group or something. You want to call somebody a racist, say that they're prejudiced. Uh they have an ethnic bias, something. Try not to use the word race. That categorization didn't exist until a couple hundred years ago, and if the left that gave it to us, we're using their language. Can we say different breeds? What? Dogs have different breeds within the sa within the room See that's where the that's where the whole Darwinism read for Nazism. That'd be funny. But were any of those unfamiliar or you want to push back on why they're on the list or anything like that? What do you think you go still guess? I think we can go farther on s on that point about not using certain language that surrendered arguments. I know I was writing about something to that extent. Or I was writing something to that total area. I didn't quite use that example Two things. One, when they've redefined a term or invented a term and we use it as though it's credible. We've surrendered an awful lot of ground, so we have to challenge that. Make them defend it. Make them defend their invented terms. Make them defend their change and try Is that uh the burden of proof? Yeah, what's your whatever? Yeah, everyone making the change, so you tell me why you're changing it. What's your agenda there? What's your motivation for making that change? Um to use a court analogy You know, you have uh prosecutor and defense argue about what evidence is admitted into court to be presented in front of a jury. You know, hash out the argument before you have like fight the evidence before it's allowed to be presented. Yeah, and if you're engaging in dialogue, because there's just there's a spiritual battle And so it's happening to you and uh or or you're doing it. You know what I mean? There's a battle. You're involved with it one way or the other. you're gonna find yourself getting peppered with terms like this. Next time somebody says, you know, well that's a gospel issue. Pause and say, well that's interesting. How are you defining gospel? Have them define gospel for you. I'll be willing to bet you that 99 times out of the They can't, or the way they define it is not a biblical gospel. So all of a sudden you've shifted the terms and now it's not them on the offense, it's you on the offense. you can maybe to for their own good you can win them to the truth. That's what we want, right? Want them to accept and understand the truth. So these are phrases. It's an anti Police protest. There's anti-police protest, ironically, taking place right now in downtown Frederick. Isn't that fun? Wait a minute. Isn't that fun? Maybe they'll get blown away with their biggest thing. I guess apparently they're shouting at people extending Is it raining yet? Alright, see there's some of the other phrases that the left likes to say. They love to say, say their name. When you're talking about uh Let's say a black person is killed by a police officer, you gotta say their name, but there's some demonic stuff. We maybe talk about that in a minute, uh connected to that. They love birthing people. You're not allowed to talk about mothers anymore. You can talk about birthing people because men can have babies too. People have babies, not a big thing. I totally trolled my work because I I do federal contracting because and I wrote a test case that explicitly said a pregnant woman and that a female applicant and you know, this they get this outcome but 'cause that was the scenario. Uh but I specifically worded that a pregnant woman I just f floated that to a government uh yeah, they had to review the test cases that I wrote. I know, but their JIRA profile or their JIRA names have pronouns and bio or pronouns in their Jira names a lot. I was just talking to Jira. This past week I was talking to somebody and when they have to fill out an application or or something where it asks you to you know if the designation is race and you have to choose one. Uh they check them all. Because if you go back far enough we're all related, so they figure I'm I'm part of all of this, so they should check them all. That's their way of fighting back against the race word and not having to use it. But confuse the heck out of it. Make them ask you. Why did you check them off? human rights. I mean I was also trolling my own work because they had the peer review and trolling your own workplace, you know what I mean? I uh I I do rely on income um inclusion and safety, they're all about that. They like to talk about taking a God's eye view. Um active ignorance, pernicious ignorance, willful ignorance, and white complicity, they will accuse us of all of those They really are proponents of mass migration. They always tell us there's a migrant crisis, but of course they created the crisis and then they never want to let that crisis go to waste. Ironically, I can't breathe. They turn anything that's happened in the news into a slogan for their political purposes. So I can't breathe, justice now, power to the people. They love to tell white people that they live on stolen land. You live on stolen land. Um They like the label conservatives, anybody who's a conservative, as the alt-right. They like to talk about concerned parents being terrorists. I feel like all right has gone out of so much. Yeah, it's a little more passe, yeah. You still hear it in regards to Steve Bannon and stuff. Anybody who is their opponent that they count as opponent is a conspiracy theorist or a big white nationalist and or a Nazi Uh their way of thinking, old is evil, new is pure. So out with the old, go with the new. Yeah. They use nationalism as a pejorative. Um we're not allowed to call the main bedroom in a house the master bedroom anymore. Wait, what really? Yeah, if you look at listings it's It's it's if if a real estate agent is up on their game, it is not called that anymore. It's the primary or the main or the whatever Oh my gosh, you're right. I have seen that I didn't include care because there's also ban ban Right. You can't have the word man in anything. Right. Like Manchester, uh Manhattan. Right. I don't know if you have this one. Although you're more into the NBA than I am. They don't call them owners of the team, they only call them governors Oh is that right? I hadn't heard that. Well Hatton. You don't own that man early. Well man hat you don't have man in there. Just Patton is the problem. It's Wolhatton. Hatton. Will Hatton? Hatton. How many of us uh have heard any of these in the last uh couple of years? The science. Scientific consensus. Trust the experts. The scholars say. Uh redistrip redistribution of wealth. They're all about Keynesian economics. So if you hear a highbrow economics discussion and they're advancing a Keynesian view, they want your money out of your pocket and in theirs. Systemic police injustice, citizens' juries, smart grid, predictive modeling and predictive policing Strategic insight, circular economy or just circularity, person-centered design, cyber physical systems, resolution centers, which is meant to replace police. Uh they're all about hate crimes, hate speech. Hashtag me too, hashtag activism, uh public health and safety. Uh big proponents of zero population growth. They want a one world order. They don't want to make arguments, they want to have a discourse. Um I say on They accuse us of cultural appro appropriation Um, like you're probably appropriating the uh Elven culture by what you're wearing today. Uh that was a lot of pause there. I mean we're probably getting a little weary, but anybody have anything they want to say? So that towards the beginning of that section. Yeah, where was that? It was around like anything to do with policing and jury justice system. Um it was in that category. I see it on my list now and I'm trying to remember why I even wrote it down. Because I know people say that the jury No, but yeah, they mean something they mean something different by it and for some reason I'm drawing a blank. Even though I wrote this down two months ago. Anyway, I I'm drawing a blank. Um it's really sad that they're trying to um Yeah, corral the sheep and keep us cheap, keep us brainwise. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Under a different relationship other than the word. Absolutely. But as far as like juries go, 'cause I know juries have been accused of like racism or whatever, but like you know, it America's had a pretty good time for juries Mollette got convicted five of six and then uh Josh Duggar definitely deserved to be convicted there. And then Glenne Maxwell, that'll be interesting. Yeah. Jeffrey Epstein did not kill himself. Uh killed first. They like to talk about post col uh well the the academic term for it would be post colonial theory. Yeah, if you hear people talking about um Colonization or colonial powers as a negative thing. It's part of their post-colonial theory studies. They're engaging in operational preparation of the environment or OPE. And that's what I was talking about. They've been at this for a long time, hundreds of years. They have been preparing the environment for years. They want to have a social credit score, vaccine passports, social distancing. They designate essential workers and essential services and essential businesses. They told us that they would flatten the curve, slow the spread, be safer at home, all in reference to, of course, the uh lockdowns These are health emergency rules, so it's for our health, you know, so that they can have their mandates, dictates, and executive orders go into play. Um they say that we have a living breathing constitution. They talk of a social safety net, universal basic income. They love to say love your neighbor out of context. Judge not out of context. Love believes all things out of context. They have an eleventh commandment which they refuse to name names as somebody they perceive to be on their side. Somebody who is not a leftist and has dark skin, they'll say, You ain't black Or call them an Oreo or an Uncle Tom or a Coon or a Sell out? A black face of white supremacy? Yep, as they did to Larry Elder when he ran for governor in in California. Um they they uh try to to dismiss the pro-life movement, the abolish abortion movement, by saying, well, we're pro-life womb to tomb. They put huge emphasis on using the correct new pronouns. So people have to tell you what their pronouns are. They're trying to force everybody to say Latinx as opposed to Latina or Latino. Uh in spite of all this animosity, we're all in this together. Uh things might be different on the other side. They speak of a new normal, God forbid. They love the word change as an hope and change. They say that all these negatives we're putting up with are the price of progress for your safety. It's for the public health emergency. America is no longer a melting pot, it's now a tossed salad. They say that classical music is too white. They blame our social ills that have happened over the last couple of years, uh, not uh they blame it on the virus and not on the lockdowns And here's something to be careful of. I've noticed this with a lot of these postmoderns and these leftist thinkers. They like to be playful with their language so they're not Don't misunderstand this is what they'll say. They'll say, don't misunderstand me. We're not challenging the prevailing view. We're not trying to be argumentative. We're just we're just playing. We're just playing with ideas here. We're just getting outside of our sandbox, getting outside the box, we're just playing So if you hear somebody who likes to play with their ideas a lot, they're probably a leftist. They say the truth is inaccessible, truth is merely a power construct anyway, so truth doesn't matter You have your truth, I have my truth. We need to move to the middle, be centrist, find a third way. There's nothing you can do to stop what's coming, they'll say. They're all about socialization, marginalization, disparate outcomes. They say that meta-narratives are bad. Epidemic violence, critical consciousness, patriarchy, privilege preserving, epistemic pushback. There's a funny phrase for you. uh coined by Alison Bailey. Uh epistemic exploitation, they major on lived experience. They say that these things are impossible. Reason, science, logic, being objective. They say that even having evidence is impossible, some of them do. If you go to school, you can you can major in gender studies. You can major in fat studies. You can major in disabilities studies or sometimes it's ableism. And black feminism, or just feminism in general. Um they want to eliminate paper money, have only a digital currency Uh they are opposed to American exceptionalism and American sovereignty. They say these are bad uh and patriotism is bad because all the Democrats and leftists are now globalists. Um you might have heard about the emerging or emergent church. There are slight variations in the two definitions, but they're close enough that you can kind of blend them in my mind. leading voices in this. If you see a book written by any of these guys, you might not want to read it unless you're going to read it as a critique. Tony Jones, Brian McLaren, Doug Padgett, Rob Bell. Um these are bad things which are what most of us in the church recognize as bad. The popularity gospel, the prosperity gospel, the cult of personality gospel, the seeker-sensitive model, the growth model Um the left is pushing for progressive deconstructionism, false consciousness, epistemic oppression that you talk about. Uh critical gender theory, power dynamics, ability status, fat status, active ignorance, pernicious ignorance. Willful ignorance. There's no objective reality. Everything's subjective. And you know what? You cannot say you're colorblind. You are not allowed to say you don't see color. So I don't want to do anything anymore. It's crazy, right? I mean, and the list Could have been longer because Ray already came up with a few I forgot and I'm thinking of others as I go, but I won't bring them up because the list is long enough. It's crazy. I don't know if you've heard of Kristen Dumas. Have you heard of that? Oh yeah, I heard about that. That was like a really successful book. world. And you know, she so happens to be a gender studies professor. So now I'm gonna go real quick so you can so you can finish your I know this is a lot. It's like It's trying to breathe through a fire hose, you know, shooting water in your nose and breathe at the same time. Uh but we need to have a uh we need to have a strategy uh against them, because they've got a strategy against us Their strategy is to foment a lack of social interaction. So we've got to be aware that they don't want us interacting with one another. And think how successful they've been. How many people do you see like this walking around with their face in their phone? Not interacting with the people around them them. They successfully got the majority of the population to wear a mask and not show their smiling faces for the past year and a half. They got people to successfully agree to social distance and agree to be locked in their home. They don't want us socially interacting because there's strength in numbers. They don't want us comparing notes and talking. And they're trying to stir up discord between what they call the dominant and marginalized groups. And they will create dominant and marginalized groups if they have to and then set them against each other. They insist that your church should you should look like the community, even though there's nothing about that in the Bible. Your church should look like the people God has called into your congregation. That's what it should look like. Like. They're all about uh saying that personal experience is king. Forget about Jesus being king. You can't you can't correct me with a word from God. Yeah, you can't correct me with a word from God. I've got my experience. Um they will lie and then lie some more. Um they're aiming to disrupt and dismantle all the current systems we've we've grown institutions. Have grown to be uh familiar to us. And if they can't dismantle and disrupt it, in the meantime they will do what they can to subvert it. Uh subvert all systems. These are some of the words that the good guys will use to label them. They talk about them as being postmodernists or Marxists or Marx or neo-Marxists or cultural Marxists. Or Fabians, named after the Fabian Society of Britain. Or not to be confused with true conservatism, they're neoconservative or neo-orthodox or neo-Christian or neo-uh pragmatist. We label them and their beliefs as New Age or ethnic Gnosticism, call them social justice warriors, or uh progressives, or the left, leftism. Um don't be confused by us, usually we talk about fascists and Nazis on the right and uh socialists and communists and Marxists on the left. Uh actually that's not an accurate way to of thinking about this because the fascists, the mal uh the Maoists, the Leninists, the Stalinists, Communists, Globalists, the Collectivists Um even in the anarchists, the trans civilization trans civilizationists, they're all on the same team. They're all on the far, far, far, far left. Now in the anarchist one, that's interesting, they've gone so far left they've swung back to the right because anarchy is really a A far right uh political ideology. But anyway, they are the academy or big tech or big media or big government or big business, big Eva, the guild, the intelligentsia. Mainstream media, Hollywood, which Angela mentioned earlier. The mainline, if you go to a church and they describe themselves or others describe them as a mainline church. Uh bad news. The deep state, the swamp, people inside the beltway, politically correct speech. We say that they're virtue signaling, wanting to live in a brave new world, they're Orwellian. Um they advocate for eugenics, moral nihilism, victimology. They're all about deplatforming, cancel culture, censorship, thought police. They are dystopian, um, identity politics and idea laundering. uh problematizing and mythicization, which is the questioning of beliefs that have long been held to be true by society. Radical subjectivism, or just subjectivism, or metaphysical subjectivism. We will uh talk about them and their grievance culture. They're engaging in grievance politics, grievance studies. Uh they do all they can to control the narrative. They want to have a nanny state, a welfare state. They engage in PSYOP, agitprop, fertile fallacies. They advocate fear, panic porn. They're purveyors of panic. They use the Mountain Bailey fallacy. It's like a tug of war that helps them move the Overton window, if you know what that is. It's part of their gradualism strategy. Again, they're very patient. Um we talked about them using the tolerance uh paradox. Anyway, we are in a battle. I think we all recognize we're in a battle. We're in a battle against uh radical sex education. We're in a battle to defend our national pastimes. We're in a battle to advocate for individualism versus collectivism. The idea of American exceptionalism is under assault by the idea of Chinese exceptionalism And sometimes what they say can sound good and look good at first, but it's a Trojan horse, the ugly underbelly, is filled with things like critical nutrition studies. Feminist geography, post-colonial theology. What is that? It's affecting all institutions. It's it's it's even in the church. The evangelical free church is really in a battle right now for their identity, their biblical identity. The Wesleyan group The OPC, the Orthodox Presbyterian Church, which has long been identified as a stalwart conservative church, they're infected with critical gender studies right now. Really? Even the PCA, the Presbyterian Church of America, uh their General Assembly moderator just a few years ago, uh George Robertson, he was quoted saying that everyone is a recovering racist Alexander June was their General Assembly moderator the very next year. And he is on record calling himself a critical race theorist. This isn't the PCA. One of the most conservative Up until recently, most conservative groups in the country. Duke Quan, a PCA teaching elder, that's what he called their pastors. He says that the church is the least safe place for people of color. The church is. And then of course last year they beat even mean. They beat back revoice last year barely. Uh so all these institutions we thought we could trust Um of course we can't trust the government funded pagan schools. And know that whatever they accuse us of is is what they're doing. They're m they they are m big time Yeah, oh, they are good at projection. Sometimes what they advocate in the church is pure heresy. And that's a little easier for us sometimes to to to label. But sometimes it's just heterodoxy, meaning it's It may or may not exactly be heresy, but it's certainly outside the confines of what we've typically accepted as orthodoxy. And so that's a little harder for us to identify, but that's very dangerous as well. And heterodoxy leads to heresy, so we we we need to identify uh those sorts of things. Um and they engage in what's called the Kafka trap. Anybody know what that is? The what? The Kafka trap. It's where you're guilty because I said so. Oh, convinced The crimes are never specified. You're just guilty because. And so an example of this in our culture now is, oh wait a minute, what color's your skin? You're white? You're guilty. Well what would I do? What do you mean what you do? You're white. But what's my crime? What's my charge? You're white. What are you talking about? What's my crime? What's your charge? You're guilty. Wait, wait a minute. That's the cops attack. You're just guilty because you are. If you don't belong to their special interest group, you're guilty. That's basically it. Now, I don't want to end on a completely sorrow note and us walking out of here with our tails dragging. There are some good guys. We feel like we're the minority, but they're good guys and they're bold and so these are names as of right now. It could change in a week or a month or a year because we thought we could trust these other names before. These are names right now we can trust, by my estimation. Josh Bice, Tom Askell, James White, and I mean the bald-headed white guy, James White, not the bald-headed black guy, James White, because the bald-headed b Yeah, I don't know these names. I mention these these are all in ministry kinds of people and I'm mentioning so that if you've crossed their path or if you've seen them recently, oh yeah, okay, I wonder if I can trust them, now you'll know you can trust them. Okay. James White is brilliant. You know can we trust someone who you talk about? I didn't put my name on there. Uh this one might be a little controversial for some, but I'm putting him on the list because he's really good on these Social justice, great reset kinds of questions. He's not a Christian. He's labeled an atheist by most, but he self-identifies as an agnostic. And he's not perfect. And he's got some weaknesses in some areas, but he's so good on some important things right now, he's on my list, James Lindsay. Uh if he's talking about the Great Reset or social justice issues, James Lindsay is a very good thing. Yeah. He's yeah. Maybe not maybe not if you were to start talking about things that they relate to Christian Yeah, another guy similar, he is an atheist, he identifies as an atheist, Peter uh Peter Boghosian, uh similar thing. If he's talking about the Great Reset, he's pretty much right. Um so he's a secularist, non god fearer who happens to be right on this important question of this moment. Also Eric Price of Blackwater, John Harris of Conversations That Matter, A. D. Robles, a author and very popular YouTuber. Uh Russell Fuller, uh Dr. Russell Fuller, he started an online school to uh to be a uh to be an alternative to some of the mainstream seminaries are out there. Bobby Lopez, Michael O'Fallon, and his Sovereign Nations online ministry. Trevor Loudoun, expert on Marxism. Body Bauchum, he's a pretty well-known name. You might know him, a black uh uh reformed preacher. Uh Tom Buck, John MacArthur. You might know John MacArthur. Uh not perfect on everything, but uh really right on some of the things that's the first time. Yeah, he wasn't at first, but he got to be right. Uh Daryl Harrison and Virgil Walker um and their uh what's um Alan Keyes, Thomas Sowell. I'll include Steve Dace, political commentator on the Glaze Network Network. Grace to You, that's the Ministry of John MacArthur. G3 Ministries, the Conservative Baptist Network. Uh Capstone Report is good at keeping tabs with what's going on in the church. The Fight Laugh East Network. Just Thinking, that's the organization that Beryl Harrelson and Virgil Walker. They're controversial, but I'm gonna include them in here because they're cutting edge and they're out on front a lot and sometimes they don't say things the way I would or I I wonder. But pulp and pen. Um and I was concerned about their constant cries for money, but it seems like it all came out in the wash and they came out with a really good documentary. Enemies within the church seems to be on the right side on this. I haven't seen it yet but I've heard really good things about it. It's pretty good. Um watched it. I mentioned the plays uh the Epoch Times or Epic Times uh for mainstream regular news. Thanks, man. I should have mentioned Jeff Durbin earlier, he's good. Social media stuff is good. And Right Response Ministry is another good social media uh outlet for good stuff. So there's some good guys out there. And there's some good guys here in the room, and I thought maybe How do you feel about Doug Will? Um cow, I don't know. I think that every time somebody is critical of Doug Wilson, I check what their critique is and I'm like, I don't think I agree with your critique But I don't know enough about him on his own. I only know that the attacks against him don't typically land their punches and so I'm not sure but he seems like He's mostly on the right side as far as I can tell, but I don't know. Idaho like a Christian community Like overtly. Yeah. Post millennial uh the ONUS type. No there's I think Fight Last Beast is his thing. So Where where is the who is this guy in Moscow? Oh, Doug Wilson's the pastor. He's got a lot of influence over the Fight Left East Network. He's got a lot more broader cultural influence than meets the out He doesn't mind poking people in the eye. His brother I think is like a major author who has like a Netflix children series. I haven't read a lot of Doug Wilson's stuff. I haven't heard a lot of what he's talked about, so I don't know a lot about like I said I only know about whenever people attack him, I check out the attacks and I just feel like the attacks are off the mark. So I don't I don't know what that means. Anyway, there are some people in this room that are doing some things that are making a difference. There are some good guys. I would have put it on the list, but I wanted to leave it off the list so you would talk about it. Oh. You're kinda like a emerging John Harris and eighty robust kind of guy. Yeah, and it just I don't want to call it guerrilla journalism, but like it's gorilla in in the sense of like how that works in warfare, but like you just pop up, I do I drop like exclusive stuff or do my own reporting and uh some of what I've reported has been picked up by some of the things that you've mentioned. I'm gonna have to help him with marketing. Yeah. I I'm being modest because I don't know. Yeah. uh commenting on things that are going on in the church that are not that we should be paying attention to. Ca it's called the evangelical dark web. And it has uh it it's uh still kind of emerging but it's it had a growth spurt. It's like tripled it's It's number of subscribers in the last few months like what, last six months probably. And every once in a while he'll get a shout out by somebody that's more mainstream and a bigger name. Like I'll see them mention Ray and his channel on their social media is like, wow, Ray got noticed. Look at that. Good for him. So he's doing what he can to make a difference. Um Angela, do you want to talk about um in this context, you want to talk about what you're doing? No? Okay. Well I will say Angela's going to law school and uh and looking to make a difference uh in in in legal and political spheres and that sort of thing. And and Annie is making a difference, raising a family and And stuff. We're all making a difference. And you know, we got people in this room that are business owners uh and and trying to run a business as as as a good Christian should, making a difference that way. Uh my wife's in media. I'm still involved in media. You know, I do the uh the faith debate show and uh we've raised money for parachurch organizations through our decorating date night. uh ministry if you want to call it that. And so we can all find our lane. I would encourage us to do that. So I want to close with with these thoughts that are tie into that. Um the culture battle, honestly, it can sometimes feel like it's over, like we've lost, like we can't possibly win. But that's only true if we surrender. And if you've surrendered then you need to re-engage. Figure out what you can do in your context and re-engage. Uh and recognize that this is a different kind of a war. This is a knowledge war. This is an inform We're fighting over terms and that's why I spent so much time on these terms. We need to begin to understand, get familiar with the vocabulary so we can begin to learn how to engage and not be overwhelmed. uh by these sorts of things. You don't have to know it all. But if now hopefully somebody thinks somebody will mention something, oh yeah, I've heard of that, but explain to me more. But you won't be completely adhering the headlights on some of this stuff. We have to fight. We have to fight in this together and we have to fight to win. So we do have to dialogue. But in those dialogues, we need to advocate for our position. We don't want to be cowed. We need to properly understand Romans 13. Uh and not simply do whatever the tyrants tell us to do in our republic, because we are a government of for and by the people. And this includes keeping our churches open and doing so without restriction. We have to keep in mind that there are four spheres of government and they need to stay in their lane. So the first one I'm going to mention is the church and its ecclesiology. That's the church government. I mentioned it first because God is in charge of all. And so the Lord's church answers to him And him alone. We do not answer to the government civil magistrates. We need to keep that in mind. And we as Christians answer Now there are the civil magistrates, and they are to defend the good and defend and uh to punish evil. That's their lane. That's what they should do. They should protect us by punishing evildoers and promoting good things. That's it. If they're doing anything outside of that lane, they're out of their lane, and all due respect They don't have any honest to goodness biblical authority. The government is built upon household units, and this is the third sphere of government. Um the family. We have to have our our houses in order. So we start there getting our own houses in order and then we need to work together with other households who have their houses in order and be neighborly and do this together because there's There's too many of us fighting this war alone and then we're getting picked off one by one. You know, a cord of uh three is much stronger than a strand of one, right? So we've got to uh figure out how to connect with like-minded people and not be on our own. And of course it all starts with the first sphere of government, that would be the individual. Uh the starting point is self-government, self-control. So do what we can to have better spiritual disciplines, to grow in our faith, grow in our advocacy for it. the true faith, fulfill our personal responsibilities, fight for our God-given liberties. Um because we have to remember the reason we have liberty, the reason we should be fighting for our freedoms is because we have responsibilities If we didn't have responsibility, we really wouldn't need liberty per se. But because God has given us certain things we're responsible to, we need to have the liberty to do them. And our neighbors need to have the freedom and liberty to do them. And so when we fight for our liberty and freedom, we're not being selfish. We're being selfless so that our neighbor can walk along the path of being obedient to God That's why liberty and freedom is so important. We cannot forget that. Any last thoughts before we uh have a closing word of prayer? Uh, I just think it's interesting that a lot of people that to me are doing this fight and trying to win. I totally disagree with their post millennial eschatology 'cause I don't think the Bible supports it, but they have the right mentality. Yeah, Doug Wilson's a post millennial guy. Yeah, hardcore. Yeah. And then and in Torba, you didn't mention him Oh yeah. That's the uh that's the uh owner and creator of Gab for those who don't know. He seems to have an interest he seems to be like a pro uh disciple of Doug Wilson in that respect. It's interesting. I don't agree with their eschatology, but they have the right And because of their eschatology, that's part of their motivation for having the right fight attitude, right? We're gonna fight to win because we're gonna win. Yeah. I heard uh something in regards to this recently. It was coming from more of a uh Premillennial. Right? So the premillennial believing that things are just gonna get worse. You know, before Rapture Second Corn Ray, we all know that. But his perspective normally it's like That's a justification not to to be involved in protecting our liberties and freedoms and but he had an interesting perspective which was very shocking to me is that he said I can't remember who this was. As things get worse, and even if it's futile, which I don't necessarily I don't agree with, it you have to shine your light even brighter. As things get worse. And it doesn't seem super consistent with his perspective, but I'm like, I dig it. I'm I'm I I I agree. Let's you know, uh as things get worse, even if you couldn't win, let's see, we'll just Except that if that is a if they're right, if you couldn't win you should fight even harder. He's like the NFL football player who's losing seventy two to nothing with two minutes left in the fourth quarter but they're still gonna give it their all on every play. I'm like okay. I can work with that time. It's scriptural. Yeah. That's how you run the race, right? There's that scripture that talks about that. It says all this is gonna happen, but I don't you know, you should We should still be praying. We should still be you know spreading the gospel. Well at the end of the day it's not us who's gonna win anyway. No, but we are called we are called. win in the first place. God is going to win. Well this is what he told me. We're supposed to be doing his work. And if we believe we're his still in the in our era now. We are disciples, and this is what we're called to do. It doesn't matter what situation we're in, we're called to do it regardless. Right. Oh yeah. Yeah, it's not it's it's not only merely that he will win, but I think a finer point on it is Christ has already won. Right. It is finished. It's been decided. It's game over for the other side. He has won. We're just waiting for God and his own perfect patience for things to play out in a practical sense for us to see what already is. It already is. We just need to train ourselves a look to see it a little bit better. Oh yeah. Speak for yourself. But I I think if if we if we're called to do this and focus on what he's asked us to do We're gonna we're gonna have it a lot easier. And we need to and we need to know we need to know this though, so that we can it's the yielding to the spirit, right? Because it's not us, it's Christ in us. Yes, that's doing it. Not at all. I think one of the things that could be dangerous if we forget is that The reason that we're fighting is because you know, it's people's souls that are at risk here. You know, we're not fighting to win because Because we want to win and be the best. You know, our enemy isn't these people that we said are untrustworthy. You know, those are also lost sheep. Those are also people that God loves and Christ died for. You know, um we're fighting for you know For these people to also come to know the Lord and to eventually be saved. dramatic moment on it. We should be ho praying and hoping for everyone's conversion. And sometimes the best way for somebody to come to their senses is to send out into the pasture moving like a cow, eating the grass on the ground 'Cause they've lost total total uh their total mind. They've lost uh total control of their senses, right? They've been turned over to the absolute depravity of of of of their fallen human nature and they've lost their mind. That could be the best thing that could happen as those people. You know, when in church uh discipline context, when somebody's unrepentant and the and the church exercises church discipline and says, you know what, you are no longer a communing member of the body of Christ You're doing that so that they'll feel the weight of it and you're you're you're turning them over to Satan so that maybe they'll realize what they've been turned over and they'll come running right back to Jesus. I mean it's all with the motivation of bringing restoration. I mean I put my kid in time out when she's You know, I don't just say, oh yeah, you can continue to play with everybody while you're screaming your head off. No, you're gonna go sit and time out and realize what it's like without everybody. You know, you're gonna I don't think that's quite the Nebuchadnezzar momentum, but toddler wouldn't get to that, to be fair. If your kids are eating grass in my backyard next week, okay, kids eat anything. That's not my fault. No, my my point is is that we disappear We are disappointed. But when we become adults, we're just like, ah w well, I'm sure they had good intentions. that acts out. I want anything that acts out, man. My animals, my kids. Yeah, our job in all of this Uh I I think we've all kind of talked about this in our own way or talked around it in in a little bit. Our job in all this is to be obedient. The results are up to God. And we know the results that are up to God. He's already won. Um so we are to share the good news. We are to you know preach the gospel uh without apology or if you want to use apology in the terms of being you know Uh engaging in apologetics, that's fine. Give a reason a defense for the hope that you have within. That's all good. Um but we don't convert anybody Right. How many people have you won for Christ? I haven't won anybody for Christ. The Holy Spirit is the only one that wins people for Christ. But my job is to be faithful in in in ministering to them with God's word. We're we're Christ uses us. We don't right. And then God's word never returns void. Which means that sometimes it's going to soften someone's heart. Or some type of music is going to harden someone's heart. Our job is to be obedient. The outcome from that obedience is totally up to God. Right. Takes some pressure off, doesn't it? Yeah. All right. Ray, would you mind closing us in prayer? Uh dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we just thank you for this gathering and what I believe to have been a very fruitful and discussion just surrounding our culture and how to apply your word in it. And Lord, we just pray that we know we can utilize uh these skills and be wise as the serpent. and innocent as doves and our culture that you know in many ways is already we we can't even fathom how uh how much things have gone astray and how much things have been uh corrupted and deprav depravity. We can't even fathom that. And you know, we just thank you for just an opportunity to just be wise and be instructed in this. We pray that we can utilize it and we can carry out your work in this spiritual battle. In Jesus' name. We didn't quote any scripture at all today, so let me have these closing last words. This is from Colossians chapter 2, verse 8 And it's right on point with what we've been talking about today. See to it that no one takes you captive through philosophy and empty deception, according to the tradition of men, according to the elementary principles of the world. rather than according to Christ. So see to it. Don't let the world distract you. Let me uh remind you to join us again next week if you care to, next Saturday at six o'clock here on Facebook Live. We will uh Be talking about the chosen, the TV series The Chosen Next Week. Tell them, God bless.