Mm. Oh, I forgot the microphones again. I know you can hear me right now, but excuse me for a second, I gotta plug in the remote mic. Sorry, well thank you. Shh, maybe. Hey, honey, what's going on? So welcome to the household of faith in Christ. Um in our weekly gathering on Saturdays. You can follow us online. The easiest way to do that is go to our website, household of faith in Christ dot com. Vallen Hunin Maainen Mahan. Ja Sun All right, hopefully you're hearing me fine now and we probably had a cutout in the audio Anyway, uh last week we sent a record uh set a record. It was uh our longest uh Facebook Live as the House of the Faith in Christ. We went an hour and forty-five minutes last week, by far our longest uh Facebook Live. broadcast, if you want to call it that. This week we're going to actually set a record too of a different kind. This is and probably a record that will never be broken. Today is, I promise you, it's going to be the longest message that I share. And it's partly because there's some certain things that I feel like need to be said, uh, and I don't want it to turn into a two, three, four-week series. I want it to be a one-off, a one-and-done. So um there's some things I'm leaving out to accomplish that, but there's some things I didn't feel like I wanted to leave out, and so we're left with one message that's quite a bit longer than normal. Usually our messages are 30 minutes plus or minus five minutes are almost always between 25 and 35 minutes long. This one's any longer than that, so I'm just giving you a heads up on that And so in the interest of time, we're not going to do some of the niceties and normal things we might do before I get into the message. So we're just going to have an opening prayer. And then we're going to jump right into the message and following that we're going to have a uh conversation. If you would like to join the conversation via the comment section, uh you are encouraged to do so and we will be checking for those comments uh and interact with you if if you choose to do so. Um would you mind open us and Heavenly Father, we thank you for gathering us here this evening, Father, and we thank you for this gathering. We invite the presence of your Holy Spirit to come and speak to us. To us and through us. We ask that you bring to this podcast who would be blessed by it, Father, and that they would be edified and They would be strengthening you, and they would be encouraged, and they would be corrected. And we just do this all to your glory, and we ask that your will be done in this. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Haven't done that in a little while. So do you remember the uh Passion of the Christ? It was a movie that uh excited an awful lot of Christians about the prospects of the cinema having even more high-quality films and high-budget films like that that would be centered around the Bible And in actuality, uh, the volume of so-called Christian films did increase in the aftermath of the Passion of the Christ, but the quality and or the biblical faithfulness of many of these movies was sorely lacking, at least in most of them. Well now there are a lot of believers who are really excited once more, this time not about a movie, but about a television series. It's called The Chosen. And it's said that the plans are to make this into a seven-season series. So it's going to be with us for a little while. The first two seasons are done. I watched all of season one. Maybe you've been watching it too. And Maybe you're wondering, like I was wondering as I went into watching it, what are we to think of the chosen? Is this solid stuff? Or is this another heaven is for real? Another Noah? Another the Shack? Well so far, having seen the first season, my opinion is that the chosen falls somewhere in between being solid and being another the shack. There are definitely some good things about it, of course there are. And there are some significant red flags, and I'm tempted to say, of course there are. So let me explain what I mean here a little bit, first by offering some background that might be helpful as we think through these questions The Chosen Series, it is created, executive, produced, directed, and co-written by Dallas Jenkins. Now you might recognize that last name. His father's rather famous in Christian circles, his father Jerry Jenkins. is the co-author of the immensely successful Left Behind book series, which has also been turned into two or three movies Now the Chosen Series, it's distributed by a company called Angel Studios, and Angel Studios is owned by Mormons, and because of this, Dallas Jenkins, during interviews, has been asked for his thoughts about Mormon teaching, about the Mormon church. Um in case you're not overly sure this is, you know, a an offshoot uh uh with Some would argue within the confines of the Christian tradition that sprang into this in into existence in America in the 1800s by its founder Joseph Smith. Anyway, in these interviews, Dallas Jenkins' response, when asked about this, his response has been to say that Christians and Latter-day Saints, they worship the same Jesus. And this is concerning to me as a pastor of the one true faith. And to be honest, it should get the attention of anyone, all of you who are followers of Christ. So I'm going to be perfectly clear. I'm going to slow down for a second and say the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints. Does not worship the Jesus Christ of the Bible They say that they do, the Mormons say they do. And they use a lot of the same language that born-again true followers of Jesus Christ would use. And they even quote the Bible. Oftentimes more frequently than you and I do, sadly. But let's keep in mind that oftentimes the most beguiling lies are those lies that most closely resemble the truth. And this is how Christian cults are given rise. And this is what the LDS are. It is a cult, a Christian cult that teaches people that the God of the universe is merely an exalted man. He has a physical body like you and I do. They teach that the Son of God is not eternal, but that he was born into existence and is therefore in a very literal sense biologically speaking, our elder brother. In fact, they teach that Jesus and Satan are brothers Mormons believe that the Father, the Son, the Holy Spirit are three separate gods, and that people, you and me, that we pre-existed as spirit children before we entered our current lives that we now live. So getting all these things wrong, one might imagine the the uh Mormons church, they also get the gospel wrong. They teach a f they teach a form of universal salvation. And the list of problems with Mormon doctrine, it it could go on, but this is a message about the chosen. It's not a message about Mormonism. And so I'm going to stop the list there because I think that the thrust of the point has been made. The teachings of the true, real, historical Jesus Christ of Nazareth and the instructions that He's given us to live by in obedience to Him and His eternal Lordship, they are in many cases diametrically opposed. to what Joseph Smith and his cultic followers teach. They are completely different religions. One is the true religion of Christ, and one is a deceptive religion of Antichrist. So Dallas Jenkins, being confused about this, that's a problem. And it's a problem that could seep into the television series. And so I just want to encourage us to keep our eyes open. Now, before you're too quick to respond to what I've said so far by saying, look, sure, I get it. I mean, I hear what you're saying, but let's not get carried away. It's just a TV show Well, let me tell you a few more things. This TV show, it has developed study guides to complement the series. And these study guides are being used in so-called Bible studies and Sunday schools and so-called local Christian churches. This is exactly what happened with the shack. Professing Christians and professing local churches, professing Christian churches, replacing the study of God's Word With the study of a Hollywood style production. And this is not an accidental occurrence. Jenkins has step has said publicly that he expects his creative representations in the chosen to be what people think of when they're considering Jesus and his disciples. By the way, Dallas Jenkins also reportedly consults with a Roman Catholic priest and with a rabbi in order to, as he says Make sure the chosen is biblically accurate. Now evangelical Protestants might raise their eyebrows at that The general viewer might actually raise their eyebrows at that given that there is nearly no dialogue and practically no scenes taken directly from Scripture. Hey, sweetie. You want me to hold that How about if I put him here? Is that good? Alright. More than ninety-five percent of what we watch in the chosen. It's pure fantasy from the imagination of Dallas Jenkins. Now this does not necessarily mean it's all bad. And it certainly hasn't negatively affected his popularity at all. In fact, the entire project is crowdfunded. This means that the fans are paying for the all of the bills. That's how popular it is. The fans are putting the bill. Just because it doesn't necessarily mean it's all bad, of course, doesn't mean it's necessarily all good either. And if you've been paying attention to social media and kind of prevailing winds on this series, well what I just said about it not all necessarily being good either could be news to you. I mean all the critics it seems. Most of them anyway, the online forums, the chitter chatter among friends, it is practically universally positive. One in my experience would estimate that you're lucky to find, you know, one negative critique for every, I don't know, hundred positive affirmations and praises for the show. And because of this consensus of support and to be honest love for this show I am going to spend most of our time today drawing attention to the concerns because there's got to be some balance in this in this dialogue about this show. And so in my attempt to provide this balance it might come off with me being a negative Nelly. Me being a real killjoy. Me being a stick in the bud. Well, you can call me those things if you like. I can take it. I've been called worse. But I don't want to be misunderstood here. I am not intending to ham-handedly, summarily condemn the series. That is not my goal. Because there are many things to truly appreciate about what is in this series. Some of them are technical in nature. Like I think the cinematography, it's not extravagant, but I think it's beautiful in an understated way. And the pacing of the show, it's tad slow, but you know what? This gives the story room to breathe, which is a good thing. And uh the acting, I think, for the most part, is pretty excellent. Uh You know, although I will say, you know, there's an actor who plays the role of a character called Quintus, and he's a little bit theatrical, but uh even his theatrics are rather entertaining. Um the character development I think for the most part is strong. There's a couple of notable exceptions to that perhaps, but uh I think it's mostly strong. Now there are some They would argue that the character of Jesus shouldn't be depicted at all on the screen because of concerns about a second commandment violation. Uh I don't share those concerns in this context. We're not going to get into that right this moment, but uh I understand where they're coming from. and and why they're concerned about that. Um and in many ways I think that the script is top notch. I think there are other ways in which the script fails, uh but I think there are a lot of aspects of script writing that is is is very strong. And it you know, it wonderfully depicts an ancient Near Eastern wedding and gives us a sense of what that might have looked and felt like at the time and interweaved scenes kind of shows us people making grape uh making wine by stomping the grapes and all that kind of Brings you into the moment of the of the history of this historical narrative. And so, you know, that can all be good. It's understand. I mean it's easy to understand why um the chosen has such an allure. I get it You know, the we as viewers, we we feel as though we're watching real people having real relationships. In real-life situations. Well, that's good. That's attractive. These are all pluses. But I'm not spending a lot of time today focusing on these pluses because I don't see a need to offer extensive echoes of all the plotits that are coming from the pundits, both professional and amateur, regarding this show. If I'm simply going to add to that chorus, then I really should have us spend their time doing something else tonight. And uh I've decided to have a spender time on this today. And why? Because I am struck by the need to offer God's people a word of exhortation. An encouragement that will hopefully spur all of us to exercise discernment. When and if we should watch the chosen. So most of our remaining time in this message, I'm pointing out things that I think could easily escape the notice of a lot of people who watch The Chosen, because some of them are subtle. And others actually, I think they're more obvious, but even the obvious things, they can sometimes slip right past us Well we get caught up in the artful storytelling and the winsome acting. And trust me, there's so much more that could be said about the series and what I'm going to say here tonight. I can't possibly say everything or We'd be here for hours. I'd have to make it a multi part series and I just I I don't really want to do that here today. So I'll share as much as I can and the amount of time we have here together. And some of what I have to offer. Simply questions. Like, for instance, in episode three of season one, the Jesus character is tormented while sitting alone in his campground and I'm watching the scene and I'm wondering why? What portion of scripture is this portraying? Now there's no explanation given within the show. And I think that we could, if we wanted to work at it, it could make some guesses, some good educated guesses, what's going on there. And maybe our guesses would be correct. But maybe not. Another question I had, did Jesus really live like a contestant on the uh television game show Survivor on CBS these last twenty plus years before he entered his public ministry. I mean maybe Maybe not. Why is Matthew depicted as being on the autism spectrum? He clearly has Asperger's and some elements of OCD. There's no doubt about that. And I'm pretty sure that this is intended to make Matthew, the character of Matthew, seem more real to us, more relevant to our contemporary society. However, there's zero, not a zilch reason in Scripture to think that Matthew had Asperger's So the Matthew that feels more real as we watch the show, the one that feels more real, is not in fact the real Matthew. And speaking of Matthew, I haven't even said anything about kind of an elephant in the room, if you ask me. Matthew. Why didn't Jesus heal Matthew of his autism? He could have very easily healed him. He chooses not to. So enjoy the show if you like to. That's fine. But please don't imagine an obsessive compass uh compulsive Matthew when you're reading your Bible, when you're studying the pages of Scripture. Now on the plus side, the show does help the viewer to see that tax collectors like Matthew, they were despised by the general public public, so the show gets that right. But I'm not sure the tax collectors they would have been treated quite so rudely, even bullied as is Matthew in The chosen. I I I find that to be unlikely because you think about it, these tax collectors, they hold a position of power over the average person. The average person does not bully someone over which they have authority. Now watching the show, I also wondered, did Jerusalem really have a red district in the first century? Now I've looked at some sources on history and they do speak about uh there being uh prostitution in Jerusalem inns. And so it could be that there was a red light district, if you will, back then like there is in many, most, all of our cities today. But this is kind of a recurring and important theme throughout season one in The Chosen. So if it is, if it is historically inaccurate, well then it's given us a mental image that we're gonna have a hard time shaking. I mean they they they give you some memorable scenes. I mean in the chosen we're we're actually taken to a speakeasy, kind of like 1920s America during the Prohibition era. They have a secret password and everything Is that how it really was 2,000 years ago? Now in this red quarter, there is a barkeep, and he's very friendly and very protective really of a woman that he calls Lily. Now I'm sure there could have been some exceptions back in the day, but we know that in the first century, their culture, they were not friendly and protective towards the average woman. Now again, there could be an exception, but in my opinion, boy, what a swing and a miss here. It's unfortunate the chosen made the creative choice that they did here to have the barkeep to be protective and protective. friendly towards Lily because it ends up diminishing what we see Jesus do in the Gospels when he is so elevating of women. In contrast to society around him, that was in all likelihood absent of barkeeps like what we see in the chosen. Now, on a similar issue, throughout season one, pretty much all of the marriages are presented to us as basically egalitarian as opposed to complementarian. possibly even more than than egalitarian, with the wife being the marriage partner who's wearing the pants, the wife is the one who wields the real power. I specifically have in view as I say these things the wives of Simon and Nicodemus, especially recalling a moment when Simon's wife turns to him and she says, You can't tell me what I can and can't do. There's also uh a wife who is the mother of a little girl who spies on Jesus in season one, and I'll talk more about that in a minute. And this wife and this mother, she is depicted in the chosen. It kind of seems like she's the head of the house and not the dad who's kind of off in the background in the scene. You know, I go so far as to say that in the chosen, most of the men they appear to be at least sometimes a little bit henpecked by their wives Now I understand in our today's culture or contemporary society today that this is very often how marriages play out. That's how it is today. But importing this idea into a story that represents life 2,000 years ago, it is at best anachronistic. And at worst, it could be an attempt by the show to pander to present-day radical feminism. In fact, it might even be intending to promote today's radical feminist ideals. Other instances of this, this instinct to promote feminist political agendas, include the uh the episodes that feature the group of young kids I mentioned just briefly a second ago There's a girl in this group. Her name is Abigail. And Abigail is brave. And her friend, Joshua, a boy. Is not, he is fearful. The girl is brave. The boy is a scaredy pants. Among this group of kids, possibly like uh six to eight of the kids, I can't remember exactly how already in the in the show, but a little group of them. Of this group of kids mixed up boys and girls. Abigail, the girl, is the leader of the gang, not one of the boys. At the very famous Cana wedding where Jesus, you know, has his first public miracle turning the water into wine, there's a woman there who trusts that Jesus will somehow make more wine, while her co-worker, a man, does not trust. Mary Magdalene, a woman, participates in the telling of a parable. Now it's odd that anyone would participate in the telling of one of Jesus Christ's parables. But a woman doing so is rather kind of stunning. And another woman, she publicly asked Jesus a question about prayer in front of a large crowd, as if it's no big deal for her to have done so. It would have been a big deal for her to have done so John, James, their mother Salome. She's got uh Two little boys who are grown men, they're the apple of her eye, but she's that protective mother hand still well into their adulthood, and she tells them, hey, you listen. You you do what Jesus tells you, and you stay by his side All these examples of the women being elevated into behaviors that we would expect to see today, but not so much back then, they're recurring over and over again in the sh in the uh chosen. Now having mentioned the little girl Abigail, I'm gonna add that uh there are a number of times when there's one character that's called by another character in the show by a nickname For example, this girl who was a leader of her gang, Abigail, she's called Abby. Nicodemus, he's referred to by his wife as Nico. And there are other nicknames given him for the show. Now, this is a harmless thing. But I mention it because, well, given the societal conventions at the turn of the first millennium, this cutesy habit of giving nicknames to people appears to me to be culturally out of place And an indication that the producers of this show are just trying too hard to make it feel familiar to an American audience. I mean that's my opinion, but I think that if my opinion is right, this could prove to be the Achilles heel of the series. They're trying too hard to make us feel relevant to us today instead of telling us what really happened. Back to more serious matters than nicknames. Uh the show it makes a conscious choice to magnify the characters of Mary Magdalene. and Nicodemus. They are major, even central characters throughout season one of the chosen. Now this is really interesting to me because these two people, Mary Magdalene and Nicodemus, They have very small roles in the telling of the gospel story that we read in our New Testament. So taking people like this that have such small roles in the pages of Scripture and then turning them into major characters in the TV show, it gives Dallas Jenkins pretty much all the excuse that he would need to exercise pretty much all of the creative license he wants. Whatever he imagines in his mind, he can place it into the show. He's looking at the white space in our Bible. He's looking at the space between the words, between the lines. And he's inserting concepts that are created out of whole cloth. Thin air. Now this can make for a fun and engaging story and viewer experience. There's no doubt about that, but it does not help us know our Bibles better. And that's what people are saying. Have you heard them? I've heard them. People are saying, watching the chosen has taught me so much about the Bible. No. It hasn't. The chosen gives a name to Simon's wife. It calls her Eden. She is nameless in the Bible The show, it refers to Mary Magdalene as Lilith or shorthand nickname Lil. Does the Bible ever call ever call her Any name like this. No. Now the T V show it probably gets the name Lilith and assigns it to Mary Magdalene because of this Lilith name and its association with demon possession and Jewish floor. But this raises yet another problem. The Chosen, it depicts Nicodemus trying to do an exorcism on Mary. And the people actually think he's been successful in doing that exorcism. But can we find that story anywhere in the Bible? No. And the chosen portrays Mary as a prostitute. There is really no biblical reason for thinking that Mary Magdalene was a prostitute. It is a very common misunderstanding, but it is a misunderstanding, and it's one of the show reinforces Now Jesus has a charming, truly charming interaction with the group of boys and girls that I mentioned. They appear to be maybe eight, nine, ten years old, something like that. And I mean it's I think it's the high point of the season. Season one is the most memorable, enjoyable parts of the series that I've seen so far. And uh So as enjoyable as it is, I gotta ask this question. Does the Bible tell us that something like this ever happened? No. The chosen tells us that Thaddeus was a construction worker, tells us that James was a choral singer. Nathaniel was an architect. Thomas was a caterer. Now this is all interesting backstory stuff, but do we find any of that information in the Bible? No, we do not. The imaginative extra biblical additions that I've already mentioned, they don't end there. Like I said, we could be here for a long time There are significant secondary characters in The Chosen, including two Romans, one named Quintus and one named Gaius. Now, Quintus and Gaius, as prominent as they are in season one of The Chosen, There are no people with either name in any of the four gospels. A huge storyline in season one revolves around the Jews and them illegally fishing on the Sabbath. In fact, it's a storyline that kind of knits the first season together into one coherent whole. So it's a big important part of the story. So these Jews they're they're fishing illegally on the Sabbath, and Simon actually is one of those doing so, and Simon's doing so because he's incurred these huge gambling deaths. Why does he have gambling deaths? Because he is had a number of failed street fighting schemes that he does in partnership with his brother Andrew. And so he's got these debts, he can't keep up on his taxes, so Matthew gives these brothers a deadline to pay their taxes and T Simon kind of panics and he rushes off to the Roman Quintus and says, I'll spy on those those uh merchant ships for you if you'll give me some forgiveness on my taxes. And this causes all sorts of intrigue with Zebedee, the father of the sons of thunder and Things go poorly for Simon. He has his left ear cut by a Roman soldier, and man, what a whirlwind! Such drama! And what page of scripture can I read about that? None of them. Not one piece of that story is found in the pages of the Bible. And adding insult to injury. It's kinda more of a personal pet peeve I'm gonna mention here, but one of my annoyances with the show has to do with Simon having his left ear cut. I mean the scene clearly shows the soldier pulls out his sword and wields it against Simon and there are other characters in the show who will later on say, Oh Simon, what happened to your ear? But I'm telling you for the life of me, I can't see the wound I couldn't even see any blood. And that distracted me, I gotta tell ya. But and that's really just a digression, but These things I'm mentioning here, they are completely extra-biblical. They are pure fabrications of the mind from Dallas Jackson's So if you don't read your Bible and you watch this show, thinking that it's teaching you what happens in the Bible You are misled. And I haven't even mentioned all that could be pointed out. And again, I have no intention of doing so, but we are going to continue a bit longer as there are a few more things I feel like I should share. At one point in season one, Jesus tells Mary Magdalene that she should lead the Sabbath meal prayer. and that she should handle the scripture readings as well. Now, based upon what we know about the culture of the time in first century Israel, this never would have happened. And so this is not what we would expect, nor is it what we find in the pages of the New Testament. And on the subject of the s Sabbath meal, it it takes place in uh episode two of season one. It comes across as a sort of Shabbat of misfit toys. Mary, she leads these proceedings at Jesus' uh uh instruction after she invites pretty much all the people in her friend circle to come to her home for the meal. In her friend circle it's mostly the the outcast, you know, society's rejects, the handicapped disabled. The oppressed. This is such a blatant attempt to be hyper-relevant to today's culture I mean without exaggeration, I'm watching the scene. I'm watching and I'm thinking in my head, man, if we change the costumes on these actors, this could be a scene from an episode of ABC's Million Little Things. And if you're unfamiliar, Million Little Things is a contemporary story told in today's day. They have the exact same vibe and feel. And Million Little Things is trying to advance. They left this agenda for what it's worth, by the way. What? Now shifting gears, here's a real head scratcher. As we know from the Bible, Simon's mother-in-law was very sick. And this is portrayed in The Chosen. So the TV series gets that one right. Good for them. But For some reason, her illness, it plays out over several episodes in season one. Andrew and Simon, they never think to ask Jesus to heal her. How odd This is after the the series had shown us how Jesus heal Mary of her demon possession. It's after the TV series shows Jesus. healing the leper. It's after the TV series shows Jesus healing the paralytic. And now the season's almost over The woman is languishing. Simon is tending to this poor dying soul at her bedside singing her songs and everything and nothing occurs to any of them. Then just as the season is about to wrap up, I'm gonna run out of time. Andrew actually says we should get a doctor To which Jesus says, there is no need. You think? Not only is this laughable But it disagrees with the account that we find in the Gospel according to Mark chapter 1, where we read that they went to Jesus and told him about this poor, old, ill woman. When? Immediately. They did not delay. That's what it says. Immediately, or some of our English translations, they might opt for at once. They didn't wait a day, a week, a month, multiple episodes in a season. And things like this they tend to get stuck in my crawl Now perhaps it's of little consequence, but the way the chosen set the scene for one of Christ's miracles, that also bugged me. The healing that I mentioned of the leper. In the TV show, it happens out in the countryside. Only a handful of the disciples were there to witness it, along with a spying Ethiopian Ethiopian woman who's kind of hiding in the bushes. So they're the only witnesses. But in the gospel according to Luke, we're told that this miracle didn't happen in the countryside, it happened in a town. And Matthew, he tells us that It happened with a large crowd gathered, not just a small smattering, a handful of people. This was a very public miracle, but the TV scene simply doesn't match the biblical narrative. And they could have. They for some reason chose not to. And something else that's likely of little consequence, but I think it might be good for me to mention. Um Dallas Jenkins, for what it's worth, he opted for late dating. of the Old Testament scenes in the show. For example, there's a flashback during season one to the time of Moses, and the timestamp that's placed on the screen places it in the 13th century BC. And there are a lot of scholars who would agree with that dating, so there's no problem with that as far as it goes. But there are a lot of other scholars that would say, no, no, not the 13th century, the 15th century BC, two about approximately 200 years sooner. Or further back in time, if you want to look at it that way. And in episode 8, there's another flashback. This time Jacob is digging a well, and the timestamp on the screen, it places this 2,000 years before Christ. An early date would place this about 200 years before that, about 2200 years-ish before Christ. Now I'm not sure that this has to mean anything, but I want to share with you honestly, I tend to get at least a little bit suspicious. When someone is consistently pushing for a late dating of things. And why is that? Because in my experience, those pushing for the late date, too many of them, push for those late dates because they have higher critical liberal agendas for doing so. Now there's another flashback to an episode five And this one has uh Jesus when he's a little boy, you know, twelve years old, separated from his earthly parents, Mary and Joseph. He's, you know, busy about the business of his heavenly father. He's at his heavenly father's house, and I actually think that the show does a pretty nice job. uh with this scene. I I like the way that they handled this particular scene. And it does a nice job later in this very same episode, it uh accurately mentions that Jesus was likely a craftsman who did stonemasonry work and didn't merely work with wood. In fact there's a third uh portion of the season that I really liked And it happened in the Jacob flashback that I mentioned just a second ago. Speaking of God, Jacob says, we didn't choose him. He chose us. I wish there was more Bible and more biblical theology like this in the show. Not that there aren't other biblical moments. There are, but they're almost always mixed with things that kind of miss the mark somehow. For example Andrew calls the Messiah the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And very early in the season the disciples they all somehow seem to know that Jesus is the Messiah and they call him the Lamb of God. And Zebedee, he's having a conversation with Jesus, and Jesus tells him, My earthly father Joseph, he's now in heaven. And these things, they are all true. Every single one of those things is true. However, this is season one of seven. Consider the chronology here. And when you do that, to me, these truths they seem a little bit out of time, a little anachronistic. The men around Jesus, they were beginning to understand They uh they could have even been said to believe in him in a certain kind of of a way, but them having a fuller grasp of what it meant to be the Lamb of God that takes away the sin of the world, for them to really understand what it meant for Joseph to be in heaven. I don't believe this happened for the disciples in season one of Christ's earthly ministry. I mentioned a couple of scenes from episode five that I really liked. There was another scene from this episode that it almost joined the list, could have joined the list, but then the script writer dropped the ball, unfortunately In this scene, Simon references the story of Elijah and Elisha, and Simon's talking about how Elijah told Elisha to follow him. The problem with this scene is the way that Simon relates the story. It does not square. With 1 Kings chapter 19. In the Old Testament, Elijah doesn't say anything at all about following. And he's actually kind of wordless. And instead what he does is he takes his cloak And he places it upon Elisha as a symbol of his indication that he's transferring his ministry to Elisha. He's anointing him into the ministry with the giving of his cloak. And Elisha responds to this act by Elijah by saying that he will follow Elijah. So Elijah talks of following. Elijah does not. And this is important because just then when Elisha says, I will follow you, what does Elijah do? As if he's channeling Diane Court from say anything he says. Go back. What have I done to you? This is precisely the opposite of telling Elisha to follow him. He doesn't tell him to follow him, he tells him to go back. So Simon, the way he tells the story of the chosen, has a very different sense, if you will, than the story that Simon tells. Now we get a very different sense of the true history of things a few other times in the Chosen. One of these times is during the flashback of Moses that I already mentioned. In that scene, Moses is making the brown serpent that we read about in Numbers chapter 21. And Joshua challenges and doubts. Moses' leadership in this scene. There is absolutely nothing in the Old Testament. Zero in the Old Testament. Nothing to suggest that anything like this argument between Joshua and Moses ever would have happened. And as part of this argument, Joshua, he kind of intimates that that bronze snake, it's a pagan symbol. This is a modern insertion into the story. This is something that today's contemporaries in the last couple of generations have wrestled with that kind of a question. But Moses and Joshua, they would not have viewed that bronze snake as an idol any more than they would have viewed the golden angel sitting atop the mercy seat of the Ark of the Covenant as idols. Joshua would have never asked that question, would have never leveled that charge against Moses. It would not have happened. And Jesus makes it clear in the New Testament this was not an idol. Instead, it was a foreshadow of the Son of Man coming to save his people. So this is another example of Dallas Jenkins trying too hard to connect with today's culture. It's why the show is plagued by so many American sayings that would be so completely out of place if uttered a couple of thousand years ago. Phrases like teacher's pet. Get used to different. Crowd cleanup is a pain. We're sitting ducks. You're kidding. Trying to keep things under wraps. He's just a handful of the many, many examples that could be mentioned. And there's also a moment in episode six where Nicodemus alludes to what we today would call the strisand effect. He's saying that trying to quiet John the Baptist had the effect of making John the Baptist more legitimate in the eyes of the surrounding culture. And uh I mentioned John the Baptist. Now his name's come up, maybe I'll talk about him here in a minute. How is John the Baptist depicted for us in season one? Well Basically, we're given a fictional character. The way he speaks of things, it is almost socialist. He has an incredibly negative attitude towards wealth, indicating that anybody who is a person of means should give all that they have to the poor. And he's paid, John the Baptist is, is paid a visit by Nicodemus while he's in prison, a visit that is mentioned nowhere in Scripture. And at during this visit, Nicodemus, he's positioned as a seeker with lots of questions about miracles. And then a couple of episodes later, it feels to me like the series is going out of its way to present Nicodemus in a very favorable light once again. Uh it has him suggesting that he meet clandestinely with Jesus at night. Because of concern to protect Jesus. Now, in fairness, the Bible it's silent on Nicodemus's motivation for meeting under cover of darkness, but most interpreters believe that his motivation to meet at night was out of self-preservation, out of fear for himself, out of fear of being found out by the Jews, particularly the Jewish leadership, rather than any concern about Christ's safety. If you think about the timeline, There was no need to be worried about Christ's safety at this stage in the story. So it it's a really forced odd fit. And it struck me as strange that during this meeting between Nicodemus and Jesus that two of Christ's disciples were eavesdropping on the conversation between their rabbi, their leader, their master, and this highly esteemed Jewish religious leader. Struck me as strange. Struck me as doubly strange when Jesus says to Nicodemus, follow me, and then adds, I hope you will come with us. And it struck me as triply strange when Nicodemus bows and kisses Christ's hand and Jesus discourages this act of worship. And it struck me as quadruply strange when Jesus asks Nicodemus, what does your heart tell you? This same concept it appears elsewhere in the season when Andrew says to Matthew, What good is our answer if you don't listen to yourself? Listen to yourself. Follow your heart. What does your heart tell you? Listen to your heart Now some of the stuff I've mentioned here tonight, it's merely creative license on steroids, and therefore it really doesn't necessitate a a call for the crew of our Christian battleship to take up battle stations and go to war over it. However, some of this stuff It's blatantly unscriptural. The Bible does not tell us to follow our heart. Instead, it tells us, as it does in Jeremiah 17, verse 9, that the heart is deceitful above all things. and desperately wicked. Who can know it? So the question in the chosen is, what does your heart tell you? And the question in the Word of God is: who can even know the human heart? Season one wraps up with Nicodemus rather conflicted about whether he should join Christ's traveling band of disciples or not. He kind of leaves them well, I view as kind of a guilt offering. He leaves them a bunch of money to help them along their way. And Jesus, he glances in the direction of where he knows Nicodemus is is hiding behind the corner of a building and he says out loud He came so close. Ugh. This is beginning to smell like Pelagianism That old heresy that people can save themselves. It certainly smells like the seeker-sensitive movement. A movement that dominated the American church landscape for the better part of a generation or two. all the way up until arguably it surrendered in more recent days to the postmodern cultural Marxism that's easily ruling the roost today. Although perhaps the secret-sensitive movement, that's just an aspect of it. I'll get into that debate later. Now, as attracted to some of these ideas, they might seem to our earthly instincts, they are not the truth. The Apostle Paul, Romans chapter 3, is quoting from Psalm 14. He says, there is no unrighteous. Not even one. There is no one who understands. There is no one who seeks God. If no one seeks God, this means means that Nicodemus did not seek God. He wasn't conflicted Pacing around his room, oh what to do, what to do. I think I found God, but should I follow him? I have understanding, but what should I do about this understanding that I have? No. Nicodemus had no proper understanding outside of Christ. No one does. And that's not me saying it. That's the Bible. Again, Romans 3, 10-11. There is no one righteous, not even one. There is no one who understands. Now this changes when Christ calls to himself those who are his. He seeks those who are lost. He chooses us, and we hear his voice. He changes hearts. He gives understanding. And his righteousness then becomes his people's righteousness. That's gospel truth. The chosen misses this almost completely It even in some sense could be said, possibly by accident, could be said to be subverting this gospel truth. So be aware. Now there are a few remaining stray thoughts I want to share before we wrap up. I like that the chosen it works to incorporate some of the cheat teachings of Jesus. I always appreciate when these movies and TV shows about Jesus. Jesus do that and use his words. Unfortunately, though, the script in the Chosen it tends to change a lot of Christ's words. I mean, I don't know, they could have just actually used actual parables From the actual pages of scripture. They're right there. The script's already been written for you. But for some reason it chooses not to. I mean, it's not the end of the world, maybe, uh, but it does make the show at least feel quite a bit less authentic. And there's a running gag throughout season one. I don't know if people have been watching the series picked up on it. Most probably did, I guess, but the gag is that Simon he runs slowly. In episode four, we see John at a blistering pace, you know, running really, really fast. And Simon, he just plods along. Later in the series, there's a joke at Simon's expense, and the joke is about him being a slow runner And this gaga comes up again in the final episode of the season. And this is all alluding to the fact that John outran Peter to the empty tomb following Christ's resurrection. So it's kind of a clever thing for the show to have included the first time. Second time. By the third time, I was growing rather tired of that gag. It was like if they were a one-trick pony. Now the viewer can see uh what seems to be clear Roman Catholic influence at least one time that I noted happens in episode five. Jesus pretty much in the scene is unable to refuse his mother at the Canaan. Now for those who don't know, the Roman Catholic view of Mary is very lofty. They have a very high Mariology. It's why Roman Catholics pray to Mary. Because Jesus, he might not respond the way I want to my prayer. But if I can get Mary to intercede for me to Jesus, there's no way Jesus would refuse his mother. And so in this scene it plays out in a way where Jesus just can't refuse his mother. So I think that that's definitely some Roman Catholic influence there. Keep in mind that one of the advisors for the show I mentioned this earlier is a Roman Catholic priest. Now again Don't misunderstand. I don't want to put too much weight in places where we don't need to put too much weight. I'm not saying this is necessarily the end of the world, but it is something for us to keep in the back of our mind. The final episode of the first season has Jesus talking to the Samaritan woman at the well. And the show, it accurately makes clear that she is the first person to whom Christ publicly reveals himself as the Messiah. So the show gets that right. But then he adds a comment about the Jews destroying the Samaritan temple after the uh Samaritans had desecrated the Jewish temple, and he says this in such a way that it kind of intimates that the two temples were equivalent. That is not the case. They were not equivalent. One is a true temple, and one was not. And finally, if you watch the show. You might notice that the actor who plays the role of Jesus is quite a bit taller than almost any other actor on the show. There's a couple that are taller than him, but he's in the upper one percentile of height of those who are in the show We have no reason to believe that Jesus was particularly tall in real life. In fact, Isaiah 53 tells us that he had no beauty or majesty to attract us to him. nothing in his appearance that we should desire him. So actually it seems rather unlikely that the Messiah's height would have been outside of the norms of his generation in the general population around him. But I gotta tell ya, it does appear that the makers of the movies and the T V shows that have a Jesus character and they just can't help themselves. Jesus is almost always one of the tallest figures on the screen, it seems to me As I end, I want to amplify the disclaimer that I made earlier. Watch the chosen if you want. Enjoy it. Glean from it lessons, both positive and negative Lessons you can apply to your life. Do this as you would, or at least as you should, with all that you watch and listen to. But don't look at this series as a replacement for the Bible. It's not that. And don't even look at this series as a supplement to the Bible. It's not that either. Don't worry. It's a reasonably well-made show that provides hours of wholesome entertainment, and there's something to be said for that in today's day and age. And it can even be used as a tool for jump-starting conversations about the real, true, biblical, historical Jesus. The Jesus who is the God man, who rescues sinners from their death in sin, bringing his elect eternal life to be lived with him in glory forever, following our Christ's earthly return. This is what's true. Because our Savior is worthy and his life and his work are. perfect and he is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. And he alone, as revealed to us in Holy Scripture, not as depicted on some glowing screen on an electronic device. No, no, no, the real Jesus, he alone, is worthy. Let's never confuse him with the fabrication. Let's pray. Father, we thank you that you have preserved for us all these years your written word. That we can study and lean upon for the truth of who you are, who you've made us to be, how we are rescued from our our sin and the condemnation that is due us because of the perfect work and perfect sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross. We thank you that through your Holy Spirit we can have discernment, that you can illumine our minds and reshape our hearts and cause us to be bold in proclaiming and defending the truth. And to be on guard against the sneaky, insidious lies of the enemy or accuser. We praise you and thank you that that accuser has been defeated. Defeated by our warrior King, Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. All right, let me uh wander over here. So I told you it would be uh It would be a record for length. That was probably fifty-five minutes or so probably, I'm gonna guess. Anyway. I'm curious how many people in this room have uh been watching The Chosen have seen at least an episode of The Chosen? Yeah, so there's uh about half maybe of the people in the room have seen it, others haven't. How many people until today even knew the chosen existed? Or didn't is there anybody here who didn't even know the chosen existed until tonight? Or Recent weeks when I've been mentioning it a little bit. Everybody's heard of it at least? Okay. Well uh those who have seen it, what's your uh what's your impression to uh Uh the way I portrayed things in the message. The sermon or the series. Well because I thought the series was not Not good. I didn't I didn't particularly care for the tournament either, but that's just because I didn't care for the show. What was underwhelming? The show. The show overall was underwhelming. But it was also a gimmick. It was also a gimmick episode, so It stood out because it wasn't the first two. Not much in those first two. Do you agree with the they seem to be not fans of it? Dina wasn't a fan, so we got three in a row who aren't fans. Fan out of it. Yeah, bearish on it, yeah. Yeah. Okay. Um what captured me about the show was the portrayal of Jesus. I just believe that uh the the the the the person that they hired to to portray Jesus, I just believe he had a uh a very good mixture of strength and tenderness in that in his portrayal of that character. And that's that that that that's the part because Jesus is most important to me, that's the part that that really got that really um I really enjoyed about the show. Um but in terms of the criticisms, I know that I've had criticisms about the show. Um I I do agree um that they do pander to our culture a little too much in trying to m make the the show relatable. And I I had the exact criticism that That you had in terms of the Americanism, the idioms. I thought they sounded too Western and too Americanized. Um uh I I appreciated the fact that they consulted the rabbis to try to make other things about the show authentic because the story of Christ happened within a culture just like anybody's story happens within a culture. And so it was it was I thought it was a nice touch to consult with the rabbi to say, well what would what would this situation have looked like most likely back in in in in Jesus' day when he was walking the earth. But but but that was diminished a little bit by all of the Americanism and the Gee Wiz and the Galies and all that kind of stuff in their conversation. You know, um so I I totally agree with with with with with that. That that didn't help with the show's authenticity. But in terms of the extra biblical um extra biblical narrative Because I approached the show, approaching it as a drama and not a documentary, that didn't really bother me. I I expected them to dramatize and to maybe emphasize the backstory because I I I think what of what one of the the the strategies of the series creator was to emphasize the backstory of the characters so that we could see the characters as people who have a life outside of what they with their communication with Christ when when when they encountered him. So they brought that that that their baggage and that backstory with them and it's total imagination, you know, like Mary ha you know, having a drinking problem being there. I mean it's it's it's not biblical but it's plausible. I mean she could have, you know, and she could have been a prostitute. Um and so I just that didn't that didn't really bother me. And I I would I would advise people that um um that come come to watch the show, you do need to read the Bible to know exactly what was said so that when you go to the series you will know what is extra biblical Um but to your point though, sometimes they they they they went too far, even with the extra biblical stuff. Some time like one time I remember one I forget what which season it was, but Jesus, they were about to go somewhere and Jesus was going to go to the east or whatever. And they were like, oh no, no, we need to go this way. He's like, oh yeah, yeah, I forget, I forget. I'm like, no, I I don't think he forgot ever. You know, th they they they they went a little too far sometimes in humanizing them. You know, and I thought season two 'cause I remember that scene in season one. Yeah, yeah, they yeah, they they they do that at one time and and I didn't I didn't really care for that, you know. Um so they at times I thought that they overhumanized him to the point that they gave uh to me that was a fault. Forgetting things is a fault. And he he he didn't have any faults. But overall I thought The show um i it if it's well everybody has a goal, right? So if your goal is to flesh out the backstory to make these people have a backstory and a history so that they just, you know, the first thing that you see about them is not what they said with Christ. If that's their goal, then they they succeeded. You know. But yeah, I I agree that you you you do need to know the Bible. And you need to bring and and and you need if you don't know the Bible and you seem to show you need to go back and read the Bible to see what actually happened so that you can know what was added umetization. In season two about that, you know, Jesus them going out of the way to make Jesus seem m more and more like he's just one of us. that could be the Mormon influence. Because that would be the Mormon view. The Mormon view is that us if we're good Mormons we're gonna become gods and have our own planets. And that I didn't know float to you on the Mormon influence. 'Cause it seemed to have gotten by you. It you didn't mention it in the sermon. And I was watching it this episode last night, and that was during the the the scene where he recruits Peter Simon Peter, which I thought was poorly done because like they were already ashore. Right. And like they're in knee deep water collecting all these fish. Yeah, and I didn't mention it, but I did notice because the narrative in scripture is that uh they they put out into deep water again. They had come to shore. Jesus instructs them to go back out into the deep water and drop the nets and they they they didn't do that. So that was a miss. But like I said, I couldn't say everything. Yeah, but the one where I was going to do so Jesus is telling a parable he gets on their boat and tells an e non canonical parable. And he says the kingdom of heaven is like the fish that are gathered and the angels will sort out the good from the bad The angels don't do the judging of mankind. And that is what the angels. Right. And they said that the angel and he their Jesus said that the angels will judge the good from the E the evil from the righteous. And then afterwards when he explains the catchers of men, he says, You catch them, I will sort them out later. And it's like that's not the mission of the Our mission is not to catch a bunch of people and have Jesus sort them out. That's not the mission of the church. Let's put a bunch of butts in feet and then Jesus will sort them out later. That's Yeah, so that again is speaking today's culture, right? Because that is the cultural norm of today's what passes for today's market. Again, that's I've only watched the fourth. Four episodes. And like the fourth episode to me was the most unbiblical because of that parable, that non canonical parable which uh was blatantly false teaching. What would any of you who have seen it or those of you who maybe want to chime in even though you didn't see it, what would you do to make it better? How would you have made it differently to make it better? Said based off of the true story Instead of trying to do it. It's faithful to themes taught in scripture, which I thought was a very liberal way to do it. a true story takes some serious um liberties. So that would be not that that would be in keeping with a lot of faith on a true story. Yeah. I just think the execution is horrible. The uh Peter Simon character drives me nuts He is a cliche from a kids' movie. I feel like I'm watching Road to El Dorado and He's the Blonde Guy in that movie. And it's they did it better. And the chosen did not do that did not do that trope well at all. So there's that. He's a cliche trope. Uh Nicodemus is kind of like I'm super curious. Uh yeah he's a seeker, right? He's he he's basically getting high or whatever. But It's something like that. You do have a comment. Um someone I'm assuming you went to high school with Peter Jorgensen. He is a member of the Church of the Latter day Saint and Oh some some uh objection to you saying that uh it's not uh Well which part is not true. I'd be curious to know which part. 'Cause I listed a number of Mormon beliefs. They believe in Jesus and God. Um I yeah, and I will love God. I will agree that they believe in Jesus uh but not Uh not the Jesus of the Bible. that belief system is that they kind of weave out the elements that make Jesus the Christ. So like maybe they believe that, oh yeah, historical Jesus was there. And this is this is my understanding from what I've read about them and and tried to do some research on, but there's they don't actually believe like they believe in Jesus. Oh You know, maybe he did some of the stuff that the Bible says he did. But a anything that would make him the Christ, the Son of God, our Savior. We had a discussion here outside of Facebook time talking about the the idea of God and whether people are worshiping the same God and this is just an extension that are worshiping the same Jesus. So let's talk about just God in general, because that's what the comment says. We believe in God, we believe in Jesus. Well, the God of the Bible, the God as described in the Bible, is the creator of the universe. But the Mormon belief is that matter pre-exists God. That that God didn't create the matter, that the matter create so the the matter is eternal. Not that God is eternal. And that God is just like one of us. The God that we pray to and worship, according to a Mormon idea, is he was once just like one of us on a different planet. And he graduated along up the ladder and became his his own god of his own planet or solar system or whatever. Yeah, my understanding is that they believe that the m that the material universe is eternal. It pre exists God, if you will. No, yeah, that's all the ET is There are many gods. And ultimately all of us kind of will. I mean I I we all have different paths. We all climb our way up. We will eventually all get our own planet. And so that's where the universalism uh comes into their view. Uh the Ghoplet? The Jesus of the Bible is God. The Jesus of Mormonism is not. The Jesus of the Bible is eternal. The Jesus of Mormonism is not. Three different beings but the same in essence. Well what does essence mean? So essence is and we don't have to get caught And we don't have to get hung up on the terms. You know what? Whatever. I mean we I think we should fight for our turnips. But just for the sake of this discussion, okay fine. You can call your religion whatever you wanna call it. I'm just gonna tell you that it's not the religion of the Bible. And I we any Christian should be more than willing and should be increasingly equipped to go toe-to-toe with anybody to make that case, to say the Bible as you're representing them is not matching with the Bible on these pages. The God of universe as represented in the Bible and the way you're representing him is not accurate to what is said in these pages. So if the Mormons want to say that I'm wrong and those who are gathered in this room that we're wrong Okay. You have to admit though, I mean we're not wrong, but you have to admit you have to admit though that they're different. You're saying that God, uh that Jesus came into existence. I'm saying no. We can't both be right. So there is also a possibility that an individual church preaches something that's closer to the truth. So for example, a lot of the stuff that we've said about um Catholicism, um I had friends as a kid who they did not I I I I don't believe that they worshipped Mary. I don't think that they you know so they were Catholic Yeah, their particular church, their priest, whatever it was, they don't believe seemed a little bit closer to what I would have considered And I don't know if there's a reform Mormonism or not, but I'm not sure. No, it's two other you you think started out good and then went astray The Mormon church started out astray and I guess my point is that there's impossible that people who call themselves Mormons, maybe they grew up Mormon but actually then read their Bible. I'm only saying this because there's a possibility But the Mormons really don't read the Bible though, right? They read the Book of Mormon. I want to talk about Matthew and that character a little bit more because they portray him as a much greater learner than the Bible does. If you look in Luke six or particularly when Matthew's called by Jesus, he has friends that are tax collectors. So he has tax collector friends and he brings Jesus over and they celebrate together when that John gets the Pharisees grumbling that Jesus is hanging out with tax collectors. So they portrayed they they portrayed Matthew as being a much greater loner whose only friend is a dog, and that's contradictory to scripture which you know he would have had his own class of tax tax collectors and tax collectors I don't think they did enough to portray Matthew as particularly wealthy. Because you know you you kinda have like they're it's weird 'cause they they totally screw screw up the whole taxation system to make it seem more relatable. Uh because the taxes back down were pretty light. Like you're paying like one percent income tax, which doesn't even cover our social security tax. And he's so delinquent that he's gonna lose his vote in house over falling behind on one percent income tax. I don't buy that. That's historically inaccurate. Yeah, and we today make it relatable. Right, we today don't like the IRS because they take so much of our money. But back then they didn't like uh they haven't given up their tax money one because they didn't want to uh give any sense of agreement that the Roman government had any authority over them. So there was that they bristled out. But the other thing is there was so much uh Grifting going on. Well what happened, so Herod the king, he's a puppet king, and so for him to hold his position of authority over that region of the Roman Empire, he had to pay tribute to the emperor in Rome. So where did he get that tribute? He got it from the tax collectors like Matthew. You gotta make sure you bring back enough money so I can pay as the emperor so I can keep my station in life here. So you have to bring back the taxes. So you gotta bring back you gotta bring back what I need, but if you want to get more for yourself Have at it. And there was a fun of that coming on. And so people were taking way more than so one, they didn't think they should be paying taxes to Rome anyway. And now you got Jews like Matthew who are participating in a system that Jews should not be participating in. So there's that. And then on top of that, not only are they participating, but they're steering from their fellow Jews as they're doing something they should so they had double re but still I I'm hard pressed to imagine it could be accurate that's that the general a person in the general population would bully someone that could tax them as in theory, as much as he wanted because there were no limits on how much he could tax. Oh, you want to bully me? I'm gonna tax you all your income. Not that that was happening, but they had so much authority there's no way they were being bullied. Right, but Peter's filing Extensions. Right, right. So I I I think though if you come to the series expecting it to be accurate in every respect, you will be disappointed by it. Or misled if you don't Exactly. Or the tax collector friends. Tax collector friends. That makes sense to me, but maybe the reason why they didn't do that is because it would have made the story too cumbersome or maybe they just didn't have the money to hire all the actors. What I'm saying is um I'm there are there are fair criticisms about the way they portray certain things. But on the other hand there's just the the there's just, you know, th they have I think they have limitations and you know and and and they just, you know They weren't everything is not going to be it. That's why you've got to read the word. You've got to go back to the word and know what the word actually says. And then you come to it with um Be being prepared to give them some grace because they're they're not gonna hit every jot and title of scripture, they're not gonna hit it, and they're gonna add a lot of drama to it. I but I understand I understand what you're saying, but to me it's like I'm going to if you make a adaptation of a Let's let's do a book for instance, an adaptation of a book. Is it a faithful adaptation of the book? And it so far I've seen four episodes and the answer is no I don't think it's a faithful adaptation of scripture into a visual form. No, like would you call a Harry Potter movie a documentary? No, but Harry Potter's totally fiction. What I'm saying is Right, but would you but but with if it's a drama, I I think that's the key word that it is a drama It's not a documentary. So any drama, any like if you were watching the that move the uh the series The Crown on Netflix Is that an actual adaptation of what happens in the royal family? I hear they go very in-depth as well. But what I'm but what I'm but that but that that would be like another example like probably about a great I I don't know. I just took a number out of the out of the air. Probably At least eighty percent of that is just total drama. You know, but but but they they hit on historical things, they hit on World War Two, they hit on that that big plague that they had over there where they had a plague of smoke or something over over there that that they had in Britain. They they touch on things that actually happen, but you know, they add because they're trying th they're it the purpose of the thing. Material or kinda, kinda, yeah, yeah. So I I think that yeah, it's not inspired a lot of bad movies and stuff like that. Like he likes Forrest Gump for the I do like Forrest Gump, but it came after it trying to do the same thing. I I enjoy Forrest Gump for Forrest Gump. I didn't expect it to tell you anything about World War Two. Or by Vietnam. I I mean yeah yeah. The bubble gun all of that was made up. But, you know, it was entertaining and it y you know, it drew your mind back to that time and Right, but what do you call that faithful uh I I don't know, maybe that forest gumps obviously not a great comparison for the chosen, but to me it's not a faithful I don't think it's been a faithful adaptation because I do see contradiction Yeah, I do see that. I do see non-canonical parables that are false teaching. Like that that contradicts a bunch of other places in scripture. And to me I yeah, I don't see the betrayal of Peter as faithful to who Peter was. I I Just see that as childish. And I to me I think they're inserting Hollywood tropes into biblical narrative. I see it as the Well because you also have to keep in mind that you know you're talking about is it a documentary? No, and I wouldn't have expected it to be, but the New Testament is itself a story, it's a narrative. Well if it is so if you want to go on with a story that they didn't tell, yeah you can finish. Um so uh even if If you didn't believe the Bible, even if you thought it was just a story, fiction like Harry Potter without the wand or something. Um then one would hope that it would still be relatively accurate compared to his own book, the own um But do you would you consider it relatively accurate or would you consider it totally inaccurate? I have not seen it. I was just trying to See to me that's a kind of more in the r Have you ever seen the movie Risen? No. Oh, I hated that movie because it basically was the premise was okay a Roman legionary is tasked with being a CSI with a you know empty tomb and stuff like that. And then it ended up just telling the the story of Jesus in his final days on earth And I liked the premise of it and then they just went off into the wilderness. So the premise of adding extra you know backstory to these people is not offensive to me at all, but it shouldn't contradict scripture. I agree. And to me I think they don't even do it well within what they've done. Like John the Baptist to me seems like a clear missed opportunity that they could have told the story of John the Baptist and they chose not to. They ignore the or I don't correct me if I'm wrong because I've only seen episode four so I've just been introduced He is a very, very, very small part of the story in the season. That to me is a miss a clear missed opportunity. Yeah. But that's not about what you just described is not necessarily about an act it's not necessarily an accuracy issue. It's just a you you believe they should have focused more on their character. No, I'm saying I don't think they did a good job with the premise of the show. Well well I understand what you're saying. What where I'm coming from is what was their premise. They may have had a different premise than your premise. Don't misunderstand me. I'm not saying the story is totally accurate. It is not. It is not a totally accurate story. But they had a premise and they had a goal, and I'm just saying maybe they hit the mark, more or less. Yeah. Meeting their uh with their premise and their goal. And it's I'm not saying that everything they said was accurate though. I'm not agreeing with that. Okay, yeah. So I guess the question is why would a person make something that contradicts scripture Is there a good motivation for certain more blatant contradictions? Like to me that fish parable that Jesus tells on the boat was blatantly false teaching. And you know, I will say you know Dallas Jenkins, who, you know, this is his brainchild, you know, Dallas Jenkins is his creation And he's on record saying publicly that I I mentioned it in the message that he is intending that people having watched and having watched the chosen When they think of Jesus, when they think of Matthew, when they think of Simon Peter, when they think of all these different characters, what they would have called to mind is the representation that Dallas Jenkins has given them in the chosen. And I did not hear him say that. And when the chosen Yeah. When the chosen get so many things about those characters not right. R not right, that's a real problem. I feel like the solution c it might not have been as easily marketed But I'm wondering if a solution could have been okay, do a period piece. Create entirely fictional characters. Name 'em Fred Wilma and Barney if you want, you know, from the Flintstones. I don't care. And then have them live out their lives and then intersplice moments when they were part of the crowd that saw the miracle. They were part of the crowd that interacted with a book like that. are like m much more close to mirroring what we have in scripture and everybody's not confused like, oh those aren't even biblical characters, but those biblical scenes within the story. I mean they have a perfect opportunity with John the Baptist. to do something like that where he's preaching that the Jesus is coming. And they just completely blow by that. I don't understand that decision. They didn't show the baptism of Jesus. They might in future seasons. I don't know. They might have a flashback season. I mean episode. Hand fisted. I don't know when the word is. They rushed that into one episode. Despite the fact that John the Baptist was kind of a big deal. Like Josephus doesn't he write more about John the Baptist than Jesus. Josephus, yeah. Wait, what? Does he write more about John the Baptist than Jesus? Oh Joseph the the ancient historian? Yeah, there's yeah, there's he wrote very little about Jesus actually. But he writes more about John the Baptist. So you think that that would be a direction that they would have gone in. more faithful to scripture. Instead they make Matthew or they make Simon uh just the degenerate who That piece I agree was that was not accurate. She would have been much more in that. have now. Yeah, they didn't know. I mean I'm more irritated. A hundred years ago much. I'm more irritated with Simon's betrayal than e I mean nobody knows what her name that's the kind of thing I'm told I'm totally okay with them giving giving this white we know that she had a name Right. Because what are they going to do all season waiting for say hey you? You know. I mean, you know, you'd be able to do that. I don't get the impression that Matt uh that Simon cares that his mother in law is sick though. I don't get that impression at all. Uh I just think uh I think the main overarching thought about the fishing on the Sabbath And Simon being the snitch. And then even though he was partners with uh James and John, the sons of Jevody, they were partners. And they don't portray that at all. I think they contradict that. Oh, they they're partners on that one night Like really? Yeah. Anyway, I feel like they could have avoided this sort of thing if they had done things closer to my idea, but yeah it might not have marketed as well because w people want to think they're actually seeing the stories about Matthew and Simon. And John and Jesus and all that sort of stuff. And so I I I I get the marketing realities of that. Um Mary Magdalene. Mary Magdalene being the person that shows up. Right. Yeah. the the series should not be the number one concern. I mean it's it's a practical reality though so they can't market it successfully they can't fund it they have the entire Mormon church apparatus marketing of product. So I I I agree making a Bible study based upon a dramatization of scripture is not that it should be the Bible says it should be based upon the Bible. It should not be based upon a dramatization of scripture. I don't agree with that. I didn't know that they were doing that. I don't I I don't agree with that. By my estimation, the only way that would be acceptable, in fact it could even be a good idea, is if you were to take the episode Prepare in advance to compare and contrast with the truth of Scripture, right? And walk your class through here's what they showed in the chosen Here's what really happened. That could be educational and beneficial and fruitful for the but I don't get the if they're using the chosen's study guide That's not what they're doing. And it's the shack all over again. That's a problem. Well if we want to be honest, yeah, Angel Studios, you mentioned that Um to me they're not very ethical of a company. They declared bankruptcy to avoid judgment, I guess. Because they were copyright infringement. They they infringed on the copyright of all the major studios and all that. So they you know join together. You don't get away with that for long. And they crush them and Angel Studios. And it's interesting that they like the Vid Angel and Angel Studios because going back to the Mormon question a little bit, um the whole religion according to Mormon teaching is founded when Joseph Smith is paid a visit by the angel Moroni. Oh Moroni. Now, evangelicals would argue that either that never happened and Joseph was just a liar who made it up, or if he was paid a visitation, he was paid a de visitation by a demon. masqueringness. I mean it's basically Islam but Americanized. Uh it's it's very prejudiced towards people with dark skin in their history. They've tried to alter that in recent uh years, but they their history is very, very prejudiced. There's basically two two peop two peoples of God, two Israels, one in North America. I mean they have all sorts of problem. Now I will say that to Peter or anybody else who 'cause I know I got some some people who are Facebook friends that I've you know and I'm friendly with that are uh LDS. And look, if this is your Jesus, this is John, the Gospel of John, chapter one, verse one, and and following. In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God. And the Word was God. And he was with God in the beginning. Through Him all things were made. Without Him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness has not understood it. There came a man who was and his story goes on, talking about John the Baptist, if that's the Jesus that you believe in. Then you very well could have salvation, even though you're identifying as a Mormon. But I'm going to tell you, if you're believing in that Jesus, you are a pissed poor Mormon. You are not an obedient Mormon who understands the teachings of your own so-called church. It's the same with the Roman Catholics. I got in trouble once on the air on my radio show. I once uh and I'm gonna probably get in trouble if somebody sees this. I do believe that there are Roman Catholics that we will see in glory. But they're going to be there in glory with us because they're bad Catholics. Good Catholics who believe that the that you should be praying to all these saints and and and Jesus' earthly Mother Mary and that the Pope is infallible when he makes some sort of a dictate in his papal authority. and buys into all the other bizarre traditions and histories of the Roman Catholic teaching. The gospel is part of what they teach and if that's all you've glommed on to, but they've added so many things to the gospel And what they've added on is that salvation is necessary by the work of Jesus Christ and your own work. That you must have works to be saved. And that's Salvation by law. The true Christian biblical teaching is that we are saved by Jesus Christ and His work. And the evidence of our of our salvation is that we live a lives of increasing sanctification where we have fruit in our lives and we have work that is evidence of what we have, but we don't have what we have because of our work. And Rome gets that wrong. But if you're a Roman Catholic and you don't understand that that's what your teeth your church is teaching and you think, no, I believe that I'm saved because Jesus saved me. I don't know about this works thing. What are you talking about? Okay, then you're a bad Catholic And you're a good Christian. Good for you. That's possible. Maybe it's possible. Seriously, how many people, let's see if we can get anybody else who wants to chime in, who I didn't see the chosen have much of a chance to talk. Do you know anybody, any people in your life, they call themselves Christians, but they don't have almost any sense of what the Christian Church actually teaches. An actual Bible believing church teaches? Apparently Nadia knows some people like that. Yeah. I do. I'm sure we all do right? I know them. Oh yeah, I've I've known plenty. It's the same with the Roman Catholics, same with the Mormons. There are a lot of people, they don't even know what their own church teaches. And so somebody's more like They just they grew up their parents were or whatever, you know, and so for anybody who's LDS that's offended by you know my comments here tonight. I would encourage you to reach out to me. I'd love to talk with you about it and see if you can persuade me to become a Mormon. Uh but know that while you do that I'll be trying my darndest to make the case for biblical Christianity. And uh God will decide who wins that argument. Because if I'm if I'm right and the spirit moves on you, you will convert. If you are right, I will stay committed to the Jesus Christ of the Bible and we'll end in part as uh as friends who disagree on this question. You are not going to convert me. I am a child of God. I've been called by God. Christ does not lose one that the Father has given him. I am not going to lose my salvation. So I'm not afraid of that conversation. I will have it every second of every day. If you're a Mormon, will you say the same thing? Will you meet and defend your faith while I meet with you defend mine? And may the best faith win And the Christian faith is the best faith, is the only true faith. It will win the argument. Whether it wins you the conversion, that's up to God and the move of His Holy Spirit on you. But I'm immovable from the truth. The question is how movable are you from the lie? So I'm willing to have that. So I'm not accusing you of anything as a Mormon. I'm not saying you're any more of a sinner than I am. I'm not saying that uh you can get things wrong any more than I can, but on this particular question The Bible is right, the Book of Mormon is wrong, the Pearl of Great Price is wrong. The Old Testament and the New Testament are right. So anyway, on that Mormon question, because that's a big part of this conversation. I think broadly speaking. Anybody else have anything they wanted to add? What's that? So um Okay, I'll I'll end with this one last thought. I thought something you might question about it, because I hinted at it in the message and said I'm not going to talk about it now and then I didn't, but I will now. There are people who are Christians. who have a concern about something like the chosen because it actually portrays Jesus. And Jesus, as we know, is God. And we're not supposed to make any sort of representation sort of idol of, you know, it's a violation of the Second Commandment in their view Uh I don't agree with them. I I uh I I don't think they're heretical in their view. I think they're overly sensitive to that question, and the reason I feel that way is I think they're forgetting that yes, Jesus is God, but he is also truly man. And so we're getting the representation of Christ as a man walking the planet. Now I understand he's also God, but Mm-hmm. He's walking the planet as a man. I just feel like uh you know, I think we have to be very careful as we talk about the chosen. You can really misread But is it a sin? Is it a breaking of the second commandment? I just don't see it. Although I'm open to having somebody persuade me on that case. I'd be willing I I've thought it through, but maybe I've missed some things. I'd be glad to have you try to Get me to change my mind on that, but I'm I'm just not there. Anyway. Alright, so um you didn't get a chance to talk much. You want to close us in prayer? Sure. Heavenly Father, thank you for this time together. We ask that your Holy Spirit would move in our lives, that you would train us up in the one truth. That we would go and boldly declare the gospel, which is good news for your glory and your kingdom advancement. It's In Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Now right before we shut down the Facebook Live, as I'm moving in that direction, I'm gonna not that Nadia can read just yet. Oh yeah. But we're shifting, at least for the moment, to the NIV version. But Nadia. Nadia. Hey sweetie. I want you to see something. You don't know, but this is a Bible? And these yeah, Bible. And these words right here say Our Father in Heaven. Yeah, can you say that our Father in Heaven? That's right. So you just read the Bible. Yay. Very cool. Did you read the books? You were reading from the book, the good book. Next time we'll we'll try to add hallowed. I don't know if you can do be your name, but we'll see if we can do if we can at least do hallowed. That might be a hard word. We'll see next week. Okay? All right. Well thanks for joining us online. Thanks for the comments or comments anyway that I know we got. And um like I said, I mean it. I'll inter I'll I'll interact with you all day long on these questions. It's actually it's what I live for, so Uh till uh next week, six o'clock. Oh no, next week we're not going to be on Facebook Live. We're having an Advent feast here for those that can make it. The following week we will be, Saturday, 6 o'clock, we'll be doing a year starter message rooted around 2 Chronicles 7. 14, one of the most misunderstood verses in the American Church, in my opinion. So it'll be having a sermon based on that as we set ourselves up for 2022. So that's one thought what's on the agenda. Till next week, or two weeks from now. God bless. Okay