Sometimes You just know. You know? You have certainty in your gut. But more than this, you have experience, you've been shown some things, you've learned some things. There are facts that back up what you believe. There's the cold, hard truth, and you grasp it. You have every reason to know, and so you know to just know You really do know. And if you don't, well you should You can. Or in the words of the Apostle John, you may. You may know that you have. Eternal life. Christian. This is a major theme in one of John's New Testament letters, the book of the Bible we refer to as 1 John. He wants you to know that you may know that you have eternal life as a Father of Jesus Christ. You may know this because as a Christ follower you do have eternal life. It is true, and so you may know this. John is so insistent on making this point that he uses the word no, K-N-O-W, nearly four dozen times in 1 John. This is one of the shorter books of the Bible. Only 105 verses in all. This means that on average, John uses the word no, on average, almost every two verses. That's a lot of knowing. And this pattern is even more prominent in the passage that we're looking at today, 1 John chapter 5, verses 3. 13 through 21, which we will read together, so if you would grab your Bible and open it up to the end of 1 John. First John is uh part of a collection first, second, third John together looking for first John toward the end of your Bible, the end of the New Testament. You're looking for the end of this book. Chapter 5. And we're going to notice the word no popping up over and over again, seven times in these final nine verses of his letter. Beginning with verse 13. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the confidence we have in approaching God. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we've asked of him. If you see any brother or sister commit a sin that does not lead to death, you should pray and God will give them life. I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I'm not saying you should pray about that. All wrongdoing is sin, and there is a sin that does not lead to death. We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who was born of God keeps them safe, and the evil one cannot harm them. We know that we are children of God and that the whole world is under the control of the evil one. We know also that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding. So that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true by being in his Son, Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life. Dear children, keep yourselves minus. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we praise you. We glorify your name. We thank you for bringing about creation by your word. And saving us in all of your creation by your living word Jesus Christ. We ask that you would illuminate our minds by your Spirit this morning, that we would truly Grasp what it is you ask us, tell us, that we may know. Encourage those of us in Christ And call those who don't recognize their eternal state. For you to turn to Christ. By what we do and say here is Solomon. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. The most recent time that I was here to preach, I mentioned that I wasn't sure how many sermons I have shared with you, and so I looked it up Chatting today, I have now shared God's word with you from this moment twenty times. The first time being January 2010. And I am on the schedule to preach a few more times in the coming month. And so doing the math I preach here at PBC approximately, on average, about three times a year for the past seven and a half years. And approximately a third of the sermons have drawn the gospel message from 1 John. In fact, the very first time I spoke here It was 1 John that we tackled together. And six more 1 John sermons followed in kind of an on-again, off-again pattern over the years. And as I reviewed my notes from all these sermons, It occurred to me that I have covered with you all of 1 John, except for the ending. First John chapter five, verses thirteen through twenty-one. So, as you might imagine, I am very excited to finally finish my series on her job. Counting today is taking eight sermons Spread out over nearly eight years, but we have finally gotten there. Woohoo Anyway, I didn't know if you rever we used my notes on all of these uh first seven sermons and as I reread first John for the um teenth time I found my mind wandering deep into my past and it wasn't wandering because I was losing focus it was wandering because I was actually gaining a clarity Let me tell you where my mind kept running off to, and then I will uh tell you why it went there. Approximately 25 years ago, I proposed to my wife. And we work in the radio business together, and so I propose live on the air. Oh my. And here is what I said. A friend of mine in Illinois is getting married in a couple of months. He caught a few of his friends off guard with the announcement and he told me that one of his friends asked him how he knew that the woman he had just gotten engaged to was the woman he was meant to spend the rest of his life with He said he's asked the same question. How will I know when I found the right one? The one that's perfect for me. And he was told by someone else, he'll just know. So when his friend asked him that question, he answered, I just know. In the past, of course, he wasn't very satisfied with the answer. He wanted to know, what do you mean? I'll just know How will I know? When will I know? What are the signs and symptoms? But now he understands there are signs and symptoms and signals. But there are so many, and they're so strong that they're almost beyond, and actually are beyond the ability of the human mind to fully comprehend, at least on the plane that we use to communicate. It's the kind of thing that goes to the farthest reaches of our ability to comprehend, and we have such a fragile grasp on it, such a newness of feeling that we can't adequately describe or explain to someone else. But the whole thing is all out. Unless you get the answer, you just know. Well, I just know. I found that special someone. She's the most beautiful person I've ever known. Most beautiful person I could possibly know. She's absolutely gorgeous, but the depth of her beauty comes from inside. Her love, caring, kindness, and simple goodness are so genuine and so deep that at first you can't believe she's real. Attempts to compare her to others quickly fall flat because there's no person alive in a heart like hers. Generous thought permeate her entire being. She does more than just wish others well. She sacrifices a part of herself to make those wishes come true. She's special and she makes me feel special. Level with everything I've got. And just when I think I couldn't possibly love her more. I do. I find more love, deeper love than before. She's the one I'll spend the rest of my life loving and with her continue. To find new levels of love. I've tried here to adequately explain my feelings and her worth, but no matter what words I find, they just don't do her or my feelings justice. Let me say again that I know she's the one because I just know I wish I could scream from all the rooftops of the world how wonderful life is for me now. But no building is tall enough and my voice wouldn't carry it far enough. But working in radio has its perks. It allows me to effectively shout them all the rooftops at the same time. And it allows me before all the world as my witness to declare my love for the most incredible woman on the face of the earth. And to ask her, Dina Carol Casalino, to spend the rest of her life At my side. As my wife. And to allow me to stand at her side forever. That's what I'm saying. I promise I will try to make you the happiest woman in the world for the rest of your life And you can make me the happiest man in the world by accepting this way. Do you not believe your remaining? Should you say yes, by the way? First she sort of laughed giddily and she expressed some surprise and we haven't again washed her live on the air, but she she said yes. And then she quickly says she had the urge to go throw up. True story. I take that as a good sign. Anyway, why did I share that proposal with you? Because I recall that feeling, knowing. I recall using the word know almost as much as John does in his letter to us. And the knowing is somewhat similar. Knowing that we are loved, knowing that there's someone who sacrifices for us, who is caring, kind, and good. And it's hard always to find the right words to express how this makes us feel, how this changes us for the better, how it impacts the world around us. As you can tell from my proposal to Dina, my wife presents me with a picture of Christ. Oh how I hope I do the same for her. If you're married, I hope that your spouse does this for you. Or that they did, if they passed on. And if you're not married, know that this is what you're looking for. You are looking for someone who you can grow with. And the two of you challenge and support one another to better Represent Christ to each other and to the world around you. So with this as our backdrop, let's dive into the text. 1 John chapter 5. Verses 13 through 15 say this. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the confidence we have in approaching God. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. And if we know that he hears us, whatever we ask, we know that we have what we ask of him. Verse 13 is the thesis statement for the entire letter. I want to underline it. John tells us, I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is why he has written what he has written. He wants you to know, believers That you don't believe in vain. You have eternal life. You are loved. As true believers, you don't merely acknowledge that Jesus existed or simply give assent to this idea that Jesus is the Christ. You believe in the name, it says, of the Son of God. There's power in the name. Authority in the name. The authority of the Son of God. The Son of God. This is the one in whom you believe and trust and follow and defend. God has brought you to this place so that you may know that you have eternal life. This is the gift of our covenant making God with his covenant people This is not merely some lovey-dovey soft and swishy personalized experience with God. He does love you specifically, but as a particular member of his covenant people. His Israel, his church his bride. Interestingly, like Tina's and was fine. But with me and Tina, there's a one-on-one sort of thing going on. And that's it. For Christ, his bride is the elect. The entire group comprises his covenant people. This is why the pronouns in verses 13 through 50 are corporate pronouns. They are plural pronouns. Difficult to see in our English translations because of the way that English differs from Greek. When you see the word you in your English Bible in these three verses, what's really being said here is, in the original Greek, what it says is y'all. Use guides. And in verse eighteen through the end of the chapter, through the end of the book, everything's plural again you'll notice there the words we showing up uh recurrently along with us and other plural words so what does it mean for you It means that as a Christian, you are part of this group. God has promised to be with this group forever. And this can give us confidence. In verses 14 and 15, we can see that we can actually approach God. Do we appreciate this enough? God is a jealous God. He justly maintains his holiness. He righteously guards his honor. The risk of sounding heretical Well just a moment. Imagine God guarding his honor and holiness. Imagine then they guard a dog. This great big awesome Rock weather car dog. With sharp teeth and powerful haunches and vice grips for jaws, penetrating glint in the eyes. Are you imagining this imposing, unpredictable? Gard dog? Here standing up on his back. Now imagine approaching him. Go ahead. Reach out your hand. What are you waiting for? Walk right up. Ignore the growl. Ignore the snarl, the bark, the fangs. Sure, Robiner. Rip off your arm, but you have another one? You really need both legs? Or these skins on surrounding your face? Do you really need all those kinds of blood kept safely inside your body? Now if you're not afraid of Rottweiler guard dogs Then imag imagine something that does care to be designed. I think you get the idea, I think. It is appropriate to remember that God is not safe, but he is good. To paraphrase that. He is good to those who are his. And so his church can approach him. And when we do, we can know that he hears us. And he grants us what we ask as his church. This is what John is saying. He keeps the safe because his church is made up of his children, and he gives his children understanding revealed in Christ to those who are themselves in Christ. What is this that we the church have been allowed to understand? If the church asks for anything according to his will, then God hears us. Well, what is his will? God's will is that his church go and make disciples, that his church go forth and be fruitful and multiply. God's will is that we yield to His word, that we love one another. That we love our enemies even. And we announce the kingdom of heaven. This is God's will. And so when we evangelize for the chosen of God, To respond to the call of God on their life, then we can know that God hears us. The church has been given the keys to the kingdom, after all. As we learn in Matthew chapter 16, verse 19. And this applies in an important way to our individual prayer lives too. Again, John is talking about what Life. But it applies to our personal life, too. Verses 16 and 17 are not addressed to the corporate church specifically. The pronouns are singular, but you and I at the church particularly are in mind here. And as a reminder, here's what those verses are. Verses 16 and 17. If you see any brother or sister commit a sin that does now lead to death, you should pray and God will give you life. I refer to those whose sin does not lead to death. There is a sin that leads to death. I am not saying that you should pray about that. All wrongdoing is sin, and there is sin that does not lead to death Okay, so let's slow down. This is one of the passages that befuddles Bible readers. What is John meaning to say in this section? Pray for those who don't need it, but don't pray for those who do need it. This can't be what he means. But it tells some puzzle over John Statement. First half of verse 16 seems to say, pray for the fellow Christian who sins in a not very studious manner. So light is the offense that it doesn't even lead to death. And the last half seems to say that if someone is in danger of death, don't worry about that. Is this what John means? Well it can't be, and they have to consider that is not what John means. He's not talking about specific levels of sin at all. And that murder is a bad sin and gossiping is a comparatively good sin. Nobody's talking about it. And we know this for sure from the context of the rest of the letter, and the context of the rest of the biblical canon for that matter. The wages of sin is death. All believers understand this. The Apostle Paul states it flatly in Romans 6 verse 23. So there is no acceptable level of sin that does not yield death as its result. Wages are what we're paid. Deaths are things we pay. The wages of sin, death Sin brings a debt and it must be paid. The sin must be paid for. Sin always results in death So is there a typo in our Bibles here? Some sort of transcription error perhaps? Did John make a mistake? Rest assured there is no mistake here. John knew, and in part because of him, we know the debt for sin has been Has been paid in full by Jesus Christ for those who trust in him. This is the good news. So, while sin does result in death, when Jesus absorbs that penalty for his people, then sin does not result in death For them. God the Father's people, trusting that God's Son has rescued them From the path of death. They are now led down the path of youth life by God's Holy Spirit. Through faith. When the church, that's us, when the church prays, we should pray that God's people be reminded of this truth. This is the point John is making here. As for the sin that leads to death, that we do not need to pray about, first let me say that It might be important to notice that God's Word is not commanding us never to pray in these situations. What we read here is permission to focus on prayers that will bring God's people, God's chosen people into reconciliation with their creator rather than focusing on those who stubbornly remain unrepentant refusing to allow Jesus to pay their debts And that sin is what leads to death because the very nature of the sin is to reject the life preserver. Clinging instead to idols of their own making. Now we can pray for these people. John is simply telling us he's not arguing that point right now in this letter. He's focusing on the other point that we've been emphasizing this morning about knowing believers that you have eternal life. He's arguing for Christ's followers to maintain confidence that they really have what they think they have. What God has told them that they have in Christ. Remember the thesis statement. 1 John chapter 5, verse 13. I write these things to you who believe in the name of the Son of God, so that You may know that you have eternal life. He wants you believers to know. We forget, and so he reminds us to remember. And he calls us to pray for Those who comprise Christ's church to be called back to this truth when they slip up. When they since we seek life in someone or something other than God Himself. So allow me to remind you one more time. Brothers and sisters, we know him who is true. And this gives us confidence. Or at least this should give us confidence confidence. We can have confidence in him far beyond the confidence that we can have in anyone or anything else. As we've already talked about when praying, God hears his church. He hears us. Compare this to my situation at home. Do you know how many times Dina has said to me, you don't listen to me? I listen. I just sometimes don't hear her. You know she's dropped these huge, painfully obvious hints about what she wanted me to buy her as a birthday gift or It's hard to hear her when I'm now listening. God's not like that. He's not like that. Here's what he is like. You ever see the movie Courageous? In that movie there's an opening scene of a parent pumping gas And he gets distracted for a moment, and during that moment of distraction, Steve jumps into his truck and starts to drive off And this guy chases after he dies and grabs onto the truck and he's hanging on for dear life and the driver's swerving around trying to knock him off the truck. He starts punching the guy in the face, trying to make him let go. He won't let go, and the truck finally comes. Was screeching, crashing, falls, and fangs into a tree. Thank goodness no lives are lost. It is a crazy scene. A crazy scene of crazy love. That guy really loved his truck. No. The father was willing to risk everything in that scene because his baby child was in the backseat of that truck. Because of his love for his child, he risks everything. This is the kind of heavenly Father that we have. He holds his people in his protective embrace. He saves his people spiritually and ultimately physically too. I think he tries to steal the truck. So God hears us, God holds us, and God humbles us. It is humbling to truly know who God is. As Saul, also called Paul, on the Damascus Road in Acts chapter 9. When he comes to know Christ, to understand that he is true, the truth. Paul is humble. He drops to the ground. He calls Jesus Lord. I remember years ago, when I was just getting started in the radio business, I had an opportunity to visit the studios of WLUP in Chicago. It is a legendary station in the business. The production facilities were dazzling. I was mesmerized. Felt kind of unworthy as I stood inside this great heritage radio station, which had produced some of the most compelling, innovative radio programming of its generation. It was humbling being in the station. How much more humbling being in the Christ Those of us in Christ, what do we know? What has God revealed to us? Look at 1 John chapter 5, verses 18 through 20. We know that anyone born of God does not continue to sin. The one who was born of God keeps them safe, and the evil one cannot harm them. We know that we are children of God. And the whole world is under the control of the evil one. We know also that the Son of God has come and has given us understanding so that we may know him who is true. And we are in him who is true. By being in his Son, Jesus Christ, he is the true God and eternal life. This is what we know for sure. Yes, the world is a rotten place sometimes because it's under the influence of Of the evil one. And we know that sometimes we give in to the temptation of the flesh, of our broken human nature, and we sin But we know, as those rescued by Christ, that we do not continue in sin. We don't wallow in our sin. It's not what defines us anymore because God keeps us safe. We are his children, and to his children he gives understanding. And so the evil one can do us no ultimate harm We are protected by being in the body of Christ. The church, that is what is called the body of Christ. The bride of Christ, Christ, who is the true and eternal God, giving us true eternal life Real life. Christian life is real life. Except no substitute. Jesus Christ, the Son of God most high, is the way, the truth, and the life. In and through him we know the way. We know the truth. We know the life. We know Our Creator is the real deal. Jesus Christ is the true God of eternal life. Except no substitute. As John writes in the final sentence of this letter, dear children, keep yourselves from idols. Accept no substitutes. And no That you who believe in the name of the Son of God, you may know that you have Eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you and praise you for your promises. We thank you and praise you for the confidence and the knowledge that you keep your promises. promises that everything is fulfilled in and through Christ. We thank you for calling us those who are currently in a place of understanding our salvation. Christ, calling us by your spirit to be in this place. And we pray for those who are still grappling with and wrestling with whether or not they are in this place that your spirit would actively and persistently call them to yourself So that they can know what it is to have you hold them, hear them, and humble them. Thank you, Lord, for your pride. your church for this gathering of your people who come together to praise and worship you know lift up your name and it is in your name in the name of your son Jesus Christ that we pray Amen. But receive the convention. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with a Exceeding joy to God our Savior, who alone is wise the glory and majesty, dominion, and power both now and forever. Amen.