Make other people's brand, you know. Welcome to the House of the Faith in Christ if you're watching us on Facebook or if you're watching us later on YouTube. If you'd like to learn more about who we are, what we're all about, you can find us online at householdsoffaith in Christ. com. And if you want to watch these on YouTube later, the easiest way is probably to go to the website and connect with our YouTube channel. through that. Tonight we're going to have a a message and discussion uh s uh surrounding the 2 Chronicles chapter 7 verses 11 through 22. So if people want to get their Bibles ready now, you certainly can. Happy New Year, by the way. The last third of 2021 was certainly an interesting third of a year for us. So we're about to get back on track. It had been my habit, I was mentioning this to Dina the uh yesterday or today, that it had been my habit for a number of years to kind of think about doing a state of the church, New Year's. vision casting kind of a message. I had no intention of doing anything like that uh this year, but the way things played out, uh that's kind of what we're gonna get today. And then next week we're gonna get back on track with uh our now almost forgotten series on the book of Revelation. We'll be picking up where we left off in uh chapter five of the book of Revelation next week. So um without further ado, um Ray, maybe would you mind open us with a word of prayer? Yeah sure. Yeah. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day, and we thank you for this gathering. We thank you for this new year. And we just uh lift up this gathering and we just lift up this message. It be uh glorifying and edifying to the body of Christ and uh and to you, God, and we just uh praise in Jesus' name, amen. We're going to jump right into the message. It's probably going to be a hair longer than my typical messages, not as long as last week's message. And we'll get back to our regular length messages after this week. So again you probably want to only have your Bibles ready in Second Chronicles chapter seven. So the Beatles, they used to sing a song about wanting a revolution. But this time of year, of course, we're hearing lots of talk about resolutions. And I don't use that wordplay just to try to be cute, but because these two, they've blended into one this year, it seems to me. People are, of course, making New Year's resolutions. And a lot of people have been making resolutions this year in reaction to the whole scale revolution that is happening everywhere in all areas of life. There is A revolution underway. Western civilization's way of life is being revolutionized right under our feet. As pagan globalists are going for broke in their hope for change. And they call it a great reset. That will build back better everything in our society. If only that were true. But it's not true And even if it were true, things they need to be built back, for better or for worse, only after they've been demolished. And this explains why the past several years have been dominated by demolition crews, been dominated by riots and dictatorial technocracy and inflation and lockdowns. Biological genocide on a planetary scale, postmodern wokeism. It is a brave new world. Welcome to it. In response to all this craziness, all this literal insanity, where girls aren't girls, boys aren't boys. Where the phrase anti-racism actually means racism. Where denying your guilt is what proves your guilt. Where shots that fail to stop transmission or illness or death or anything really, they're still called vaccines. Where tens of thousands of deaths, hundreds of thousands of serious injuries, and likely millions of additional adverse effects are the result of what we're told are medical treatments. It's a world where liberty and freedom in America they are becoming fuzzy memories from our childhood We are living and dying on a hamster wheel of tyranny And so many people are murmuring under their breath, I want to get off. They quietly whisper that They went off the wild hamster wheel ride. The whispers they can barely be heard because of the muffling effects of their dehumanizing subservient mask wearing. And the whispers, they're only among friends anyway. Because they're just meekly giving in. Giving in to a watching world. Giving in and rolling up their sleeves for forced participation in a human depopulation experiment And they're afraid to do more than whisper. And so they shamefully ship their kids off to fascist factories every weekday for nine months out of the year. for indoctrination. Indoctrination in a strange mix of atheistic New Age spirituality You know, they might be less afraid if there were more authoritative voices whose voices would offer some real world solutions. But so many of the long-trusted voices, so many of them appear to have succumbed to slumber. when the great asleepening began. And so we get bizarre instructions handed down from on high. Instructions like, love your neighbor by placing a voodoo rag over your mouth and nose. Love your neighbor by offering up your children to the fires of Moloch, sacrifices and to the gods of Fauci and Gates and lesser known deities like Don Lemon and Rachel Maddow. And so, in response to all of this dire stuff, there are a number of actual churches and truly saved churchmen. Who have called the faithful remnant within Christ's church to make a joint resolution. And I can get behind that. And so we, here at the Household of Faith in Christ, as small but as mighty as we are, we're going to join up with the idea. Well being sure that we focus most prominently on where God's word would have us focused. I was contacted by a man who has organized a whole bunch of churches in America. Organize them to pray for the healing of our nation. And I've also read a number of articles, and I've actually talked directly to a good number of people about this sort of thing. They share the exact same sentiment America is in trouble, they say. America needs prayer, they say. America has lost its way and needs a revival, they say. And that's all true. This country is stumbling to the death of its ideals and toward the memory holding of its once seller reputation. And so let's pray and ask for revival. However, there is more to say about this, and I will in a moment. Now if you're paying attention to the kinds of things that I just mentioned, then perhaps you've noticed there's an emphasis that's given to 2 Chronicles 7 verse 14. I've seen it pop up recurringly on social media. It's come up in some of the conversations as I mentioned I've had with people. 2 Chronicles 7. 14, it's a verse which famously reads If my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then I will hear from heaven, and I will forgive their sin and will heal their land. He was an author of a new book. He has centered an entire campaign for revival in America on this verse. The author, he actually called me. He asked us if we would be a partner church in his effort. And we sort of are in spirit. anyway, we're partnering with him and others who are in this generalized kind of a a movement. However, I have more to say about that too. Because we haven't officially signed on with the author's effort, um, even though there's so much good in it. And we also we haven't signed on With uh the the efforts to join up with other churches in our region who are in similar fashion praying and fasting for the rescue of America. Beginning today, actually, these churches, most of them are the start of the new year. Why not? Why aren't we officially partnering with them? Part of it is logistics. You know, before I found out about some of the stuff that these people and entities are doing, uh, particularly in light of all of this is disruption we had. you know, with our church, there was no way to really do it right, to do it well. So that's part of it. But also I I gotta s share A big part of it was a concern that as important as this kind of a movement can be, it strikes me that it could be small ball. The prayer item just maybe isn't big enough for the task at hand. The purpose of the fasting and the praying might not be spiritually focused enough. There's so much jingleism that's wrapped around so much of the rhetoric in these campaigns. So I wonder if it might actually be feeding part of, or maybe the entire root of, the problem we're facing in our context. feeding it rather than digging up the root of the problem. So what we're going to do here is read the verses that surround 2 Chronicles. chapter 7 verse 14 so that we can benefit from a fuller context. So we're going to pick up with verse 11 and read through to verse 22, where God's word says to us. When Solomon had finished the temple of the Lord in the royal palace, and had succeeded in carrying out all he had in mind to do in the temple of the Lord and in his own palace. The Lord appeared to him at night and said, I have heard your prayer, and have chosen this place for myself as a temple for sacrifices. When I shut up the heaven so that there is no rain, or command locusts to devour the land, or send a plague among my people, if my people who are called by my name will humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways Then I will hear from heaven and I will forgive their sin and will heal their land. Now my eyes will be open, my ears attentive to the prayers offered in this place. I have chosen and consecrated this temple so that my name may be there forever. My eyes and my heart will always be there. As for you, if you walk before me faithfully, as David your father did, and do all I command, and deser observe my decrees and laws. I will establish your royal throne, as I covenanted with David your father, when I said, you shall never fail to have a successor to rule over Israel. But if you turn away and forsake the decrees and commands I have given you, and go off to serve other gods and worship them, Then I will uproot Israel from my land which I have given them, and will reject this temple I have consecrated for my name. I'll make it a byword and an object of ridicule among all peoples. This temple will become a heap of rubble. And all who pass by will be appalled, and they'll say, Why has the Lord done such a thing to this land and to this temple? People will answer, because they have forsaken the Lord, the God of their ancestors who brought them out of Egypt and have embraced other gods. Worshiping and serving them. That is why he brought all this disaster upon them. This is the inspired, infallible, inerrant word of God. And as such, it is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. So those with ears to hear, let them hear. So let's take all of this in, this passage. Let's take it all in in big picture fashion. So who is it, to whom is God speaking specifically in these verses? You know, verse 11 tells us this person finished building his own palace. So there's a hint it's a king. In fact, verse 11, it also gives us his name. Solomon. Now this passage by itself it doesn't say sp uh specifically here in these 12 verses, but over what nation is Solomon king? Though you need a hint, verse 17 tells us his father is King David. And so here we have the King of Israel. Solomon who despite his reputation for great wisdom. Doesn't say here exactly, but if you read the the rest of the narrative you find out that he built for himself a royal palace before he built the temple of the Lord. Doesn't sound so wise to me. That's just a quick aside since it's not directly tied to this passage, so I'm giving that to you for no charge. A little free tidbit. Free gift on New Year's Day for you. And those are always the best kind of gifts, the free gifts. I don't like the gifts you have to pay for Now, in the verses right before this part of chapter seven, we can read there about the glory of the Lord filling the temple and the burnt offerings and the sacrifices put forward and consumed. by the Lord. And in verse twelve, then God says with words, what he had just got done showing with actions. This is his temple. And he goes on to emphasize that the Israelites are his people. And do you notice the conditional nature of the designation here? His people, those who are called by his name, are those who humble themselves. They pray to him, they seek his face, they turn from wickedness, they walk faithfully before him. Now, did any of the Old Testament saints do this perfectly well? Do any of the New Testament saints? Those are rhetorical questions, obviously, because there's only one who does all the Father commands. There's only one who completely observes all of the decrees. Only one who observes all the laws of God, and he is the promised successor. To Solomon and David, the one who will never fail to rule over God's people. And for those who reject holiness This portion of 2 Chronicles, it tells us that they are in deep doo-doo. We know from the gospel, the only hope is to trust the Messiah, the forever-ruling King, who not only observes but also fulfills all the laws and decrees of God. And so when even This anointed one is rejected. Well then the people are uprooted. The temples made an appalling heap of rubble. Disaster comes, which helps us understand that not all Israel is Israel, as we are instructed by the Apostle Paul in the book of Romans. And so now that I've said all of that, who is this text ultimately talking about? If you want one, here's a hymn. He himself tells us the answer in Luke chapter 24 and John chapter 5 As with all of Scripture, this passage points us to Jesus of Nazareth, the Son of God. I mean consider it talks about sacrifices. Well, the Lamb of God is the sacrifice to end all sacrifices. Consider, this passage talks about the temple, where God dwells among his people on earth. Well, Jesus came to dwell on earth among us humans, and has now sent his spirit to dwell within his people. And consider, this passage talks about a personal ruler who will never stop ruling. Well, Jesus is the King of Kings. who is seated for eternity and authority on the throne, ruling with personal attentiveness for all time. Now, in addition to Jesus, who is the other main character in this passage? And we see David and Solomon, of course. But they're part of the other main character. They are subsumed within it Now if you'd like another hint, uh given a lot of hints tonight, we can see this other main character identified by their proper name in verse 18. Israel is the other main character in this passage. And actually, if we want to take this passage at absolute total face value and use the language that the passage uses, it might be better to say that the other main character is my people. And God uses phrases like among my people and if my people who are called by my name. And all this is in the context of those who humble themselves seek my face and so forth. I mean this is very personal language. You know just a dozen verses. The Lord uses the words my and I and me 28 times. 28 times in just 12 verses. But in case you're still missing it, what we are to gather here is that these are his people, his elect, his chosen, his saved, his Israel. His children, bearing his name, because as we now all know, they are spiritually in his son. Now this could be a big expansive sermon. It could go on and drive home some of these theological points. But for now, those are just some super quick exposition I'm giving you. For now, to help us process what it is that is and isn't being taught in 2 Chronicles. Now in just a minute we're going to turn our attention to highlighting how we can apply and should apply this text to our lives And as we begin to enter the work of application, I want us to be mindful of the things that we just spotlighted. These paragraphs Mention Solomon and David and Israel. Even Egypt gets a mention. And they give emphasis to the Lord, these verses do, and the temple and the promised land, and of course, when we properly interpret this passage, draws our attention to the eternal rule of Jesus Christ. So think about all those things that are mentioned inside of these dozen passages and make you maybe scratch your chin a little bit and say, hmm. Considering what I was just talking about at the start of this sermon, maybe 10-15 minutes ago, whatever it was, there's something missing. Remember a preponderance of the 2 Chronicles 7, 14 church campaigns and programs that are kicking off right now all across the country? are addressing woes in our American world. With prayer and fasting for revival in 21st century America. And the frequent appeals from pastors and even from Pew Sitters alike, therefore, healing of the American land. It's interesting, isn't it? I mean, have you ever paused before to recognize the United States of America? It's not mentioned in 2 Chronicles. Not even once. Not even by inference. Now I expect I possibly just scrambled some people's minds. By saying that. Perhaps also scramble some attitudes about me, and if so, I get it. I mean my own attitude about me might be scrambled right now if I were my former self Because we've all been steeped in a tradition that says that America is the shining city on a hill. We've all been taught about America's manifest destiny. And it's very common to say that the United States was founded as a Christian nation with Judeo-Christian values. And so America America remains the last best hope for the world And you know, there is much that is positive to be said about many of these sentiments. And yet it is so important to remember. That city on a hill idea That's an allusion to Matthew chapter 5, verse 14, where Christ's followers are told, you are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden. Christ's followers. Not America. It's not about America. And what's more, it's not even about ethnic Israel. It's about God's children. To whom belong the kingdom of heaven. The kingdom of heaven. Not the kingdom of North America, which is kinda nice to dream about. But the kingdom of heaven, which is a reality, so much more than a mere dream. Now because this nation, America, was established under the influence of English common law. Which was largely developed by influence from God's law. Because of this, we as Americans, we have had an exceptionally positive impact on the world Because the founders, they were committed to biblical truth and the the framers, most of them, they were well they were raised in the shadow of the first great awakening. And so the good old US of A has led the way in economic development and in charitable giving and in religious freedom and personal liberty and responsibility and The squashing of atrocities. Atrocities perpetrated by the fascists and socialists, communists, Marxists. jihadists, statists, Satanists, and all the other Tower of Babel influenced leftists. America has been a great success in so many ways. And the success of Americanism, giving life to the American dream. As much of a success as it has been, it of course has been an imperfect success because well that's that's the best that people who are struggling against sin can do until Christ returns. With that aside, or even with that mixed in, because of the success of the American Way The lives of literally billions of people are better than they would have been if America did not exist. And so for this we can and should be thankful and we should demonstrate great gratitude, humble gratitude to God for what it is he has allowed to occur. In a lot of ways we should think about it in terms of him orchestrating at least to a degree for these things to occur. It is good, I don't want to be misunderstood here tonight, it is good to be an American in the traditional and celebrated sense. But America is not a new Israel. America is not the church. America is not the chosen elect of Yahweh. America is the most powerful and wonderful man-made political entity to ever exist. That is, I think, beyond question. But America is not the promised land. America is not a renewed Garden of Eden. America is not heaven Now some of what I just said, it's so obvious you might be wondering why would I even say it? But I promise you, if this message were to make it out, or does make it out, to just the right kind of people, just the right audience There are gonna be people hopping mad. Call me a heretic or a turncoat, or maybe just call me simply an idiot. These ideas I listed about America, the ones that you feel like are so obvious, like why would you even say it? Well These unhelpful and unhealthy mindsets, they exist Bigger type. Sometimes they exist in bright bold colors and sometimes in more subdued subtle pastels And if you're somewhere on that painter's palate between the bold and the subtle and subdued, well then you're one of those who needs to hear this truth. America is not the reason for the hope that lies within the hearts of Christians. America is not the Savior of the world. America is not a present-day Jerusalem. And the citizens of America are not the church. Members of the Church of Christ, of Christ's church, are in America for sure. Far too few I'm afraid, but they're here. But let's not confuse this continent or the entire Western world or anything else for that matter. Let's not confuse that with the body of Christ. The promises made to the bride of Christ. Those promises are not promises made to Western civilization. They are not promises to the red, white, and blue. And honestly, I pine I do. I pine for the long-lost heart and soul of Americana. I do, like probably so many who are hearing me right now do. But I don't do so in the same way that I yearn for the kingdom of God to be fully and completely established. And where I stand on this is where I encourage you to stand as well. What does that look like? It means love your country. Work for the betterment of the nation. Seek God's blessing on your fellow citizens. But also Love our distant neighbors and our distant brothers and sisters working for the eternal betterment of all people groups. Praying for revival, yeah, in America, but all around the world. At this moment in history, the spiritual attack that many of us feel we feel it because it's real and it's global. And if you're not so sure it's a spiritual attack, well then it's certainly gotta be, right? A divine judgment from God? Either way, the challenges in both cases are very profound and real. And not only for American believers The entire world feels as though it's on fire these days. And on top of this, or Perhaps even because of this, the institutional church is also adrift, having lost anchor from its moorings. Now somebody asked me not too long ago, is our Lord disciplining his people? And my answer is this seems likely to me But you know, one of the good things that comes from this sort of discipline is that we can better see who it is that's with Jesus and who it is that is not. I mean clarity can be priceless. But the other question though is that's related to this, is the Creator of the world perhaps also partially removing his sustaining hand of common grace from the entire world? turning over the peoples of the planet to the darkness of their own hearts. Well, this seems likely to me too. And could this be an attack from Satan and his minions, a direct spiritual frontal assault attack? Well, you know what? This also seems likely to me. So we're getting at six ways of Sunday. So what do we do? And what don't we do? Well, in the don't column, don't do this column. We need to say, don't rest your hopes. On a political party? Don't rest your hopes on a political candidate. Or in any form of political solution. Don't rest your hopes there. But also do not retreat from the responsibility of being involved in the government, a government that here is of By and for the people. If you are a citizen here, then you have a role to play in how things are governed. It's the American form of governance. And don't merely pop off at the mouth. Don't merely do that. Blaming Hollywood, mainstream media, billionaires, big tech, the pharmaceutical companies, and so forth. I mean pointing out their crassness, their dishonesty, their greed, their hate, their devilish schemes, that's appropriate. That's good. We can't just merely do that. Praying for the repentance. Or, if they refuse to repent, praying for God to deal with them once and for all. It's also appropriate and good. So do those things. But as you're doing those things of pointing out the bad around us, remember that old saying, every time you You point the finger of accusation at somebody else. You want to blame somebody else, you've got three fingers pointing right back at you. So let's be sure about taking care of things in our lanes. Control what it is that we can control. within the four spheres of earthly authority that we find talked about in the Bible. One of these four is the church. The church has a the uh ecclesiastical authority And above all of that, Christ, He's the high priest, He calls the shots for the church. And so what does that mean for us? Well, one of the things it means for us, we need to pray that pastors and other leaders in the church would be faithful. Faithful to serving under our Lord's lead. And we should support these faithful churches and support the faithful local churches. The pastors and churches need the support of your attendants. and your participation, and your finances, and your encouragement, and by you entering the scrum to defend the honor of Bible believers who are advocating for the truth. Now the sphere of civil authority, one of the four, or of authority, one of the four be civil authority, civil government. These magistrates have civic authority, and God places these leaders in positions. that they have and so they are accountable to him. So we need to pray for professing Christians in the government, in the military, in the bureaucracy. We need to pray for them. If they profess Christ That they'll be faithful to the profession of faith. And for those who aren't Christians, you need to pray that they'll be converted. You need to pray for the conversion of non-believers who are in power. And you know what? We need a witness to them. And on top of this, we need to support initiatives and petitions and legislations and uh moves and uh platform planks and so forth, all of them that are godly, we need to support them by bathing them in prayer And showing up in showing up to meetings. As you're able to show up. You know, even consider running for office yourself if possible. Because while America is not a new Israel, did you know God does judge nations All nations, including America. And so repentant prayer, it's a very, very good idea. The family unit, another sphere of authorities, is talked about in the Bible. The family unit has day-to-day authority over our living practices For instance, God has instructed husbands to be the spiritual head of the household and has instructed wives to be helpmeets who work to keep their man on task and the mission that they together as one couple share. So we need to pray for grown-up boys to become real men who lead with conviction rooted in biblical wisdom. And we need to pray for grown-up girls. To become supportive and focused spouses and mothers if they're married, and to be nurturing contributors, contributors to other women and to the community at large and to the church as well if they're single. And for little ones in those families, we need to pray for their obedience, their maturity and understanding, their development of spiritual discipline. So those are three of the four spheres of earthly authority. The church, the government, the family. They all have areas that they control. These are the three institutions that are put in place by God. But I said that there were four spheres of authority. So which one's left? Individual authority. You have an area of personal control too. Self-control. And none of us demonstrate this anywhere near as well or consistently as we could or should. And to be honest, that probably is a big part of explaining why there's so much that's wrong. going on in the world today? Wrong with our contemporary family? Wrong with the government? The government's so horribly out of control. Why so much of the church seems to have taken a vacation to Wokeville? You know, this arena of self-control, I've saved it here toward the very end of the message so that we can end this message with some specific ideas. for you, for us, to put into practice immediately for the next month or two at least. So here's what I'm calling us to, calling us to consider at least. To train ourselves up in prayer. How about we think about committing to 40 days? of prayer and fasting. And by this fasting doesn't mean you go completely without any sort of food at all for six straight weeks, although I guess it could mean that. But what I'm meaning by this is altering and limiting your eating habits, for example, and doing so in such a way that you actually feel hungry for much of, or at least part of the day. With the pangs of hunger reminding all of us of our dependence on God for everything, including our nutritional sustenance. And every growl of the stomach Provides a reminder for us to pray for spiritual healing and for revival and for the advancement of God's kingdom to the magnification of his glory all around the world. And there are different ways to fast as well. We can talk about that during the discussion time. To improve the regularity with which we spend time in God's Word. How about we commit to studying the Bible? You know, with not as much food in our bellies if we do a food fast, well we won't have quite as much energy to do a lot of strenuous physical activities, so maybe we would be more prone to want to sit quietly and read. And you know, study the Bible, that could look differently for different people. You know, if you're someone who's never read the entire Bible all the way through from start to finish, how about making 2022 the year that you finally do so for the first time? And this might begin by determining a good reading plan and then kicking it off during the first you know month and a half of the new year, these first forty days. And then continuing through to the end of the year For other people who have read the Bible all the way through, maybe a whole bunch of times, maybe you might want to continue that habit, but either in addition or potentially for a short period of time in lieu of, you might want to pick just one book of the Bible. And just go in depth studying it for the next month and a half, between now and let's say Valentine's Day or something like that. You know, read passages within that book of the Bible over and over again, meditating upon what it means, doing extra research about that book of the Bible, really coming to grips with everything you can know about it, and then sharing what you're learning with other people. Maybe even posting blogs or stuff on social media about the things that you're learning, the insights you're gaining about that particular book of the Bible, you know, one of the best ways to learn is to teach. To facilitate relational accountability and discipleship. How about we think about sharing with each other each week? What it is we're learning, how we're growing. Maybe even sharing some of the ways we're struggling. Speaking of struggling, you know. I think it's fair to say there are at least three reasons, three good reasons for people to fast, and one of those is mourning. You know? So I think we might all struggle just a little bit, at least. During this fast, if we do a food fast, but any fast, we might struggle with the fast. But with a food fast is a reality of getting hangry, and so that's a struggle right there, I know. But I'm not really focusing on that. I'm thinking more about the emotional. You know, struggling spiritually. That's what I'm talking about. Because let's be honest, these past couple of years They've been tough. They've been hard on almost everyone. There's a sense of loss, isolation, doubt, fear, helplessness, anger, confusion And these things are so often masked by us, and no pun intended. They're so often masked by us with our within our daily lives that We learn to cope by stuffing these things deep down in our bowels or shoving them way back in our mind. But now during a season of praying and fasting, I think we're just gonna we're gonna have to deal with them. We're gonna have to mourn over them and then grow to be content even if we can't shake them. You know, another reason people fast is to demonstrate repentance. And we certainly have much over which to repent. It's part of why Uh we the people uh who constitute this country, we need to own our role in the lostness of where our country is right now. There's we've played some sort of role, maybe small, some of us big, in dragging us all down collectively. We need to own that and repent from it. You know, our lack of faithfulness in the areas and spheres of control over which we have responsibility, that's helped to lead us into the bizarro world, new normal, I think. And as members of the body of Christ, we need to identify any and all of our sins, and these could be sins of omission or sins of commission. Sins that have weakened our ability. The fight is a good fight on the spiritual battlefield. And the remaining reason people fast that I want to mention is for the purpose of preparation. We want revival, then let's prepare for it. Are we expecting Christ's return? We even yearn for that day. Well then, let's prepare for it. Are we anticipating seeing improved relationships, improved friendships? receiving better, more accurate biblical teaching, expecting to see deliverance from evil, maybe even deliverance from demons for those who are oppressed in that particular way. We expecting any of those sorts of things? Well then let's prepare for it. You know, the great football movie, I think it's a great football movie anyway, facing the giants. It reminds us in one of its more stirring scenes about the importance of preparation. In the scene, the pastor shares Revelation chapter 3 says, We serve a God who opens doors that no one can shut, and he shuts doors no one can open. He says, Behold, I have placed before you an open door that no one can shut. I know that you have little strength, but uh yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. And he turns the other character on the screen and says, Coach Taylor, in this case insert your name there The Lord is not through with you yet. You still have an open door here. And until the Lord moves you, you are to bloom right where you are planted. And so this coach Taylor character he responds saying, Well, I admit to you I have been struggling. But I've also been praying. I just don't see God at work here. So the pastor responds by Saying, I heard a story about two farmers who desperately needed rain. And both of them prayed for rain, but only one of them Went out and prepared his field to receive it. Which one do you think trusted God to send the rain? And then the coach character e answers this rhetorical question by saying, well, the one who prepared his fields for it. And so then the pastor in the scene he says to the coach, Which one are you? God will send the rain when he's ready. You need to prepare your field to receive it. for our personal lives and our families, for our nation, our state, our communities, for Christ's church, for God's glory. Let's use the next forty days to prepare for rain. Let's pray. Father, we praise and bless your name. We thank you that you are loving Father. Who empowers us by your Spirit to understand the truth of your word, gives us the words to speak as we share it with others, the words of hope and redemption and renewal. Found in your Son, Jesus Christ, our Savior, the forever King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, our High Priest. We ask that you would help us to be increasingly faithful. That we would find areas in our life over these next half dozen weeks or so to Drill down to find ways that we can truly grow spiritually. to advance in our sanctification, to establish habits that we will carry with us through the rest of the year, through the rest of our lives, that we will be useful to you in the work of advancing your kingdom. As we earnestly await the arrival and the fulfilling arrival of our Wondrous King Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Amen. Amen. So as we enter into the time of discussion, is there anything as As I was talking to pop into your head as something that you're thinking, you know what I think I got some ideas percolating. I think I'm gonna try to do this. I'm gonna try to commit to doing this you know, uh every day for the next forty days, or doing this better uh every day for the next forty days. And you know the old cliche is if you want to establish a new habit you do it for twenty one days. I'm not sure if that's true or some pop psychology thing, I don't really know. But if twenty-one days will help you establish a habit forty days, certainly should. So there are any any ideas that popped in or ideas of ways you might think about fasting from something. Well I am fasting from popcorn because I love popcorn and I love it at night and It's it's there's nothing wrong with popcorn, but that would be a sacrifice for me. So I can't fast food food because of my health concerns. Yeah, that would maybe not be out and stuff is probably not. I'm not sure that's how honoring it is. God honoring it exactly. So that would be a sacrifice for me. Anybody else? Trying to think most of my life revolves around the girls, so Giving stuff off like that is probably unwise as well. I'll just say about feeding the baby in a morning bottle. What about anything like you're probably not on social media that much either I mean, I could give it up, but it wouldn't be that big of a deal for me, so like So Yeah the idea of giving up and that's that's a fine way to think about it, but it's giving up for a purpose. So the the point isn't the giving up. And the point isn't the hardness of it really. The point is to eliminate things from our lives that might cause distraction while at the same time positioning us to be more mindful of the things of the kingdom of God. You know, that's why a traditional food fast is helpful because when you've got hunger pangs, you're constantly reminded of the need for God's provision, being reminded that you have made that sacrifice, be reminded of God's purposes and his glory. And like you know, giving up the popcorn might not be a day long thing, but the habit is to eat that later in the day. And so every day when there's that craving, that hankering for the popcorn, that's gonna provide a reminder, you know what? Maybe I should go pray for a little bit about all the things that our family, me, our church, our country, the world, uh needs to have me praying about. It'll be it'll provide that impetus, that spark. Because you know I I think most of us, if we're gonna be truly honest, we could easily go through a whole not everybody, but I think a majority, even of those that are uh you know, professing Christians could easily s have a whole day split by and then realize, ooh, I never prayed the whole day. That could happen. Or I don't know why, but I got disjointed from my regular schedule and didn't open the Bible all day. So things that will help to prod and prompt us to remember to do those kinds of things. So it's not just that it's hard it doesn't even matter if it's hard to be honest. At least in my mind, I don't know that that's the most important thing. If you were to take on something new, if you were to try to establish a new habit or a new direction in your life. Like let's say you're thinking, you know what, I'm going to start a new parishurch ministry, or I'm going to run for political office, or I'm going to uh do some s focused teaching maybe with a jail ministry or who knows, different things like that. I need to make time for that. If I'm going to have time to do that, or maybe if I'm going to read the Bible all the way through for the first time in my life, whatever, I'm going to make time for that. What might you need to give up to to carve out time to do that? I mean that's another way of thinking about this. Because that is one of the benefits of a food fast is you're not spending time doing the preparation, you're not doing spending the time eating, and so that buys you time that you can use otherwise. So that's one of the other ad advantages to a fast. So think about it that way. Can you think of anything? Almost all of my waking time has been spent on the girls, but even if I do give something up, it's not like I've actually gained time because it was all multitasking time to begin with. Like even my eating time. Uh I'm eating while feeding her, while feeding her, while Um because maybe in the evening after she's been put down that I only have the little one. Well perhaps just something you could think of in terms of the the the girls, what could you change with and for the girls that's different. Maybe reading the Bible or children's stories from the Bible or something. something to them or something that's different that you haven't been doing that would would fit into the coming from or what Yeah. So my ideas I've seen some people on online. You've probably seen some of these things too, although if you're not spending a lot of time on social media. online then you haven't seen them but people are talking about you know they're gonna give up social media you know for the for the next month. Or they're gonna give up watching the news. Or they're gonna give up, you know, sports. you know, f focusing on, you know, watching sports on TV or they're you know, they're gonna give up if they have some nasty habits, they're gonna give up cigarette smoking. They're gonna give up, you know, drinking or something, or they're gonna give up sugar, or they're gonna give up give up give up coffee, caffeine, you know 'cause they've got maybe an addiction issue there. There's lots of giving up. Again the point isn't about giving up, although there's a lot of things we probably should be giving up. But it's not merely about that, because that we run in the same problem which was really hopefully it was understood. All of things that are focused on about what is America and what we we need to be thinking about and focusing on. Those are all good and important. They're not they're not big enough because it's too central and it's missing the book ends. It's missing the the foundation and a capstone. It's because if we're only focused about revival in America, we need to bring a revival to America. We need to pray for our politicians, pray for our politics, pray for our media, pray for Hollywood. That's all good. If that's all we're doing, then we're not spending any time focusing on me. And we're also not spending any time focusing on everyone, not just the 300 plus million that live in America. So we miss the big picture, the fact that Christ's church comprises people of all nations. And our primary motivation should be for the advance of the kingdom and and for the uh obedience and faithfulness of Christ's church. And that's a global thing. It's not just a national thing. The national is important. So we we should be thinking in terms of the big, big, big Like bigger than big, but also going mic so macro really, but also going micro. And if we're only worrying about praying for other people in the institutional things in this country and we're not diving deep. Maybe this is something for some of us to have some self-examination in our own quiet time or we can have, you know, more of a discussion on this offline But I'm wondering if I were to share something. Oh, you have a you have a thought? Seven cultural mountains of influence are. Are you familiar with those? His music one. Yeah, there's um music, what else you can't write? Math. Math, uh um there's um I'm gonna look them up. I I I think I can remember them, I'm gonna look them up. So seven cultural mountains of influence, church and religion Um business and finance sports, entertainment and media, government families, education You're missing just I might I might include I might include to different actually different but like art and social media maybe with art there's art entertainment media family church government um Um education. Did you say business in time? Business. Okay. Um those are the seven main areas that influenced everything and and said to influence culture across the board. Is there something any of us on those fair on those seven things that you're like, okay, that's something actually I personally could maybe make a difference, at least a small difference. And focus energy is there. So that's exactly where I was going to do. Yeah, I had a feeling. So I'm called to the to the area of government, to the melody of government. And so the way the way that I see My influencing the world for the kingdom of Christ was through the mountain of government. And so other people will feel called to their different mouths. So for me, the way that I help to fulfill the great mission is to bring Christ into the mountain that I'm I'm called to. And so I I focus my energy through that prism. I I I I look at it I look at the whole thing as everybody has their their mountain that they're called to and they're like if you're if you're Pastor, obviously you're called to the mountain of church. And that's like your like your main spiritual gift if you want to use that that term. Um but for me through that gift you're influencing the other mountains. So everybody's influencing they're called to a mountain but they're influencing Everybody else's mountain. By being obedient to the mountain they're called to being obedient to the mountain that they're called to. So that's how I view my myself, how I view myself as helpful to. Because listen, no matter what mountain we're talking about if Christ is not in it. Absolutely. It's influen it's negatively influencing the other mountains. So that's that I I I I kinda is how I see myself fulfilling the Great Commission. I'm not gift it necessarily and I I want to be careful because you don't have to be gifted. But when you're when you're operating and your gift is when you're most effective and you can you can operate in other areas but you won't be as effective. It doesn't mean that because I'm called to a mountain I don't share Christ evangelistically. Right. It doesn't mean that But it does mean I will pro I will probably be most affected operating in my mountain. Right. You know. And everybody will be most affected operating primarily, that's where we're at. Primarily from their mountains. So that's how I how I see myself as as doing that. But in terms of what I can do to um get Well I can draw I mean we can always fast food, but um in term you know in terms of other things I can do, I don't know that I can really cut back on much. Um, it's hard to I mean when you when you're when you're single and you don't have anybody, you don't have a partner to help you with just a regular Mundane things to life. Well if you don't do it, it's not getting done. If you don't do it, it's not getting done. So you know, there's not a whole lot that a single person I said that's a vote um because you don't have anybody to you know it's not an excuse to just be irresponsible. Yeah, I mean like I said you can always fail Anybody can fast but if if if you know you may need to go and do a a certain thing on Thursday because there's nobody else there to help you with that thing You know, right. 'Cause uh Thursday's the only day that the soil so is open. You have you know what I mean? Yeah. You can do it for some not not terrible. you're saying is that it's more productive to instead of focus on something you can cut back, focus on specific area that you can focus that you can put more energy into. Maybe, maybe, maybe. Because and but because of my also because of my yeah, I thought about 10 back on social media. Well because of my calling that's probably not I don't know. I don't think you're I don't think social presence is right. It's kind of important right now. I mean that's just an example. But anyway, uh I just you know but I you know Oh anyway, I'm not battling right now, but that was kind of the problem. Yeah. Is there I I definitely see what you're saying about the mouse I'm saying I don't know if I agree with the premise that you're only called to one. But I definitely kinda have a mentality that I need to just fire all shots. Yeah. And then you know, await relay or Jesus' return. Yeah. I don't know if to cut back on that. We're at a you know a bit of a disadvantage to try to have a productive conversation in a way that will feel tangible right now because a lot of the churches are doing the 40-day thing. You know, they've spent weeks or months preparing for it, getting the people to be thinking about it, so that when January 1st would come they'd be ready to go. That's not what we are. What I'm hoping to accomplish here, practically speaking, is for us to uh acknowledge in a more emphatic way how dire the circumstances around the world world are and in this country are and for the church are and in our local communities and all that sort of thing. And the same old same old Isn't gonna work. I mean it hasn't worked, it's gotten us to where we are now. So we need to figure out how to be more focused, more on tasks. And some of us are really, really focused and on tasks But maybe even we could find some ways to do something a little bit new or fresh or different, uh, to try to make an additional difference Maybe it's a matter of um going over a way to share the gospel with somebody in the grocery line or befriending a neighbor or Um already praying for you know fifteen minutes a day, pray for sixteen minutes a day. You know, or you've gotten into a habit where you're praying about the same twelve things over and over again, try to find a thirteenth and fourteenth thing to throw into the mix of your prayers or something because we are we need all hands on deck, we need people on their battle stations, and I'm sure that all of us, you know, could could find at least days where we have accepted Over the next 40 days, I'm sure we could find some moments where we weren't as on task, as focused, as spiritually minded um as uh w not having the full armor of God on uh the way that we could or should. Uh and so really what I'm hoping maybe is over the next forty days that we get to a place where we've identified some things in our life where we can be things you know comes first. Um so to be it mindful of preparing for rain. That's why I ended the message the way I did, is what can we do over the next 40 days to earnest not just pray for rain, but prepare for it. And if we've already been preparing for it like crazy and there's nothing for us to change And if that's honestly to goodness the answer, then okay, fine, fair enough. But make sure it's honest to goodness really the answer, and we're not giving ourselves an easy one. way out. I mean it'd be really easy for me to say, oh well I'm a pastor of a church, so I don't have any additional church things to worry about. But that said, I was convicted recently, I'll use this as something we're going to be working on as we prepare for change, is uh Um we allowed ourselves for years and years we were really good about it and we allowed ourselves over the last year or two to get a little bit lax about involving our son in the church life, in the worship, in the you know, in the the the community And so we're going to be spending these next 40 days to reestablish the habit of of him being a part of what we're doing and then obviously then continuing to it beyond that and finding ways not just to have him be part of it, but maybe to have him be a contributor somehow, some way over time, or to reinforce his his role that I'm I'm not sure that we know exactly what his role best role would be, but he's got one. He's gonna figure out what it is. And uh And uh you know we've got a a family that's been talking about possibly joining us with young ones and I don't know if they are or aren't, but if they don't somebody else might And if that happens, we're going to have a whole bunch you know, Tyler he's older, but he's you know developmentally like uh a child. And uh we've got two other little ones, and if we have another two or three little ones joined, all of a sudden we're gonna have like, you know four, five, six little ones, and we're gonna have to figure out how to manage that as a church uh and be there for each other and and uh train up our children in the church to you know, uh to have a role, to learn how to uh uh over time, over the next forty days increasingly, incrementally improve in how they handle things and stuff. And so I've you know, even though I could say, Oh well I'm preparing my sermons and all this stuff, there are aspects within the church life that I've identified that for the next forty days we can focus on. Um so I don't know if that's helpful to people. I will say this, start with the basics. If you're somebody that has not read the Bible all the way through or somebody who is not making that a regular part of your life that maybe Just let's don't overthink this. Start there. You know, get in the Word, be consistent about it, spend time with God in His Word every day. Even if it's five minutes, hopefully longer, but uh uh just create the habit of every day. You cannot go to sleep at night if you haven't been in the world. that day. You've got to kind of make a covenant with yourself and create that habit. If that's not where you are, then start there. If you're not sure what other changes you can be, what you could do to demonstrate a spiritual seriousness about what's going on then there's nothing wrong with a good old-fashioned food fast. And the food fast can be skip breakfast or skip lunch or skip coffee or skip it can be something as simple as that. You don't have to overthink this. You don't have to get cutesy You know, it's like every year I know the our Roman Catholic friends are trying to find some new exotic way to give up something for Lent. You know, it's like don't overthink it. Um that's what I heard was giving up uh Christianity for once. No, for real. Yeah, well I think too many people did that for forty days and here we are today. They they it became their habit and they gave it up. So I don't know if any of any role of that is helpful. Hopefully some of that is helpful. Do you have anything you wanted uh say? No? Do you have anything more you want to add? No. All right. Before we close in prayer, I don't know where she went, but we were trying to work on doing the Lord's Prayer. Nadia. Maybe mom can do it with her if you want. Come here. Are you ready for your turn? My turn. Your turn? Come here. Nadia's turn. Mommy's room. Mommy's room. You want to take churches with Mommy? Maybe you could do it from there, I don't know. Nadia? Can you say our Father in heaven? Good job. You got the first phrase. Has she worked on anything beyond that yet or no? Uh we haven't chosen the I mean Hallow needs to be in it. Proper word. The proper word. You know, she may not know what it means, but she can mention it. She could mean the word. Your parents. Well anyway, okay, so well next we got our father in heaven. In heavens. We got that down. So next week we'll work on the next Yeah. Do you have any sense of how quickly she would be If we use words that she can say so like hollow hollowed would be one that's one that would make it a lot more difficult, so we probably have So once we changed from art in heaven to in heaven, she got that instantly. It was that part that she was struggling with for the past couple weeks. So what's the what's the verse again? Are there any translations that just I don't off the top of my head? I thought like holy is your name maybe or something like that. Yeah, maybe something for her. Yeah, the Living Bible translational transition. Anyway, all right. Well we're going to continue to work on that. Yeah. And we'll find one that she can kind of say without struggling with any particular word for a long period of time. And something else I want to say, I uh I had an opportunity, a perfect opportunity Opportunity to share the gospel with somebody this past week and I totally dropped the ball. Uh but I'm gonna recreate the scenario and share it now so that uh we can all learn together how to take advantage of these opportunities. Somebody who's got a lot of angst about what's going on in the world, uh things we were just talking about, asked me, Well do you think things are ever gonna get back to normal? And my honest answer was, well, first answer that I thought was what's normal. But the words that came out of my mouth was, no. It's i it's not gonna go back to the way it was three years ago. It's just it's not gonna happen. It somehow it could be come up better over time if we win the culture war and all that sort of thing. stuff. But go back to how things were twenty years ago. 911 happened and then there was the Patriot Act went into place and we still have all the security measures at the at the at the airports and that's not going to change ever probably like you know realistically. So my answer was no. And it was discouraging to her, you know, so that maybe wasn't the best answer either. But I realized afterwards, or actually almost immediately afterwards, I was like, but how I probably should have pitted it back, but I didn't. But anyway, instead, when she said, Do you think things are ever gonna go back to normal? My answer should have been, you know, that's a really good question, and I have similar concerns. But I gotta tell you, if our hopes are merely on going back to normal, we really have too small a view of how good things can be Because really how good was normal. But you know, a day is coming when Jesus Christ will return and he will establish in fullness his kingdom. And his people will join him in glory with no more of this crying and pain and dying and death and all that weariness and all the angst that we have. It'll be gone forever. That's what things would it's not a matter of do I think. That is what is coming. Because that was what was designed for us from the very beginning when God made us in his image. designed us to have that kind of relationship with him and with the others that are part of his creation. Of course we screwed it up with our sin, which is why you're asking The question like you're asking about will things get back to normal. We've messed it up and we can't fix it on our own. We don't have it within us to fix it. Uh but praise God, He provided a way. That way is Jesus Christ, He is the truth He is the life. And by trusting in him, we enter into a whole new aspect of life while we progress in our in our Contentment, progress in our holiness, progress in the way that we contribute to the world until Christ arrives to do what I said a second ago about that wondrous future. that awaits. And that's really good news that counterbalances all the bad news that we have. I should have given that answer or something like it. Instead of no, are you kidding me? It's not gonna be So we can all get better at this. So I wanted to share that. Um anybody feel like they want to close us in prayer? Thank you, Heavenly Father, for another time spent together, another time learning from your word. And Father, even though things may not get back to the way they were, there's always hope in you, Lord Jesus. That they can be Better than they were. Even here and now. Because you are still on the throne and you are sorving. And we have a people who are crying out In accordance with Second Chronicles fourteen. people that you can you are working in and can work through. And we thank you, Lord, that the example from your word is that all you need is a remnant. All you needed was a rena. All you needed was three hundred soldiers with Gideon. You didn't need the entire army of Israel. And you can deliver through a renaissance. So we thank you for that. We thank you, Lord, for the justice that is being displayed in our mission. The recent verdicts of major trials. Mommy creative evidence that you are moved in this land. We thank you, Lord. And we thank you, Lord Jesus, that you you told us that all those who have tribulation in this world for us to take heart because you've overcome the world. And we believe that you are powerful enough to overcome even this present evil and give us a reprieve from the certain end that is to come. And end that ushers in your your glorious kingdom. So we thank you for this. We rest in you no matter what's happening around us. We have that privilege. We thank you. before it and uh we ask you lord to keep working by your spirit keep working keep working keep bringing about your purposes even in the midst of all of his difficulties. We bless you, Father. We thank you. We trust in you. We hope in you. We rest in you. And in the mighty name of the Lord Jesus Christ, we commit all things to you you. In Jesus' name, amen. Amen. Thanks for joining us, those online. I'm not going to wish you a happy new year because that's a habit, but you know what? Happiness is fleeting. That's not the main goal in life. I want to wish you a joyous new year. That you would maintain joy and hope in the Lord, and that throughout this year we would learn to have contentment in all circumstances. So have a content and joyous new year. To next week. God bless