And hello, live stream. Uh oh, actually I've forgotten to do this the last couple of times. Alright, let me turn on myself. And while I'm turning this stuff on, let me uh let you know that if you're watching this on YouTube, in all in all likelihood, this is the last video that you're going to see on YouTube They've begun to censor the church's videos, and so we we can't have that. So we are in the process of transitioning all of the uh video content that we do here at Household of Faith in Christ Transitioning it on to Rumble. So we're going to have a Rumble channel. Actually we have a Rumbles channel right now, but it's a little bit in disarray. So anyway, like last week's message, it was taken down by YouTube, never to return. So we obviously we we can't abide that. So we another option. So anyway, so that's where we are on that If you'd like to connect with our YouTube channel or the Rumble channel or any of our social media or anything about us, our past sermons, our our statement of belief, all that sort of stuff. We're an unusual house church in that we have a website, uh HouseholdofINCrist dot com. I would encourage you to go there and check that out. Uh to be honest, I think it's one of the better church websites in the area, in spite of us merely being a house church. So we're we're we're endeavoring to do things with excellence as best as our resources allow us to. Tonight we're going to be Jumping back into our long-lost, almost forgotten series in the book of Revelation. We had a number of things disrupt our our pattern, but we're getting back into it. So you're going to want to get your Bibles ready. We're going to be in Revelation chapter 5 today, so you don't want to turn there. During the sermon, we're going to spend some time in Exodus chapter 15 and also in Isaiah chapter 42. You don't have to read along with those passages, but it might be helpful if you did. So if you want to put a bookmark or stick a thumb. Exodus 15, Isaiah 42. And the primary passage we're preaching from today is Revelation chapter 5, verses 9 through 14, a message tonight that I titled The Lamb's Triumph. Also, before we get into any of that, we're going to be reading a passage from the Old Testament, Daniel chapter 7, the first 28 verses. So we're going to Get back into our habit of being deep in the Word and being edified by it. So anyway, giving ourselves a couple minutes for the people that joined the stream who are interested in doing so. Everybody here is gathered and ready to go. So um if we can have maybe an opening word of prayer and then we'll have our scripture readings. Heavenly Father, thank you so much for this time to gather to be in your presence. We ask your Holy Spirit would lead our discussion. Pray that you fill Torah with your Holy Spirit that the only thing that comes out of his mouth is that which you would have him say speak. We thank you that we can know the truth by your word through the power of your spirit. And we praise you and we ask that you would bless our time together. That you would be glorified for the edification of us, for the glorification of you, and the advancement of your kingdom. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. Amen. Alright. If you if you have them, if you would open up your Bibles, or if you, you know, one of these newfangled creatures that uses electronic devices, I guess that's okay Open your Bible to Daniel chapter seven because we're going to be reading the first uh twenty-eight verses. We've got two readers who are going to take turns on that. So we can start with uh verse one, Daniel chapter seven. Read till you're reading till fourteenth. In the first year of Belshir, King of Babylon, Daniel had a dream and visions passed through his mind. He was lying on his bed. He wrote down the substance of his dream. Daniel said, In my vision at night I looked, and there before me were the four winds of heaven churning at the The Great Sea. Four great beasts, each different from the others, came up out of the sea. The first was like a lion, and it had the wings of an eagle. were torn off and it was lifted from the ground so that it stood on two feet like a man, and the heart of a man was given to it. And there before me was a second beast Which looked like a bear, it was raised up on one of its sides and it had three ribs in its mouth between its teeth. It was told, Get up and eat your fill of flesh. After that I looked, and there before me was another beast, one that looked like a leopard, and on its back it had four wings like those of a bird. This beast had four fourheads and was given authority to rule. After that, in my vision at night, I looked, and there before me was a fourth beast, terrifying and frightening and very powerful. It had large iron teeth that crushed and devoured its victims and trampled underfoot whatever was left. and it had ten horns. While I was thinking about the horns, there before me was another horn, a little one, which came up among them, and three of the first horns were upgraded before it. This horn had Eyes like the eyes of a man, and a mouth that spoke boastfully. As I looked, bones were set in place, and the ancient of days took his sear. White like wool, his throne was flaming with fire, and its wheels were all ablaze. A river of fire was flowing, coming out from before him. Thousands upon thousands attended him. Thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court was seated and the books were opened. Then I continued to watch because of the boastful words the horn was speaking. I kept looking until the beast The other beasts had been stripped of their authority, but were allowed to live for a period of time. In my vision at night I looked and there before me was one like a son of man, coming with the clouds of heaven. He approached the ancient of days and was led into He was given authority, glory, and sovereign power. All peoples, nations, and men of every language worshipped him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion that will not pass away. And his kingdom is one that will never be destroyed. I, Daniel, was troubled in spirit, and the visions that passed to my mind kept alarming me. I approached one of those who were standing by and began asking him the exact meaning of all this. So he told me and made known to me the interpretation of these things. These great beasts, which are four in number, are four kings who will arise from the earth. But the saints of the highest one will receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever for all angels. Then I desired to know the exact meaning of the fourth beast, which was different from all the others, exceedingly dreadful, with its teeth of iron and its claws of bronze, and which devoured, crushed, and trampled down And the mean of the ten horns that were on its head, and the other horn which came up, and before which three of them fell, namely that horn which had eyes and a mouth uttered Great boasts, and which was larger in appearance than its associates. I kept looking, and that horn was waging war with the saints and overpowering them. Until the ancient of days came, and the judgment was passed in favor of the saints of the highest one, and the time arrived when the saints took possession of the kingdom. Thus he said, The fourth beast will be a fourth kingdom on the earth Which will be different from all the other kingdoms, and it will devour the whole earth and tread it down and crush it, as for the ten horrors. Out of this kingdom, ten kings will arise. And he will speak out against the most high, and wear down the saints of the highest one, and he will intend to make alterations in times, and But the court will sit for judgment, and his dominion will be taken away, annihilated, and destroyed for Forever. Then the sovereignty, the dominion, and the greatness of all the kingdoms under the whole heaven will be given to the people of the saints of the highest one. His kingdom will be an everlasting kingdom, and all the dominions will serve and obey him. At this point, the revelation ended. As for me, Daniel, my thoughts were greatly alarming me, and my face grew pale, but I kept the matter to myself. We just heard the Word of God inspired, inerrant, infallible. As such, it is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those with ears to hear, let them hear. So we're going to dive into the last half of uh Revelation chapter five uh tonight. But we're gonna begin here by re recapping s just a couple of the high points from the first half. of the chapter because uh the last time we were in Ro uh Revelation chapter five was a while ago. And when we were there talking about it, or if you've read it recently, maybe you read it in preparation for us jumping back into our Revelation series this week. You know, it talks about the horns, which we just heard something about in the Daniel passage as well. And these horns, they symbolize majesty. and power. And by the way, when I'm talking about the symbolism and the meaning of this symbolism, uh we're not just making that up willy nilly. We are borrowing upon the ideas that are taken from the Old Testament, which is exactly what the Apostle John is doing as he describes the vision that he saw. He's borrowing upon Old Testament language and images to to share his vision with us For example, Deuteronomy 33, it addresses the subduing strength of Joseph and his two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh and uh the book of Daniel, chapter seven, which we just read moments ago, there's those ten horns in Daniel suggesting uh power over human affairs. There's the seven horns in Revelation that suggest supreme power, yes, over human affairs, but also over the spiritual realm. It's over all And this distinction in the meaning between the seven horns and the ten horns, it's going to impact us even more profoundly later on in our study of Revelation when we get to chapters twelve and thirteen. We have to remember Satan is the archenemy of God's people on earth. And he will be pictured as a dragon with ten horns later in the book of Revelation. Again, ten horns. And the beast from the sea will also have ten horns. Again, these ten horns, they symbolize earthly power. But we're also going to see later on these dastardly beings represented by images with seven heads, indicating their uh their attempt to claim supreme power over all things. But of course it's only their vain attempt to do so, to usurp Christ, the Lamb of God. He's the one with seven horns and seven eyes He alone has the supreme authority. He is the one who can reveal the prophecy of God. He is the one who controls and dominates everything in creation. He is the one who judges world events and all of humanity. He is the one The Lamb is. And he does this on behalf of the Father, and he does this for the benefit of his church, and he does this to carry out his mission to the very And what is pictured here in this portion of Scripture that we're studying tonight is the coronation of the Lamb. A coronation that will be consummated at his second coming. That's what's going on here in chapter 5. So now let's uh examine things, picking up where we left off the last time we were in Revelation several months ago now, going verse by verse. We're going to start off with uh Revelation 5 verses 9 and 10. Which say, And they sang a new song, saying, Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seals, for you were slain and purchase for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation You have made them to be a kingdom and priests to our God, and they will reign upon the earth. Now the they that's referenced there in verse 9 It's the four living creatures and the 24 elders. You might recall from our last study in Revelation so long, so many months ago now. They had just fallen down prostrate. In worship, after the Lamb came to take the book out of the right hand of him who sat on the throne. Picture the scene in your mind if you can. We've got God the Father seated upon his throne and in his right hand he holds a book. Or another way that we could view this, another way that this could be translated into English, is that upon his right hand there was a book. And he's holding out this book. He's offering this book. Whoever would take this book, whether it be a king or a cre uh a priest or both. Taking on a great privilege and also a great responsibility. And this privilege and this responsibility, they are taken from the right hand. God's right hand works salvation for his people. Students of the Bible know this from various points in Scripture, including Exodus chapter 15, where I had suggested before you might want to put a bookmark or stick a thumb. So if you did so, might want to turn there quickly, spend just a minute or two in Revelation in Exodus chapter 15 We're going to look right now at verse 6 and then also verses 12 and 13. Verse 6. Your right hand, O Lord, is majestic in power. Your right hand, O Lord, shatters the enemy. Verses 12 and 13, you stretched out your right hand, the earth swallowed the enemies of your people In your loving kindness, you have led the people whom you have redeemed. In your strength, you have guided them by your holy habitation. This privilege and this ru this responsibility, they're taken up by Jesus Christ, the Lamb of God. And He can do so why Because as the song says, worthy are you to take up the book and to break its seals, for you were slain and purchased for God with your blood men from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. This is the new song, which is a fresh expression of the old song. So let's again be reminded. Exodus chapter 15. Now look at the first three verses of that chapter, verses 1 through 3 Then Moses and the sons of Israel sang this song to the Lord and said, I will sing to the Lord, for he is highly exalted. The horse and its rider he has hurled into the sea. The Lord is my strength and song, and he has become my salvation. This is my God, and I will praise him. My father's God, and I will extol him. The Lord is a warrior. The Lord is his name. The Song of Moses, it sounds the note of victorious hope in the midst of ongoing conflict. There had been a great victory, but conflict continued for Israel, just as it does for us today. But the news song rings out the finality. Of Christ's ultimate victory, and it is a universal victory. The sons of Israel, we just saw, they sang the song, the old song. But now the singers include every tribe and tongue and people and nation. And these who are the elect of God, they have been made by him to be a kingdom of priests who reign upon the earth. What was once a title for the old covenant nation-state of Israel, Kingdom of Priests. It is now a title applied to an international assembly. These words give us An active living picture of Christ's worldwide royal priesthood Now, English translations of Revelation chapter 5, verse 10, they might often say something like, God's people will reign or will rule as a kingdom of priests, and that's fine as far as it goes. However, The tense of the ink of the original Greek word here, it can be either future or present. And this ambiguity in the original Greek, it's actually rather helpful because it allows us to meditate on the fact that the saints, the followers of the way, Already rule now in Christ in some sense with the fullness of the reign still to come in the future. Now we're going to talk more about songs both old and new when we get deeper into Revelation chapter 15 And we're going to have more to say about the kingdom of priests when we get to Revelation chapter twenty, as we already did when we were back in Revelation chapter one. So we're going to move on now from verses nine and ten and jump ahead to verses eleven and twelve So picking up with verse 11. Then I looked, and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne, and the living creatures, and the elders. And the number of them was myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands. Sang with a loud voice. Worthy is the lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor And glory and blessing. Now the Jewish tradition It held that the angels acted as intermediaries before God, offering up the prayers of God's people. As God sat on his throne. And we can actually see an element of that here. And there will be actually an element of this again in Revelation chapter 8. But right now What we see? Yeah, we see the angels, but we see something more than this. Yeah, the angels, they're there, but they're joined by the elders. And what's more by the living creatures. And there are lots of them. Myriads of myriads. This means countless of countless, or 10,000 times 10,000. And that's not all. There are also, on top of this, thousands of thousands. And we still use language like this today, don't we? Right? Thousands upon thousands of people. That means, you know Incalculable number of people, so many, it's beyond our capacity to count that high. And there's a repetitive rhetorical device that's being used here by the Apostle John Because remember, I've mentioned this in the past, so remember I'll mention it from time to time as a reminder. In the original languages the Bible were written in, the ancient Hebrew, the ancient Greek, there were no punctuation marks in those languages. And so They had to find other ways the writers did to emphasize their points. And one of the ways they could dramatically emphasize something was to repeat it. Now there are some hyper-literalists. They might be tempted to say something like, well, you know, let's see now. A myriad, that's 10,000. And if we multiply 10,000 by 10,000, let's see, that do the math. That gives us 100 million. And we add on top of that the 1,000 multiplied by 1,000, well that's another 1 million, and so add those two together, and what we end up with, perhaps, is that John is communicating to us here in this passage that there is precisely 101 million people in the vision. This is not how we are to approach our interpretation of apocalyptic language. The Book of Revelation is I've majored in as a theme for help us understand how to properly interpret uh this book of the Bible in so many of our messages. I'm going to hammer it home here again. The book of Revelation is a word picture. It's a word picture masterpiece. It is not a high school mathematics textbook. So let's make sure that we're focusing on what the text literally means, not on some artificial imposed wooden meaning for each individual utterance. Now, before we make the next point, let's read verse 13. And every created thing which is in heaven and on the earth and under the earth and on the sea, and all the things in them I heard saying, To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and dominion for ever and ever. Well, this is comprehensive. Everyone and everything witnessing with the Holy Spirit, proclaiming the worthiness. Of the Father and the Son. Those in heaven? Yep. On earth, too? Absolutely. How about under the earth? Yes? Once again. Even in the sea. Even in the sea. All things in them. Mm-hmm. All things. Yes sir rebuff. That just about covers it And one can't help but notice the repeated use of the word and in verses 12 and 13. The lamb who was slain Because he is worthy, he receives power and riches. And wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. All of those and They super emphasize the point. There's a list of seven here, and don't miss that. The importance of the number seven in the book of Revelation to its structure and interpretate interpreting its symbolism. It's huge. There's a list of seven. And the Lamb, he receives them all. Seven, pointing to his total, complete, perfect authority. Even over the spiritual realm. And in verse 13, the Lamb receives what the one who is seated on the throne receives. They both receive the same thing because they both are. God. And in this case, there are four words that we see: blessing and honor and glory and dominion. So here, that's number four, we're seeing an allusion to his authority over the creation. If you remember our study from last summer, those who were here for that. The number four recurrently comes up in the book of Revelation as a number for creation. It's actually in other parts of the Bible as well. Now, how long does he exercise this spiritual and creational authority? How long does he exercise that dominion? Forever and ever. Notice there's a repetitive nature to that phrase too, right? Again, there's no there's no way to put an exclamation point. So there's you could almost say forever exclamation point. Forever and ever. Or actually, more woodenly, if we wanted to have a wooden translation here, the translation would be Into the Ages of Ages. He rules for age upon age upon age, because he is worthy to take this rule, symbolized by him taking the scroll. Now given the range of meaning for certain English words, I'm going to take just a moment to put a finer point on this because I want to make sure we miss we we avoid any miscommunication. John's vision here is not hinting in any way at Christ having stolen this authority. And I mention this because there are skeptics who might possibly misunderstand, even purposely misunderstand, so that they can say, hey, he took it. He stole it. It wasn't his and he took it anyway. He grabbed it when it wasn't his. Well, no, that's that's what Antichrist does. And that's what we will see to be true about the devil and his pagan puppets as we march our way through the book of Revelation. But under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, the grammar that is used here by the Apostle John as he recorded what it was he saw in his vision It provides a really helpful nuance of clarity. The Greek word here is the word lembano. It's a form of the word labian. It can mean take. It can mean receive. It can mean both. So the scroll that was taken by the Lamb, it also means the scroll was received by the Lamb. He took it because it was offered to him. And it was offered to him because it's rightfully his. And it's rightfully his because he's worthy. His worthiness is why he's the recipient. It's also why he's the recipient of so many doxologies. Well the book of the Apocalypse, the Book of Revelation, it contains not surprisingly A total of seven doxologies. We find one near the very beginning of the book, we find one near the very end of the book, and then we find five more that are clustered here together in chapters four through seven. And the longest of these doxologies is right here in chapter five. And it comes because the lamb was slain and yet is now alive. Reminder, chapter 4, it exclaims, Worthy are you, our Lord and our God, to receive glory and honor and power. And chapter 5 exclaims, Worthy are you to take the book and to break its seals, for you were slain. And again, chapter 5, it adds, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain. He is worthy because he is God who offered himself up to be slain. He has rescued his people eternally, in parallel with what he did proximately for his people at the Red Sea. And he also exercises ceaseless vigilance over his creation with his seven eyes. That's a symbolic representation of his Holy Spirit. And he fulfills what was promised in Isaiah 42. That's another place I suggested you might want to bookmark or stick a thumb in to turn to later when we got there. So if you've done so, you can turn there now. Going to look at the first half, the first thirteen verses of Isaiah 42. Behold my servant whom I uphold. My chosen one in whom my soul delights. I have put my spirit upon him. He will bring forth justice to the nations. He will not cry out, or raise his voice, Nor make his voice heard in the street. A bruised reed he will not break, In a dimly burning wick he will not Extinguish He will faithfully bring forth justice. He will not be disheartened or crushed until he has established justice in the earth and the coastlands. will wait expectantly for his law. Thus says God the Lord, who created the heavens and stretched them out, who spread out the earth and its offspring. who gives breath to the people on it and spirit to those who walk in it. I am the Lord. I have called you in righteousness. I will also hold you by the hand and watch over you, and I will appoint you as a covenant to the people, as a light to the nations. To open blind eyes, to bring out prisoners from the dungeon, and those who dwell in darkness from prison. I am the Lord. That is my name. I will not give my glory to another, nor my praise to graven images. Behold, the former things have come to pass. Now I declare new things. Before they spring forth, I proclaim them to you. Sing to the Lord a new song, sing his praise from the end of the earth. You who go down to the sea and all that is in it, you Islands and those who dwell on them. Let the wilderness and its cities lift up their voices, the settlements where Kijar inhabits. Let the inhabitants of Salah sing aloud Let them shout for joy from the tops of the mountains. Let them give glory to the Lord and declare his praise in the coastlands. The Lord will go forth like a warrior. He will arouse his zeal like a man of war. He will utter a shout. Yes, he will raise a war cry. He will prevail against his enemies. Oh, that's a benediction from the Lord. We've kind of grown used to hearing very short benedictions these days, but benediction, that simply means good word. In the first half of Isaiah 42, that is most assuredly a good word from God. And what's the proper response to a good word such as this? No. Well, the final verse of Revelation 5 tells us. Verse 14. And the four living creatures kept saying, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped. Those with the ears to hear fall down and worship. And say, Amen, and keep on saying it. And those without ears to hear, well For those, there is the last half of Isaiah chapter 42, which we did not read tonight, but uh would encourage you to maybe check out later on. Where God provides a warning. So those who are spiritually deaf, God warns you. But those with perfect pitch, those who have ears to hear, well. With God's word you've been encouraged. And also charged by God to walk in the reality of the risen Lamb's worthiness. Walk in it. Because he is worthy. So say we all. Let's pray. Father, we praise you. Our words can sometimes fail us as we seek to do this adequately. But we praise you for your Holy Spirit giving us the words as we extol your name. We magnify the Lamb who was slain and yet now is alive. We admit our need for this coronated king, our king, ruling over a kingdom that you have made us to be part of. Oh how we thank you. We ask that you would lead and guide the conversation that is about to follow, that we would do and say things here together that would glorify and magnify who you are and would also provide mutual edification for your bride. Help us to always be consistently faithful to your word In the scriptures you've preserved for us all these years. It's in the inestimable name of Christ that we pray. Let me shift back over here. So as we look to kick off our our discussion Again, this whole section, this whole theme here is about Christ's coronation. And he's coronated because he's worthy. And there's something we should do in response to that worthiness So that's the opening question. What are some things that come to mind? The kinds of things that we can do, that we're already doing, that we could do better, to show our appreciation for the worthiness. Well, y to things that we should that we could be doing to show that we appreciate him, that and how worthy he is, is that what you're saying? Mm-hmm. Well for one, not act like we're ashamed of him. I think that too many Christians are afraid of what people might think of them, what people might say to them or whatever. And I don't I I can't think of anybody who was who thought that they had a wonderful king and but was afraid to say it. If you think you have a wonderful king, there should be no fear in saying that. Yeah, well I think we could echo that with a worldly example if you spend any time at all on social media, not as much the last six months or so, but before that I mean, Trump supporters were not shy about building up the Trump brand, bragging on their secular king, if you will. Right? I don't see quite the same social media presence and passion for Christ. We don't have red, white, and blue banners for Jesus that we're waving around or whatever. Jesus 2020, I didn't see a whole lot of those. So yeah Yeah, I think that there's I think there's definitely something to that. Whether it's being ashamed of and I think there can be some times of that which Yeah boy, do not be ashamed of Christ because then he will be ashamed of you. You don't want you don't want that. Um yeah, fear. Why don't you expand on what you mean by that? I mean It's not cool to be a Christian anymore. It's you know, it's not like people are afraid of what others will think instead of them. Absolutely. Might lose popularity. I don't know that I agree with that necessarily, but if you kind of use that as a model and you say, Well look what's happened with Trump supporters and how um facts have been twisted to target that particular group of people. Do we then want to put ourselves in a social media place where that becomes the secular goal is then to target people for Christian Christianity or do we want to reach people outside of that toxic area? Do you know what I mean? Like do we think both are necessary. But do we want to make Christians a uh target of social media. Yes. If we do not make ourselves a target, are we really putting ourselves out there? that we're really target are you are you guys saying making ourselves a target or targeting Christians with our messaging what do you think Christianity in general because there's there's this whole um I I'm I was probably speaking before I should, but there's this whole concept of uh don't judge Christianity by Christians. When you're speaking and and interacting on social media, there's context And so putting us out putting ourselves out there on social media. However, I'm getting your thrust of we should be waving the flag of Christ, you know, the onward Christian soldier more in our lives. We need to really do that we need to do that in an air place where we can be communicating in all you know tone and voice and all of that. I'm I'm worried that if we start throwing things out on social media they pull things out of context and it can be turned No, it I get that. I don't disagree with that. I think that all of this should be, you know the prerequisite is that you know human know what you're talking about in the first place, obviously, but not you, but like when people go to talk about something. Um but as a I think that it's Important to if you're going I mean if you don't talk on social media at all then well it doesn't really matter because you're not talking anyway, but if you're going to be on social media, if you have if If you talk about things, if you read things, like things, whatever platform you're on, then I think that it's important that that you're very clear and honest that you know, so you know, if something comes up that uh that you think is unbiblical or that you think is you know, against what price would want that you that you say that if you're the type of person that would normally react to something in the first place. I d don't tend to comment a lot. Um but you know you know, comment on something, you know, I have friends who put a lot of uh pro abortion stuff up and I'll be like, you That's not Christlike. That's not, you know, and it's it's one thing to just throw out a bunch of Bible verses. You're right, that could absolutely be taken out of context. Um but I think I think that it's also very important to not be shy to stand up for biblical beliefs on social media. So I don't disagree with that. I'm just thinking And it will make us a target in in that sense. You're right. I don't think we should ever hide from it. And you know, portion is a great example when people post things about it portion I'm never shy about coming out. Trust me, I've been targeted many songs in social media. It's fine. But I think we just have to be very careful. I particularly feel like it That's such a huge responsibility to take on. I think you shouldn't do it. No, I don't want to put it myself as a teacher even though I might have you know I might know and I could say, here's what the Bible says or here's a piece of scripture and maybe post that but I don't I wouldn't want to place myself in a position where I'm taking a stand and I'm arguing a point when I'm not really versed enough to know where I might have be creating pitfalls. I mean if you're not sure then then I would I would totally agree that if you're not entirely sure that you're correct in the first place, getting into a debate or discussion is probably not the wisest decision. I have two things to comment on that. Just interject. Uh no, just in general. The first part is like as far as like the armor of God goes, the sword of the spirit, which is the word of God, is the most powerful So that's just something to keep in mind, like the shield of faith and the sword of the spirit. Uh just things to keep in mind. Like let the you know, the Bible can speak for itself, so I don't think quoting Bible verses is necessarily a bad thing. The second, which kind of points more to your context, what you were talking about with the whole we don't want to make ourselves a target, if you think about many areas of the ch in the world where the church, you know, functionally has to operate underground, like Even in Canada, I don't think the church can operate in Canada because of the Canadian laws. They cannot really operate in Canada above ground. Right. So you know, they they pract like the underground churches in Canada are practicing some level of discretion despite having you know, same access to social media that we have in America And you know, other persecuted churches, you know, they uh you know don't have the same access to social media, so it's not as relevant to them, but they certainly practice a level of discretion. to your point about not making ourselves a target. I have one thing to add and then I'll I know you you wanted to talk. I think as far as social media is concerned, if we can get Get to a point where and I'm not saying that, you know, how many of us have people on our friends list where maybe we don't really even know them, but if we can get to a point where there is some sort of a rapport developed and maybe Maybe we can say, hey, how about, you know, I noticed what you wrote or whatever. Can we get together for coffee? Can we because I think that's the dialogue that needs to happen. There needs to be that so that there can be the fullness, because I totally agree with you and I agree with you too. So where where is that Balance. How do we make that happen? Exactly. Exactly. Right. I my fear is that, you know we don't want to create we don't want to put that in I won't I wanna call any names, but this secular wacky doodle mindset of like, oh let's we need to target now the Christian church. Right look, they're becoming powerful Right. Social media. W w we would rather be building our kingdom without regard for what you know, what kind of is going on up there. But I I I I just fear that um I feel we're in a really dangerous time right now. Well we're we are being persecuted. The church is being persecuted, the church is being winnowed, we see that. Right. And I'm not saying look out for myself. I mean I posted on January second I post a big long post about it today. Hey, I was there and here's all the things that happened, come and get me, I don't care. Right. You know, I mean it's the same it's the same thing. It's not about like personal fears. Right. It's about if we really want to have this movement We have to be smart about how we do it. That's my concern. And I think the good thing about this in all of this is right, it's not up to us. You know, we don't bear that burden. It's Christ that will um grow his church. You know, his kingdom come, thy will be done. So it's not about us in the sense that we're not going to save anybody. We're not going, but we are instruments. We are a kingdom of priests. So there's a responsibility there. But you're right, there's that, okay, so where's the wisdom lie in that. Which is why I sent that to you knowing that I have a relationship with you. Right, right. You I didn't believe me, I didn't I was not gonna just post that on social media. What am I stupid? that you were in a very different place in interacting probably with a lot more people who are new families and young, hungry new families and young different younger. And they're more open to like wow I'm in this new phase of life and there's just all this, you know, new life that's coming in. It makes you think about different things. I'm in a I'm I'm in a j you know, the next level up where a lot of people have fairly solid what they think and we've got a lot of we're fighting against maybe a higher level of cynicism when I'm dealing with people who are in their fifties. I deal with per personally See well in your m my my base is very different from even Ray's here because um it is. I actually deal largely with people who already hate Christianity. A large portion of my friends, um, people I knew from high school, from college, whatever. Um Um I do have some very good Christian friends as well, don't get me wrong. But social media wise, um Typically the target's already there. Christians already are the target with a lot of the people that I interact with. So it's almost not practical to not make myself a target because that would be hiding. I've already been painted as a target. I was painted as a target because I was a Christian It's not like I did anything. You know. So in in in that regard Embrace. Yeah, it Yeah. Okay, fine. Here I am. We were there with the little ones too. So But it was a different social media world too. There wasn't any. Yeah, it's so much true. So a couple of things I think could be helpful to me inject here a little bit. Um it's probably the way you phrase it, but just as a point of clarification, because I you know uh as often as possible I want to try to be precise. I think it's completely uh appropriate and fair. uh to make judgments about Christianity. Uh we do it all the time. We talk about, you know, the wayward way of the Western Church and how all the Some of you the American churches have gone wayward and what passes for Christianity today is not biblical. And so that's fine. But I think probably your point you were making was you don't want to judge Christ by the behavior of Christian. But I think it's fair and appropriate for us to judge Christianity, if you will, in a more broad sense by the behavior of Christians, and that should inspire those of us who are actual true believers and followers of Christ to realize that we've got to mind our P's and Q's and uh put forward a better face to to so we represent our King. premise was how do we go about demonstrating the worthiness of our king and we want to demonstrate that worthiness by a change in our lives and a change in our attitudes. Um reg regarding the social media thing, I think You know, technology changes, uh the the way the world and and information travels changes as a result. And so think about Paul the apostle. uh at Mars Hill, he went there because that was the marketplace of ideas in Greece, right? He went there so that he could he could exchange ideas with the people who were communicating about important ideas. Well whether important or otherwise, the marketplace of ideas now has become social media. People aren't gathering on the street corners talking or not. So if if we're hoping to make an impact in the marketplace of ideas, uh then I think Christians have to kind of be there. But a couple of things that could be helpful ideas for us to think. Well, there's no requirement to go there. But what I'm saying is I don't think there's there's a need to throw up a caution flab either, like it's a no-go zone, or we should really be careful extra careful there necessarily. I will say this though. It's so easy given the lack of social connectivity on what is called social media. to forget yourself or maybe a better way to think about this, forget our king. And so it might be a really good practical habit for us to think about all of us. I don't know that any I don't do it consistently and I and I've just been thinking about this recently. Before you jump on social media, um take some time to pray Yeah, humble yourself before your king. So you have the right mindset uh and framework to what you're doing before you engage in the marketplace because is it's coming at you fast and furious. I mean if you're willing to engage, um even if you're not willing to engage, if you put something out there, people will try to engage you and it can come hard and fast and sometimes very mean spirited and it can be constructed as very hurtful and in the flesh sometimes you kind of you might leave respond in the moment and you hit the send button before you had a chance to really think about it. And we pray beforehand and try to maintain uh a sense of the presence of the Holy Spirit that dwells within us as we're interacting. I I think that will help. Um and if we do have a concern, it was voiced here that some might have a concern that I'm just not equipped. I mean if I start to say, well, you know, abortion's bad because God says so, and then somebody says, Oh yeah, where does God say so? Well I I I can't remember exactly where and you feel like in it. You know what? Put God's truth out there. And to Ray's point, you know, there's nothing better than God's word itself. Make sure that we're using it appropriately and in context. Right. If it's out of context, you can twist it. But if it's if it's on point and it's in context, then God's word never returns void It's going to accomplish its purpose. It's either going to change the heart or it's going to harden the heart. But it's not going to be an unacknowledged thing. It does something. It accomplishes something every time you wield that sword. It does something. But where's the the pearls to find out? Exactly. So you're gonna so you're going to be willing to engage, but again you're gonna be looking for discernment and and and wisdom and you know judging the situation. and if it becomes clear that, you know what, I'm just casting my pearls before uh swine, okay, it's time to move on and dust the dirt off your sandals Uh and and move on. So it be well and so that means sometimes on social media you've got to be willing to let somebody else have the last word and say, you know what? This person's unpersuadable And it's time to move on. And sometimes you can ask them kind of a closing question, they might may or may not answer it. But it's like, if somehow I could provide you with irrefutable evidence that this was true, would you change your mind? And sometimes they'll say there's no such thing as irrefutable evidence on that. They give you your answer. Like they cannot be moved. They can't even comprehend that there might possibly be. If it's not social media, that's not your thing, that's not your game, whatever, totally fine, but we are called to you know share the good news. We're called to go and make disciples We should be prepared at all times to give the reason for the hope that lies within. So we should be engaging. And you know what? If you don't know the answer to a question, somebody starts challenging you can handle the first couple of volleys, but after that you're like, ooh, I'm out of my death now. I I'm not really a theologian. I'm just somebody who attends church. You know, what do I know? Um it's okay to say I don't know the answer to that right now But I'm gonna get it for you. I'm gonna do some research, I'm gonna talk to my pastor, I'm going to uh read the Bible, I'm gonna get an answer And on social media you have the advantage of, I mean you can disappear for a day and come back and answer it. I mean they don't necessarily know. So I think we have more courage than we allow ourselves to have. most of the time. I think that um I mean a really ever present example of this, talking about Christ and his kingship is a little over a year ago, you know, a bunch of uh governors across the country in various states and different county executives in different counties across the country told churches you guys can't meet. Right. And the biblical, Christ exulting, honoring of his worthiness as our king response was, I'm sorry, Mr. or Mrs. Governor, I don't respond to you on this question. I answer to my king who is worthy. Amen. And we die on a hill like that. Right. And what happened to that? And the church, the church, Christianity Failed. Exactly. But that's not a failure of Christ. That's a failure of posers who have been pretending to be Christ, uh Christ's followers, because uh as we know from first John John chapter two. Not all who are with us were with us. You know, people who left us weren't with us. They showed their true colors and w boy. taking place? We're seeing that, I will say, as heartbreaking as it can be, it's really been helpful in a clarifying sort of a sense There are people that well there there have always been people that you knew you couldn't trust, so you didn't trust them. And there are some you're a little suspicious, like I wonder if they're trusting I don't I don't know enough about where they really stand and how fervent they are in their and their commitment to biblical truth. And then that got exposed. But then on top of that, and this has been quite a wake-up call, there are a lot High level big name people and well regarded in the local community people that you think, no, they're solid. And over the last couple of years They have consistently demonstrated over and over again that they're not. Now I'm willing to have grace, you know. If somebody got it wrong early, then came to their senses, repented, acknowledged a mistake, started doing the right thing, you know what? None of them I mean part of the whole repenting thing is to admit you're wrong and what we're seeing is not that from larger faith. Well they either double down or change but hope you don't notice. I'm not sure about that part, but like the pastor of a church in California. Well a very large church in California. He's been one of the leading theological voices in America for the last Yeah, yeah, I guess that's a good idea. But like other figures they're like basically trying to like you you got some major figures that are trying to write a book about the importance of corporate worship when they were condemning John MacArthur and now they're not bringing money into the coffers. Right? That was the biggest mistake, right? They marketed too well. Church isn't essential, trust us. You don't have to come. And everybody said, Oh, okay, we won't. I mean they're still trying to do that. I mean unless you want to argue the smaller but stronger standpoint, which my which I had a manager that would always say after high turnout Um which is an argument you can make, yeah. I'd rather have ten people I can count on to be there in that street fight Than a thousand people that will abandon me as soon as the start fights. I mean seriously. Give me one that will stand with me and fight. Well hopefully, um and this isn't about church, but I I was very disappointed that Kelly Schultz went through and chose the non essential businesses. You know, she did that whole selection process and now she wants our vote to be the governor. And so I Instead I really think we need a county executive in Frederick that's a little stronger and this would be a great opportunity for you to come back and kind of re earn and learn about being an executive. I I don't think you have um the right to ask people for their vote for governor when you Oh I think I mean by a way of when you send 'em home, basically. Yeah, you basically told all these people they were not official. Wait, so she was in she was like in charge of Frederick when that she didn't I would suggest she just give up her political aspiration. I mean she's a good thing. How about the several do I want to be and asking that question About why are churches on essential why are churches non essential. Right. Or what gives you the right to determine churches are not essential. people and to me that that being a servant of the people, you know, in our our country's founding, you know, we're founded as Christian nation and that's just the service And that's an example. Absolutely. And that's an example where we could speak to the powers that be in our civil society or uh for the government, that sort of thing, with the Word of God, again to extol the worthiness of Christ and say, look, the standard is Christ and the Word of God as found in his you know the Bible and the Bible tells us boom and put it to them and make them say no the Bible's full of garbage and then you'd be like okay now I know where you stand but Christ would lay down his life for the church Absolutely. And as a s as a Labour Secretary, if you came to me and said you have to pick non-essential businesses, I would lay down my job and say I'm done. I'm not gonna do it. Not only am I not gonna do it, I'm gonna go out with a big noise about why I am not doing this and make it harder for you to show these people. And you're gonna have to explain to everybody why I deserve to be fired for this. Right? In a weird way this rabbit trail reminds me of something I wanted to say uh when people were talking earlier and I and I forgot and a pop back into my head. It's it's a it's a point of encouragement of hope for us. And because I mean it's ugly out there, right? I mean the truth uh has got kicking teeth Repeatedly. Minute by minute, day after day, the truth is kicked in the teeth. And so it's it's a challenge. However, we do know the end of the story. We're studying it right now in the book of Revelation. Christ is worthy, he wins. I read uh from Isaiah chapter 42 on purpose, you know, the Lord goes forth like a warrior. You know, he will prevail against his enemies. I don't know if people are well enough versed in the ancient Near East to really understand some of the cultural points that are being made, but I'm gonna point them out now as a point a way of encouraging us In verse 11 of Isaiah 42, where it says, Let the wilderness and its cities lift up their voices. By the way, notice it's the wilderness and the cities. That's a a little uh shot across the bow for all those Tim Keller dutees and for focus merely on cities. Uh notice it's the wilderness and the cities lift up their voices. But the next phrase, the settlements where Qadar inhabits, does that mean anything to you? Probably not the average person. Didn't mean anything to me until like Qadar. What why does it say that? What does that mean? It means something. What's the meaning of Qadar? Where was Qadar? Who are these people? Well, uh, for people to dwell in the tents of Qadar was to be cut off from the worship of God. And so Isaiah 42 is saying that even those who have been cut off from the worship of God, they will be singing aloud. They were they were nomadic and so they weren't uh The way they lived their li as I understand it, they they were uh the the way they lived their lives as nomads, they weren't getting to uh the temple for Or for worship of God and out in the hinterlands all the time and couldn't be in the presence of the world. So even those that are cut off. And then the next phrase is let the inhabitants of Selah this is not F-E-L-A-H, as we see in the Psalms. is uh this is S E L A. It's a place. It's a place where the Edomites lived. Well the Edomites are an enemy of God's people So he what Isaiah is saying, look, God wins. Even in places where you feel like it's a lost cause, there's no way God could win about but with people that don't care and are wandering the wilderness and aren't bringing themselves into the presence of God. There's no way God can win against those are uh out and out enemies of his purposes God will win who he wins and he will destroy those who reject him. That's just that's a fact. And so we can have confidence. Now that does not mean we don't take lumps in the meantime. You know, it doesn't mean we don't get bruised and battered. I mean, you know, uh John, the author of Revelation, he wrote it while he was in exile, you know, on a on uh on a what I would imagine was a horrible island to be exiled to. So there is punishment p perhaps waiting for us as we're persecuted. But okay. You're part of the winning team. It's it's It might not feel like it when we forget this. That's why this is such an important chapter. Because we might be thinking, man, is it worth it Is it even really true? And you know what? It is, and because it's true, it is so worth it. There's nothing worth it more. You know? So that's that that's why we shouldn't fear death. We shouldn't be running and hiding under rocks from a virus and all the things related to that. We shouldn't be ruled by our fear. So Um another thought. Oh. Somebody brought up oh I think it was in the context of, you know, uh I think he said something about money and it was in relation to supporting a uh um political campaign or something about money came up and it triggered I wanted to mention No, no well we can yeah we can talk about that too. Yeah, focus on the family, uh one of the uh newly anointed formerly Christian organizations in America. I mean so many of them have fallen by the way So many have exposed themselves. It's unbelievable. But anyway, trigger, I want to mention this last week I forgot and then I was reminded. Speaking of money, those who have been in our church for a while, we've been doing this for coming up on two years, believe it or not And we've been rolling it out in stages, trying to build a foundation, figure out what we're trying to do, and get some sort of a sense of not really infrastructure, but a mindset about infrastructure in place. And so we haven't done anything that focuses on on fiduciary matters. And so I figure I wanted to express a couple of things on that. Because I don't know that we'll have an opportunity to do a sermon on that anytime. So one, um we don't really have a budget. We don't really have any overhead beyond our normal living expenses And so we don't need to have a huge influx of money and that sort of thing. However, I also acknowledge that people out of obedience should be uh giving back the first fruits of what God gives them to support the the advancement of the kingdom So there are different ways to do that. So I want to uh emphasize that what I'm about to say isn't any sort of uh devious plea for give household of faith in Christ a whole bunch of money. But at the same time, it's not saying you can't or shouldn't do that either. Uh we didn't have much of a system set up to do that very well until So if you if you're on our website, you'll notice we have a give send go account set up for those that are participating with us remotely and want to support what we're doing. They they can give that way. If they're local and they're participating with us here locally. People can give to us locally. We have a uh a savings account set up with a local bank where money that's given to household of faith in Christ is earmarked specifically into that account However, we're not incorporated and we're not going to go through all the rigorole we need to be incorporated, so we do not have a you know a board of directors, you know, secular style board of directors with a president and a vice president residential. We don't have that. So that's just full disclosure up front on that. So if somebody wants to give to the church via a check, they would have to make the check out to me personally. And it would be put into that account that's designated as the church's account. And that money is not I'm not drawing a salary. I have no intention of uh of ever drawing a salary. Um Down the road, long time that that could change. But it's a tent making kind of a ministry. So that money is going to be treated I don't know if everybody knows what this term means, but it's going to be treated as a diaconal fund. Do you know what diaconal fund is? Yeah churches have uh uh churches that are biblically led and organized in my opinion are led with by the elders and then they have deacons that support that work And so the deacons are meeting the the needs, the felt needs, the the the the everyday needs of the people so that the elders can focus on leadership issues and studying of the scripture and proclaiming the gospel and dealing with the kinds of things that have to do with the spiritual life of of the church. In case you're wondering, we don't really have deacons, but we do have elders. Me, David Forcy, and Imran Rasby are the The elders. David Forcy is the pastor of one of the churches that's in our house church network. And Imran Rasli is the uh pastor of a different house church, and we three are the the elders, if you will. And so I've mentioned this in the past, but I haven't mentioned with It provides a mutual accountability. And one of the uh important things it does for people who are members of household of faith in Christ is if I come off the rails at some point and they're like, Holy cow, you've lost your mind and you directly approach me and I'm like unrepentant and just you know not come around or the happen pretty much. I I give it two I give it two or three hours. Top. Then uh you could reach out to David Forcey or Imran Rasvy and if you don't uh most people in the room might already have if you don't have the number, but I'll give it to you And you could text them or call them and say, Hey, Troy's lost his mind, I need help. And then they'll do an intervention, you know, and we'll deal with it uh as uh as Matthew describes for us in Matthew So uh anyway, so we do have elders. We're not of a size where we really need deacons at this point, but we're gonna have a diaconal fund And so let's just say somebody uh who's a member of our church uh makes a bold stand for their king because he's worthy, and because of that bold stand, all of a sudden they can't get a job And now they can't make their mortgage and they're screwed. Like what are we going to do? Now we would rally around them as as as a body, a local expression of the bride of Christ, and we would do what we could to help them get through it. But something that would help us to help them get through it is we would have this designated fund that's already there as kind of like an emergency slush fund kind of a thing. Uh we don't have a lot of money in it right now. So if we had any sort of a big uh surprise, we would have to rally the troops in the moment to help each other. But over time I imagine that that will grow and it's not gonna be something that's used for electric bills or anything like that. That's just something that's uh we're handling as as a household expense, not a household Yeah. When I say we don't have any overhead, we don't have any building expenses. But we actually do have expenses. You know we've got, like I said, a pretty pretty good website That's not cheap. Uh we've got some other expenses, marketing related expenses, things like that that we're doing. Uh and um But we have too so the church isn't paying for any of that, but we're underwriting all of it. So there's no Craig Shell's already beaten up. So there's no real hard cost. Um and if we ever have some sort of a legitimate like hard cost that's beyond our means Like holy cow, this is something the church really, really needs to deal with, and we just don't have the resources. We might address it, but I don't know what that would look like. But anyway, I just wanted to address the whole money thing. And like all churches do, you know. Facebook, YouTube budget, something like that. By the end of January every year, it's all the churches, you know. kind of their habit, you'll get kind of statement of giving for the previous year sort of thing. So you'll have it for your records and that sort of thing. So uh wanted I wanted to mention last week and and I forgot. So Oh. Aside from like a deacon fund to kind of like serve needs. Uh is there any sort of missions component as well to it or we are um Not expending money on those sorts of things right now. Uh but there's gonna be um there's gonna be some things that we might do as a missions minded thing as a group moving forward. I got some thoughts that are beginning to formulate a little bit on that. As far as overseas or or supporting a missionary, that sort of a thing. We as a group aren't doing that right now, but that reminds me of Although again, if you can't find anywhere else to be giving, you should be faithful and you should be supporting kingdom work uh financially. Um but we're not set up like a typical institutional style church And so missionary support should happen but there's nothing wrong with individual members of the church saying, you know what, I'm gonna send a hundred bucks a month to this mission area. I'm gonna send five hundred bucks a month to this mission area. I'm gonna underwrite their entire mission trip or what you know, there's nothing that keeps and we should be doing those things Is the tithe, tithe means 10%, most of us I think probably know that. Is there a legal, biblical, legal reason to abide By the 10% number. There's debate on that, and I'm not prone to being a legalist, but I am prone to being well within the spirit of the law. And uh 10% is a pretty good number to keep in mind. Um the studies I've seen show that less than nine out of ten uh uh professing Christians uh give ten percent Less than nine out of ten give or less than it's it's approximately four or five out of a hundred So about one out of twenty give ten percent or more to Kingdom work. That's pretty pathetic. Actually Um so yeah, so f find a missionary you really believe in. And to be honest, I think there's something to be said for that. You know, a lot of the stuff we've gotten wayward on is the institutional model. It's there's there's a layer of interference And so the accountability gets diminished a little bit. But if you have a personal like we personally have supported uh for years now, there's a missionary couple that we've known forever that works in Albania. And Dina and I support them directly. Um we don't do that through a church. You know, there years ago there was a family that ran into a a a problem where they couldn't make their mortgage to And we help to meet that need directly. So there are things we should and can be doing directly. It doesn't have to be funneled through the house. of faith in Christ. However, I wanted to have it set up. I want to have a mechanism for doing it. My primary motivation for doing it is so that people who can't figure out yet where they're gonna give. You know, let's say you're making uh a hundred thousand dollars a year and you're like, okay, uh if I'm gonna be faithful within the spirit of the law, I I want to Year mark about ten thousand dollars, let's say. But I don't know I don't know any missionaries and I don't really know which organizations I can trust. I used to give to Campus Crusade uh for Christ, but once they became crew I couldn't trust them anymore because now they're they're crazy. I so who do I give to? So if you're having a hard time in the meantime, give the act no fund. Well boy help I know. Yeah, it might end up benefiting you very much. Hey that's so do you not know just specific questions. questions on that. You send go. Is there a fee that they charge for that? Very small fee. I chose how much is it? Oh yeah. And it's it specifically uh was designed for missions and religious organizations. That was kind of their I think other people use it now maybe. But it's primarily was designed for that and so the amount that they take it's it's uh any amount is unfortunate. But it's It's somewhat check. I would say if somebody's local, they probably should just bring cash or a check or something and it's a good thing. Well the city is not in the today's world in banking, I know this is because I work for a bank. I think you have to have the account number you got to do a cash deposit. You have to have the account number. If I walk into the bank you have the account. I can't just say uh household pay through price given here's the thing. Yeah you have deposit slip and you the deposit slip or um Yeah but I think he was talking about bringing the cash directly to him. deposit to, right? Yeah, well yeah, but the idea the idea is that we would I would go to the bank and I'd say, hey, put this money in that same thing. Well yeah but to allay the concerns of someone who might be concerned about that, can they deposit directly to the bank account No. I don't know. I don't believe it. I don't know how you can do a mobile. I don't know how you can do a mobile count of time. I don't know how to do that. I mean if yeah if people are concerned about like where where exactly is the money going and how is it being used and how it's being tracked and all that sort of stuff, I think kind of Oh no, I didn't care about that. I did care about that, but that's the right thing. Give send goes a release. Yeah, Robbie Jack or I think that's a good thing. Because you can see, you know, you can go to the website and you can see the GiveSendGo account. And you can kinda see that the money sitting in the middle of the city. Right. Yeah. I gift some go I think a big thing on them is the the uh there's a transaction fee kind of thing, but we would not be put taking money out. There wouldn't be a lot of transactions You know we wouldn't be taking money out a lot. It would be sitting there and hopefully growing, and then if we ever needed it, it'd be a one time transaction taking a bunch of money out kind of thing. have like I said ongoing expenses that we're using that kind of money. Anyway, we're getting into weeds a little bit. I just wanted them we can talk about it more uh later for those that And if people have thoughts that will be helpful of how we can do it better, totally fine with that. I mean we're thinking through how to do an atypical situation and use the tools that were designed for typical situations You know, so that's the challenge we're having. But I've you know talked with our our elders and gotten good thoughts and uh we we've done the best that we can on some of these things. But if somebody has better ideas, has uh expertise particularly And for what it's worth, there are some people in this room that are doing ministry work for the kingdom and they could benefit from support. You know, there's uh There's some somebody I know that's sitting pretty close to me that has a Patreon style uh system set up for an online ministry uh to help Christians discern truth. So there's things like that that can be supported too. So Um any other questions about before we have a closing for ask? No? Alright. Ray, you want to close this in first? Dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we thank you for this gathering. We just thank you for a more faithful, uh a very faithful gathering which we Just really dive into your word, Lord, and just let much of your word just speak. And uh in in context and just as a whole, and the whole scripture speaks. And we just uh praise you uh and we just want to serve you throughout our week and you know day by day and stuff like that, and we just praise you By the way, I want to end with us having the opportunity for to clarify what the gospel is. We want to get back into the house habit of us kind of rotating, sharing of the gospel as as much as possible. Um anybody feel like, you know what, I'm in a pretty good place for sharing with the gospel and articulating that. Anybody want to do that or should it fall to me? I'll do it if I have to again this week, but next week somebody else is going to do it No? You can model it for us. Alright, so let me start with the theme of today's message. The theme of today's message was You know, that the Lamb is worthy, Jesus Christ. We have a worthy Savior, a worthy king, and he is worthy because he shed his blood on the cross for us. And he demonstrated that everything that he said about himself was true because he rose from the dead like he said he would. And he ascended into heaven, demonstrating that he is ruling in power and authority right now And that is wonderfully good news. And boy, do we need that good news. And in response to that good news, we want to live in obedience to our King awaiting his return so we can join him forever in glory, where things are returned to the way that they should have been from the very beginning, the way God created things to be. Uh when Adam and Eve were in the Garden of Eden and then some. It'll be like that, but better. And it would still be better, even now, if it didn't get screwed up. But Adam and Eve, they fell into sin We're guilty. We've fallen into sin, which is why we need that glorious King Jesus Christ. And if you don't know who Jesus Christ is, meaning that you don't know who Jesus Christ is you're not trusting in him as your king, then I would invite you, strongly encourage you, reach out to me. I would love to have an opportunity to exchange emails, talk on the phone, get together in person, what have you so that you can come to know this uh incredible truth that is life-saving. So anyway, that is the good news. Those with ears to hear, let them hear. We'll be back next week on Saturday with our stream at uh around 6 o'clock. Until then, thanks so much for watching this week. God bless.