Alright, looks like we're rolling. Hello, welcome, Facebook Live, and if you're watching this later on uh I guess Rumble This might make it onto YouTube. It's taking us a long time to get all the videos translate uh transitioned over to Rumble, so we might still post a few videos on YouTube in the interim. We'll see. trying to get away from platforms that aren't gonna let our messages stay out there. Uh we got censored on YouTube so we're Migrating over to the Rumble platform. You can link to Rumble and YouTube and all the other places on our website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com, Household of Faith in Christ easiest way to find all the different stuff uh that we are doing. Today we're going to be in Revelation chapter 6, so you'll want to get your Bibles ready for that. Also, we're going to be uh reading a short passage from Zechariah chapter six. Um actually uh I don't know if this is kind of springing out. Would you be comfortable, uh Christy, reading the Zechariah passage? Um for those who aren't familiar, Zechariah, it's almost at the very end of the Old Testament, so m start at the back of the Old Testament and you'll And work your way forward. You'll find Zechariah pretty quickly. We'll be looking at Zechariah 6, verses 1 through 8. And then the sermon today is going to be Revelation 6 verses 1 through 8. Let me see. I guess we'll open with a word of prayer and I got a couple of things we can talk about quickly before we get into the sermon. So um Angela, would you mind uh open us with prayer? Gracious Heavenly Father, thank you for bringing us safely together, gathering together again, Father, to hear your word. And learn from your one. We invite the presence of the Holy Spirit who feels us in Christ Jesus to now and fill us to fill this room. To just be here guiding this conversation, enlightening our hearts, teaching us, causing iron to sharpen iron, removing any error. that we may have and just equip us with knowledge. Because knowledge is power and without knowledge, even your own people will perish. So we thank We thank you, Father, that you are here to teach us the truth. We receive it with great with gratitude, with gratefulness. And we thank you for what you are accomplished. accomplishing in this time together in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. One of the things that we're trying to be self conscious about here at Household of Faith in Christ is to uh sharpen our skills at sharing the gospel and I didn't have a chance to mention this beforehand so it might be putting him on the spot a little bit but I know that uh Ray to my right here has been doing uh going out of his way to share the gospel on a video platform that he has, and so he's must have some practice in walking through a presentation of the gospel. So if you're comfortable, would you mind uh not that hopefully the gospel won't come through in the sermon and our discussion, but If you were walking up to somebody that said, hey, like, what's the reason for the hope you have within? Or what's this whole Christian gospel thing about, what would you say? Well, you were created for a purpose. We were all created for a purpose, and that purpose was to serve and bring glory to God. But we betrayed that purpose very early on. So we have a broken relationship with our own creator. By no fault of our creator, it is completely our fault. And in order to Restore that relationship, you know, God paid the penalty, you know, because th there is a consequence that needs to be paid for our own rebellion, because that's what it was. Imagine if you're a computer program that rebels against the programmer. That's basically what we are. And or we're the, you know, computer virus, so to speak. Um that's in rebellion. So there's a consequence for that and And um but the good news is, and this is the good news of the gospel, the good news that we have hope for is that Jesus Christ paid that consequence. for us that we can be restored and you know we can be reconciled with God and just day by day becoming more and more Christlike as the Holy Spirit becomes uh more present in our lives. And eventually, you know, we go to heaven when we die and and And you know, there's this glorification and completely restored relationship with our Creator. And that is the hope that we have. I like that. Pretty comprehensive and relevant to the 21st century. See that? You can even use analogies with computer technology to share the gospel. Did you find Zechariah chapter 6? Would you mind uh reading the first uh eight verses? I don't know if everybody else has their Bibles uh open. Okay. Four chariots. I looked up again and there before me were four chariots coming out from between two mountains. Mountains of bronze. The first chariot had red horses, the second black, the third white, and the fourth dappled, all of them powerful. I asked the angel who was speaking to me, What are these, my lord? They The angel answered me, These are the four spirits of heaven going out from standing in the presence of the Lord of the whole world. The one with the black horses is going towards the north country The one with white horses towards the west and the one with the dappled horses towards the south. When the powerful horses went out, they were straightening to go throughout the earth. And he said Go throughout the earth. So they went throughout the earth. Then he called to me, Look, those going towards the north country have given my spirit rest in the land of the north. to read from the Old Testament as often as possible. So that's one of the reasons and this particular text has some influence in what we're going to be focusing on in Revelation today as well. I've got something for m don't let me forget to hand these out later, but this is the translation, the English translation we're using of the model prayer, sometimes called the Lord's Prayer of the Our Father This is the version that this young lady here is working on memorizing. So we're all going to do it as a group later on, but I want to make sure we're all using the same version so we don't confuse her. Uh so I've made a bunch of copies and we'll do that uh late we'll do that later on. She's been practicing. Has she? Ooh well okay. Practicing is good. We like practicing. All right, so If you don't already have your Bibles turn to Revelation chapter 6, you might want to do that now so that we're ready to get there in a second. And as you're turning there, I want to ask this question. Where is your confidence? For example, is your confidence in the elusive feelings of prosperity and security that come from Roman rule? That might be the way the Apostle John would have positioned the question. Today we might not talk so much about Roman rule, but instead talk about inside the Beltway Federal rule or governor's mansion rule or If we really want to cut to the quick communist Chinese rule, most of the world places their confidence in this top-down global authoritarian fantasy Or they place it on the flip side by trusting in the other major political option, at least in the American context of our day-to-day, they place their confidence, they find it resting in things like The GOP finally getting their act together, or the MAGA movement regaining steam, or Orange Man Bad getting back in to power. These are very prominent places where millions, billions perhaps invest their confidence. Are you among the myriads that form these groups? Or is your confidence in God's promises? Be honest, even when you profess that you have confidence in God, there are moments, situations, seasons even circumstances when your confidence in God briefly takes a back seat. Or at least the temptation is there, am I right? One of the central blessings that God's people receive by reading and studying Revelation chapter 6. Is that its words remind us that the Lamb of God is in control In chapters 4 and 5, we might remember we were ushered into a vision of God's very throne room. Where his plan for the world is written on a scroll, and that scroll is sealed seven times. And now The visions turn to the execution of that plan, of God's plan, the opening of those seals. by the only one who is worthy to do so. The very one that we need to bring the plans of God to fulfillment. This portion of scripture, to many people, is scary stuff. It's almost horror film type stuff. But for those who are chosen by God to be his people, this section of Scripture should bring confidence And not merely confidence in God Himself, but also confidence in the wisdom and excellency of his plans and his methods. So today, as I mentioned, we're going to be reading from Revelation chapter 6, verses 1 through 8, and I'm going to be reading the New English translation. This is an online-only publication of God's Word. It's gained some popularity in recent years and it's pretty good. It aims to be a word-for-word type of a translation, kind of in the tradition of the ESV or the NASB or the KJV, translations like that. But it's committed to using contemporary American English, unlike the King James. So now I'm not using this particular translation today because it's the one I necessarily prefer above all others. That is actually not the case Like I said, it's pretty good, but it's not my preferred translation. But I am using it. Those who have been with us for a while, I understand it's my habit to use different translations of the Bible. relatively solid translations so that we do not run the risk of making an idol of any particular translators. So with that said, Revelation chapter 6, verses 1 through 8. Which, as I start to read, you're going to recognize this is one of the most famous, and yet it is one of the most popularly misunderstood passages in all scripture. And it says, I looked on when the lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying with a thunderous voice, Come! So I looked, and here came a white horse. The one who rode it had a bow. He was given a crown. And as a conqueror, he rode out to conquer. Then, when the lamb opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come! And another horse, fiery red, came out. And the one who wrote it was granted permission to take peace from the earth, so the people would butcher one another. And he was given a huge sword. Then when the lamb opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come. So I looked, and here came a black horse. The one who wrote it had a balance scale in his hand. Then I heard something like a voice from among the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat will cost a day's pay, and three quarts of barley will cost a day's pay But do not damage the olive oil and the wine. Then when the lamb opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature saying, Come So I looked, and here came a pale green horse. The name of the one who rode it was Death, and Hades followed right behind. They were given authority over a fourth of the earth to kill its population with the sword, famine, and disease, and by the wild animals of the earth. This is the inerrant, infallible word of God. It is such because it is breathed of God, is breathed out by God, and God does not make mistakes. And so his word is a fully sufficient rule and guide for faith and life practice. Those with ears to hear, let them hear. So the four horsemen of the apocalypse, they have certainly captured the imagination over the years. Even in pop culture. For instance, Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse is the name of a box office Smash film that starred Rudolph Valentino back in the day. Back in the 1920s, the Fighting Irish football team, they had a famed backfield with four very talented players, and so they were given the nickname the Four Horsemen of Notre Dame. It was in 2012, not too many years ago, that the Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame inducted the Four Horsemen, led by Rick Flair of 1980s and 1990s Pro Wrestling Fame. Sadly, though, these pop culture references, they're distractions from what the Bible is saying, from the biblical message. So let's study each of the four in turn, and let's uncover the biblical meaning here for each horse and its rider. So verses 1 and 2, I'm going to read them again here. I looked down when the lamb opened one of the seven seals, and I heard one of the four living creatures saying with a thunderous voice, Come! So I looked, and here came a white horse. The one who rode it had a bow, and he was given a crown, and as a conqueror he rode out to conquer. So who is pictured here? Some answer Christ. But there are challenges to that view. First, we have to consider the fact that each of the four horsemen here in this vision, they are positioned as being equal with one another. So whoever the next three writers might be, they are not equal with Christ. And we just spent an entire chapter. Chapter 5. It comprised three sermons, as it turns out, spread out over many months. And that chapter emphasizes the unique worthiness of the Lamb. No one, let me repeat, no one is like Christ. And also of little consequence, not of little consequence, is the fact that these four horsemen in these eight verses, they are harbingers of death. But Christ's victory, his way, it brings life. It's not about bringing death. However, he does use instruments of judgment. Instruments of judgment and that's what these four are. They're instruments of just that. Now less persuasive but still interesting. Nowhere in the New Testament do we find any sort of description of Christ carrying a battle bow. That image does not exist. A battle bow. It is a symbol of earthly warfare. Okay, so if it's not Christ, Maybe it's the Antichrist or the Harlowit. We'll be introduced to these characters later on in Revelation. A lot of people think that that's the case, but not so fast. Similar to the point that was just made about Christ and the battle bow, the earthly human archenemy of God's people never wears a crown in Scripture. Not one time. And more importantly, consider what these two verses are impressing upon us. There's a view here of something that leads to total victory. Antichrist does not ever achieve total victory. Now it seems possible John here is making use of an image that would have been very well known to the ancients, his original readers, his original audience, that being the image of Caesar riding behind uh uh in in a chariot A chariot pulled by white horses following some great military conquest. So it's possible that's part of what's influencing the way he's describing his vision here. Seems more likely to me though that John is borrowing from an image of the uh mighty Parthians. Students of history might know something about the Parthians. Historians tell us that these were the only mounted archers in the ancient world who uh rode horses and carried battle bows. The only ones. And they were formidable. So formidable that the Roman Empire never fully subjugated them. That's how formidable they were. And the leaders of these Parthian armies, by the way, they are said to have ridden, guess what? White horses. Now the crown in this image symbolizes that this archer will be successful. And the white color symbolizes both victory and that the archer Believes he has a divine right to conquer. Okay, so with all this detail out there, all this minutiae, where does that leave us? Let's go back and look at the things that we know for sure. Unambiguously. We have the first seal open. A white horse carries a warrior. He goes about the business of conquering, so there's conquest. And we know from our study in Revelation so far that white it can represent purity, it can also represent, and often does represent victory, and it is That's the case here. It's the latter. It's pointing us to victory. But what sort of a victory? Now some commentators they want to equate this with a pseudo-victory, a faux victory, a false victory, bringing a false peace. And this concept, if we think about it, it feels very relevant to our political and cultural condition today. Envision a writer. In today's context, a writer representing tyranny But claiming to have righteous, even godly authority. The justification being that the writer wants to be on the right side of history. It's not too much of a stretch for us to envision that, is it? Is it? So now even if this isn't Antichrist Himself, The vision does begin to feel like something that's very negative, doesn't it? Well, aspects of God's judgment Always feel negative to those who are being judged. Now for clarity, I want to emphasize this seal, it's opened by the Lamb The Lamb, who is Christ. So the Lord is in control And the cherubim, serving at the pleasure of God, calls forth the horseman. He says, Come. And the rider obeys. But again, this rider is not Christ Himself. I mean, first of all, God's not going to be obeying the commands of any mere cherubim, so there's that. And also this is a physical military conquest that's in view here, but Christ's kingdom is not of this world. And don't get this image confused with the image that we're going to see later on in Revelation, chapter 19. A lot of people are prone to doing so. In chapter 19, we're going to see the faithful and true one riding a white horse to judge with justice as he goes to war. And in chapter 19, it is a representation of Christ. But if you haven't read ahead, when you get there, make sure you make note. You'll see in chapter 19. He has no bow, no battle bow. Instead, he is given or has, he's not given, he has a sword. And he has not just but one crown, as we see here in chapter six. We're told in chapter 19, he has many diadems. See, our king, he conquers through the gospel of his word. As opposed to conquering through calamity. He judges with calamity, but he doesn't conquer with it. Now what's happening with the second horseman? Revelation 6, verses 3 and 4. It says Then when the lamb opened the second seal, I heard the second living creature saying, Come, and another horse, fiery red, came out And the one who wrote it was granted permission to take peace from the earth so that people would butcher one another, and he was given a huge sword. So here we see that we have moved on from earthly conquest by tyranny to earthly conquest by war, or a certain kind of a war. I mean, yes, it's it's war, but it's more than war. The fiery red color symbolizes the vivid red blood of Slaughter. It symbolizes the fiery judgment of God. Remember his fiery eyes that we read about and the fiery torches. Revelation chapters 1 and 4. Now commentators have noticed that the word for sword that's used here in verse 4 It's the word for the type of sword that would be used by assassins and by soldiers who are engaged in hand-to-hand combat. So it's not a broad sword. It's a short sword. And yet the text tells us it's huge. Or as some translations in English tell us they say that it's large or great. Well it's huge, large, great, those words, they indicate violent mass death. with a weapon that would be the kind of weapon used in a revolt, a massacre. As violent as the imagery is, the sword is ultimately used by God As something that's for the good of those called according to his purpose. Because the Greek word for sword that's used here, verse 4, it's the exact same word that's used for the sacrificial knife. The word in question is makarah. It's not the word that's used for the sword that comes from Christ's mouth that I mentioned a moment ago. Lors at the word that's used in Ezekiel chapter 14, which is what John is alluding to in verse 8 of chapter 6, but not what he's alluding to here in verse 4. In those cases, in Revelation 19 and also in Ezekiel chapter 14, the word is Lanthea. Makera, the Greek word that's used in this verse, verse 4, it's the same word we find in the Septuagint. The Septuagint is the Greek translation of the Old Testament. It's the it's the Bible basically that Jesus and the disciples had available to them when they were walking the earth 2,000 years ago. We find it in Genesis chapter 22 and it's used as the word for the instrument That Abraham wielded when he offered up the ram provided by God. We actually were talking about that not too long ago here, like last month, I think we talked about this. Right after he almost offered up his son Isaac. So the kind of knife he used for that sacrifice is the kind of knife that's in view here. So these are ugly scenes, but once again we can see that regardless of how ugly they appear to us, God is in control. And this re is remains to be the case with the next horse that comes out of the gate, verses five and six. Then, when the lamb opened the third seal, I heard the third living creature saying, Come. So I looked, and here came a black horse. The one who rode it had a balance scale in his hand. Then I heard something like a voice from among the four living creatures saying, A quart of wheat will cost a day's pay, and three quarts of barley will cost a day's pay. But do not damage the olive oil and the wine So it's become clear by all of us by now, right, the use of colors in this chapter is rather purposeful. I mean I'm sure you've noticed that in verse 2, the white horse, that represents privilege, especially since the rider is a man And now here in verse five we understand that black horses matter. Now I joke because the whole woke church movement is laughable or would be if it weren't so dangerously unfunny. But kidding aside, what's actually being illustrated here for us is famine. But there is a sense in which my little attempt at humor, it fits the narrative of the passage. Here's what I mean. When we think of famine, we tend to think of lack of physical food, which is completely appropriate, rightfully so. Famine means you don't have enough food. And that's an aspect of this, and we're going to touch on that in a second. But As an aside, or it's not even a s I don't even want to call it an aside. It's a as another way of thinking about this and looking at this passage. I want to remind us all that as followers of Christ We feast upon the Word of God. And God's Word is truth. Our food is truth. And we are to chew on it and digest it. And so now think about when there's a spiritual famine. Spiritual famine, when God's truth is in short supply from God's people. What do we call that? When God's people are in error, don't have the truth. Call that heresy. Heresy is famine inducing. Would you like some proof? Just look around you. At the state of the Western Church, particularly, that's the context that we live in. Just look at that these days. The institutional church, I'm not talking about the actual true church as God sees it. I'm talking about the church that we see that in many cases is no church at all. It's emaciated. It is completely absent of energy. It's walking around with no muscle tone, not ready for the fight. Nose, strength, stomach so shrunken they can barely handle even a small sip of milk. Wanting to wretch if served solid food. Belly's so bloated, they're fooled into thinking that they're fully fed. Fooled into thinking they're living the high life. When they are in fact dead man walking. Spiritual famine Now in recognizing this spiritual application of the third seal, we do not want to ignore the obvious physical component here. The rider holds a balance scale in his hand. Now, there are some English translations that will say that the rider is holding a pair of scales in his hand. But each translation is painting the exact same kind of picture, just using slightly different words in the English. You're either holding the scale like this or you're holding the scale like this. It's the same ideas, the same image. It's an image of scarcity. Of rationing. Now English translations they might also differ slightly of how they want to share the the the and make the point about the cost regarding the cost of the wheat and the barley. Some like the NET which I'm reading from today speak of the cost in terms of daily wages Others they speak of the exact currency cost, using the word denarius, which was a silver Roman coin back then. Now, an absolute firm commitment to a word-for-word translation would necessitate using the word generus, because that's the Greek word that's here. But a denarius, it was actually the equivalent back then of one day's wages for the average person, the average day laborer. They got paid a denarius. So the meaning, regardless of how the English translators have decided to handle this text, the meaning is the same. Basically what it's telling us is that food is something like ten times more expensive than usual. And the result of this exponential spike in food costs is that the typical person, the typical laborer, they would have to have all of their money go toward food. A quart of wheat would feed one man for one day Three quarts of barley would feed one family for one day. So what we're talking about here in this passage is subsistence level Access to food. So you can forget about paying the rent. You can forget about buying clothes. You can forget about subscribing to Netflix. You can forget about updating to the latest iPhone. You can forget about mask mandates when driving around alone in your car. You can't afford a mask. Forget about worrying about maintaining proper antisocial distancing at the local theater because you can't afford the theater. Forget worrying about your doctor pressuring you into accepting an experimental injection. You cannot afford to see the doctor. If you're single, you can afford a meal of wheat after you punch out from your day of work. And if you have a family to feed, well you can afford a meal of barley for the spouse and kids to share. Because barley is cheaper, you see. Has less nutritional value than the wheat. Actually, it typically wouldn't be used for people to eat, it was usually used to feed the animals. Sounds rather dire, doesn't it? Most horrible as this is as this is. It is not as bad as it could be. There is some restraint upon famine. There is barely enough food. But there is enough food to avoid absolute starvation. And also, as we read in the passage, the wine and the oil they appear to be preserved. And I say appear to be preserved because understood a certain way, what the verse might be saying is, and be careful with the wine and the oil. Don't harm or damage your supply in any way. Don't waste it, in other words. Well, either way, whether it's don't destroy the oil and wine or don't waste the oil and wine, there's something important about the oil and wine. So what is it? Well, I don't have a single definitive answer for you on this, but I have a few possibilities, and it might be it is a combination of them all Students of the Bible will recall that both oil and wine have religious uses. Oil for anointing and wine for communion. Students of the Bible, we also recall that both oil and wine have practical, life-sustaining uses. Oil for cooking and wine as a safe and sanitary beverage. Students of the Bible will also recall that both oil and wine can be put to use for medicinal purposes. Oil used by elders when visiting the sick. And wine used for settling one's stomach and other ailments, as Paul tells Timothy. So for any and or all of these reasons, the oil and the wine, they're not wiped out. And they're not to be wasted. Although they too could be scarce. So thus far now in the passage we have tyranny. And war and famine one right after the other, leading straight up to the fourth horseman, which we read about here in verses seven and eight. Then when the lamb opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth living creature, saying, Come, so I looked, and here came a pale green horse. The name of the one who rode it was Death, and Hades followed right behind. They were given authority over a fourth of the earth to kill its population with the sword, famine, and disease, and by the wild animals of the earth. Now I like what the English, uh the New English translation has done here. Other translations, perhaps the one you're reading, it might say something about the color here, describe the color of the horse as pale. Or ashen, something like that, and those aren't wrong. They're fine. But they might make it a little bit harder for us to envision in our mind's eye this vision The Greek word that's in question here that describes the color is the word from which we get our English word chlorophyll. Chlorophyll is what makes plants green. So the meaning here is greenish. It's the ashen pallor of a corpse Maybe you haven't seen too many dead bodies in your day. But once the life is drained from the body, it kind of takes on this greenish hue. You don't even have to have seen a corpse actually to begin to know this color. You've you've seen something kind of like it when you've seen someone who looks really sick, really weak, you know, and their color's off. Yeah they're they're the their flesh it has a sickly tone to it, especially in their face and around the eyes. Maybe you've seen you talking about a really sick person. Kind of person you might walk up and say, holy schmole man, you look you look like death warmed over So in this passage we have death personified. Just like in Isaiah 14 and in Psalm 49. And we have an echo here of Ezekiel chapter 14, which also shares with us warnings of death and famine and pestilence and wild beasts and this sort of imagery and invokes what? Terror. That's another reason for the paleness of the horse. The terror. This can cause the blood to drain from somebody's face and they suddenly look kind of pasty, right? So we say to that person, Mishnah, what happened to you? Looks like you've seen a ghost. Well with the arrival of the fourth horse they might be concerned that they actually are seeing a ghost. They maybe they're concerned they're seeing a picture of their own ghost. That they'll be among the dead. Now, as terrorizing as these happenings are, they could be worse As with the famine. Death by sword, disease, wild animals. It's limited. Only a fourth of the earth is affected here. It will go no further than the Lamb allows. Again, he is in control. Christ holds the keys to death and Hades, remember. You might recall that from Revelation chapter 1, verse 18, when we were just getting started in our Revelation series. Well incidentally, there is one school of thought that says that the fourth of the earth here should be understood as before parts of the earth. And they argue then that what this saying, what this passage is trying to tell us is that all four parts of the earth are completely, totally wiped out. I don't see that in this text. I think then we get to the bowls, yes. But here with the seals, I don't think so. I think this text actually speaks against that. I mean it's true the whole world, all four parts are affected. I agree with that. But there's a theme throughout this section of Revelation that emphasizes partial devastation. For example, the wine and the oil still being available after the third horseman, and the food still being available, just super expensive. Which actually could be a hint, by the way, that those who are, you know, wealthy, the rich, they can still indulge themselves throughout all of this, with only the the poor really suffering. And that also kind of fits within our current political situation today, doesn't it? Now, at this point I should again emphasize The riders of these horses, they are not Christ, and they are not Antichrist. They are God's attendants. God's attendants who answer to the Lamb. He has sent them out to deal with his enemies. They are instruments of his wrath. Of his judgment against those who are not God's children because they insist on being children of the devil. And it can be kind of easy to miss, a very important point if we're not careful. Our Maker, he puts down rebellion and he judges the wicked. As an aspect of his love in action. Because our Creator loves justice Because Christ loves his bride. Because the Holy Spirit loves the honor and integrity and glory of the Father and the Son. Because of these things, our Lord does what is righteous. It is righteous to punish evil. Now it could be wise for me to end with a word that's not only a word of encouragement, but also a word of caution. So that we keep ourselves in the correct perspective and keep our proper roles in view. If we're talking about God and his judgment here, God is judge. God is. He executes judgment. Christians pronounce the coming judgment of God. We pronounce it. We do not execute the judgment. We do not go beyond the responsibilities he has given us. So we should plea for God and his judgment. on his enemies and the enemies of his people. But we should not seek our own revenge. Remember, vengeance is mine. I will repay, says the Lord. So we are to pray for God's will, for God's reputation For God's people to remain steadfast as God's plan plays out, because we know that our true white knight in shining armor, who gives all of us white robes of victory And purity. He will ride in on his own magnificent white steed, a steed that is going to be far more impressive than what is showcased for us here in Revelation chapter 6. And he will rule forever. With eternal white-haired wisdom, having washed us clean of our sin, clean as the freshly falling white snowflakes that come down from the sky. So place your confidence in that. Place your confidence in the Lamb of God. who takes away the sin of the world, who overcomes the sin of the world, who crushes The sin of the world. Put your confidence in that, knowing that he shares his victory with his bride. Let's pray. Okay. Oh Father, you are good. You are so good to us, your people. So much better to us than we deserve. We ask that you would help us to live lives that better embody these truths that we've See here in this portion of Revelation. That we would put our confidence in you. Not place any sort of misplaced confidence in the things of this world, our own fanciful ideas or the beguiling promises of Sometimes well-meaning, but oftentimes people who are your enemy. Seeking to deceive us. We ask your blessing upon our discussion as we seek to come to better grips with exactly what is being taught here in this passage of Scripture. That we would feel the presence of your Holy Spirit in a direct, intimate, personal way. That we would build one another up. As we grow in our understanding of who you are and who you've made us to be, and who you've remade us to be in Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. I can take a peek at the clock. Okay. So any initial thoughts before I try to throw an idea starting question out there? I have one. Okay. Well hi. I've considered over here. Um it seems that That after um considering the after considering it in view of other scriptures, the rest of the book of Revelation and other scriptures. It seemed what the spirit was saying to me. Is that I want you to understand that everything is under the control of God to include Precisely when the antechisms will be released on earth that the devil will Work through this person. But he has never been in control of anything in an ultimate in in an ultimate way. And so if I was hearing from the Spirit correctly, but it seems to me the passage is teaching is that was that was always going to have somebody raped. And it's just speculated that he's always had somebody raped That he would want to use as the meaning of sin. But he he was never he's never before been able to pull the trigger Because he can't pull the trigger. God's gonna pull the trigger. So when God finally does pull the trigger then whoever he has waiting in the wing to fulfill his role will be able to step forth and fulfill that role. It that's why it seemed to me that the writer So it seemed to me that the rider on the white horse was The crown with a bow but with no arrows is the Antichrist who comes conquering But because he has no arrows, his conquering is um his conquering is diplomatic. And he will conquer with words and he will conquer with ideas and he will conquer with intrigue and he will you know it's that kind of a conquering that's a burger event. The weapon but the lack of arrows represents not killing people when he initi when he initially conquered that he will kill people kill people quote unquote with ideas, with propaganda, with intrigue. You know. And and that's what the and and the crown on his head is is is to represent Represent him as a as as a leader. He's gonna be something that people look up to. That's how I had initially uh oh. And and then after he does that, you know after he does that then all these other calamities are going to come because he's a false messiah. He's going to be the Messiah that the world received. You know, when Jesus came the first time, he said, Um, I come in my father's name. You won't receive me, but if my heart comes in your name, you'll receive him. So It it it seems like what i the spirit was saying to me was that you know it was a real Christ came the first time, the vast majority of people reject him. And so there's gonna be a s a time when I'm gonna give people what they want. I'm gonna give people the Messiah to I'm gonna pull the trigger. I'm gonna release this person called Jesus Christ. You know, he's gonna come conquering with all this smooth talk and And all this you know, propaganda and all this people will eat it up with a spoon. And he's gonna bring all kids and what's what's gonna happen is that um you know, after he comes with this movie talk and deceiving everybody, there's gonna be everything but peace. You know. And so that's why I was looking at that as definitely a judgment, but a judgment on the world for rejecting the real Messiah that that that judgment is coming. Now are there instances of of uh are there illustrations I should So I think prophecy unfolds and I think it unfolds in tiny ways sometimes, and then it unfolds in an ultimate way. And so it seems to be like there's a certain president who you will know right away, who came with very flattering smooth speech, people loved him, ate it up with a spoon, gave him a Nobel priest prize before he could take office. The whole world loved him. He came conquering Um, he didn't wind up being this dude, but he was a picture of this dude, I think. Maybe with a horse shadow. So I just with the four horses, weren't they supposed to be equal though with one another? Well I don't think that they all have the same rank. Well, I I just think that the the four horses well I I that the the the word that concept of equal So the first one comes and in inflation. That's inflation, basically. That's the we We will call that inflation. Extreme inflation. You know, cause because the the Antichrist people got said he's he's he's a pro he's gonna come with prosperity. He's gonna he's gonna have all the answers, right? Actually he's gonna bring cra the craziest inflation that the world has ever seen. I when this finally manifests. And then after that crazy inflation, people are gonna starve because not everybody's gonna have enough You know. I mean some people th the the riches of of people will have. So who are you saying is the Antichrist? I'm saying I'm saying uh yeah, I I think this dude is the antichrist Christ. I think he's coming. I'm seeing the rider on the white horse. Okay. Notice the the real ancient the real Christ comes on a white horse. See the devil he's everything God does. So the real, the real, the Antichrist is coming in a white horse, and he's coming conquering with in with intrigue though. And he's come with all the that's how he confidence and he's he's intriguing by all his promise. But isn't but I thought the story of the f of the four horses were they were judging evil. See this is God judging I think it's God judging the evil of this world for rejecting his Christ. Or the lamb judging the evil it it's the lamb specifically He's j he's rejecting the world. I mean he's judging the world for rejecting him. Right. So I see God using because I'm I'm also in that Jeremiah and Lamentations, so I'm can we say we know scripture Right. And so I'm seeing what plays out in those two books that God is using the the bad kings to Judge Judah and Israel because they had fallen away. Right. And so I'm like, okay, so I can see where God will use the enemy to even judge his own people when we've fallen away. Like we see what's going on in the church and we're like, whoa, well who we thought to be our people or not our people yeah God's exposing that using the you know the evil so to speak. I agree, yeah absolutely. So I see that playing out with the four horses is what I'm saying. Right, so it it it it's it's judgment on the world. Um so what what's the ultimate evil though? The ultimate ultimate evil is rejecting the Messiah. Oh sure. And so that's most of the world. And that's why I think the world, the whole world, you know, only a small percentage of the world received only a small percentage of ever received Christ Right. Ever. Right. Even within Israel, only a small percentage of the world has only a small percentage that's only ever received Christ. And I just think that at the end what God decides that the end of this age is finally here, I think he He's gonna unleash on the world what the world asked for because we know that that's one way God operates. If we keep asking for something, even though it's bad, he's just eventually give it to us. And I think that he's going to unleash this this this this false messiah that the world is timing for and and you know they're gonna be very excited at first and then it he's gonna turn off the be the worst disaster and according to the book of Revelation that if God didn't cut the day short, everybody would die. She thought God could be the worst calamitous disaster that the world has ever experienced. I I that's how I think the Holy Spirit taught me on this scripture that indeed this this man is said is coming. But don't worry, daughter, he's coming when I say so. Not when the dev the devil's gonna use him. But he's coming when I say he's coming. And so I I and and and and so the father's given it to the son, the land, to judge the world for rejecting him. So I I addressed that view on purpose in the message because there basically are three primary ways that this typically gets approached. One is people think that the the rider on the white horse is Christ. Another common view is the rider on the white horse is antichrist. And as I you know stated in the in the message, I feel like both of those views get it wrong because uh of being rooted in what the text itself is lending us to. We gotta keep in mind something that you know I mentioned a few different times early on in messages like I'm not saying it every time, but a reminder, when this was first written and delivered to the earliest churches, When when John's letter that we now call Revelation goes out, it would have been read to the congregation. They would be hearing it for the first time and it's it's becomes almost like an oral tradition sort of a thing. this story, this grand there's a reading of this letter that includes these grand sweeping visions. So when you get to what we now call chapter 6 Nobody among the original hearers would even know what the man of sin is because we haven't gotten to that yet. There's no context for understanding this as the Antichrist because we haven't gotten there yet So they would have to have the advantage that we now have as as moderns or postmoderns, having actual physical written text so we can cross reference and go back and forth within the text, they wouldn't have had that advantage Now that's not a knockout blow against the view that it couldn't be the Antichrist, but it does at least beg the question a little bit like, okay, they would have been at a distinct disadvantage back then The other thing is the Antichrist is rebellious, is not wanting to do what God would have do do, once he wants to circumvent and supersede God. But in this passage we have the f the the the four riders and the horses are obedient. That doesn't seem to square with the Antichrist The other thing is we haven't gotten there yet, but when we do, we're going to see as we compare what's going on here with the seals with what's going on with the trumpets, we're going to see a correlation between the judgments That what's going on in these judgments uh very similar to what's going on in the next set of judgments, because I would argue that it's a recapitulation. You're saying how there's these these throughout history there's there's these smaller versions. There's a cyclical nature to history where the same things are happening over and over until ultimately those same things happen in the biggest possible way and that's the end. And so that's part of how uh Revelation is cycling through the visions and that sort of thing. And when we get to the to the um to the trumpets, John and the way he's positioning the language is going out of his way to remind us of of Exodus and the plagues in uh in on Egypt. And those plagues were not effec were not uh were not put into effect by Antichrist. They were uh put into effect by God himself. And so we the point is we don't The Antichrist is clearly talked about in the book of Revelation. And so we don't even need this passage to make that case. There are other passages that are so much cleaner and obvious that No doubt about it. Th that's Antichrist. We don't need this here. Um and again, it's not the it's none of uh A couple of things I said. They're not automatic knockout blows. But if um if we want to have the idea that Antichrist wears a crown, we would have to rest that idea on this verse Alone. There's no other place where Antichrist is explicitly in view, undeniably in view where Antichrist is wearing a crown. So the only place where we could presume that he wears a crown is i in this verse, and we would have to kind of be presumptive that it is Antichrist in order to make the the case that he is. God can work directly and I would argue that what's happening here um This is clearly a judgment from God where he's turning us over to failed leadership. Right. It's tyrannical government is really what's in view here. It's it uh but God's doing that by sending out the horse and the rider. Um, the evil kings, you know, that uh Dina's reading in the Old Testament right now and God using the the uh the enemies of of God's people then as instruments of judgment. Those foreign leaders or even the you know, an anybody in the Old Testament wasn't anti Christ themselves and God still uses them. And I think God can use Joe Biden to do destruction or Right, right. You know, or George W. Bush, you know, to be equally offensive to both political parties, you know, to to do to to have horrible things happen without them being the Antichrist. I agree, but that that so what What where I'm coming from with with with my with what I think is my understanding from the spirit is that this is introducing And I that the the fact that that I I did I didn't read it as Mm. The angels saying come and them being obedient, I I read it as God pulling the trigger and unleashing the evil. and then evil just does what evil does. Kinda like if some if somebody releases a virus then um it's not so much that the virus is being obedient to them, but if you unleash the thing It's just gonna do what it d what what it's in its nature to do. That's how I view the the the unleashing or the releasing of the hor of the um uh of the riders on the horses. They're just going to do what is in their nature to do 'cause they can't do anything else really Wait, I have do you want to a comment? Sure. Okay. So Jerry Juman is watching The Vengeance is Mine, says the Lord, and then he says, I believe that because the evil one doesn't know the But I believe the tools riders on the horses are doing God's hand she tried once again she tried to go towards him. Toward God? Yes. But I believe These the tools in parentheses riders on the horses are doing God's plan to try once again to turn people's hearts. to him. I I think God would work through that judgment to turn some hearts toward him who who would be softened by the judgment to turn towards him, but I don't think that the riders on the horses are purposely trying to turn people's hearts towards the Lord Yeah, I I think uh I'm not um I want to expound upon him because I think uh it's hard because he's not here. We have to go to his comment. No no no that's fine. He's hopefully he's still watching. Um I think he's on to something and here's why. And this is why I'm uh uh an an additional reason why I'm not persuaded that what we have here in chapter six is is a depiction of Antichrist. Because here with the trumpets, or with the uh with the seals, and then with the trumpets, we're going to see that the the calamity is partial. Mm-hmm. Right now it's a fourth in with the trumpets it's gonna be a third. But then we get the bowls and that's ultimate. So anti-crisis and stage like nuclear Holocaust kind of spiritual warfare. Like that's end game kind of stuff. What we're seeing here with the seals and with the trumpets is not the end game yet. So that idea of history being cyclical, I would agree with I agree with both of you. I agree with you saying these are judgments from God. I agree with what Jerry's comment I think is getting at is that through these judgments people should recognize a judgment of God in history and they should repent and turn to God. That's why there's a restraining, it's a it's a partial judgment. And that's why we're gonna I think it's important when with the seals it's it's a fourth and people don't wake up so it's like all right, let me step up the game a little bit, now it's gonna be a third. And it still didn't get your attention? Okay, it's now three strikes you're out game over. And game over is anti-Christ level. The Antichrist level. Now I will I will agree that anybody who's not on the side of righteousness Who's not on the side of good is Antichrist. That's what John is getting to in in his first letter, 1 John. He's talking about there are many Antichrists. Anybody who's opposed to Christ is the Antichrist, but there is one, the Antichrist And in the context of Revelation, we're talking about the one Antichrist. I don't I think what we have here pictured in Revelation six, I don't know if this will bring us to a meeting of the minds or not. I think I would go so far as to agree with you that in Revelation chapter 6, we have tyrannical failed leadership unleashed by God by him removing his sustaining hand of common grace. turning the world and its systems over to itself partially uh and those that are turned over behave as antichrists. But I'm I'm I I don't think the text allows us to say that here that we have the Antichrist. Because the Antichrist is like the end game part of the punishment and we're not there yet. So why can't we why doesn't the text might be presenting that it progressive there. It progresses to that point. So I mean even though so Satan is the ultimate rebel, but even he has been controlled by God. And I and I agree with that. So his his Messiah which is his false version of Christ, will also in like manner be controlled to I mean he will do a God the the Lord will give him a great amount of leeway to do his things but all along he will still be under the under the thumb of God and he won't be able to do everything all at once because God's heart is the same And to your point, it it it's you know, a little bit happens at first and that doesn't wake enough people up because then God goes, He's he turns up the volume, more happens and that that that wakes hopefully more people up and then finally almost everybody is killed. I I just the way that I think the spirit was shown me is that we need the comfort that we can get from this is that God is in control of the entire thing. You know, even when antichrist is let loose on the earth The Lord's gonna control the timing and he's going to control the devastation the entire time. And we never will see again, says the Lord. Still he's going to control you know, so that because I think that if if God never did that then Humanity would have been wiped out a long time ago. The devil would have just killed everybody. The devil hasn't been able to do that because all along, all throughout time, even until the end, I think God's just gonna Even with my favorite book of Job. Yeah. But I mean what he went through, it was one man, but you know you could could see that that's representative of the persecution of the saints. You know what I'm saying? And yet God said, Do not take his life. And so that's where we have covered Even as the persecution of the saints happens, we not a hair will fall from our head, the word says. So even as bad as it seems, even those who have gone before us and have have martyred for the faith, that still was under the allowance butchered and tortured to even endure that so l even Stephen who was stoned smiled and looked up to heaven and praised. So there's definitely but yes, to your point there is this allowance that happens even though it's evil, it's still a But God has a plan through it. And I mean look at the present thing that we're under now. Oh yeah. It's not until now that some people Absolutely. You know, but we sound now that we're seeing who's not on God's side. Exactly. And we're like, what? Exactly. Yeah. And I just think this is a culmination of that dynamic, right? This is the com what's being described in the book of Revelation is the culmination of that dynamic that you know the the the Lord is going to have to Oh sure. Right. I think that that That same dynamic is what it's saying. So I think that The more I'm hearing you s you talk and maybe hopefully the more I'm talking uh because I'm seeing that there there's actually we're much closer than at first it seemed. Because I'm agreeing with almost everything pr pretty much agreeing with everything you're saying except for the one which is kind of the central point that you you were starting with, which this is the Antichrist Um just like in the Old Testament, you know, uh David is a picture of Christ. Right. But he's not he's king, but he's not the king. Correct. Right. So a as as an example. And so we have uh God is preparing us for what's to come. He's giving us uh um indications or or uh types uh for for the anti-type to come. And in uh in this case Historically, I think we're agreeing that historically God is doing things that are gonna point to the ultimate culmination. And you're saying that that ultimate culmination comes in the book of Revelation. And so we're agreeing with all of that. What I'm saying though is that ultimate culmination doesn't come in this chapter of Revelation. That the book of Revelation isn't just for the very end. It's actually addressing all of church history from the first century century to up until now the twenty first century and beyond if there is a beyond. Because this book was relevant to the first century readers too. But couldn't it be both at the same time? So couldn't it be what you're saying and what But here's my here's my the I guess the the reason I'm pushing back maybe as uh as as um consistently as I am is my pastor's heart gets concerned on on this. Because and I'm not saying you're guilty of this, but I know a lot of people watching maybe are or people that I've run into and probably you too. We live in this world of like a boogeyman behind the bush And that boogeyman is Antichrist. And you don't want to take the mark of the beast because then you're in league with the Antichrist and we're all oh, you think so and so the Antichrist? We're looking for Antichrist behind every corner. But John tells us earlier in the New Testament that there are many antichrists that are precursors to the Antichrists. So we have our guard let down. Vladimir Putin is an antichrist He's not the Antichrist, but he's an Antichrist. Xi Jinping is an Antichrist. The Ayatollah who's ruling uh Iran right now is an antichrist, but they're not the Antichrist. We spent all of our energy focused on talking about the Antichrist. We're paying no attention. And I think that in this part of Revelation It's part of the warning that's precursor leading up to the ultimate end game because it's a partial devastation. If this was the Antichrist, we'd be at Armageddon already is how the text lays out. This is this is not so there for that's an additional reason. In my opinion, we have so many reasons for this to be a type of Antichrist So when when Christ releases the horse and its rider, to have tyranny uh bring what is professed to be a peace, but is not a real peace, because the you know it's tyrannical When he's doing that, that should be a wake-up call, like holy cow, Christ has removed his gr his hand of common grace, turned us over tyranny, and if we're not careful, we're gonna It's gonna ratch it up. And so we're gonna end up in the same place. It's just that you're there, I think, a dozen chapters too soon. But you I hear you, I hear you. You're saying why shouldn't it be a type of enterprise? And what I'm saying is we oh we're not a type of enterprise. Why isn't it transcribing who the real But this was written in the first century. What types of Christ had just come in the first century So what can what types of Antichrist would there have been available? Christ available at the exact time this was written, but this is prophecy. So it would have been prophecy to them. So it would have been up to them to try to see that The anti-Christ. Even back then people speculated who the anti-christ would be. It's my understanding they speculated Nero So I I I because this is prophecy, I think they would have just been searching the scriptures and and going, Oh This dude Nero, could that be the dude? You know, so I I see what you're saying. And I I would argue that Nero is pictured in Revelation here in chapter six Yeah. Right. He's not the Antichrist, but he's somebody that looks an awful lot like the Antichrist. And a lot of people have looked an awful lot like the Antichrist. What I'm saying is if if John did The Apostle John told us that already there are many anti-Christ world. But he said that. Why doesn't the book of Revelation to describe who a person is after the name? From the very beginning, when Christ unleashes the rider on the white horse with the crown indicating who he will do warfare, why isn't that the problem Why isn't that to do with the rules? I would argue that the answer to the why in in this particular section is because the text doesn't go there. The text goes there later, but it doesn't go there here. The concept of tyrannical government and and uh those who behave like an Antichrist or act like the Antichrist will begin to behave when the a when the actual the Antichrist is on the scene, I think is hinted here. We have no I mean, not that this is the reason to say this, but we have no category for Nero. We have no category for Xi Jinping in the book of Revelation if this is the Antichrist. We have no category for tyrannical world leaders. We're uh there are enemies of God right now. We were enemies of God five hundred years ago in positions of great authority and power. But I guess the Bible is silent on that. What do you mean silent? If this is the Antichrist, then they're then what who are all those all those other evil rulers are not even depicted in church history. So the Bible is just saying that man is simple. So if if man is simple, then his rule is faulty. So I think that just in that in that principle pr any sinful man that's ruled from Nero to King George VIII, I think, you know, is is is referred to in scripture. Um what what it seems to me about this specific person that the Bible takes such that that that that Jesus revealed To John the Revelator is that this is how this is going to play out. I'm going to unleash this Antichrist upon the earth as judgment And he's going to come in this manner. He's gonna come. So you're saying that this is just a taste and that when the uh meaning this is just a taste of what Antichrist is gonna do culminating at the very, very end because he's being restrained in this chapter. of him right or force or uh or types and shadows of him. Right. But I think that what this book is is explaining to us is that one day Christ is gonna leave the real final deal and he's gonna come in this manner and you know in Revelation chapter six just lays that out for us. This is what's going to happen And but we will know that he will come and this is what's going to happen. We don't know his name, we don't know his nationality, we don't know anything that specific about him. just describing what is what is how it's gonna play out. And as we look at present leaders, we can see Tyson Shadows like, oh my gosh The Antichrist doesn't look a lot like that person. That's not the person because there's certain other things that that have to have to help. So I think actually that's helpful. I I think that you two actually just said the same thing because it's like that's not the person and then you're like but that's not the person the person's coming at the end. So I think actually you both are saying the same But for some reason there's a cruel thing. and the nationality and the and that because we're we're not to know that yet, obvious apparently we're not to know until it until the until the Lord unleashes the actual person, we're not to know the idea I guess yeah, I guess what I'm saying is there's been so many anti-Christs already that this is just another one. Right. But there's got to be a final one. I don't know why the Bible wouldn't Just go tell give us a description of the final one. Um you know, the Lord will reveal what we n what if the Lord revealed the actual name then then maybe that would give Satan some kind of advantage. I don't know, but he he doesn't reveal the like he didn't reveal uh well he revealed it I don't need to go down that road. He doesn't reveal the actual name because apparently we don't need to know We don't even know the name, the age, the nationality. We don't even know any of that. But I don't I don't see a biblical reason why he wouldn't just describe who the person is. Uh throughout the book of Revelation, again, this is a word picture, and so it's apocalyptic language, and so it's not gonna be um, you know A an itemized uh didactic kind of a description. And keep in mind too, what we you know, we one of the difficulties of having such a big gap in in in our revelation series, you know, we missed several months. And so it it's easy to forget where we've come from. But in chapters two and three it's very clear that those letters to the churches are to actual churches. Then and there. So that helps us to understand that this entire letter has relevance and import to the church then. oh almost two thousand years ago. Um and so revelation and and some of it is very uh clearly uh far future uh prophecy when it's talking about the the end of of church history. Uh you know, earth the in its you know current earthly form or whatever. Um I'm not sure I mean did you by the way you want to interrupt me like ten minutes ago? what the other courses, you know, what they were about and I said that they were all servants of God being used for judgment. Yeah yeah the yeah so and and they're all representing they're all basically representing if you want to put one word labels on them. You have uh um tyranny A ghastly kind of a war, famine, and death. Like that's what the four are representing broadly speaking. And the church has had to deal with those throughout its history. So that's another reason why these four horsemen, the churches struggled with tyrannical rulership that were opposed to uh the the uh goodness and righteousness and brought all sorts of uh devastation on us and uh that led to horrible wars, bloody battles and senseless death. And then lots of famine and uh you know so Well I think what we're ha what we have here is something that applies to the entirety of church history until we get to the point where it's the end of it all, and that's when the Antichrist But there hasn't been an Antichrist in the world for the last two thousand years. Right. Right. Right. Oh yeah. But there's been and I I think I think that but like you mentioned the churches Right. That was for those churches back then. But I think that's actual prophecy for churches now. I think there's examples of those churches existing right now. Exactly. So I I I think that this this prophetic book is a pe it's not only speaking to that church back then about what they could see as a prophecy that maybe some teacher generations of the churches were able You know, try to see if they could identify this person. You know, they they were expecting Christ to come back back then, about you know, two thousand years ago years ago. Um and this is their guide to try to gauge it to to try to discern if they were in that time frame. But I yeah, I I I see what you're saying and I I I I I just think that Maybe as the C as as the series goes on that the Holy Spirit, one way or the other, is going to cause something to to click. I'm still not quite where you are in terms of um Um seeing then as just yet another description of an antichrist, I think it's Now are you comp are is there some concern in your underlying concern that there's something important lost By not having this be the Antichrist here in chapter six? Do we lose something? Well, it's not I to say lose is is kind of s it maybe straw a bit strong. Um the way I would Like what if the text actually had this phrase in it? What if the text actually had doesn't, but what if it actually had the phrase, and by the way, this is not the Antichrist? Would that change anything else in the book of Revelation as we understand the end time? word loss loss on some people is that even Christ I mean not even Christ but Christ even controls the timing of the release of Antichrist. That piece might be lost. On some people, some people might think that Satan is a can arbitrarily be a person when he wants to. But this re read this way, it's it's it it makes it clear. No no no no. God is going to control the Antichrist is totally rebellious against God, but God God is going to control even the unleashing is controlled. Even the unleashing of it is control. Exactly. That that might be I think the narrative and w you know, we've got a really spirited discussion. I just I think that the narrative of Revelation uh itself would take care of that because clearly we saw here the lamb is a control of the opening of the seals and the commissioning of the horsemen you know, uh s uh having his uh cherubim send them out with the cum uh uh statement. And then we're gonna see the same thing with the trumpets. You know, God's in control there with the bowls or the censors, depending on your English translation. God's in control there. He's in control of this whole thing. And this is the beginnings of the unfolding of church history. I think that's what the seals are. God's got history rolled up in this scroll and now we're beginning to see that history unfurl unfurl and God is in control of the whole scroll Everything that's in it. And so I don't know that we would read the thing. But you you and I you and I know God is in control, but there are people who are not where we are. And for them it might be important that the scripture if if they read it if they if if this is of the Lord and they're they're reading it the way that I read it it might be really important to them to know that the scripture specifically Yeah, just as he I would argue, just as the text helps us understand that he controls uh all of the tyrants that we have to deal with throughout history. Well because of the discussion we've gone you know probably a little long on our on our uh Facebook live thing, but uh Yeah, so because I I I tend to read my Bible from from uh electronically it has um a lot of different references. Like it it it tries to tie all the different references from New Testament and Old Testament and everything. Everything. And one of the references that it gave for the first horseman here um Um was in Habakkuk where it goes. Hold on. Let me pull it back up. Um it was Habakkuk hold on Uh three, eight, and nine. Okay. You already have that pulled up on your computer or your phone or something? Yeah. I have a bunch of things different things pulled up Um and it says, Was your wrath against the rivers, O Lord? Was your anger against the rivers? Or your indign indignation against the sea when you rode on your horses on on your chariot of salvation. You stripped the sheath from your bow, calling for many arrows. You split the earth with rivers, mount uh the mountains saw you in Rome. The raging waters swept on. Um and it goes on to let's see, the light of your arrows as they sped, uh flash of glittering sphere, marks of the earth and fury. You went out for the salvation of your people, the salvation of your handed. You crushed the head of the house of the wicked. And there were there were a couple other references uh in these in in It were referenced in in Revelation six that like other references throughout the Bible that talked about um God specifically sending you talk about God going through, God sending someone through as i i it is talks repeatedly about it being one of God's people that goes through it and meets out these judgments. Uh one of the verses that at least it this version this thinks is related. Um is I think further I think it was further in Revelation and not But uh talks about uh the threads of the ones who were uh allowed judgment over the earth. Um and I I I find it hard to believe talking about the Antichrist natures, whether it's me Antichrist or A Antichrist or whatever, I find it hard to believe that they would be keeping the throne. If that is indeed related. And I I find it hard to believe that if Habakkuk is indeed related to the same thing that it would even kind of reference the Lord going through if it was an Antichrist figure. Actually in the book of Revelation it does mention the Antichrist sitting in the temple as like a But we're talking this is talking uh the one that that was talking about the throne was uh seated it was they they were seated on thrones and along with the people who had not fallen for the beast. Oh no, no, no, yeah, I agree with that. The Antichrist movement Oh yeah, he wouldn't know. Yeah, yeah. I mean he's gonna present himself as God and try to sit on the throne. Yeah. So my point is that it it there seems to be multiple other places in the Bible from both New and Old Testament that reference God going through or God sending his um I don't remember the words exactly there 'cause I just looked at about f five different reference places. But um it seems to be God going through or got sending someone through as opposed to simply allowing the devil to cause destruction. Yeah, that's an important point. And that's why I was referencing the the the plagues in Egypt as an example. God sends those directly. He doesn't need the devil to do it for him kind of thing. He likes the devil sometimes like in Job, but it it's not like the Babylonian. So it's good to make use of the notes, the cross-reference notes, particularly in a book like Revelation, where John is so heavily steeped in the Old Testament. and language and stuff, he's he's riffing off of that. You know, he's borrowing from, he's influenced by, and so much of what he's saying in Revelation, that can be helpful. And speaking about reference in the Old Testament, I just want to say this really quick because it's it's a misunderstanding among some because they have a uh an unfortunate commitment to