Welcome. Thank you for joining us here at the Household of Faith in Christ for the online portion of our weekly gathering. If you live somewhere within driving distance of Frederick and you don't have a church or you have thought you had a church but they're still not open or they've got huge restrictions that make it difficult to worship or things like that Reach out to me. You can find all my contact information on our website, household of faith in Christ dot com. And I would love to talk to you about you know worshiping with us on a regular basis on Saturday evenings. If you're not local, because I know we have people who sometimes jump on this audio stream from all around the country, if you need help finding a church in your own backyard, I'd be glad to try to help you to do that. I've had some success doing that for some people, and sometimes it's harder than others, but I'd be willing to give that a go. So tonight we're going to be reading uh From the Old Testament in the book of Zechariah, so if you want to get your Bibles ready to read along, you certainly are encouraged and welcome to do that. Zechariah chapter 1, 7 through 21, and Zechariah 6, verses 1 through 8. And then the message tonight is on Revelation chapter 6, verses 9 through 17, so you're going to want to be ready to focus on that. And there's a few places in the message tonight where I'll be reading, you know, small sections of the Bible. And if you are one who likes to read along, I'll give you a heads up on those now. So you can stick a bookmark in there if you want. Mark 13, Luke chapters 21 and 23, not the full chapters, but portions of each. 2 Peter 3, and there'll be a number of other single verses, but the chunks will be in Mark 13, Luke 21, Luke 23, and 2 Peter Anyway, before we go any further, maybe Ray, would you be willing to open us up with a word of prayer? Uh dear Lord, we thank you for this day and we uh thank you for this gathering that we're able to enjoy today and we pray that this message be edifying to your word and your or to your people, your church. And you know nothing be said that is not glorifying or pleasing to you. In Jesus' name we pray these things. Amen. Amen. So we realized as a kind of a corporate body here last summer that none of us really were as equipped as we would like to be to share a you know, a kind of a fullness of the gospel sort of thing. And so we we spent some time uh here with the Frederick Gathering did, uh kind of a gospel shearing boot camp sort of thing. And ever since then we've we've tried with some regularity. practice what we know uh about sharing the gospel so that we can keep those skills sharp and also we can model for other people different ways to go about sharing the gospel. And so every week kind of a different person uh pipes up and shares the good news and I I had to to uh hold her back. She was you know chomping at the bit. She begged me if she could uh share the gospel Actually, no, I just sprung it on her like a minute ago. But uh Angela's uh going to uh share the good news of Jesus Christ with us. So um I think um the way I would approach sharing the gospel is um to just draw a person's attention to the fact that um w we live in a world where there's a lot of injustice and people mistreating each other very badly. And um and That what that indicates is that we are we have all broken God's moral law. And his moral law is basically like uh it's summarized in the Ten Commandments. That's kind of the whole of God's moral law. And we've violated that law. We've violated every commandment of that law. And that's the reason why. The world is in such a mess. And I would share that, you know, God is loving, but He's also a law keeper. We are lawbreakers. while he is a law keeper, but because he is a law keeper, um he has to hold us to account for the law that we have broken. Yet at the same time, because he's loving, he wants a way for us to be in relationship with him. Uh so what he had what he did to reconcile those two points which are really at odds with each other is that he He sent um someone to be a substitute, kind of a proxy, um uh for our righteousness, someone that that paid the fine, so to speak, for all the wrong that we've done And you know, just like a person in a courtroom that's standing before a judge that's broken, let's say, traffic laws, for instance and uh is about to be heavily fined even though the person is guilty, if someone comes and pays the fine for them, then the judge can legally let the person go, although the person technically is guilty. And that's um an illustration of what the gospel is like. It's like we've broken God's moral law, but um God sent someone named Jesus to pay the fine for that uh our breaking the law and that fine was literally it was literally Jesus um on the cross uh suffering the penalty that we deserve for breaking God's moral law. And so what we have to do in order to to you know, receive what he did. I mean he did it but there's a process to receive it. And the process to receive is is simply just to believe that he did it and to to uh agree with God that we've done wrong and we've broken the law, we've done wrong, and we're sorry for it, and we choose to not live that way anymore. We choose to not live life our life as per perpetual lawbreakers, but and we choose to believe that Jesus paid that fine and we choose um to give ourselves to to Christ uh so that He can do a work in us that will change our nature so that we won't we won't just casually and kind of without conscience break the law anymore. And that's basically what the gospel is. it it means that uh it means good news, but the good news is we don't have to s suffer the penalty that the righteous judge has every right to give to us. if we believe what he did for us and we are willing to receive it. And um it's not something it's not anything that, you know, we can do to earn it. We just have to, just like if we were in that courtroom situation, nobody deserves we don't deserve for somebody to come and pay our traffic fines off for us, we earn the the traffic tickets. We don't deserve that, but if somebody was a nice benefactor and just decided to show us kindness, if we If we receive what that person does on our behalf, then our our fine is paid off for us. It's a gift. It's not anything that we've earned It's just a gift to us, but like any gift we have to receive it. So if if the person's in the courtroom and they're saying, I want to pay your fine, and we're saying no, then we've just refused a gift. Um and our fine is not paid anymore. So um I would say something I think along those lines because I think that people can relate to that analogy and because it you You know, it's it's what happened on the cross is a legal transaction. It's just le it's it's it's it's it's grace, yes. Spiritually it's grace, but it's completely legal. Um we're legally not held accountable for our sins. It's not that we didn't do them, it's just that the legal fine has been paid. And then that therefore we we can be treated as if we didn't do the wrong. Yeah, I think so in response to that good news of it being paid for and Uh, you know, us being accounted as though we have Christ's record of of perfect righteousness, as we're gonna find out in the message today, you know, we get to spend eternity in glory with God as a result. And so it is in good news. Indeed. Thank you for sharing Angela. Uh and you mentioned at the start talking about there's all this injustice and these problems in the world. Well, and that's true and one of the things that that has done is has given rise to a movement within the church called the social justice gospel which is no gospel at all and so we have to have a right response to that know how to understand that and why do I mention that? Because I think we're going to be able to do it online. I'm hoping that that'll work out. But people in the room know somebody's coming, but the date's been changed, so make note. John Harris is relatively noteworthy in the fight with uh within the church to push back against uh woke theology, the the social justice movement. There are a lot of enemies within the church and uh John has been on the front lines for years, several years now battling it. He's written a couple of very successful books. He's going to be here at House of the Faith in Christ on April 23rd. The original date that I mentioned to you guys was April 30th But uh he had a scheduling conference so April twenty-third. John Harris is gonna be here and I'm hoping that we can do this online. So you might want to make note We're either going to have John Harris online with us on the 23rd or we won't be doing Facebook Live on the 23rd. I'm not sure which, but I'm hoping that we'll be able to have him online with us. More details will come, but I'm excited about that. And speaking of dates, this past week, those who uh in the room might already know something about this. It was just a few days ago. I think January twenty-fifth was the thirty-fourth anniversary of the one hundredth Congress of the United States Approving that there would be an annual day of prayer every year in May. So I I I mentioned that as a reminder that we're preparing for rain in this season, right? We're using this time of the year to prepare for great things ahead and it's a time of we should be in prayer all the time. Um the s Uh a fervent focus kind of a prayer at this time at this part of the year as we prepare for uh Blessings from God that will be coming uh down the pike. And the the idea here is to spend time in prayer and beseeching God's will of how we could establish practices and habits and ways of doing things now. that for the rest of the year, for the rest of our lives will be in place. So we want to pray to God, but we want to pray expectantly. We want to pray for rain. But then go out and prepare our fields to receive that rain. So what are we doing right now to prepare to receive God's blessing? So it's not just praying for blessing, as important as that is. But it's seeking guidance in his word and uh praying to uh be within the center of his will of what it is we can be, should be doing in preparation for the blessings. that he bestows upon his people. So anyway, so in the spirit of the National Day of Prayer, the anniversary of of that being put in place, I wanted to bring that up. All right, so before we get into the message, I want to uh connect what John, the Apostle John, is doing in the book of Revelation with so much of what he's doing in the Old Testament. And to help us do that, we're going to have our readings from Zechariah. I can't remember which one of the three of you had which parts, but uh whoever has Zechariah chapter 1, uh verses 7 through 13, if you would start us off. On the twenty-fourth day of the eleventh month, which is the month of the Shiva Shiva, in the second year of Darius, the word of the Lord came to the prophet. Zachariah, the son of Ishiah, son of Adu, saying, I saw in the night and behold, a man riding on a red horse. He was standing Standing among the viral trees in the glen, and behind them were red swirl and white horses. Then I said, What are these, my lord? The angel who talked with me said to me, I will show you what they are. So the The man who was standing among the myrtle trees answered, These are they whom the Lord has sent to patrol the earth. And they answered, The angel of the Lord who was standing among the myrtle trees, and said, We have patrolled the earth, and behold Then the angel of the Lord said, O Lord of hosts, how will you have no mercy on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah? Against which you have been angry these seven years. And the Lord answered, gracious and comprehensive words to the angel who came with me. Then the angel who was speaking to me said, Proclaim this word. This is what the Lord Almighty says. I am very jealous, for Jerusalem and Zion, but I am very angry with the nations that feel secure. I was only a little angry, but they added to the calamity. Therefore, this is what the Lord says. Jerusalem with mercy, and there in my house will there my house will be rebuilt, and the measuring line will be stretched out over Jerusalem, declares the Lord Almighty. Proclaim further, this is what the Lord Almighty says: My towns will again overflow with prosperity, and the Lord will again comfort Zion and choose Jerusalem. Then I looked up and there before me were four horns. I asked the angel who was speaking to me, What are these? He answered me. These are the horns that scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem. Then the Lord showed me four craftsmen. I asked, What are these coming to do? He These are the horns that scattered Judah so that no one could raise his head, but the craftsmen have come to terrify them and throw down These horns of the nations who lifted up their horns against the land of Judah to scatter its people. Again, I raised my eyes and I saw in front of me four chariots coming out from between two mountains, and the mountains were mountains of bronze. The first chariot had red horses, the second chariot black horses, the third chariot white horses, and the fourth chariot spotted gray horses. I asked the angel speaking with me, What are these, my Lord? And the angel answered me, These are the four winds of the sky that go out after presenting themselves before the Lord. lord of all the land. The one with the black horses is getting out is going out toward the land in the north. And the white horses have gone out after Them and the spotted have gone out toward the land of the south. Then the gray ones went out and were seeking to go and wander through the whole earth when he He said, Wander throughout the whole earth, and they did wander throughout the whole earth. Then he called out to me and said, Look, the ones going to the land in the north have given my spirit rest in the north Two most recent messages, some of that imagery probably feels a little bit familiar. We just heard, we just sat under the reading really of God's word. breathed out by God, which is what we mean when we say that God's word is inspired. Because it's inspired of God, it's an errant, infallible, fully sufficient ru guide and rule for faith and life practice. So Those with an ear to hear left them here. So not too long ago My family and I we watched a movie from ten years ago, back in 2011 when it came out. It's pretty much par for the course for us. We rarely see a movie in the year that it was released. We see it years later. This is Often the case even for us for movies we see at the theater. For example, this past summer, saw two movies in the theater. One of them was Matilda from nineteen ninety-six and the other one was Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles from nineteen ninety. I kid you not. Anyway, the movie from 2011 that I mentioned, you can watch that one at home. It stars Noel Gibson and it is called The Beaver. And Mel's character in the movie is named Walter Black, and he's a man who's been beaten up by the events of the world. So he's prone to deep, long, lasting periods of depression, debilitating depression. causes him to stay in bed for weeks on end, to ignore his job, emotionally abandon his family, and he decides that the way out is to end his own life. But his life is saved and changed radically by the discovery of a stuffed animal, a beaver And he then transfers his identity into the beaver. And he lives his life vicariously through this uh Make pretend friend that he carries with him wherever he goes. He's in bed with his wife, he's in the shower naked, whatever, he's got the beaver with him. Sounds kind of crazy, right? Yeah, well, it is crazy. And Walter Black suffers a psychic break. That nearly ends his life. And it costs him his left arm. And that's a pretty dramatic turn for what had been a somewhat charming and whimsical movie up until the final act. Now, why do I share all of this? Well, because this background mirrors life. Tough times make for rough lives. The statistics they leave a disturbing narrative about suicide. How self-murder has significantly increased in frequency within our society over the past couple of years. This is evidence of our failures at self-medicating Now most don't self-medicate with beaver-like hand puppets. At least probably not. But instead we self medicate with hours upon hours of screen time and by immersion into the wild orchestrations of professional sports or Fantasy sports or junk food, porn, drugs, drinks, hooking up, video games. And all the other sorts of bread and circuses that distract us from reality. And it works for a while, it seems. Until it doesn't. And then we turn our distracted gaze to things like career success and monetary security and political activism or spirituality and self-improvement and Arenas where the experts tell us everything is going to be okay. If you just listen to what they say, do what they tell us. But then there's the reality of our life experience. It's a reality that's captured poignantly in a graduation speech that's delivered in the movie The Beaver. It's a speech that resonates with so many of us right in our gut. It's a speech that the outwardly successful and happy cheerleader who became valedictorian Could not bring herself to write. And so she hired a friend to write it for her. And a portion of the speech says, Today I'm here to warn you you're being lied to. Our parents, our teachers, our doctors. Have lied to us. And it's the exact same line, the same six words. Everything is going to be okay. But what if it isn't? What if pain is just in your DNA? And tragedy is your birthright. Or what if sometimes, right out of the blue, when you least expect it, stuff just happens? Okay, I'm sure right now you're all thinking, man, this is the darkest graduation speech I've ever heard. And it is, I agree with you. But I didn't write it. I've spent so much time waiting for this lie to come true. That I finally paid someone to tell the truth for me. I'm not okay. Not at all. The truth is I'm missing something. So what do I do with that? What do any of us do besides lie? This is where the gospel truth comes in. It exposes the lie and the liars for the frauds that they are. And it does more than expose them. It deals with them in no uncertain terms. And it answers the question: what do I do with the fact that I'm missing something in my life? Well that something is a some one And because of sin, from a particular kind of way of thinking about it, pain is in our DNA. Tragedy is our birthright. And no matter how advanced the medicine, how advanced the science, how advanced the technology How advanced the rhetoric? Everything is not going to be okay Outside of Christ. But in Christ, in the truth, it's a different story. So Revelation chapter 6, if you've bookmarked it, you might want to turn there now. If you haven't bookmarked it, you want to shuffle through your pages as quickly as you can. We're going to pick up with verse 9 in our verse-by-verse examination, and I'm not going to read a big chunk all at once today because we read the entire chapter. last week. So we're just going to go a verse or two at a time here. So Revelation 6, verse 9 says, Now when the Lamb opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of those who had been violently killed because of the Word of God and because of the testimony they had given. Well, the Lamb is Jesus Christ, as we know from our previous look in the book of Revelation, right? We know that the Lamb here is Jesus Christ, the Son of God, uniquely worthy to open the seals of the scroll. That are depicted in this vision. And we've uh talked about the first four seals past couple of weeks in our time together. And now here we are up to seal number five. And the fifth seal, it shifts the scene from what happens on earth. That's what's happening with the first four seals. And now here it shifts to what happens in heaven. And it explains the reason for all that death and destruction in the first four seals and in the sixth seal that's yet to come. And we hear the cry of the martyrs under the altar. And the word altar here, it means literally sacrificial altar, which makes sense. Given that the martyrs are located under it, underneath the Old Testament altars. That's where the blood of the sacrificed animals will be poured out. And while the word does literally mean sacrificial altar, the word can also mean incense altar, and it should call to our minds an altar of incense here. With the incense representing the prayers of God's people. And so we have here both an altar of living sacrifice and an altar for offering up prayers So what's happened is that John has blended together the two altars of the Old Testament, the Old Testament tabernacle, the Old Testament temple, where they had two altars, one in the courtyard for the offering up of slain animals. One within the holy place, right next to the veil of the holiest place, and that was the altar of incense. And as we read this, we want to keep in mind, at the time that Revelation was written, the word martyr had not yet taken on the technical meaning that we use implied to it today, the technical meaning of a person who's killed for the sake of the gospel. We don't want to be anachronistic in our language use here. During John's lifetime, the Greek word martyr, it referred to all Christians laying down their entire lives for Christ. Christians are called to die to self and to live with love in truth, sacrificing and suffering for the name of the Lord. So while the slaughter of the faithful witnesses is specifically in view here, there's no denying that's what the text is telling us. There can also be, and I would argue there should be, a broader application that speaks directly into our lives today. So as a note of encouragement for us who are living our lives today, we haven't gotten there yet, but in Revelation chapter 20, we are going to see an emphasis on the dominion of the martyrs. It is a happily ever after kind of story. Now, why were the martyrs persecuted? What does the text say On account of the word, or because of the word, as the N-E-T phrased it, that's the translation I'm reading from this evening. Well, this is the exact word-for-word reason that the Apostle John gives for his exile on the island of Patmos. He mentions that back in Revelation 1, verse 9. And so these faithful witnesses, they cry out for justice as their blood cries out from the earth, in a sense. As it does in Genesis chapter 4, verse 10. That's where Abel is slain by Cain. And we join with that cry, knowing that cry for justice. Knowing that the final judgment comes from God. Oh, yes, it does. In God's time. In the meantime, there is a mixed experience for the church on earth, which is reflected in the somewhat ambivalent state of those under the altar here in this passage. Here's what we read in verses 10 and 11. They cried out with a loud voice, How long, sovereign, master, holy and true, before you judge those who live on the earth. Then avenge our blood. Each of them was given a long white robe. They were told to rest for a little longer. until the full number was reached of both their fellow servants and their brothers who were going to be killed, just as they had been We in this passage, as we have earlier in the book of Revelation, we find mention of white robes, and we're going to see white robes again in the upcoming chapters. Here are the white robes. They serve to remind the saints that God's pure righteousness In a sense, his justice mercifully covers them and that God's pure holy judgment Is justice in a different sense, will fall upon those who are enemies of God's people That's who's in view here when it says those who live on the earth in verse 10. There are two eschatological groups. There are the citizens of heaven. That's us if we're following Christ as King. And they're the citizens of earth, those who live on the earth, those who have their citizenship merely on earth And all of this is pretty scary stuff. I mean, we're told that more of Christ's witnesses will be murdered But these witnesses, they will be eternally wrapped, eternally wrapped in God's protection. While the murderers will be killed for their crimes and pay the price of eternal death at the hand of God if they don't repent and turn their lives over to Christ. Their end will come. Those outside Christ, their end will come. It will come, certainly. It will come suddenly. This is the wrath of a lamb, which is a wrath of love. And that is the worst kind of wrath they have to face. It's like the wrath of a mamma bear. You do not want to face the wrath that comes by getting between a mama and her cubs. I know I'm mixing metaphors here talking about bears and mammas and the text here is talking about the lamb and the sun. But you know the text in Revelation it mixes metaphors too and this mixing of metaphors actually adds to the fright in the scene. Now remember we were told back in the previous chapter There was a lion. But then when we look to see the lion, what do we see instead? We see a gentle little lamb. So cute and cuddly. We're thinking, hey, I'm gonna go play with the cute little cuddly lamb and we'll frolic together, we'll giggle like school children. But then, like a perfect horror story, the lamb turns into Godzilla and Rambo and Jaws and every other destructive force that one can imagine, all rolled into one. And the strange shock that comes with this juxtaposition of images adds to the fear factor as we now arrive at the opening of the sixth seal. The second coming of Christ. Picking up with verse 12. Then I looked when the Lamb opened the sixth seal, and a huge earthquake took place. The sun became as black as sackcloth made of hair, and the moon became blood red, and the stars in the sky fell to the earth like a fig tree, dropping its unripe figs when shaken by a fierce wind. The sky was split apart like a scroll being rolled up, and every mountain and island was moved from its place. Then the kings of the earth, the very important people, the generals, the rich, the powerful, and everyone, slave and free, hid themselves in the caves and among the rocks of the mountains. They said to the mountains, And to the rocks fall on us and hide us from the face of the one who was seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb, because the great day of their wrath has come, and who is able to withstand it? This is the first of seven descriptions. Seven descriptions were given in Revelation of Christ's second advent. The next one's going to be in chapter 11. There's that number seven again, as we've seen throughout Revelation. And we see in this passage seven types of people affected. Did you count them? Kings, important people, generals, the rich, the powerful, slaves, and freemen. Everyone. This is to be a complete coming of judgment on all people groups, all different people, no matter their heritage, their geography, whatever. This is the if you're outside of Christ. This is talking about you. And the very foundations of creation, they respond to Christ's conquering presence. Did you count the seven objects? That are listed in these verses. There's a huge earthquake affecting the land, that's one. The sun turns black, that's two. The moon turns red, that's three. The stars fall to earth, that's four. The sky rolls up like a window shade, that's five. And the immovable mountains and islands, they both are moved, that's six and seven. So part of what this tells us is that what we have here are global truths. As Malachi chapter 3, verse 2 asks, who can endure the day of his coming? Who can stand when he appears? No matter where they are. This is not merely for the old covenant tribes of Israel. As Bible students, of course, we're not surprised. By this, because Isaiah chapter 49, verse 6, it says to Israel in the Old Testament, I will also make you a light for the Gentiles. My salvation may reach to the ends of the earth. So salvation reaches to the end of the earth. And so does his judgment. And this idea, it's echoed in the New Testament, in the book of Acts, chapter 13, verse 46. If you want to get ready, I'm going to be going to Mark chapter 13 and Luke chapter 21 in a second as well. So if you want to read along with those passages, you might want to get ready for Mark 13 and Luke 21. But first, a verse from Acts 13, verse 46. We had to speak the word of God to you, and here it's talking about the Jews. So here we had to speak the God of of God to you, the Jews first. Since you reject it and do not consider yourselves worthy of eternal life, we now turn to the Gentiles. So that's a general principle of play. This is global. This is for all peoples, all ethnos, all ethnic groups. And then that we have the fact here that the sun, the moon, the stars, the sky phenomena that's described here that's pointing to a shaking of the old order. In preparation of for the new order, the new creation. And all of this takes our Bible memory back to places like the Gospel of Mark, chapter 13. So picking up with verse 24. Through to verse 29. The sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light. The stars will fall from the sky, and the heavenly bodies will be shaken. At that time people will see the Son of Man coming in clouds with great power and glory, and he will send his angels and gather his elect from the four winds, from the ends of the earth to the ends of the heavens. Now learn this lesson from the fig tree. As soon as its twigs get tender and its leaves come out, you know that summer is near. Even so, when you see these things happening, you know that it is near right at the door. In addition to the Gospel of Mark, our Bible memories might take us to the Gospel of Luke, chapter 21, verses 25 through 28. Where it reads, there will be signs in the sun, moon, and stars. On the earth, nations will be in anguish and perplexity at the roaring and tossing of the sea. People will faint from terror, apprehensive of what is coming on the world. For the heavenly bodies will be shaken. At that time they will see the Son of Man coming in a cloud of power and great glory. When these things begin to take place, stand up and lift up your heads because your redemption is drawing near. And these gospel accounts themselves, they might hearken us back to Isaiah chapter 13, where verse 10 says Stars of heaven and their constellations will not show their light. The rising sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light. So you can see the imagery and the language that John is making use of, it's not completely fresh and brand new. It's something we find throughout the pages. Now what is meant by the seven specific images in the text of Revelation that it it gives us here? And from where else, other than these places I've already read from, where else is John get some of this language. For example, the passage today it talks about a huge earthquake. A huge earthquake took place. Well, there are lots of times in biblical history when the world shakes as our warrior God, the Lord of hosts, comes to battle and to judge his enemies. In your personal, we're not going to have time to read through them all now, so in your personal study of the Bible, I'd invite you to check out Judges chapter 5 and Jeremiah 51 and Ezekiel 38. Go to a number of the Psalms as well, including Psalm 78 and 97, 99. See also Isaiah, I mentioned chapter 13. We read one verse from there. Look at the whole chapter. Look also at Isaiah chapters 24, 34. Plus Joel 2 and Micah 1 and Nahum 1. I mean it's all over the place, but those are some really good places to start. Now what about the phrase, the sun became as black as sackcloth made of hair? Has anything like this, heavenly darkness and sackcloth, been said elsewhere in Scripture? As a matter of fact, yes, Isaiah chapter 50, verse 3. I clothe the heavens with darkness and make sackcloth its covering. What about the moon becoming blood red? Well, Joel chapter 2, verse 31 says, The sun will be turned to darkness and the moon blood to blood before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. Now, some speculate that the moon appearing blood red will be the result of volcanic ash flying up into the atmosphere, clouding the sky Therefore, changing the hue of the moon, uh, this would be the result of an earthquake spawning a bunch of volcanic eruptions. It's an interesting thought. The star is falling to the sky, like a fig tree, dropping its unripe figs when shaken by a fierce wind. What about that? Well, some here see a physical event that refers to like asteroids and meteor showers. Interesting thought. Others see the fall of civil rulers in this imagery, and even religious rulers for that matter. And late figs, for those of us that might not know a whole awful lot about horticulture, late figs will begin to mature on the tree after there were no leaves and before the budding of the next season, the summer growing season. And so there were no leaves there. These figs had no protection from the wind and so they would therefore be easily blown off. Now in verse 14, Revelation chapter 6, we're told that the sky is split apart like a scroll being rolled up. Does anyone remember Isaiah chapter 34, verse 4? That verse reads, All the stars in the sky will be dissolved, and the heavens rolled up like a scroll. All the starry hosts will fall like withered leaves from the vine, like shriveled figs from the fig tree. Now during our series of sermons in the book of Revelation, I've repeatedly emphasized how much John is making use of Old Testament language, Old Testament images to help describe the vision that he was given by Christ. And boy, today, man, we're seeing these illusions jump right off the page at us. You know, quoting and uh quoting from or alluding to the Old Testament is a practice that's common for John, and it's a practice he surely learned from his Lord. Might remember Jesus was struggling to carry the cross to his crucifixion. Luke 23, if you want to read along, you can turn there if you want. Luke 23 records for us a scene in verses 28, 29, and 30. Jesus turned and said to them, Daughters of Jerusalem, do not weep for me. Leave for yourselves and for your children. For the time will come when you will say, blessed. are the childless women, the wombs it never bore, the breasts it never nursed. Then they will say to the mountains, fall on us, and to the hills, cover us. Well, with these words, Christ is himself quoting the Old Testament. Hosea chapter 10, verse 8 says, Then they will say to the mountains, Come, cover us, and the hills fall on us. Now in Revelation 6 there are mountains mentioned in verse 14, with every mountain moved. And the mountains are mentioned again in verse 15, with people trying to hide in the caves of the mountains and among the rocks of the mountains, and they're so desperate for rescue If they cry out to nature for help, mountains fall on us, bury us in an avalanche, crush us under your weight, even a disaster such as this. is preferable to the wrath of a lamb. But there's no escape from the one who's seated on the throne I mean you might run, but you cannot hide. Adam and Eve, they learned this back in the first book of the Bible, back in Genesis in chapter 3, right? They could not hide from God. There is no point in fleeing to hide from the exposure and the punishment that's coming your way if you are not trusting in the sacrifice of Christ to cover your sins. You know, the mountains they can crush your bones, but they cannot crush or kill your spirit. They can't crush the entirety of who you are. They cannot crush your eternal soul. And so everyone will face their maker. Those who were killed by the beasts mentioned in the fourth seal, perhaps killed as payback for using beasts to kill Christians in the Colosseum back in the day They suffered a physical death, right? Being killed by the beasts, but still they will face their maker. Those who fail to endure, fail to witness with faithful vigilance, prove to have made maybe a false profession of following Christ, they will face their Maker. The unrepentant, who have already entered the realm of the unseen, Hades, as it's mentioned in verse 8, the place of burial. They will not avoid the eternal Hades, the place of judgment They will face their maker. Now maybe you're sitting there thinking, ah yeah, so what? I mean, when I meet my maker, I expect to be found innocent. You don't really think you've never sinned, do you? I mean, if this is what you think, well, then let me assure you, God knows you better than you know yourself, and He is clear in His Word. You are a sinner. Well, you know, maybe you think, okay, yeah, sure, of course I'm not perfect, right? But There's not enough evidence to convict. I'll get off on a technicality. No technicalities will save you. God knows his perfect word, his perfect law, perfectly. There is no weaseling out. And as for a lack of evidence, I mean seriously, I mean, would you really want to go there? You and I could get together one-on-one, and even I, who am not God, could help you identify the guilt that you bear in your life But I didn't mean to do what I did, you protest. Or the devil made me do it. It's not my fault. Or you scream out, what about all the good stuff I did? Doesn't that count for anything? Oh your selective memory, your blame shifting, your self-righteous acts. These fail to solve your problem. It's sobering to consider, isn't it? What if you know deep down that this might describe you and your situation? I mean, you know you've done bad things in your life. And your guilt drags you down. And you you know you've never truly repented and turned to Christ. I mean you haven't turned to Jesus and surrendered your life of sin at the foot of the cross. Maybe you've even thought, boy, I'd sure like to do that. Be set free. But you haven't. You feel stuck. All around you are reminders of your mistakes, your hurts, your failures. Your disobedience to your Maker. Well, if that's you, then you need a fresh reminder of the good news. You know, there are people who realize they need a change of scenery. And so they they they work to escape their past. by moving to a faraway, completely different geographical location, a place where nobody knows who they are, and they can start afresh. Well, you know, the gospel, it offers something like that, only far, far better. You can start anew. You can change citizenship into a different kingdom, the kingdom of God, where the scenery is heavenly And you are loved. And you are loved because unlike the illustration where you go to a place where no one knows you, With the gospel. It's so much more satisfying than this. You go to where you are fully known. And love for who God made you to be. Free from your yucky, icky past. Revelation chapter 6, it ends with a question. The great day of wrath has come. Who is able to withstand it? Who can withstand it? The answer You are If you follow the Lord Christ as your Savior and King And even without a beaver puppet on your left hand, everything is going to be okay. for the believer. Because the son loses not one that is given to him by the Father. The total number is fulfilled. The mission is fulfilled. As the Apostle Peter wrote in his second epistle, chapter 3, and this is one I also mentioned earlier, so if you bookmarked it, you can turn there quickly if you like. 2 Peter Chapter 3, picking up with verse 10. But the day of the Lord will come like a thief. The heavens will disappear with a roar. The elements will be destroyed by fire. And the earth and everything done in it will be laid bare. Since everything will be destroyed in this way, what kind of people ought you to be? You ought to live holy in godly lives. As you look forward to the day of God and sin Speed its coming. That day will bring about the destruction of the heavens by fire, and the elements will melt in the heat. But In keeping with his promise, we are looking forward to a new heaven and a new earth where righteousness dwells so then, dear friends. Since you are looking forward to this, make every effort to be found spotless, blameless, and at peace with him. Bear in mind. That our Lord's patience means salvation. And our final thought for the day comes from Isaiah 65, verse 17. See, I will create new heavens and a new earth. The former things will not be remembered. Nor will they come to mind all that pain and suffering and struggle and sin and horror. Will not be remembered. Will not come to mind for those who are the bride of Christ You see, for you, as a faithful follower of Jesus Christ, everything is going to be okay. That's good news. Let's pray. Father, we praise you and thank you. That you love us enough to have sent your son to die his horrific death on a cross on our behalf. so that we could be in right relationship with you. And that we could grow in our sanctification to more and more look like Christ in our life. And we know in the meantime that there's a lot of pain and challenge and struggle, but we know that in the end, all of that is defeated. That we will enter into glory, that your people have a destiny that you have chosen them for. We praise you and thank you that you count us among your elect. We ask humbly that you would help us to Better exemplify this truth in our lives. Be prepared to share this good news with those who right now we would think to count as among the lost, among those who face the terrible wrath of the Lamb. We pray for their salvation. And if they will not turn to repentance, we earnestly wait for your righteous justice to be enacted. We fully expect and anticipate and pray for their eternal destruction. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen So the first question, not exactly on topic, but how many people here have seen the beaver? I did not and don't think I won't crazy. I gotta say Mel Gibson plays the role really, really Jodie Foster's in it as well. She does a nice job at but I mean he nails the role in my opinion. I think that she's developed Victorian at that time. Now actually um oh what's that the Hunger Game uh actress with accident. Oh Jennifer Lawrence. Jennifer Lawrence, she's the the cheerleader lady who gives the speech. Anyway, um I want to warn you, I mean you can tell it's got some weird stuff. It starts out almost like a comedy. You feel like, oh, this is a fun, enjoyable movie, and then it takes a turn. A real turn. And I do feel like that kind of captures life, particularly if you want to look at a macro scale of our experience. That's why I It kind of resonated with me as we were walking through. Everybody's living their lives, right? Buying and selling, giving themselves in marriage, kinda like in the days of Noah when BAMO Everything changes. Right? The flood comes in the Old Testament and now we're experiencing that, right? Go back to like 2018, 2019. And most of us are feeling like things are pretty good and happy go lucky. But we have a a certain kind of neuroses and psychosis that is now given ev evidence of having been there at least in the latent stage amongst so many people in our culture. So yeah, we're happy go lucky and then whammo, things get crazy. So welcome to crazy. Anyway, all right, so only a few people saw the movie. That's not that important. The parts that were relevant to the message I I think were what was shared today. So I don't know if I accomplished this, but the goal here tonight was to demonstrate that, you know, a lot of bad things are going to happen to the bad people who are outside of Christ. And when we read that from a particular perspective, sometimes that can scare even us as Christians But it shouldn't. We should understand that imagine the father who something horrible happens to his daughter. And he goes and takes care of it. You know what I'm saying? He goes and makes things right. And that's a horrible thing for the person about which, you know, these things of being made right is happening to But the daughter is appreciative, right? Looks forward to their dad stepping up and making things right. It's that kind of a thing here. These are horrible things that are happening, but it's God's judgment on those that are rebellious. that are enemies of him and his people, that have made this craziness of the last few years possible? Put it in into play. If they do not repent, this is what they face. And those who have repented are grateful and thankful for. We're crying out under the altar. We're crying out with those saints under the altar. When Is your justice going to be realized? Your full justice where this evil is once, finally, forever defeated, we should be looking forward to that Knowing that we have struggles in this life, you know, I I quoted from the Apostle Peter, well the Apostle Peter also promises God's people the privilege of suffering. The privilege of sharing in Christ's suffering. So there is suffering. But on the back end of that, it's an incredible, eternal blessing that's unfathomable. As good as you think it is. So I don't know if that resonated as well as I would have liked in the message, but uh this is a message of encouragement for those that are Christ's people, and it's a call to repentance for those that haven't already recognized their need. for Jesus. So everybody in this room identifies as a Christian, but we've got people watching online too, and if if that's you, you don't even begin to understand how much you need Jesus. the thing that is um I think about from time to time is because I I have um compassion, you know, that I tend to be a compassionate person and I feel like when other people are hurting, I feel that and I I and so for me where I get not not yeah, there are times when I get afraid like like oh thank goodness I'm in Christ but I get I think about what that'll feel like as I'm watching that For those who are quote unquote good people but have not put their hope and trust in Christ, like that's gonna be hard to bear, and that's where I cry out to God for those who who don't see their need for Christ who are ethical or you know moral or they're they're they're damned to hell. And And that part, you know, that's where I I mourn. Um because they don't even see it. They don't even see that there's judgment coming upon them, that that this is their destination because they don't even you know, they don't believe a God exists, they're whatever, but they're good moral people. And so that's where um this gets hard too. Anybody else feel that way? Think about those sorts of things. Oh yeah. And the idea that one day I might have to I mean basically say goodbye forever. You know, not just because oh we'll you know, when people die you have to say goodbye, but Yeah, you'll never see them again. Yeah. Literally. Yeah. I'll you know, I'll see you know, when my parents die. That's gonna be heartbreaking, but I'll see them again. Right Right. Uh there are many people that I love that they were a guy now. I won't. Right. Yeah, it's hard. And they're not bad people. That's not right to say he is yeah. And that's p particularly hard when it's a family member, right, or a dear, dear, dear close friend. It's particular hard to grapple with that. So I'm sure all of us have grappled with that. Bordering on a rhetorical question why says anybody else deal with that issue? We probably all do. So what do you do with that? Right. Bury it deep inside. Well I mean we can share the gospel, which obviously I'm sure we've all done Ray But you you know it's not for us to to cause someone to repent. You can't make someone accept Jesus as That's you know, that's the work of the Holy Spirit. So the best we can do is plant seeds. Right. Help them try and do our best to help them grow. Yeah, we can't save anybody. One of the things that I've prayed in the Sounds kind of mean. But I don't think it is. Because um well, I'll just say what it is. I pray to the Lord To cause a person to go through whatever it takes for that person to get humbled. And the r the reason why that can sound mean is because Well sometimes that takes an awful lot. It takes an awful lot for some people. They they they're going to have to Re on they they have to lose everything and and be destitute and I mean to the point of eternity like that. But better than an eternity in hell, you know. So so to get them to a p a point where um they're so desperate they they they they they they're desperate Well for some people that doesn't take quite as much. Right. It's different for everyone. Right. But people with strong personalities it takes a lot. prideful. Yeah. I like people it just takes seeing somebody else go through something. They're like, never mind. Okay. We're all pretty stiff necked up I mean you know. What are you talking about? And it's just kinda Kind of hard, you know, especially if somebody just walks up to you and says, Hey, do you know the Lord? You know, the next thing they do, they like back up off But you know that that conversation can be easier to have if they've gone through something now then they're ready to listen. Right. Like at that point they might be ready to listen to the listening. It is about listening. And the Lord can I think he has his hand on all of his children. And if you're at the right place when he's ready and they're ready, that's when that's when we can share the good news. Doesn't happen all the time, but a bunch of times before they are finally ready to listen to it. I mean that's I think that's the case probably for most people. Yeah. Unless you know, unless they're raised to believe as a y of the young child. Once they get cynical about stuff. Yeah, exactly. thing I was gonna mention is that in all the passages, the Old and the New Testament, if if it's in there, two and three and four and five and six six times and even more, then God is definitely it's important. If God says anything more than Mm-hmm. It's all important, but it's not a good thing. But it's in there a million times. He wants you to know. And all those passages, and there's a a million more, all about the Day of Judgment and Him him returning and you know, he wants you to know. And that's an important thing because you know this this is a hard truth, right? And these hard parts of the Bible Uh we want to try to soften or change it and we get ourselves into heretical views and it's people who want to believe in universalism, everybody will end up in heaven. So Somehow, some way. It's because this truth is hard. I mean, wait a minute. Somebody in my family might be eternally damned, but that can't be true. So God is not a good thing. Yeah. Right, yeah, love wins kind of idea, you know, and God is about love. The fact of the matter is that's not what the Bible teaches Well we flipped. We've got I know I grew up Roman Catholic and so it was all it it wasn't all, but a lot of the teaching I grew up with was focused on hell and I was afraid of God because of that upbringing so much that I didn't even think I could approach God because I was so afraid of going to hell. So So but I think on the flip side now we've gone this direction the wrong balance of God and all love and everybody goes to heaven And so obviously in the middle is the truth. The rest of the story. Right. Right. Context. Right. I can't hear the love without the Right. The wrath. You can't hear the wrath without absolutely why I mean like the thing about a parent. Right. children. Right. But that love means they want the best one. So for example, go play in the street. Get hit by a car. Uh no. That's bad for you. We're we're not going to let you know if you continue to try to do that, there's going to be consequences and discipline. And that's you know kind of how I envision God treating us. Like I love you, but because and because I love you, I'm going to do what's best for you. I forgive you but you're still gonna be judged. Yes, I'm gonna do it. And it's totally fine to uh on the one hand say, you know, wrath and love are separate But on the other hand, I kind of alluded to this at least in the message that the love and the wrath they come together, right? They're flip sides of the same coin, and there's an aspect of the wrath that is love There's a relatively noteworthy pastor in Minneapolis, uh John Piper, who rather infamously said that uh if he came home and found that his wife was being raped, that he would not shoot the rapist to stop the crime. Because shooting and killing that rapist, basically, I mean his argument, the gist of it is it wouldn't be loving to shoot and kill that rapist. Well I'm sorry. If you love your wife, the loving thing to do is a shoot and kill that rapist. Exactly. And so you're exercising wrath against the rapist, but as an aspect of your love for your wife. And so there's there's some Yeah, there's a combination here. It's not one or the other. It's unloving to be unjust. So we knew if God were un Yeah. If if he was never just against evil. That's unloving. Yeah, that's unloving. And he is not unloving to punish evil, to stop evil, because evil is Yeah, we know a famil uh someone in college who uh as it turned out uh had been sexually molesting his younger sister for four years. And when his family found out about it, they tried to cover it up. And they allowed him to stay in the house of his of of said younger sister who was I think eight, ten years younger than him. Um until finally his brother who had you know was married out of the house, everything like that, reported it to authorities and everything. But they had tried to, you know, and what the I guess they would have called loving their son had tried to cover it up. But in reality I can't even imagine how the dog felt Because her parents had basically declined to protect her. Um and it's one of those things where And turning their son in would not have meant they didn't love their son. Getting him away from their daughter would not have meant they didn't love him. But in that instance, love was not covering things up That that's not they were not loving their daughter in that in that instance. Yeah, we've been talking about like eternal damnation kinds of questions and eternal self-down But um when McConnell Ted, I think, talked about um love plus wrath equals chastmu chast And what he's talking about in that little short little note in the comment section, at least I'm assuming this is what you mean, Ted, from the perspective of those who are God's people who need to be corrected Or those who are being called to repentance, right? God's uh wrath is is uh is uh is is uh is a corrective tool that chastises and brings somebody possibly onto a repentance or is a reminder of those who have already repented and turned on to Christ, it's a chast mime ch chastisement That's a hard word for me to say tonight. Chastisement onto obedience. So yeah, so there's that too. It's kind of the loving, you know uh yeah, loving corrective of a parent who swats the behind of their of their child or something to as a correction or something. Yeah, so we don't want to totally separate these. Um we can go a little bit longer. We've gone longer in the past. We can continue trying for more records. Anything from over there that you want to add in or any questions or clarifications you want Well you can teach the lesson next week then. Yeah. One of the things that uh you know, the very last verse was Isaiah sixty-five that I read today talks about, you know, all the things in the All the bad things not be remembered anymore. You know, there's a I forget which headlines. Which millennium. When when Christ returns and we're in glory You know, there's a story that RC Spro talks about with his uh his mentor. Um and they were at some conference or I don't know know, church or whatever. And somebody was saying stuff that struck R. C. Sproul as rather bad theology, either heretical or borderline heretical or something like that. And so when they walked out, and I forget which heavyweight theologian he mentioned, it might have been Augustine or Calvin or Spurgeon or something, but he said, you know, uh Calvin's uh Probably rolling over in his grave after a sermon or a message like that. And his mentor spun around on his heels and rebuked him, saying, What did you say? And he said I I said he's probably spinning in his grave because of the heresy we just had to listen to. He said you think that Calvin Augustine whoever it was, you think that they're concerned about something like that right now? They are basking in the glory of God. They are not concerned with any of this nonsense. It's not to be remembered. It's not it's not a point of contention for them anymore. So when our family member or dear friend is not going to be with us in eternity We're going to trust God's goodness and his perfect justice and his perfect uh understanding of all things And this perfectly good God made a determination that they would not spend eternity with him in his favorable presence. And we're going to be good with that. Not only we're going to be good with that, we're going to glorify him for it. It might be hard for us to understand in the here and now, but we'll be at a at such a place of Our sanctification will be perfect at that point. We'll be fully glorified. And so we will have an understanding that is much more closely aligned and in tune with God's ways. God's ways are different than our ways. But we're going to understand his way so much better in that moment that we're not going to be like, oh, I feel so bad that my best friend didn't make it into heaven. That's not going to be a thought. We're going to be glorifying God that He had the righteous judgment and And everything just but we're gonna we're as as weird as it sounds we're gonna celebrate God's magnificence in what feels like a horror and it should feel like a horror now as a motivation to give the warning. We want to warn people. Right? It's not it's not loving to uh to well I don't want to cause any offense. You know, I don't want to say that's good enough. I don't want to create any disunity in the family. You know, I'm not gonna say anything to Uncle Bob because Uncle Bob was gonna be all offended if I share the gospel with him or something Well, what's worse? Some disunity in the family? Or Uncle Bob never really being given by you an opportunity to respond favorably to the gospel? Your job and our job, all of our jobs, is we're we're called to obedience. Well we're held account if we I mean it's it's there's a warning for us You know? Yeah. We are to be faithfully obedient and the results you know God's got under control. I told you to spread the gospel. I did not tell you to go be friendly to everybody. I I think it helps also to remember that people who don't choose the Lord um if he let them into heaven it wouldn't be heaven to them because um Um even now when you speak to people or speak with people who don't know the Lord, if you try to have that conversation with them, there's kind of a blank stare that comes uh yeah in their eyes. You know they just they think they they can't relate to it. We're all family here. I understand what you're saying, Angel, but I'm not I I'm not entirely sure I agree with you Yes, right now that might be the case. But I'm pretty sure that when Christ comes back and people are starting going to heaven, I think they'll see. No, uh and they like no I I I no I maybe so what I'm saying is they don't they don't People who don't have that relationship with him, they don't like him basically. Yes. They don't like and so um but what will we what will people in heaven be doing Yeah, they will see who he is. They will acknowledge his kingship and they will bow their knees. So that part is true. But they don't suddenly become repentant. I I don't think that that we should understand that. I guess my point is I think they would be able to see which one was better at that point. Maybe, but they would still have anger in their heart toward God. No, true. True. Heaven wouldn't be heaven to them because heaven is all about Jesus. And so you know, they would be at best bored, I think, because all these people would be in in heaven You know, loving on Jesus, celebrating Jesus, um, because there's a love relationship with with him and when y when you love somebody you want to be with them. You know. They don't want to be with them because they don't love them. And so it it it it's you know, God judging and saying and sending them away is it's he's actually giving them their choice. You know, um and it's the only the bad thing for them is that their choice is very negative for them. But he is giving them their choice And so that I think that that that will be part of what will be helpful to people who will I think we will be initially sad that they're not with us but you know they would be almost like they didn't have it be because they refused a relationship with the Lord they almost didn't have a good choice left to them. Well they don't have a good choice. I mean they right. And but it's their choice and because you know God gave them free will. Uncle P show fee we Tyler has a few things to say. I cannot interpret songs. You know, I think that uh I wonder if this would be kind of the the attitude might be like when somebody's fired from their job And they say, You can't fire me, I quit. Yeah. Like our couple breaks up. You didn't break up with me, I'm breaking up with you. Like, you know God sending you into hell and no you didn't send me into hell, I sent myself into hell. Now don't the post millennials believe that Jesus will reign on earth? While there's still be the unregenerate, but their kingdoms will be like in submission to him, sort of like a vassal? Or like Jesus is like an overlord and they're like Mm submitting I'm trying trying to understand that eschatology, but to be honest, I'm not sure that I know the answer answer to that. The post post millennial view is that uh um Christ is going to have a most post millennials are literal, but not all of them, but most of them have there's a literal one thousand year period where Christ reigns on earth over his millennial as king earthly king, and as a conclusion of that then comes uh the judgment. Right. So during that time it's not like those people Well you know, those people will be acknowledging God but still in like in their hearts the values to God isn't that what they're doing during that time period. Uh I don't know for sure, because I'm not post millennial and I don't know the all the Nuances, but the idea is that things are going to get better and better and better and get so good that Christ is going to come and he's going to perfectly rule his kingdom on earth. So I don't know And how are we supposed to I don't know where those are I I think the idea is that I could be wrong so don't hold me to this, but I think the idea is that there wouldn't be any in his kingdom he would be perfectly ruling his perfect kingdom on earth for a thousand years. Those enemies wouldn't be around because Satan is bound for those that period of time. He's unleashed at the very, very end for a blink of an eye kind of So all those that would be consigned to hell forever would be those that already had determined their fate before the establishment of the That's my understanding, but that's I'm not sure I'm a hundred percent right on that. So I can't. That's in part. Yeah, well that's more of a non millennial view than a postmillennial view. There's a lot of overlap. There's a lot of overlap between postmillennial and non millennial views and so some people will mix The point for us right now is you know we're living our life right now And revelation is relevant to us right now versus it is relevant to John's original hearers and readers. And we've got to make decisions now So um if you already claimed and profess Christ, then you need to be more obedient. Be more faithful. And if uh if you're not professing that then you know you need to find out what the gospel is and uh accept it. And if not We got the peanut gallery coming to life here, so we might we might uh come here, come here sweetie. We might uh wrap uh wrap this up. Um Hmm. I will, but I've talked so much already. Does somebody else feel like they want to close us in prayer? Heavenly Father, thank you for this time and your word. Thank you for this time of being in the truth, we ask that your Holy Spirit would spur us on to Speak the warning, to show the warning that you are on the throne, you come in judgment. You also come to set us free from judgment, and that is the good news. Let us not shy away from that, but to seek opportunities to share that for your glory. For your kingdom come. We thank you, Jesus. In your name we pray. Amen. Amen. I haven't said this in a while, but I've been reminded recently that there are still churches that are either not meeting or have huge restrictions in place. It's baffling to me that that's the case. But if you're not attending church right now You need to attend church. You need to attend not just for what you get out of it. You need to attend for what you bring to it You are robbing some local congregation of your presence. If you don't know how to find a good church to belong to and you're not within driving distance of where we are, let me know. I will help you find one you need to not forsake the gathering of believers together in fellowship. Y y you you need it way more than you can imagine. So I would encourage you to do that. Till next week, uh six o'clock Eastern time on Saturday. God bless.