It looks like we're rolling. Welcome to Household of Faith in Christ. Thank you for joining us this evening. If you're watching this, it's If you're watching it live, you're on Facebook, and if you're watching it later, you're probably on Odyssey. We've been on a bit of an Odyssey lately. Here's the deal. If you're not sure what we're all about, what you're entering into by watching this video, let me tell you something. You have entered the zone of truth We are unapologetic about proclaiming the truth, particularly the truth of God's word, so that's what you're going to be hearing, and as proof that this is true. We've now had two videos permanently removed from YouTube. So we're not gonna be posting stuff on YouTube uh release maybe at all anymore or certainly not for much longer. I'm transitioning everything. Oh I tried to use Rumble. Rumble, I would like to support what they're doing, but it's just not user-friendly for what we're trying to do. I'm finding that I'm having good success with Odyssey. So as a good place to find all the videos that we do, Odyssey will be a good place to go, Odyssey. com, found the household of faith, find the Household of Faith in Christ channel. And right now there are 10 videos there. Within the next couple of weeks, you know, the the the hope is to get all videos there and that'll be a place to go. Also, another really th I I haven't figured out all the bells and whistles, but I'm excited about the potential. We're also using sermonaudio. com All the videos are going to be there, and you can also listen to the videos as podcasts, which you could do a video anyway, but it actually loads the podcast, uses up less of your battery and that sort of thing, so you just want to listen to it anyway It'll do that. And there's some other things. I haven't entirely figured out all the things it can do, but we're going to be doing more things on sermonaudio. com's platform as well. So I've mentioned all that up front. But And you can still follow us. We're still involved. I'm still doing stuff with uh getter and gab and parlor and miwe and not so much on Facebook, but a little bit on Facebook. And the best way to connect with any and all of those things we're involved with would be to go to our website, household of faith in Christ. com A household of faith in Christ dot com takes you to all connects you to all of those different things. Actually, I don't think we're linking to uh Odyssey or sermon audio just yet, but within the next week or so that should be the case. Anyway, so you want to get your Bibles ready because in a moment we're going to read In rapid, relatively rapid progression, Haggai chapter 2, verses 6 and 7. I'll say these again in a second. Hebrews 12, verses 26 through 29 Joel 2 and Joel III. Joel II, 30 to 32, and Joel III, fourteen to sixteen. There's no necessity that you read along, but if you'd like to read along again, those passages are Haggai 2, 6 and 7, Hebrews 12, 26 to 29, Joel 2, thirty to thirty-two and Joel three, fourteen to sixteen, and uh Well, I'll tell you what our passages only I don't want to give you a lot of Bible verses all at once. So we're going to read through those. After we read through those, we're going to have actually a word of prayer after we read here from God's Word. So Anybody need to say this again, everybody's Adam? Wanna start with Hagi? Okay. But this is what Adonai Zavio says. It won't be long before one more clause. One more time I will shake the heavens and the earth, the sea and the dry sea. land and I will shake all the nations. The treasures of all the nations will flow in and I will fill this house with glory. So Ed and I stab up a little bit. Hebers. Me? And his voice shook the earth then, but now he was promised saying Yet once more I will shake not only the earth, but also the heaven. This expression, yet once more, also denotes the removing of those things which can be shaken as of created things, so that those things which cannot be shaken may remain. Therefore, since we receive a kingdom which cannot be shaken, let us show gratitude, by which we may offer to God an acceptable service with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. Joel 2. And I will show wonders in the heavens and on the earth, blood and fire and columns of smoke. The sun shall be tired of darkness and the moon to blood. Before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And it shall come to pass that everyone who calls on the name of the Lord shall be saved. For in Mount Zion and in Jerusalem there shall be those who escape, as the Lord has Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. The sun and moon grow dark, the s and the stars lose their brightness. The Lord roars from Zion. And utters his voice from Jerusalem. And the heavens and the earth tremble, but the Lord is a refuge for his people and a stronghold to the sons of Israel. Michael Sam Through sixteen, right? Yeah. Um other passages you're gonna want to know about for the sermon. See my I wanted well one of them for sure, Revelation chapter seven. So if nothing else, get your Bibles ready to go to Revelation chapter seven. Uh we'll be looking at the first four verses. today. And uh during the sermon I'll be reading a pass I'll have a few little uh single verses. You don't have to worry about looking at those. I it'd be too difficult to turn there quick enough. But I'm gonna read a a short passage from Malachi chapter four. So if you wanna be if you want to be ready for Malachi chapter four verses one through three we'll be uh looking at during the sermon. No need to turn there during the sermon, but if you want to read along, you'll want to be ready to do that. Some other things are going to be happening before we get into our our prayer and get into the sermon. Later on this evening we're going to uh not just through the sermon but uh through an additional means to share the gospel with you. We're kind of rotating our way through the room and uh you know we're taking turns sharing uh in in different ways what the good news is and this is actually a bit of a surprise to the person in the room but I'm gonna see if Annie would do that. And you waited until I couldn't say no because we're already live. Well in the same way. So I I I I know that you'll be up to the task. And this isn't a test. This isn't there's a right and a wrong. I mean there are better and best ways to do it. It's neither right nor wrong. And uh so anyway, during our discussion time uh You can you you'll see an example a way the gospel can be shared. And hopefully we'll have time today and then uh this little one's in the right frame of mind too for us to work through the uh yeah, and not sleeping. uh work through the uh learning and memorizing the Lord's Prayer. So we've been doing that. So those are some things to look forward to. Anyway, before we go any further, Angela, could you open us with So well I got open. But if you could do a a prayer now before we get into the sermon, that'd be great. Father We ask that he should speak through this message. That he would cause iron to sharpen iron. We ask that he would bring to this message who would benefit from it, who would be blessed by it. And we ask that And what we were doing here this evening uh today. And so we thank you, Father, and we ask you And work the Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. So uh we've been working our way through Revelation, and as we have traveled through the book of Revelation, we have noticed the text. taking up a lot of steam. There are important introductory remarks at the beginning, and then there are seven instructive letters to the seven churches. And then an illuminating entrance into the very throne room of God. And then there are intimidating images of fearsome horses and their riders, along with some Other shock and awe descriptions of coming disaster as John shares his vision of the opening of the first six heels. And we know that there is one more seal to come, the seventh seal. And given what the first six seals reveal, we're not sure really, some of us maybe, that we're able to stand what's to come. And so we brace ourselves. We squeeze our eyes shut, barely able to look, and with trembling hands, wait, we turn the page of our Bible. Our heart is racing. As though we're about to turn the corner in one of those Halloween houses of horror. With those strange squiggly mirrors, places where, you know, spooky beasts, they jump out at you unexpectedly. Do we even dare continue? Might be a thought in the mind. Well, this is where we are in the book of Revelation. Turning a corner, possibly afraid of what comes next. Doubtful, particularly for outside of Christ, doubtful that we have the emotional strength to bear what it is we guess is about to jump out at us unexpectedly. And our guess is partially correct. Something unexpected does jump out. A parentheses, a pause, a timeout from the death and destruction What a turn of events. You know, in a small kind of way, this reminds me of our experience as a congregation here, you know, the household of faith in Christ. Still early in our development and growing steadily making progress as we work our way through the series that exposit exposites the the book of the apocalypse, gaining momentum, and then whamo. We faced a parentheses. An extended illness. It forced a pause. We took a timeout. needing to heal and avoid a particularized death and destruction for a couple of particular individuals, namely me and my wife. And we we actually Spent time then as a congregation on the heels of that for a few weeks. We gathered together on Saturdays for worship and fellowship, and we examined the things that we had learned during our congregational pause. And today, we are spending time examining the revelational pause that meets us here in Revelation chapter 7. So if you haven't already done so, open your Bibles if you can to chapter 7. And read along so I share with you the first four verses from God's Word. After this, I saw four angels. Standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth, so that no wind might blow on earth or sea or against any tree. Then I saw another angel ascending from the rising of the sun with the seal of the living God. And he called with a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power. To harm earth and sea, saying, Do not harm the earth or the sea or the trees until we have sealed the servants of our God on their foreheads. And I heard the number of the sealed, 144,000, sealed from every tribe of the sons of Israel. This is the Word of God. It is inerrant, infallible It is breathed out by God. It is inspired of God. And at least one thing that this means is that it is a fully sufficient rule and guide for our faith and our life practice. God's word is the authority over our lives. God's word So those with ears to hear. Let them hear. Now, as I mentioned, the seventh chapter of Revelation, it represents a parenthesis between the sixth and seventh Seals, and we're going to have the exact same thing happen again as in a few chapters between the sixth and the seventh trumpets. And this is an exemplary example of effective storytelling. Remember We've talked about this before. The letter from John that we're studying here, that we now call the book of Revelation, it originally would have been read aloud to the original initial audience. So they don't have the some of the framework built in that we might have. They haven't heard stories about it, never heard a sermon about it, they've never read the words themselves. They're hearing it for the very first time. So let's imagine we're sitting there with them, and we're listening as the words are read all the way back from the beginning of chapter one. And we're in a wild ride. And it builds to a crescendo. Oh. And then dramatically delayed. It's delayed so that before moving on to the seventh seal, we can get the answer to the question that was posed at the end of the sixth seal that we looked at and saw at the end of chapter six. Do you recall the question? Remember, people they're in terror, they're hiding in the mountains. And then speaking to the mountains, they say, Fall on us and hide us from the face of him who is seated on the throne and from the wrath of the Lamb. For the great day of their wrath has come, and who can stand? Who can stand? The wrath of the Lamb, the wrath of the God of the universe, who is seated on his throne. It has come. The wrath of the Almighty is here Who can stand? And we see from the opening paragraph of chapter seven. That no one could stand if something wasn't done by God to help those who are his elect. There are four angels pictured standing at the four corners of the earth, which represents the entire planet. We've talked about the importance of the number four in the book of Revelation a number of times So we should think about the four quadrants of the compass, the four winds, north, south, east, west. We find similar imagery to this in Isaiah chapter eleven, also in Ezekiel chapter seven. Now I've run across in my day some knuckleheads and they want to pick a fight over a phrase like this and say, yeah, see? Bible contains errors. It says the earth is a cube. Well, it's utter nonsense, of course. First off, there is such a thing as idiomatic phrases. We still use this actual idiom even today, four corners of the world. We use that today. And we certainly understand the world is not a square. And secondly, perhaps more importantly The Greek noun that's used here, it's also used elsewhere in the Bible, and it generally carries with it, get this, the meaning of a circle or the horizon, or a sphere. What we have here is a picture of the full globe. So, idiomatic or not, the Bible doesn't have any error anywhere, certainly not here. And it's a globe that's about to be under full assault. By the wind, we're told, the wind, which is a recurring image of divine judgment in Scripture, including places such as Jeremiah 49 and Daniel chapter 7, and also in Zechariah 6. Yeah, I read somewhere once where someone has suggested that these winds they represent spirits of error. I find that an intriguing idea. Error in teaching, error in understanding, and error that is restrained by God for a season So that the church has more time to proclaim the truth. And the angels, they're holding back the fierceness of the wind. So that nothing is harmed, not even the trees, until God's people are marked safe. You notice how on social media people they'll jump on like Facebook or some other platform of their choice and they'll mark themselves safe following some sort of a tragedy that's happened. You know, for example, like a hurricane washes away New Orleans and People you know who live in or are visiting Louisiana, they'll they'll jump on Facebook and they'll let everybody know, I'm safe, I'm okay, everything's good, I'm safe from the horror of what has happened Well, this is what God does, in a sense, with and for his chosen ones. But there's a rather notable difference because our friends on social media, they inform us that they're safe After the disaster has struck. But God informs us, those who are his people, that we are safe Before the disaster strikes. God marks us safe. And this is a really welcome reminder, isn't it? I mean it's a welcome reminder if you're a follower of Christ, that's for sure. In this passage, God is giving saints assurance that our Father knows his children and he protects them. Among the calamity, he protects them. And this is why, part of why there's a delay Before all of the evil and suffering is eventually wiped away forever. There's delay so that we can truly grasp the import Of being kept separate from the spiritual woe that's befalling the world. While simultaneously dramatizing the final judgment. Pastor John can walk and chew gum at the same time. So we as believers, followers of Christ, those who are faithful in the bride of Christ, we can look forward to the final judgment. We can join with the martyrs that we read about and studied in chapter 6, who yearn for the arrival of the final judgment. We can look forward to this. Now we want to guard against being misled at this point. Because being marked safe from the final judgment, it does not mean that God's people are protected from suffering. I mean five chapters earlier than this we read In Revelation chapter 2, verse 10, do not fear what you are about to suffer. Behold, the devil is about to throw some of you into prison. That you may be tested. And for ten days you will have tribulation. Be faithful unto death, and I will give you the crown of life. So that was five chapters earlier. Well, and then five chapters later, we're going to see in chapter twelve, verse eleven, we're going to be told about our brothers and sisters in Christ who quote Loved not their lives even unto death. End quote. So there is suffering For all of us. It's actually promised to us But the earthly suffering that surrounds the earthly destruction is symbolized by the four horsemen and the four winds. It's temporary. For those who are saved in Christ. And we see this in verse 2, chapter 7, with the angel ascending from the rising of the sun with the seal of the living God. Arising from the east. That draws to mind from the wells of our memory a whole bunch of biblical illusions, maybe. Like the Magi, they came from the east after Christ was born. The glory of the Lord had entered the temple by the east gate in Ezekiel chapter 43. This was after the glory of the Lord had departed by the east gate in Ezekiel chapter 10. We know that John he wrote down his visions that we're studying now in the book of Revelation. He wrote them down from the island of Patmos. Well Jerusalem, the holy city, it is east of Patmos. In this imagery, John also gives us an illusion. To the final chapter of the Old Testament. I mentioned this at the start, so if you've bookmarked it, you can turn there quickly, Malachi chapter 4. It opens up with these words. For behold, the day is coming burning like an oven, when all the arrogant and all evildoers will be stubble The day that is coming shall set them ablaze, says the Lord of hosts, so that it will leave them neither root nor branch. But for you who fear my name, The sun of righteousness shall rise. And from whence does the sun rise? From our perspective? From the east. The sun of righteousness shall rise with healing in its wings. You shall go out leaping like calves from the stall, and you shall tread down the wicked. For they will be ashes under the soles of your feet on the day when I act. says the Lord of hosts. You see, we need not fear the final judgment. Because as it says in verse 3 of Revelation chapter 7, the servants of God, and that's you if you're a Christian. The servants of God are given the seal of protection on their foreheads, is what it says. What is this seal? Revelation 14 verse 1 tells us it's the name of the Lamb. And the name of the Father. We know this also from Revelation chapter 3, verse 12, which we already studied a number of weeks ago. We see that it's the name of God. We're sealed with the name of God. And there's power in the name of God. And its placement on the forehead, it symbolizes our Lord's sovereignty over our thoughts and minds, showing that the chief shepherd protects his flock. Protects us from being deceived by the serpent and the beasts. We'll read about them later in this book. Now, we shouldn't get confused by letting our imaginations run away with us here. We've got to always keep in mind that In Revelation, it's not walking us through history in a linear fashion. This is apocalyptic literature. It cycles through time in repetitive fashion. Sometimes it even displaces time. where and when that helps to emphasize a theological point that's being made in this book. So It's not as if God, he's up in heaven, he's about to impose his final judgment, and then suddenly he realizes, oh, wait, wait, wait, wait, I haven't marked my servants safe yet. Abort the attack, end the hostilities, ceasefire. We know that's not the case. God's not forgetful. And we know from Ephesians chapter 1, verse 4, that God chose us in Christ before the foundation of the world. He's not surprised by anything. So make sure you don't slip into reading this book of the Bible in the same way that you might read a news article. Now speaking of the sa uh seal on the forehead. This might likely bring to mind for many people the mark of the beast. We haven't got into that part of Revelation yet, so the original hearers wouldn't have had this question, but We're not the original hearers, and we might have this question. Mark of the Beast also said to be placed on the forehead and the hand. Well, this is an example of the beast using a counterfeit symbol. Now the word seal that we find here, in the original Greek text, the word there is thragis. That is a word which implies security under the protection of God. In other words, God is providing the guarantee of safe passage. The word mark in the original Greek text, that word is hargma Hargmas. It's a forgery, actually. It's a stamp, the polar opposite of God's seal. The children of the devil. They are Satan's followers, right? So they have his image stamped on them. So they now bear the evil one's image. They represent the enemy of God, and they are used by the enemy of God for evil purposes. Do you understand what's being said here? There are no neutral people. You either bear the brand of God, indicating you belong to are a slave to Christ. Or you bear the tattoo of the deceiver, indicating you belong to, are a slave to Satan. And I purposely used the word tattoo just now, and I did so for two reasons. First, I use the word tattoo to emphasize the difference between the seal. Or brand of God and the mark or tattoo of the beast And second, I use the word tattoo because that's how the hearers in the first century, the original hearers that I've mentioned a couple of times already, that's how they likely would have comprehended the word. Because the religious cults of that day, they used tattoos to mark the false deity to which a person claimed to belong. Perhaps kinda like gang members today will mark themselves up to indicate which gang they belong to, I suppose. Well, a sharp contrast to this. Using the ink pen to mark up and make a tattoo. God takes out his branding iron and permanently seals his people. As being his. And therefore under his protection. Those who are fans of the TV series Yellowstone might have a particular image come to mind. And we know that this is true what I'm telling you? We know that this is true by three different means. We know that this is true by God's holy word. For instance, we read in Second Timothy chapter two, verse nineteen. God's firm foundation stands bearing this seal. And what is this seal? The Lord knows those who are his. We also know it's true by God's Holy Spirit. For instance, we read in Ephesians chapter one, verses thirteen and fourteen. In him you were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. And later in that same book in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30, the Apostle Paul again he writes of the Holy Spirit of God. By whom you were sealed for the day of redemption. And also in 2 Corinthians 1, verses 21-22, it is God who establishes us in Christ. And has anointed us, and who has also put his seal on us. And given us his spirit in our hearts as a guarantee. So this is the first two. We know that this is true by God's Holy Word. We know it's true by God's Holy Spirit, and we know the truth of God's seal of protection on his people by God's holy sacraments, which are visible signs and seals. In the New Testament, these are baptism and the Lord's Supper. Pointing us back to the Old Testament sign and seal of circumcision, which this is indicated to us in Romans chapter 4, verse 11. And it points us back to the blood on the doorposts. At the original Passover. You might also see allusions to marks on foreheads mentioned in Ezekiel chapter 9. Maybe even Paul's scars in Galatians chapter 6. If we really want to expand our meditations on this topic, well then if so, we're going to have to include all the miraculous signs performed by Christ and the apostles The concept of signs and seals and foreheads. It's recurring throughout the book of Revelation. We're going to run across it again a number of times, including with Chapter 9 and chapter 14 and chapter 22. And consider this truth, given the portion of the book that we're in right now. The seals on the scroll. The ones that we see right here in the book of Revelation, they are God's. They belong to Him. It's His scroll And the seals on his people that we also read about in the book of Revelation. They are gods. They belong to him. It's his church. Let me toss in a quick aside here. Just a moment ago I mentioned Ezekiel chapter 9. There in Ezekiel chapter 9, the word mark, the English word mark that appears a couple of times. This is a translation of the Hebrew word tav in the original text. And I mentioned this because the final letter of the Hebrew alphabet is also called Tav. And if someone were today to write out the Hebrew alphabet, those who know how to do that and say, hey, could you write out the Hebrew they'd write it out for you? When they got to the 22nd and final letter, because there's 22 letters in the Hebrew alphabet, when they got to that final letter, It would look to us sort of like an English N, the letter N. However, in the ancient world, during the time that Ezekiel lived, The letter Talve at the end of the Hebrew alphabet? It didn't look like an N. It looked like a cross. Now we're not gonna hang any doctrine of faith upon this fact. So that's not why I'm bringing it up, but I bring it up because it is an interesting bit of trivia. That the sign in Ezekiel, the sign of protection from the executioners in Ezekiel chapter 9, it is the sign of the cross. But whether we want to focus on top or not focus on top, everything in the Bible always takes us to the cross. The cross is our comfort in the book of Revelation, too often misunderstood or misapplied, it points us to what happens because of the cross. It is a letter of comfort to God's people. John intended it to comfort the very first readers in the first century, the very first hearers in the first century. God intends for it to comfort us today. This is a letter of comfort to those who are in Christ. God, having sealed us in Christ, has staked his ownership claim upon us. And because of this, he protects us from spiritual harm. Now we still experience physical trouble. I mean, to this we can all attest, I'm pretty darn sure of that. And actually, according to the teaching of Scripture, at least from a particular point of view, the whole Christian age could be called the time of tribulation. 2 Thessalonians 1, verses 5 and 6, it says, This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering. Since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you. Second Timothy chapter 3, verse 12, it says, Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. So that's the truth. But don't take your eyes off the prize. Never forget what Paul also writes in Romans 8, verse 18. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed. to us. And never forget these blessed words found in Isaiah chapter 25, verses 8 and 9. He will swallow up death forever. And the Lord God will wipe away tears from all faces, and the reproach of his people he will take away from all the earth. For the Lord has spoken. He will be said on that day, Behold, this is our God. We have waited for him. That he might save us. This is the Lord. We have waited for him. Let us be glad and rejoice in his salvation. In our lives in the here and now, we find ourselves in the grips of a perpetual pandemic and puffed-up opinions about civil government and The unrepentant misleading by members of the big evangelical guild, sadly. We are finding out that history, it tends to both repeat and rhyme, it seems. Here's an expert uh uh excerpt from a book called Triumph of the Lamb. And it's commenting, what I'm going to read to you here, is commenting on the situation of the very first readers and hearers of the book of Revelation, those who lived in the first century in Asia Minor. That's what the paragraph is speaking to. That's what it's addressing. But as I read this paragraph, within your mind, if you can, Interject the situation of the United States into what I'm going to be saying here. Interject the situation of the churches of America into this quote. The churches of Asia must realize that throughout his sovereignty over all things, from rulers to bacteria. Christ will send all sorts of limited providential judgments on the Roman imperial system, exposing the emptiness of its political-military confidence. And its religious pretensions. One historian summed up the shattering effect of epidemics on Roman confidence, writing, again and again. The forward march of Roman power and world organization was interrupted by the only force against which political genius and military valor were utterly helpless Epidemic disease. And when it came, as though carried by storm clouds, all other things gave way, and men crouched in terror. Sounds rather familiar, doesn't it? Christ sending judgments on our governmental systems. Exposing the vanity of trusting in politics and military might. Exposing religious pretensions and errors. And what's one of the ways that Christ exposes the heart in this way? What did the quote say? Epidemic disease. Making the masses crouch in terror. But his church Christ's true church has no reason to crouch in fear. His angels Are his ministers used to execute his judgments And we see Deuteronomy 33 and Psalm 68. We see this there. We see it also in Matthew. And of course, we're seeing it here in Revelation. They are God's instruments. God is in control. He's in control of what they do, and he restrains them to protect the people Jesus has saved. And God even has the angels help the people Jesus has saved. And we've seen this throughout Scripture, right? When the angels directed Joseph and Mary to get into Egypt, when Herod wanted to kill Jesus, when Peter was directed to go find Cornelius. When the apostles were set free from prison. There are other instances such as that. It makes total sense. And after all, we are taught in Hebrews. Chapter 1, verse 14, that angels are all ministering spirits sent out to serve for the sake of those who are to inherit salvation. Is that you? Are you one of those who are to inherit salvation? If your answer is yes, well then you have much reason to be encouraged today. And if your answer is no, or I don't know Well then you and I should talk, or you and some mature Christian, somebody who's in the faith, in the word, can tell you the truth. You need to talk with them. Christ died on a cross. For sinners like you. And he rose from the dead. Proving he is who he said he is. And who is that? Who did he say he is? He is a Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. including the 144,000 seals from every tribe of the sons of Israel. And we are going to discuss them and everyone else among our Creator's chosen people next week. But for now How do you pray? Father, you are such a good God. We take such good care of us as your people. We thank you and praise you. We know that you have angels ministering to us. We know that we have the power of the Holy Spirit dwelling within us. We know that we have a sure salvation in Christ. What he has accomplished at the cross is finished. Thank you for revealing this truth to us, preserving your word so that we could study it, understand it better, apply it into our lives. Help us, Lord, to walk in this world with a bold confidence that recognizes that we are sealed by you. And we are charged to share this good news with others so that we might go about the business of making them disciples. who also know this truth and apply it to their lives. We ask that you would bless our conversation that's about to begin. May everything that we do and say be mutually edifying and glorifying to your name. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. You know, one of the good things about the habit, I guess, of being formulaic and how we wrap up prayers is it signals to the youngsters when when it's time to say amen. So that's so that's pretty cool. Well, I always like to kind of begin with an open-ended, like not really a question so much as just an invitation. Is there anything that particularly struck you? Uh about the message that you had a question or comment about? Well the one thing that resonated with me was, oh, I'll finally fit in. You know, when when all the judgment com I mean, I know there's judgment now, but like the final and all that's left is God's people. I won't be the one that people are like, Oh, there's that one weirdo again because I'll be surrounded by weirdos. We'll all be weirdos together, you know. Right, but I guess that's my point. I'll finally just be able to settle. Yeah. And just just that release of okay, I'm finally home, I can finally relax, right? Because when we come home and you feel like you can relax in your home. You don't have to you can just kick off your shoes I don't you know not that we you walk around wearing masks, but no one can possibly know. Wait. Why your child passes gas all the time, you know? But you know what I mean? You're fine. Yeah, exactly. But that sense of just Yeah. Yeah. Anyway. Yeah. Anybody else? I think it's interesting when you're all back. you start praying throughout the week and this topic, you know, mind this week with suffering and how it keeps coming up in different ways. It's just really interesting. It's kind of encouraging, you know. It's like when God wants to make point to you he keeps showing you the same thing. Different verses, different ways of saying it. But it's showing the same thing. We're gonna start with it. Mm. I said it's almost like it was important. Yeah. I think it's very important because I think a lot of Christians and there's been a lot of Teachings that oh yeah we're gonna suffer, you know, just cast out whatever it is. And that's not that's not truth, you know. We're gonna stuff. If you believe enough it's not gonna hurt too bad. Right, right Right. But you can learn something from everything and just do it anyways. Do you live your life anyways? Do what you need to do anyway. Yeah. But um I think a lot of us wait for until everything's perfect before we do anything And we don't like that suffering part. We blame ourselves. Or you know, there's so many different things that happen when but I think it's interesting when a a theme starts for me personally throughout the week, it uh usually I get like three or four different messages on the same thing Well that suffering knowing that suffering is part of God's plan. Right. You're like, oh. Yeah. Yeah. um don't suffer as a fool. So it's not a it's not a matter of of if we suffer, it's a matter of how to Yeah. And recognize that, you know, suffering anyway is not fun. No. Right. But there's a good that comes from it. So what is that good? And one of the more important goods is you know When you're best friends with somebody, part of what makes you best friends is over time you really get to know the other person, right? You know aspects of their personality of the person their likes and dislikes, you know their story. You're able to empathize better, you can enter into their lives because like you know where they've been and how they got to where they They are you right marriages get stronger and stronger over time as the husband and wife really get to know one another. Well, Christ suffered As much as we think we might suffer, it pales in comparison. But even though it pales, it does give us an entry point in which to additionally identify with our Savior. So Christ is victorious, and so we are victorious with him. And so we can identify with that and know him in that way. Uh and he rules and he's charged us to have rule. Uh and so we can identify in that way, but he also suffers, and we by entering into And the better you know someone generally, the better able you are to appreciate and love and and honor Honor. So that's a big part of the suffering. Um but we do not suffer in the ultimate sense that we are uh gonna be consigned to hell and suffer eternal torment because we are sealed and protected from that. And these I don't care if you live to be 150, it's still light momentary sufferings, right? I mean a hundred we were talking earlier today. Hundred plus years Compared to the last thousand years is just a small percentage. Compared to the lat to the history of the of the world as it exists now is still a pretty small percentage. But in light of eternity It's nothing. So it is light and momentary. And uh the other thing that struck me was because I had I'm I'm embarrassed to say this, but you know, as I say you know, read scripture over the pen past years whatever. You know, I would get through where the the mark of the beast, you know, marks from your forehead hitting and I was like, what if I get the wrong mark. Like what if I get there and they're like, Oh, you've got the wrong mark I know that's really silly, but you know. So that it's com it there was this light bulb moment like oh okay there's a seal and there's a mark because depending on where you are in scripture they cross pollinate mm unless you're able to know the Greek or the whatever and then you go, Okay, no, they're actually different. Mm-hmm. They're not the same. And the fact that one is s supposed to be quote unquote like it and it's counterfit. Yes, exactly. And it's like, ah, I get it. And by the nature, I think the imagery is helpful. I mean I'm not exactly sure this is what scripture is intending primarily to convey, which is why I left it out of the sermon, but in the form in the context of a discussion. The uh you know tattoos can be removed. Tattoos are temporary. Right? Yeah, it's it's ink that goes a little bit into your skin and and there are ways to draw that out and make it go away. Uh there's no making the s the the the branding iron scar go away. It's a different kind of a thing. And uh I it's I I don't think it's an accident that two different words are used in the Bible. Absolutely. And you don't have to know the Greek or the Hebrew to figure that out. I mean there are different English words used, right? Mark and seal. There's a seal But knowing the original language and and how those words were used and what the definitions for those words are, that can be helpful. But now that you know what mark means and what seal means. You don't have to know the Greek. I mean, not discouraging anybody to learn Greek and Hebrew. All of us should know the ancient Greek and Hebrew better than we do. We would all benefit from such. But it's not an absolute necessity for interacting with God's Word and understanding it and applying it to our lives. And one question, the significance of the forehead, I'm sure there must be. What is the significance of the forehead? Yeah, well we had a little bit of uh distraction and some noise here and there, and so we have uh there was a point in the sermon when I talked a little bit about that but that might have been uh might have been lost so it's good that you asked because others might have missed it too. Uh there's different ways you might think about that. Uh I think the best way to think about that and there's the reason why is the way I decided to approach it uh in the sermon is what's what what's what's what's happening here like what's what's behind the forehead? Your mind your your mind Right, and and we talk about our like our heart, our soul, like the center of our will. But really, those are idiom uh uh Hebraic idioms and they're talking about in some measure the mind and the the mind and the will and that that's the h our heart, our decision making, the thing that's kind of really I mean, it's not centered in our intestinal tract per se, you know. We make a gut decision. We're still making that decision up here. You know what I'm saying? So that's why I feel the mark on the forehead is saying that God, first of all, we're in his image. And our faces are are one of the more important aspects of our physical appearance in English. So there's that. But I think more important is it's placed on the forehead Because it's God's promise of a seal of protection over our heart and our mind so that we're not going to be deceived. We're not going to fall prey to the deceptions of the of of of God. the s of the serpent of the beast. So we're gonna we're gonna have an illumination of mind. The Holy Spirit illuminates the mind of a believer. And I think that the placement on the forehead is helping to just drive that point which we can make from other parts of scripture, drive that point home. I thought I always kind of thought of it more as like, um because if you look at other things, not not necessarily from the Bible, but like um uh like slave marks from some cultures would be like on the forehead or um I believe. But like I I always thought it was more of like a uh because you can't miss that. Yeah. It it it everybody can see what side you're on. Mm-hmm. That's part of it. I I I agree with you. So I I that was always my take on it. You know, um and the mark of the beast, it always struck me as like they are probably proclaiming something And like red flag can't miss it, don't follow them. And something in an application sense in our lives that we can take from that. And that's uh I I think that's a helpful additional way to look at this. not only is it what's right there on the forehead you can see it, but on top of that is an indication that this is not something to be hidden. Yeah. It should be readily apparent. To everybody that interacts with you, that you bear the mark of God on your life, that you have been sealed with his seal of protection, that there should be something salty about the Christian, right? There should be something that might give rise to the man, there's something different about you. What is the reason for the joy that you have in your life? Why do you have so much hope for the future? What is that? And then you can give a reason for the hope. that you have with him, which actually might be a good transition in a second for you to share the reason for the hope as it's a good idea. I had another question or supposed to do that. Um I was gonna say uh and and again I was relatively preoccupied so it's possible to do that number if I just missed it. Um but uh the whole number thing, the specific number Of those that are sealed. Yeah. Yeah, no, I just mentioned it at the very end, and it's going to be a centerpiece of next week's tournament. I mean I can get into it now that I've been sealing a lot of my own thumb Then I'll just wait. I figured that was a concise one thing. Then we can bring it up and it's on it during the discussion. So are you okay with the us punting until next week? I just wanted to make sure that in case that like between now and then I'm trying to keep you know our messages in the ballpark of thirty minutes ish, you know, on the short end twenty-five minutes. minutes and on the longest end, you know, 35-40 minutes. And I don't I don't look at the clock, but today's might have been thirty-five-forty minutes. And so I needed more than two seconds to address what is a rather uh interesting element of the book of Revelation. There's an entire uh uh heretical cultic denomination that centers a lot of their theological understanding. I couldn't just give it a short shrift. I I need to expound upon it more. So uh that's why I'm doing it next year. Yeah. So You want to uh No so I just keep talking now. Yeah. Transition. I mean it's not something you have to explain to your daughters what the good news is, right? You have friends that need to hear it on a you need to remind yourself what it is. What are those things you Well um well I guess I'd just like to say that uh you know in general there is some really good news And that is that all the pain and hurt and sad things that we have in the world, like our hair getting cold. Um, you know, there is You know, there's uh I don't want to say a way out of it, but there's and there's an end to it. There is a um there's someone who because of how much they loved us came and took all the punishment for our attitude and um And uh they took all the punishment all for all of our sin, all of our misbehaviors, all of our wrongdoing. Um Because I mean people have been saying literally since the beginning of the world. Since humans existed, and as much as I like to say, oh well if Adam and Eve hadn't sinned, we'd all be good, except it's I think that every one of us would have made the same mistake Started it anyway, so like if it hadn't been them, it would have been the next person. Um or me. Because all of us have done something wrong, usually many things wrong. often many horrible things. I know. I know. She says Amen. I agree. Yeah, I know. Preach it, sister. Not like this since preach it, sister. Um and because of all of that, we are not perfect. We We cannot by ourselves get into heaven to be with God who is perfect, and that is why Jesus came, God's Son came to take the punishment for us. And if we acknowledge that and believe it and have a relationship with Christ then we can go up to heaven and be with Jesus and God. Jesus and God. And that is very good news that we have a friend like that. That is um a really good uh example of kind of a meat and potato Potatoes sort of a presentation of the gospel. It's it's kind of a two-fold presentation. There's problem solution. There's brokenness in the world, there's fallenness, we're sinners, we can't do it on our own. We we want things better, but we can't get better on our own. So there's this problem that was articulated a few different ways. And there was a solution. That solution is Jesus Christ who paid the penalty for all the throng doing we do did and because of that we can be with him forever. So like that would be like boilerplate meat and potatoes must has. Uh if one were to expand upon that, they would then uh perhaps talk about the response. to that problem solution. The good news of the problem solution, which is now, out of gratitude for that good news, we now want to be obedient to the one who has saved us. I want to increasingly look more and more of like our Savior until one day we will be uh with him uh in a perfect kind of a unity in glorification where there will be no more problems, no more sin, and things will be restored to the way they were intended to be at the very beginning before they got screwed up by all the sin that led us into the problems. So what I just did there was took the the twofold uh presentation of the gospel and very quickly added onto it to make it a fivefold presentation. the gospel, which is a which is an important part of how I uh train and teach and approach the sharing of the gospel. And you can start at any point. So Annie started with the problem and went to the solution. Um and the problem would be in the fivefold sharing of the gospel, the problem would be the second item chronolog uh uh chronologically speaking. The first thing is God made us. We're in his image. We're fearfully wonderfully made. He made us for a purpose. So that's that's point one. Point two is however we've fallen, we sin, uh we're broken, we need help. And then good news Jesus comes, pays the price. So that's one, two, and three. And then number four is the sanctification piece out of humble gratitude now we want to live a life that exemplifies and then the final piece is the glorification, the eternity piece. So definitely every gospel proclamation needs to include the problem solution thing. That was a really good example of of how to go about sharing that and then expanding upon that. Part of the reason why I focus on the expansive part is Sometimes life just walking around with people gives you an opportunity to share the good news if you know how to listen for the opportunity. And sometimes somebody's talking about all the problems in their life and all the sin in the world. Well, okay, you could do exactly what anything. Yeah, there's a lot of problems. Unfortunately, there's a solution to that problem. Jesus Christ and you can share that. But maybe they're not starting there. Maybe they're starting with, um, I have no purpose in my life. I'm an I don't know why I'm even here. Why am I here? Well then you could start with the creation, the first step of the fivefold sharing of the gospel, which is you were made for a purpose. You are fearfully and wonderfully made. made to have uh rulership over the creation. But of course we screwed that up because of our sin and our frailness and our brokenness. But fortunately that screw up has been rectified by Jesus Christ. Do you know Jesus Christ? Christ. If he will give you the purpose you're looking for, once you have that purpose, you will live your life in a new way out of gratitude for what he's done, and you will have A magnification of purpose upon your life greater than you ever imagined. And eventually it all ends with that magnification on steroids forever and glorify She crisis. So you could start with something they said. Or they could be focusing on um you know this utopia idea. And you chase an after utopia dream in in the physical realm, it's not gonna happen. You know, there is a utopia. It's called heaven. And we will get there. In fact, for those who are Christ, so you can start at different points. So in my experience I haven't found a situation where one of those five entry points in sharing the gospel wasn't applicable, wasn't appropriate. And so So I think that people sometimes struggle to share the gospel because they're just waiting for that moment. Because they might only know one way to share it, which is the uh oh what's that uh Ray uh The way of the mastery now. Do you know the Ten Commandments? Have you broken any of them? Evangelism explos evangelism. But anyway, th it's a very A D C's? I I I I I don't know. But the point is it's it's kind of a formula and it works. It's one of the five ways you can enter into a gospel presentation The problem is it's not always easy to figure out how to navigate things so that you can get into that entry point. But if you don't limit yourself to that one entry point and you give yourself five I promise you, think about these things. You will have an opportunity to share the gospel with everybody you interact with. At least that's been my experience. There's always the way with one of those five entry points. That was good. So before we wrap up our Facebook Live, let's see uh Oh yeah. I printed this because there are various English translations of the model prayer or the Lord's Prayer or the Our Father or whatever you want to call it. And Nadia here is memorizing. And so we want her to hear the same one over and over so she can memorize it. Oh Nadia. So we're going to do first we're going to see uh how much Nadia might want to read through it, and then we're going to read through it together as a group. Ready. Our Father in heaven. Hallow be your name. Blessing. Your kingdom comes. Your will be done by done on earth as it is in heaven. In heaven. Give us this day our daily bread. Our daily. And forgive Give us our debt as we also have forgiven Our debtors and lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil. From evil. For yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory Glory. Forever. Amen. Okay. That's an awful lot for her to work. Donna, you want to hear us do it? You ready? Is it mommy's turn? Mommy's turn? Right, you can just go with this thing. Hallowed be your name. For your kingdom come, the will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for yours is the kingdom. Amen. That looks good. Um I think it'll be exciting when the day comes that she works all the way through that whole thing without any stopping. That's gonna be an exciting day. Did you make that? Anyway, oh thank you. All right, so we're gonna be back on Facebook Live, uh God willing, and the freaks don't rise on Saturday, 6 o'clock Eastern. We'll hope to see you then. I encourage you again to visit us online at Household of Faith in Christ. You can connect with all the different things and you can find past videos and that sort of thing if you if you're so inclined then. Until then, God bless.