Ears are rolling. I'm assuming you can hear me. If anybody wants to take time to confirm that we have audio, that'd be good. Otherwise this will be like a 1922 silent film. Without the cool organ in the background. We can have it in here. Yeah. So anyway, welcome to the Household of Faith in Christ. If you're joining us online now, uh if you're watching us live or on Facebook, if you're watching this later, you're probably watching this either on sermonaudio. com or uh odyssey. com, possibly on Rumble, because I'm still actually using Rumble to park videos until I can get the sermon audio and odyssey channels fully organized. But you uh I it's hard for me to imagine a situation where you'll find a video from us added to the YouTube channel. What's there will stay unless YouTube takes more of our videos down, but I don't have time to put stuff up multiple times if they're gonna be taking it down. So anyway Um those who happened to capture the the message at the start of the year, certainly people in the room did, we talked about, you know, taking the first forty days of the year to kind of prepare for rain kind of idea And those 40 days are up. And so I just wanted to acknowledge uh what uh and remind us what that was about. It wasn't about treating it like Lent. where we gotta give something up and self flagellate ourselves, you know. Flagellate? Flagellate, not flagellate. That's what Tyler's been saying. in the sense that maybe it could be about that if. So the idea was to take like 40 days to think about we want God's blessing. We want to experience God's blessing and we want to be God's blessing to the world. What can we do during a focused part of time, the first 40 days of the year, for example? to set in motion habits, practices, ideas, commitments, whatever that would carry through beyond the first 40 days. So now that the forty and so in some cases that might have meant giving something up to make room in your life But whatever you gave up to make room in your life might be the kind of thing that needs to stay given up so you can continue to have room in your life. But it's not about giving up. That I I think we might some of us got off track on on that part of it. The idea is we want to pray expectantly for God to bring the rain, if you will, to bring his blessing. But at the same time, we don't want to just pray vacuously. We want to have this idea that he actually will respond, he will bring blessing, and we want to be able to act upon it when it comes. So are we in the Word as regularly as we should be? Are we seeking His face in prayer the way that we should be? Are we coming together with fellow believers like we should be? Are we ministering to the world around us with the truth of the gospel really should be. And I'm going to tell you right now, I've had some reminders recently, maybe you guys have too. What we're doing here is not for everybody. Because not everybody wants the actual biblical truth. Too many people, they want the church to tell them what they want to hear. Or they wanted to affirm where they're coming at from things. They wanted to find a middle ground between God's actual truth and the ways of the world. Like there's got to be some middle way. The only way there's a middle way is if it happens to align with God's truth anyway, and then that by definition then it's not a middle way You know what I mean? So we're about proclaiming the truth of God's word. And if that's what you're interested in, then household faith in Christ is what you're about as well. And so I welcome you into that. Those who have been watching online, certainly those in the room, know that we've been practicing our sharing of the gospel. And it occurred to me last week when uh Annie shared the gospel, and I made the point that boy, that was a really good example of kind of the meat and potatoes of the gospel You know, problem solution. And I thought about it and it made me realize that this young man here, Tyler, has uh the gospel that he can share that's even more meat and potatoes more to the point than even what we heard last week. So let's see if Tylerine will be willing to mercy. I don't know. Hey Tyler What do we know about Jesus? Jesus healed me. I don't know if you could understand them, but Jesus healed me, is what Tyler said. Amen. That's the gospel. Yeah, I talked about the fivefold gospel and all and those are all the those are the elements the um it's the it's the full orbed gospel when we have all five elements. That's my understanding of how the best way to be equipped is to share the gospel in all different circumstances. But let's not confuse it. The gospel really comes down to one word, and that one word is Jesus. Because Jesus translated means God saves. Amen. So we can say the gospel is the powerful name, the singular name of Jesus that is the gospel. And if we want to expand and say, okay, what that means is two words, God saves. What Tyler just shared was basically God saved Me. That's all he did. He just uh he just personalized it. That's the gospel personalized. So we're talking about the fivefold share in the gospel. I still believe in all this, but I don't want to overcomplicate this. The gospel is God saves. Now that connects to what we talked about, the meat and potatoes, right? God saves from what? Like that means there must be something from which you need saving. So there's a problem. And Jesus is that solution. So that's the meat of his problem, solution. And in response to the positives over that solution, then we want to live a life of gratitude where we're magnifying the glory of God's name. People will turn to us and say, Man, there's something different about how you're living your life. What's the reason for the hope you have? And we can share with them. And the reason we have hope is because we know that As great as this life can be sometimes, it certainly has its challenges. Well, there's going to be a life ahead in glory. No more challenges. Nothing but the great aspects, and even those like as great As your life might be in singular moments, I don't even think we have language for how much greater than even that it's going to be for eternity and glory with God. So that's what awaits us. That's why we have hope, because we know we have a Maker who built us for relationship with Him. And yes, we screwed it up with our sin, but Christ at the cross. makes all things right for those who are his people. And those who are his people can say, Jesus healed me. That is the gospel. So let's Let's not overcomplicate it when we you know don't need to. The reason the four elements, the four aspects, the full orb gospel is important is It gives us an entry point to sharing that simple truth of the gospel, profound yet simple truth of the gospel, in all circumstances. So that's why we I think it's helpful to know the five. Anyway, I just thought that moment of clarity would be good for us to hear. We have been working on the Lord's Prayer. And I thought we would change things up just a little bit this week. The reason we're doing a handout is not that the people in the room don't know the Lord's Prayer. There are different English translations of the prayer. And this young lady next to me is memorizing, learning to memorize a particular translation. And we want to make sure that she's used to hearing the same translation. You can hold it too. Now what we're gonna do is we're as a group going to do it together. She's gonna hear us do it, and then I thought we might do a little bit different. Well see how much she could with some prompting and cueing perhaps begin to volunteer without just trying to read it off the page because she's not really reading off the page anyway. Right, but I d I'm to be curious that that will give us a sense of where she is in her memorization and and stuff. Yeah, so are you ready to try this, Nadia? Do you want to give it a shot? Okay. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread and forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil, for yours is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Well I don't think we even have to have her do. She was doing it with us and I don't know if you could hear her that well. You want to do it again? You want to try to do it again? How much can you do? Say our father. Now you're getting shy and bashful, I know. So I was able to keep she was pretty much with us on the Our Father in Heaven, hallowed be your name. And then she began to get a little bit iffy on the your kingdom come, your will be done, and then she kinda trailed off on earth that isn't heaven and we lost her. So the first phrase she pretty much has. And that second section she kinda half has. So we've been doing this for like what, maybe a month or two or something like that. So that's not too bad. She's got, you know Twenty percent twenty percent of it down. When I remember to do do it with her at home, she just goes, again, mommy, again, again. Alright, well well that's good. It's good to keep doing it again and again, and then you'll have it. And this can be important, not that we want to do these things by rope, but this can really be an outline for how we pray. You can keep this model prayer in mind, it'll help you to pray um in your in your prayer life as well. All right. Bible verses. We're gonna we'll have a prayer in just a moment. But first let's uh let's uh have a potpourri of Bible verses. So if you're watching online, you have to try to go there quickly. We have the advantage of having shared the Bible verses already, but if you want to try to get there quickly, we're going to read from 2 Samuel. Chapter 24, verses 11 through 14, and then we're going to hear Mark chapter 1 verses 9 through 15, and then Philippians chapter 2, verses 14 through 18, and 2 Timothy chapter 4, verses 1 through 8. And if you want to get ready for the sermon, we'll be spending our time in Revelation chapter 7, so you'll want to turn there. And spend a little bit of time in the sermon on Revelation, uh Romans 9. Not critically determined there, but you're definitely going to want to be able to follow along, I think, with Revelation chapter 7. So get yourself ready for that. But anyway 2 Samuel chapter 24 verses eleven to fourteen. When David arose in the morning, the word of the Lord came to the prophet Gad. David's seer saying, Go and speak to David. Thus the Lord says, I am offering you three things. Choose for yourself one of them, which I will do to you. two So Gad came to David and told him and said to him, Shall seven years A famine come to you in your land? Or will you flee three months before your foes while they pursue you? Or shall there be three days pestilence in your land? Now consider and see what the answer. I shall return to him who sent me. Then David said to Gad, I'm I am in great distress. Let us now fall into the hand of the Lord, for his mercies are great. But do not let me fall into the hand of man. Now uh Mark chapter one verses nine through fifteen. In those days Jesus came from Nazareth in Galilee and was baptized by John and the Jordan. Immediately coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opening, and the spirit like a dove descending upon him, and a voice came out of the heavens, you are my Immediately the spirit impelled him to go out into the wilderness, and he was in the wilderness forty days, being Tempted by Satan. And he was with the wild beast, and the angels were ministering to him. Now, after John had been taken into custody, Jesus came and To Galilee, preaching the gospel of God and saying, the time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe. the gospel. Philippians chapter two, and this is going to be verses fourteen to eighteen. Do all things without grumbling or disputing, so that you will prove yourself to be blameless and innocent. Children of God above reproach, in the midst of crooked and perverse generations among you, whom you appear as lights in the world, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ I will have reason to glory, because I do not run in vain, or toil in vain. But even if I am being poured out as a drink offering upon the sacrifice in service of your faith I rejoice and share my faith or share my joy with you all. You too, I urge you rejoice in the same way and share your joy with me. So far we've had a the i the the idea that God will send you know judgment, famine, plague, things like that. Also we can have temptations from the devil himself. Um but in spite of all of that we are to aim to live blameless and pure lives because we are children of God. So that's kind of the the thread we're on so far. And now we're up to 2 Timothy chapter 4. Verses one through eight. I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching. For the time is coming when people will not enjoy But having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions, and will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off As for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry. I am already being poured being poured out as a drink offering, and the time of my departure has come. I have fought the good fight. I have sinned The race. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, will award to me on that day. And not only to me, but also to Also to all who have loved his appearance. Fighting a good fight. Preaching the word, which we'll be doing in just a second. Before we do that. If you uh we're gonna have a word of prayer and then we'll have the sermon. Um Ray, would you mind opening us with prayer? Or no opening is the right way to phrase it, but would you have our first moment of prayer during our time together? Dear Lord, we thank you for this day. We thank you for this gathering. We pray that the message be pleasing to your ears, O Lord. We ask that you Yeah, just be with us as we fellowship together. Uh where two or three are gathered and we have to do that. In Jesus' name we give thanks and praise. Amen. Amen. So way back in 1978, there was a popular song from the music group Foreigner. That was the title track for that band's second album. It was called Double Vision. It was a pulsating rock tune with rather basic lyrics about getting high. So not the most edifying of messages. But when I was a kid, you know, I didn't really think a whole lot about the meaning of the song, and so I liked it quite a lot, and therefore I have heard this song in my life hundreds of times And as a result, this song is stuck in my memory banks. And despite its very unholy message, It popped into my head when I was studying Revelation chapter 7. Because in this chapter, the Apostle John records for us two back to back visions which are meant to be interpreted together as a unit. It's a double vision. Today we're going to examine the first half of this double vision, and we'll save the second half for next week, God willing. So here's what's written in the first eight verses of Revelation chapter 7. After this I saw four angels standing at the four corners of the earth, holding back the four winds of the earth to prevent any wind from blowing on the land or on the sea or on any tree. Then I saw another angel coming up from the east, having the seal of the living God. He called out in a loud voice to the four angels who had been given power to harm the land and the sea. Do not harm the land or the sea or the trees until We put a seal on the foreheads of the servants of our God. Then I heard the number of those who were sealed. 144,000 from all the tribes of Israel. From the tribe of Judah, twelve thousand were sealed. From the tribe of Reuben, twelve thousand. From the tribe of Gad, twelve thousand. From the tribe 12,000. From the tribe of Nephtali, twelve thousand. From the tribe of Manasseh, twelve thousand. From the tribe of Simeon, twelve thousand. From the tribe of Levi, twelve thousand. From the tribe of Issachar, twelve thousand. From the tribe of Zebulon, twelve thousand. From the tribe of J Suf twelve thousand and from the tribe of Benjamin 12,000. This passage and the other verses we read just a few minutes ago are the Word of God. You hear me say something along these lines pretty much every week. And I get concerned sometimes it just becomes rote. So I want to really emphasize the point God's word is authoritative. It is the authoritative word of God because it is breathed out by God. That's what we mean by it is inspired. of God because it is God's word. It is inerrant, infallible. It is the fully sufficient Rule and guide for our faith and our life practice Those with ears to hear. Let them hear. So in our last message together, we covered the first four verses of this chapter. It's a chapter That brings us a pause between seal number six and seal number seven. And this interlude, it's injected here so that the servants of God can be sealed with God's spiritual protection. Verse 4 tells us that the number of those sealed is 144,000. And then in verses 5 through 8, this number begins to be detailed for us. And this is where we pick up our exposition of the text. So we're told in verse 4 that the 144,000 are from the tribes of Israel. And then the tribes are listed. That seems pretty straightforward. Until we look more closely at the names of the twelve tribes. And we realize that this list corresponds to none of the ways that the tribes are listed in the Old Testament. There are 16 lists of the tribes of Israel in the Old Testament, and they're always shared by the birth order or by their allotment of land in Canaan. Well, this is not even close to how it's done here in Revelation. So let's go through the names one at a time. First up is Judah. Well, this is interesting. Judah was the fourth son of Jacob, as we see listed in places like Genesis chapter 35. Well, in Revelation, Judah is bumped up from fourth to first. This is a clear nod to Judah being the tribe of Messiah. And so the Lion of Judah takes the top slot. And now, next we find the name Reuben. Reuben was biologically the firstborn But he lost his place in the pole position, if you will, due to his act of incest sleeping with his father's concubine, Bilha. So he loses his place of primacy on the list. And speaking of concubines. The next four names on this list, verses in verses five and six, they illustrate the incorporation Of outcasts being brought to near the front of the line in God's economy. This is done by listing the names of the four sons of Jacob's two concubines, Bilhah and Zilpah. These sons being Gad, Asher, Nephtali, and Dan Oops. Where's Dan? Dan's missing. Having been replaced on the list by Manasseh. What's up with that? Well, as you might recall from Judges 18 and 1 Kings 12, the Danites led a the northern kingdom of Israel. into apostasy, into idolatry, with the result that Jewish tradition began to associate the tribe of Dan with Antichrist. In light of what we will read later on in Revelation chapters 21 and 22, there is no way a tribe associated with Antichrist makes this list. So Dan is replaced by Manasseh. Now this is interesting. Manasseh is one of the half-tribes of Joseph. When only one of the two half tribes is mentioned in Scripture, it's usually Ephraim, not Manasseh. Why is Ephraim not on the list? Well, it seems there are two legitimate possibilities, and perhaps it's a combination of them both. The first is the fact that Ephraim in Judges chapters 17 and 18 was complicit with Dan. in their apostasy. So maybe we have here some guilt by association. That keeps them off the list. An additional possibility is that sometimes Ephraim is treated in the pages of Scripture as being identical with the full tribe of Joseph, as though the two names are interchangeable. For example, you can see this in Psalms um seventy-eight, Ezekiel chapter 37 So with Joseph on this list in verse 8 of chapter 7, it could be viewed as redundant to mention Joseph there and Ephraim here in verse 6. Now the list of twelve tribes that continues in verses seven and eight, with the remaining six children of Jacob's wives. Israel's wives. Simeon, Levi, Issachar, Zebulon, Joseph, and Benjamin. Pushing these six sons born to wives rather than to concubines, pushing them to the end of the line. In order to make room for the outsiders, those sons who were born to concubines. who we've already mentioned, so that they can move up on the list. This is a hint at what is to come more explicitly in the last half of this chapter. This signifies the inclusion of outsiders. And from our context, we're outsiders. We're Gentiles. But we're among the bondservants of God who are mentioned in verse chapter 3 of this chapter. So now we could, I guess, maybe just move on to the last half of the chapter, starting with verse 9. But we have to wait for that until our next meeting, again, God willing. Because we need to address some of the common confusions that surround the number 144,000. As you might know, there are some cults. They believe that precisely 144,000 people will experience the fullness of heaven. Now others, they say, might sneak into heaven as well, but they're only going to have second-class citizenship when they get there. But the oddities that we've just highlighted regarding the way that the twelve tribes are listed here in this seventh chapter of Revelation, it suggests strongly that this list of 144,000 is to be interpreted symbolically. Which shouldn't surprise us because that's the way we should really approach the entire book of the apocalypse. And at the same time, the naming of the twelve tribes, it links us with our Old Testament Israelite heritage. Because remember, all of us non-Jewish people of God, we have been grafted into Israel Now there's quite a bit to unpack with all of this, so most of our remaining time with this sermon is going to be devoted to these issues. They came up with a question last week, and so we're taking time to to walk through all of this. So, someone approaching this text. They will immediately point to verse 4, which says that the number of those who were sealed is 144,000 from all the tribes of Israel. There are no Gentiles in Israel, they say. However, what they say does not square with The Bible. The Apostle Paul teaches us in Galatians chapter 3, verse 28, that in Christ there is neither Jew nor Greek, and in Ephesians chapter 2. Remember that formerly you who are Gentiles by birth, remember that at that time you were separate from Christ, excluded from citizenship in Israel And foreigners to the covenant of the promise. But now, in Christ Jesus You who once were far away have been brought near by the blood of Christ. For he himself is our peace, who has made the two groups one. And it just has destroyed the barrier. His purpose was to create in himself one new humanity out of the two Consequently, you are no longer foreigners and strangers, but fellow citizens with God's people and also members of his household. In him, the whole building is joined together. And in him, you two are being built together to become a dwelling in which God lives. By his spirit. It's not just Paul alone who emphasizes this. James opens his letter to the church. It's a letter to the church, a church with people of both Jewish and Gentile background. He opens this letter. By addressing, quote, the twelve tribes of the diaspora. The twelve tribes. And the church are one and the same, according to James. And it's not as if this engrafting began in the New Testament. We see it in the Old Testament. Caleb, one of the great heroes of Judah, was a Kenizite. But he's counted among the Israelites. Rahab the prostitute was a Canaanite But became an Israelite. Ruth, famously as a Moabite, also an Israelite. Uriah, the husband of Bathsheba, was a Hittite, but he fought as an Israelite. And the list continues So with that point having been made, let's move to another common thought about the 144,000. And that is that it's promising that all Jews will be saved in the end. Now that might be possibly an argument to have in different portions of of Scripture, but right here in chapter 7 of Revelation, honestly. That idea being imported here, I I would see that as an interpolation. The text simply does not say this. Now, of course, the text doesn't not say this. So maybe it does mean this if we want it to, but I would suggest this is only if we would ignore other scripture passages. For example, Isaiah 10, verses 21 and 22, which says A remnant will return. A remnant of Jacob will return to the mighty God. Though your people be like the sand of the sea, Israel, only a remnant will return. And St. Paul quotes from this passage in Isaiah in Romans chapter 9. And it's a chapter where he also writes, the Apostle Paul does. What if God, although choosing to show his wrath and make his power known, bore with great patience the objects of his wrath, prepared for destruction? What if he did this to make the riches of his glory known to the objects of his mercy, whom he prepared in advance for glory? Even us, whom he also called, not only from the Jews, but also from the Gentiles. As he says in Hosea, I will call them my people, who are not my people, and will call her my loved one, who is not my loved one. What then shall we say? That the Gentiles who did not pursue righteousness have obtained it? A righteousness that is by faith? But that the people of Israel who pursued the law as the way of righteousness have not attained their goal? Why not? Because they pursued it not by faith, but as if it were by works. They stumbled over the stumbling stone. And this all helps to make sense of what's written in Romans chapter 9, verses 6 through 8. It is not as though God's word had failed. For not all who are descended from Israel are Israel. Nor because they are his descendants are they all Abraham's children. On the contrary, it is through Isaac that your offspring will be reckoned. In other words, it is not the children by physical descent who are God's children But it is the children of the promise who are regarded as Abraham's offspring. Well, okay then, since this is not who the 144,000 are. Who are these 144,000 sealed bondservants of God? And what does the imagery of the 144,000 represent? Well let's begin with the number itself. 144,000. That's 12 squared Times 1,000. 12 squared. That means 12 times 12. 12 multiplied 12 times equals 144. 12 is a complete and perfect number in biblical usage. Do you recall from our previous sermons the importance of the number four, particularly in the book of Revelation, but throughout Scripture? A four is a number representative of creation. And we have also talked about the number three a little bit and how this helps us to better understand some of the symbolism in the book of Revelation. Well the number three, that's going to connect our thoughts almost immediately, I would think, to the Godhead, right? Our triune God. Three persons, one God. Well now do some math. Four plus three gives us seven. Give the number for holiness here, the number of creation, the number of deity. It's complete perfection is represented. We know the importance of number seven in the book of relation. We've touched on that a whole bunch of times. And then four times three, four multiplied by three, that gives us twelve. Which turns out is the number of the Old Testament tribes in the also the uh number of New Testament disciples. So the number twelve is a number that embraces and includes everything. It's the number for God's people. Is complete church. This is spiritual Israel This is pictured again, but in a different way, in Revelation chapter 21, where we're going to read that the four walls of the new heavenly Jerusalem measure 144 cubits each. With mention of twelve angels and twelve foundations inscribed with the names of the twelve apostles and the twelve gates inscribed with the names of the twelve tribes. Revelation with this imagery later in the book, it brings us a view in those later chapters of the church triumphant. It's a picture of our reality following Christ's second coming. But that's still to come in Revelation. For now, what we have here pictured in the first half of Revelation chapter 7. It's the church militant. We're still on earth fighting the good fight. We are the Lord's army. And so this chapter symbolism, it reminds us of King David organizing his ancient army in 1 Chronicles chapter 27, where we see that David arranged his troops into twelve equal divisions. In his case it was divisions of 24,000, which is twelve thousand doubled. Now, understanding the importance of the numerical symbols in Revelation, it is so very helpful at arriving to help us get to the place that John is driving. We've also discussed in the recent past the way that the number 1000 is used in the Bible. You know, in today's age we want to emphasize a really huge number, and we might say billions or trillions or zillions But when the ancient Jews wanted to emphasize a really big, huge number, they would say thousands. They didn't have in their vocabulary words going higher than that. It was just like When we use the word million today, we might mean possibly exactly one million. Or we might mean the word to be understood as just a large and uncertain, not definitely fixed number. Like we call somebody a millionaire. By that we don't typically mean that they have precisely toothy penny, one million dollars. Right? We typically mean that they have lots and lots and lots of dollars, more than a million dollars actually Well, that's what's being said here in Revelation chapter 7. There are 144,000. As in, there are 144 million or 144 billion, 144 zillion. It's not an exact count. This is not a census of God's people. It is a gigantic number that represents the exhaustive and perfect completion of God's chosen and elect people on earth. The fact that the numbering of the tribes is perfectly balanced, 12,000 from each one, is further indication that what we see here is a symbolic number. for the fullness of God's people that we see walking around the planet with us. And we will see this imagery again in Revelation chapters 9 and 14, with God's people sealed, with the spiritual protection of God. And they will be referred to there as the 144,000. Each of us, followers of Christ, Each of the innumerable 144,000 is known individually by God And no one except God can truly, accurately, precisely count their number, but God can. God knows. He knows us individually, each and every one. He spiritually protects us. Take comfort in this. Recall Matthew chapter 10, verses 29-31. Are not two sparrows sold for a penny? Yet not one of them will fall to the ground outside your father's care. And even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. So don't be afraid. You are worth more than many sparrows. And this is a promise. Not merely to those who are biologically descended from the loins of Jacob. It is also for those who are adopted into the family. As John will write at the start of Revelation chapter 11, I was given a reed like a measuring rod and was told, Go and measure the temple of God and the altar with its worshippers, but exclude the outer court. Do not measure it. Because it has been given to the Gentiles. You understand? Don't try to measure it. It's too big. You can't measure it. It's immense This helps us further understand that there is room made for you, the Gentile believer. You're trusting in the promise. Made to Abraham. And as a follower of Jesus Christ, you are accounted righteous. And saved by faith. And the Messiah, he is the aforementioned lion of Judah. He's our fierce lion. And the lion, he claims both the Jews and the Gentiles within his pride. You're safe. Within his promise. Because he rules the universe forever. Genesis chapter 49 says, the scepter will not depart from Judah, nor the ruler's staff from between his feet. Until he to whom it belongs shall come, and the obedience of the nations shall be his. When we exposit the last half of the chapter next week, we are going to read about a great multitude. It pictures all of the saints through all of time, past, present, and future. And so it's a wide-angle lens peering at God's people. compared to the narrower focus that we're given here in the first half of the chapter. As we're going to understand even better following next week's gathering, again God willing. The number one, the uh the 144,000 number, it represents the church on earth. Which is why symbolically smaller than the great multitude of represents the church of heaven and earth But these are complementary pictures. They're both depicting the lamb's protection of his sheep, but from two different perspectives. So the thing for us all to consider, for you to consider, are you among the sheep? Is the Son of God your protector Are you a member of our Warrior King's Earthly Army? Well, if so, then get into the fight, man. There is a spiritual war being waged. Case you haven't noticed. And the evidence that you are one of the sealed foot soldiers. Is that you are engaged in spiritual battle Let's make sure we're all engaged. Resting on the promise of victory. And the promise of spiritual protection. Let's pray. Father, you are so amazing and mighty We acknowledge you with some shame that we too often might have a tendency to neglect how powerful and wondrous you are. We thank you and praise your name that you have called to yourself a people to join in the fight of spiritual warfare. And that we have the promise from you of provision and protection. That you love your children. Both the Old Covenant and New Covenant children, you love them as your family, as your co-heirs, that we are all brothers and sisters bound together in unity with you. It's a beautiful and totally undeserved thing that you have done for us and in us and through us. We ask that you give us courage and discernment as we engage the spiritual enemy that's around us, that we would not fall prey to the enemy's evil devices. And we know with certainty that we won't, because you protect us, that we will persevere, that we will join you forever in glory. Down together with one another and with our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well I guess I'll begin by turning to Annie and asked the Ask if that helped address some of your questions from last week. And I'm assuming the you know the quote unquote hundred and forty four thousand is for all time, for eternity. Meaning from the foundation of the world to the second coming Yeah. Um to put a point of clarity on that. Um It's a representation of God's church on earth at each moment throughout history and time. time. Because this is a battle regiment, right? uh these le these legions of troops or whatever and they're organized in spiritual battle. And so while the number is huge, it does seem that there's some limiting cap on it. Hundred and forty-four thousand is a limiting factor. It's not an completely innumerable, you know, un un uncountable kind of a number idea, uh which we're gonna see in the last half of this chapter where it's just multitudes and multitudes and And there's not a number placed on that. So if what you mean is this is a number that represents God's people through all of time, I would say yes at each moment throughout time. That's what's pictured here. This is about the church militant. This is the church on earth right now fighting the good fight for the kingdom of God. But those who have already died ahead of us are in are are in heaven now. They're part of the multitude, if you will, in the imagery of the of the vision, they would be counted among the multitude that we're going to see described in the last half of this chapter. They were part of the one hundred and forty four thousand, but but they finished transition. They finished their race and so they're not part they're not in need of this of the spiritual protection that I was talking about. about they've already finished their race. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. They were already in the presence of God. Yeah, they're they're They're there. They don't need that field because Yeah, yeah, they don't need the rest on the assurance that God's got them covered because they're already there in his presence. No. Now they are yearning for uh justice. Sure. And they're looking they they wouldn't have to be a good thing. But they're not attacked by their flesh anymore, by their sin nature anymore, by the devil anymore. Right. Okay, gotcha. And most famously the cult that gets most thought of in terms of the 144,000 Jehovah's Witnesses. Right. But they're not alone. That's why I said there are cults, because there are others too that have very similar ideas about it being a precise and exact number, like the old worldwide church of God, for example. which I'm not sure if they still I think they exist as a shell of their former selves they hold that view. So there are some uh some pockets of people who want to say no it's exactly 144 It's not one hundred and thirty one hundred and forty-three thousand nine hundred ninety-nine, it's it's a precise number. And they think of it as from the beginning beginning of time to whenever. Yeah, they would say it's it's it's uh it's those who have the fullness of the blessing of God throughout all of history and time. And They would accuse somebody like me who takes the approach that I just take to, oh, you're just you're not taking it literally. I mean it says 144,000. It's literally 144,000. And the only retort really that you know that I could have, and it's the retort, I'm the one who's take people who like me, the approach that I'm taking are the ones that are being are taking the text literally. Because taking it literally, I mean, it's right in the root of the word. It has to do with literature Literarily, I'm taking it for what the text means. How did the author intend it to be understood? And this is not an Excel spreadsheet. You know, th this this is a highly symbolic, highly artistic uh all this apocalyptic kind of language and And and the the vision idea, this is not to be understood the same way we would understand some of the narratives in, you know, uh 1st and 2nd Kings or something like that. where it's it's outlining what happened in history. This is this is different. So in the confines of the the genre, what is John communicating here? And there's just no what There's just no way that it makes any sense that this incredibly symbolic book would in one or two instances would say, oh, but right here we're going to be precisely mathematically exact. That's not what's happening. And there are cues, this is what I was getting into in the message. There are cues that that's what's going on. Because the way the list is presented. I mean it it's not based in birth order, it's not based on the geographic placement of the completely other and different. Like why? That's not like John as he's writing down the names and he forgot the order. There's a purpose. He wrote this order for a reason. What are the ideas in his head he's trying to convey And I don't think anybody really was gonna is gonna push back on the idea that you know Judah moves to the top because of Christ. The line of Judah is being the preeminent first lot position. because it's the line of Judah, the tribe of Judah. They are the eschatological primary name. Christ is at the top. So that makes sense. So so we can understand that. So right there, that's a symbolic there's a symbolic meaning behind Judah being first. Huh, I wonder if there are symbolic meanings to the rest. Then you start to look for what the commonalities are, what makes sense and it is rather striking that the concubine sons are moved up and that the um Sons of wives are moved down as groups. That's rather interesting. And then you've got the certain names missing or uh one name added at the expense of another name with Manasseh instead of Ephraim. It's like what's going on? Why is all that? And you start to connect the dots. Well, none of that makes sense from a woodenly. what what you know would be typically thought of as a literal interpretation, a wooden interpretation. It just doesn't lend itself to that. And I thought it was interesting with the type of Dan and then losing their quote unquote place. And I don't know if this is true or not. You know, some people think just because you are of Jewish faith, that means that you're automatically going to heaven. Just like just because you're the tribe of Dan doesn't mean you're automatically counted in. you can lose that if you are um fallen away from Yeah and not to press the point too far and I don't I don't think you're doing this, but just to clarify, it's not like everybody from the t tribe of Dan is is exiled from the hope of glory. But again to understand this is symbolic and so the point is being made, look, Dan was advocating for Antichrist Right. We're leaving them off this list. That doesn't mean that people who are biologically descended Well because the child's not responsible for the father's sins, so right. Well isn't that what Ephraim was? Like isn't Ephraim used to civilize the northern kingdom, which was like the apostate kingdom if we go back to the Old Testament. Yeah, that's why the book of Isaiah uses Ephraim to speak for the northern kingdom. Yeah, and that's and that's uh think of if you think about it in those terms, the the tribes that have you know arguably the most checkered pasts would be Dan and and Ephraim. They're the ones that are that are responsible for a lot of problems. Hmm. If you look at the end of judges, Benjamin serially gets wiped out. Yeah, I don't know. Interesting question. I don't have a lot of last the list, so I mean he just barely made it. birth order. There's yeah, I ha I had to be honest I hadn't pondered what to do with that question. So that's an inter catching me afresh with that one. So I don't know. Interesting question. But ultimately Benjamin was surrounded by Judah, right, in their land distribution. Was it a door? Surrounded By were they completely encircled land was I don't know if they were completely embedded in No, I'm thinking Simeon. Benjamin was where Jerusalem was Now the point with with something like this that you can and I and uh I I definitely try to draw attention to it uh but I'm gonna draw attention to it again now. Because we can kinda if we're not careful we can get lost in some minutiae, we can get kinda bogged down in the weeds a little bit. it and try to spend so much time trying to understand s with with a lot of specificity precisely what some of these images mean. And I don't want us to lose the main And that is God's people are to be of a military mindset. We're engaged in spiritual warfare. We're in the fight. And so we are to engage in battle, in spiritual war, knowing that we're protected by the line of Judah. That he protects those who are his. And that protection doesn't merely extend to those who are within the biological bloodlines. of of Jacob, but all those who are adopted into the family as well, they're protected too. So we can have confidence that we are kept safe spiritually by and I keep emphasizing spiritually because we do face ch challenges, suffering, persecution perhaps even, you know, w we face those sorts of things in the physical, but he protects those who are his spiritually, and that promises protection applies not just to bloodlines, but to all who are the people of God. And so we should have a confidence and security in that. And I feel like that's important to emphasize these days. I feel like a lot of us, you know, we got cocked you know kind of knocked sideways just a little bit. And we're like, oh, am I really being protected? Yes, you are. So remind yourself of God's promise, rest in that promise, trust in that promise, take God at His Word, don't doubt His Word and say, well, His promise doesn't apply to me. Well, if you're one of His children, yes it does. And if you're not actually spiritually protected, then that would be evidence that you're maybe not his child. So something to think about. Now, I remember at one point being taught that the Antichrist would come from the tribe of Dan, like would be descended from the tribe of Dan. Uh are there any Old Testament figures that were from Dan that stand out Dan kind of disappears a little bit from scripture a little bit. There's you know there's talk about the lost child of Dan. Um There's a lot of people that talk about like there's a there's a a circumtain aspect to doing again of the connected the antichrist connection and that they have weaved their way geographically through parts of history. There are some people that believe that the uh The crown of England is actually rooted in uh in Crown of Dan somehow. So If you believe that the crown of of England represents Antichrist, you could try to make that connection, but well I think you start to get into some really dangerous Waters and you have to do a lot of interpolating. I'm not fully done studying that Yeah, because I thought the bad kings of Israel were like from Reuben or Manasseh or something like that. Like I didn't think they were from Dan or Ephraim. With the rarest of exception, all the kings are bad Right? With the rarest of exception. Yeah, they maybe had like one that was like not that bad. But even in Judah, you know, even even most of those are really bad. So I I don't think we I don't know. I mean there could be it could be an interesting study to make a connection of the names and the worst kings and which tribes they came from and all that sort of stuff. That could be instructive. I haven't taken the time to I feel like I remember reading that, but I don't I I I I thought that some of them were from Reuben, but I don't know who I will say if you like I said, if you mentioned in the if you look at the the some of the Jewish tradition and some of the Midrash and things like that I think you're gonna find some some connection and association of Dan with Antichrist within the tradition. So maybe you read something that was talking about the tradition more than talking No, I was taught by someone that believes in a certain uh apocalypse school of thought that the Antichrist would be would have to come out of a tribe of Dan, yeah. Well how would we know that? People have so intermarried and crossed. At this point can you really trace the bloodline down? I mean we don't know. We I mean we c uh I I think of myself and I was in the s in the message was was articulating things in such a way that you know we are Gentiles. But who's to say? All or some of us might actually have Jacob's blood in our line somewhere. Right, we don't know. How could we know? Well, I mean maybe I don't think I can trust those uh spit tests that you send away for and find out. Can they take you back to Jacob I doubt? I don't know if they would go far enough back accurately enough. I'm sure they could give you information for a couple generations. Oh I'm not doing that. Who's getting my DNA into a database like that though? Exactly. Yep. Well Angela's being quiet tonight. I mean it's because you're way over there or you're just thinking or I just have a different approach to the book of Revelation and I I've already expressed it, so I just I don't know. That's what he can. You're welcome. Yeah, I just have a different approach. I just yeah. I've already expressed it Okay. In terms of the Antichrist you mean? Well yeah, um uh Well I mean yeah, I yeah, what what was said back then too, but I just you know, th the way you approach it really uh determines how It really affects how you see the whole thing, you know. It really they it profoundly affects it. Yeah. And it's done in four different ways to approach it. Yeah. I just I I yeah. I have I th th there's good arguments for for both sides and um I I do think it's literal. You know, I think I think a symbols symbolizes a literal thing. I think you know, like the golden arches symbolize hamburgers. You go to the golden arches, the symbol you're gonna get a real hamburger You know, I think the symbols symbolize a a literal thing. Sure. Oh and I'm I agree with that. I don't want to give the impression that I'm not saying that it's that it's not real. Yeah You know. It represents truly, really the people of God. Yeah. So I mean I I can I can I can share what I think if you really want No, otherwise I'll just let it go. Yeah, well I don't want to force it if you're not, but I'm I'm serious. Is it quite that way? No, that's one of the reasons we have the discussion is that people have a different thought. Is it helpful to hear a different perspective or is it agitated? It's not agitating, it just it just explains why they have a different perspective. But yeah. So, you know, the um If you if you take if you take if if it predicated on the premise that the church is raptured prior to Um the the the the the seal and the vile judgment and all that. If that's your premise. then that takes you down a road where what you have left are the apostate church, which is most of the church, as the Revelation chapter 3 reveals most of the church to be, they're messed up. It's only two churches that are true to the Lord, you know, out of the seven. Um so that leaves you with the that would leave you with the apostate church. and unbelievers basically left on the earth. So all this time that we're having these discussions now about the rapture Most people don't believe it. Uh don't believe that there's going to be a rapture. I'm not talking about the people who believe that it'll happen at a different time. I'm talking about most people who don't believe it, period. So um both there will be many people who after i i if if if it happens the way that I think it's gonna happen, then many people who didn't believe it will go, oh no, that's what happened. And a lot of those people just might be Jewish. And you know the the the the Jewish people, you know, the Lord Lord has struggled with the Jewish people for a while, you know, with the Messiah and that sort of thing. But it was always the Jewish people that were supposed to spread the gospel. They initially did it, right? With Paul, with the they were God's God's um Chosen people, you know, his his his sheep. So if if you believe that premise if you believe that, uh the way I'm saying it out, then the one hundred forty four thousand would be uh Jewish believers who actually do go and and evangelize. They just go to the four corners and the final um fulfillment of the Lord Lord's command to go to the four corners of the earth and evangelize the earth would be fulfilled by the 144,000 Jews that are believers. will come to Christ. It will take uh you know in in Paul in Paul's letter, one of his letters he says there's a partial hardening to the Jews until the fluence of the Gentiles comes in Um I I believe that the hardening of the Jews will be softened. Just imagine how softened the sudden disappearance of all these millions of people would be to people who didn't believe who people you know the people who who were blowing that off is nonsense. I mean that would be such that would be an a shock unlike anything any human being has ever experienced. People really did just were sitting here and then peoples. Three of us just disappear and we're all leaving. You know what I'm saying? That would freak people out. And so I think it's going to you know, there's such a hardness there that for some people it's going to take something that extrem Facebook fears like, oh, yeah. Yeah. Some of the things that you've you know read or heard of different teachings and that sort of thing, how have you heard uh The uh how have those people um helped to articulate an understanding of the ordering of the twelve names of the tries. I haven't I haven't really stepped into that as as a topic. Um But I I I I do think you're I I've heard a little bit here and there. I did Dan um I did hear something about the Jews saying Dan was the fulfillment of a prophecy that I think it was um Moses gave about something about being in a serpent or something. There's something negative. In in the book of Genesis, you know what I'm talking about, Troy? Um uh when uh it no it was Abraham it was made it was Abraham made. Maybe. It was either Abraham or Moses. I'm sorry, forgive me, but they say Dan, yeah, biting at the serpent the serpent he bites at the foods or something. Yeah, there's definitely the serpentine connection with Dan is why people think that they've kind of weaved weaved their way through history up into Europe would be a lot of the arguments that So so the the the the explanation you gave about Dan not being present in this that that resonated with me like yeah there still was something Dan shall judge his people as one of the tribes of Israel. Dan shall be a serpent in the way, a horned snake in the path that bites the horse's heel, so that the rider falls backwards. For your salvation, I wait, O Lord. Yeah, so things like that why you know Dan gets associated with Antichrist. Right. Which is why I think symbolically Dan has left off the off the list. Also, when you when you give them your explanation about the the the missing tribes, you know, uh it just um the scripture that came to me was who will be last will be first, who will be first will be last with that as the Lord said. So there's you know, um I I believe there's all kinds of applications for that, but but this could be just an another example Absolutely and actually connects with one of the points I didn't say. But that's one of the points about the outsiders coming in. They were the the Gentiles, the pagan nation surrounding Israel would have been the last. Right. But then they're brought in, which is again I think uh anybody, you know, who has spent time reading the Old Testament and and comes gets used to the pattern of the way the names are shared. When you read the the name shared in Revelation, it's like, wait a minute, this doesn't fit any pattern I'm used to seeing. And then you like you check yourself like Are the names given in this order anywhere else? So it's like, okay, John, he would have known the ordering of the names as well as anybody, and yet he purposely puts them in a different order, so he's got to have a reason Yeah. And so that's just like okay, and that reason I think helps to unlock what the primary thrust of the passage is. And I don't know how it necessarily hinges on uh somebody's view of there being a you know a uh pre-trib or mid-trib or post-trib rapture or not. I agree. I don't think he hinges on that. I don't think anybody that I'm familiar with, uh that's not one of the cults I've alluded to, would make the argument that even post rapture, for those that would hold to a uh a a rapture view That it would be precisely 144,000 people. Or are you or are you have there's that there are people that are expecting there to be precisely 144,000 people thousand conversions and not not more not less. Well no no no no not at one hundred and forty four thousand conversions one hundred and forty four thousand evangelists Hmm. But if a one but if it was post rapture, wouldn't they also need to be conversions then? No, what I'm saying is what I what what I think what I think is going to happen is there will be a raptured church and that would freak out a lot of people. It'll probably be uh a a major tool God would be able to use to reach 144 thousand Jews who will become believers who whom God will use to evangelize. But you're saying there will be more conversions. Right. With one hundred and forty four. Yes. Yes. They will conv they will evangelize that's why you have all these people Under the throne, you know, that's been martyred that's saying when you're gonna have brought things those one hundred and forty-four thousand Jewish evangelists would have helped to bring that harvest in. The rest of the rest. Right. We all know that in our personal lives, it's it unless we were raised in the church, some kind of tribulation brought us to the Lord. Right. And this is gonna be the final tribulation for uh right. For the for the whole world that as a whole has rejected the Messiah. But um this this event will be so uh so massive and so um um interesting and so shocking that um God will be able to use it to bring in like the final the final harvest uh before messiah comes back and sets up his thousand-year reign So I think it's it's interesting. I mean I I I I think that even the way that you know I was talking about it earlier and the way I I think about it, um I mean all followers of Christ should evangelize and in that sense we're all evangelists. Right. I mean some people have more gifting and that sort of thing, right? But um but the text itself in Revelation when it's talking about the one hundred forty-four thousand, it doesn't use the word evangelism. Evangelists. So evangelists is part of what's incorporated in the body of Christ, but the words there are the bondservant, the slaves of Christ, the the possession of Christ, those who belong to or owned by Christ, that are his servants. Which would include evangelism, but it wouldn't merely be a hundred and forty-four thousand evangelists. I feel like that's too narrow of an understanding These are peop these are slaves of Christ. I understand what you're saying, but um I think the point of this text is to just highlight the fact that there will be 144,000 Jewish evangelists. I'm I'm not precluding other people being evangelists, but you know, again, Israel being God's firstborn They should have been from the from the get-go, but from the get-go, they they were the first believers. I want to say that. But Even now, who are what who is mostly evangelizing? It's Gentiles. Well God God's initial plan was for that to be Jews, but by and large, by far it's Gentiles. I'm saying is here, what this seems to picture is a large number of Jews who will go out and evang they will in other words they will find a concern though is it's such a narrow application of bondservant. But but no I'm but I'm not saying the text doesn't say evangelist, so that makes me nervous to choose just that out It's it's synonymous, isn't it? No, they're not. I mean a boss service a boss I mean you could you can use a believer instead of Bond service, you could use I mean, I'm just saying they have the seal of God on their heads to do what? To go out into a man And so I I just think that this is just God is just saying in the end, in the very end of end of day, there's going to be a lot of Jewish people who will finally do what you know Paul and my disciples are trying to get most Jews to do. I think that's all this is really saying. And it's not precluding it's not precluding other people from doing it I'm just saying I just think this is picturing them. It's it's focusing on this. Yeah, and I and I guess for what is for something that you want to think about, you know, we can come converse about this later or or whatever. But again to hear all these different things. Because of the way the names are listed. is misguided. Here's how we should understand that. But absent that, it seems like the text is telling us, look, these are out of order for a reason. They're pointing to those who are outsiders who shouldn't be first. They were the last, but in a broader biblical context, who are the outsiders, the last who are made from first it would be the Gentiles and that's why I think the text itself is telling us this isn't this is including Jews, but it's not merely Jews because John has it seems to me has gone out of his way to illustrate that it's n otherwise it seems he He could have just listed he could have maybe moved Judah first because of Christ and then had the had the rest be in birth order or had the rest be in the order we're used to seeing And he doesn't do that and it like it begs the questions, the questions almost insist for an answer. And I feel like the you know, I I'm pretty I, as you can tell, I preached it. I'm persuaded that's telling us, look, this isn't talking about just the Jews, particularly in light of other passages in the Bible. that this is a oneness of God. And I feel I feel like it's pretty persuasive. But if somebody has a different way of understanding the ordering, that could be an important, you know, mind changer uh uh for me but I'm just not Yeah I I haven't I haven't studied the ordering or the you know the the tribes. I I I will admit I have not studied that But uh w yeah, with my present understanding, I I don't see one as I don't see what we're saying as being mutually exclusive Mm-hmm. Right. No, there's yeah, there's a tremendous overlap. Right. I I just see the hundred and forty four I can see the Bible calling out um twelve thousand Jewish people from from from this kind of new set of tribe tribe groups is saying they will be key key evangelists going out to They have to bring in the final, final harvest. And other people will probably be helping them. I mean that makes sense, but they will be prominent, it appears to me. Yeah, and I I'm not going to I don't mean to suggest that the text wouldn't allow at some level for that understanding, but I don't think the text requires or demands that of us and and I'm not really fully persuaded it even lends us to have to go in that direction. But s certainly Yeah, well we could say, well, is it possible? Well almost almost ancient possible, right? So And I'm not meaning to dismiss it as simply as that, but but i is it possible? Yeah, I guess it's possible. But I don't know that that's I don't know that it's easy to try to make the case that that's what this uh passage is trying to tell us. That you know I I that's that's I mean just try you know to help give some insight of why I have approached the text the way that I did and the way I appreciate it. I try and what I wrestle with is you know 'cause there's obviously more than even these two different um thoughts of what revelations is getting to, meaning whatever And the other camps, for lack of a better word, are also filled with the Holy Spirit. So for me it's fascinating because I'm here going, I think God's like, yeah, my ways are higher than yours. You got you all keep It doesn't matter as long as I'm the center of it and I'm gonna get glory. And I don't know, I just think it's fascinating. I think because I don't feel like I have to rest in any one thing Right. In order to be saved. No. And I'm not saying an either one of you are saying that. But it's not like your belief in your salvation. No, it's not a question at all. Yeah. It's not central to being saved. It's not essential to being saved understanding. Right. But and and even I guess for me, I don't even feel like I have to figure it out to be separate settled like in just how I live my life. Right. And so that and I'm not saying either one of you are, but I have encountered people who are very Very you know, it it almost becomes so they make it central to a lot of things. And I'm like, why are you wrestling? You you don't need to wrestle that hard. Yeah. What I what I think this is actually very inten very healthy, I think, for anyone watching to see that There can be more than one school of thought and unity in Christ. Yes. Unity does not mean uniformity. Yeah. No two people make exactly the like exactly the same one every every point in life. Not even creepy. Not even husbands and wife. Right. So it's not a it's not it's not a family question. No, it's really not it's it's a it's just a You know. Now obviously somebody is inaccurate and we will know one day who you know, that's part of what if we're all inaccurate. We know we know in part. Right. And then we will know in full. And then we will know absolutely. And so we will all get to the point where we will be taught And then you get writing right now. You got it right. But yeah, right yeah, right now, I mean the only thing what matters now is believing in Jesus Jesus Christ, the virgin born, sinless son of God, who lived a sinless life, who died a sacrificial death, who rose on the third day. Who's the way, the truth, and the life, the door, the only door, and trusting in what he did and not in yourself and trusting in his goodness and not of your own and and and believing that he is your substitutionary righteousness because you have none of your own And just trusting in that with everything you've got and and and holding fast to that faith and saying, Jesus, you are you the only you know I you're my you're you're the perfection that I need before the Father. Mm-hmm. And you're the reason why I'm gonna make it in. As long as you believe that, you know, these other ancillary questions which are imp Important. I don't want to say that they're unimportant, but they're not crucial to being saved. Right. Of God. So yeah, there can be different differences of opinion. Well we'll see one I mean the the the the the pre-rapture the po we'll somebody's right. We'll find out. One day we'll find out. The one hundred forty four thousand somebody's right one day we'll find out. Right. Yeah But uh Yeah, and just to to to add a point of clarity on all that, um, so nobody who's listening in on this might possibly misunderstand. What Angela just articulated is all true, but it's not merely about intellectual assent. It's not just, oh, I know that fact to be true. I mean, uh that's true of the devil himself. He knows the facts. So it's not just about believing in Christ and believing that these things But it's believing him. It's taking him at his word. And so as we begin that as we begin to draw a close, one of the things that we i that is involved in taking that his word is we are in battle. We are soldiers in the war. We are to put on the full armor of God and we are to engage in battle. And to do so with joy-filled hearts, with hope for a glorious future, and fight the good fight, uh and do it with you know, firmness and conviction while at the same time finding ways to be biblically gentle and self-controlled and kind and uh uh imbued with the love, but announcing the the the judgment of God and all those sorts of things, knowing that if you're truly His, if you're taking him at his word, trusting, trusting the word at his word, that you are spiritually protected. So that should give you a confidence and a That you can engage in the fight fearlessly. But it's not enough to just say, Oh yeah, I believe in Jesus, He's my Lord and Savior, and He's my security blanket, and I just I love spending time on the Lord, but you're never actually in the fight Yeah. You're not taking that as word because he's telling you, Hey, my word tells you, get in a fight. Because we are in a fight, and I don't know that we could feel that quite as easily. No, we're we're under judgment. We can feel the reality of that now. More so. And boy, as I say that, I'm concerned. How might we feel it even more so in another year? Right. So must engage. Be engaged, please. All right. Well unless anybody else wants to add, it's uh been about an hour and a half, so we'll uh we draw our I just want to say I actually appreciate the perspective. as I formulate my own and it I kind of vacillate between all of them sometimes and so it's for me it's very helpful. It's very helpful. It's very helpful to hear the different perspectives And to know that I can, you know, one day think one thing, another day think the other thing, and still have eternity with Christ. And so that's where I'm like, phew. Glad I don't have to get it right. Right. At least not that part. We've had to get every get everything right. We all discreet. None of us would get there. Yeah. Well then it would be works, right? It would be works based. It would be on our own understanding. Works and intellectual. Yeah. So anyway, so thank you for sharing everything everybody well we had predetermined that uh Annie was going to wrap us up with prayer so we'll do that now. Dear Lord, we thank you for this time that we were given to get together and worship you and get into your word and Learn from each other. We pray that we will all be given your guidance and shown how we are meant to be engaged in this fight um for your kingdom and we pray that each and every one of us will do it to the best of our abilities wholeheartedly, all in for Christ. In Christ's name we pray. Amen Amen. Amen. Amen. Well, thank you for joining us if you're still with us. Just remember as we as we wrestle with these things, I I mentioned it with emphasis during the message. The authority for what our conviction needs to rest on is the Word of God. That is the authority as you're seeking answers how to understand these sorts of things. Make sure You're arguing from the word, about the word, understanding the word, living the word. Um it's all Make your case from the Word, and you'll be much, much closer to exactly how you should be understanding it if you do that. Till next week. God bless.