Broadcasting from the West side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. And people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. Gosh darn it. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Footman Plumbing and Heating. Hopefully make you smile. And BMC Insurance, our newest sponsor to the show. FaithDebate is online at wfmd. com keywordfaith. There you'll find links to podcasts and news items. The Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so please email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com I'll post what you send me after removing all the curse words. Uh forty five blog updates every single week, Monday through Friday, nine postings a day. I encourage you to pop in and see what people are saying, and if you don't want to email me, you can at least read with other people or emailing me. Uh but right now on the Faith Debate today we have Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, looking good today by the way. Feisty, I can tell we're going to be in for a good one today. And Dr. Fahim Yunus, he always looks good Thank you, Veromet. Felt, huh? He had the he had women swooning at his feet and he had the pick of the litter and I'm and his his wife I'm sure is lovely. Keep going, keep going, you're doing very good. Thank you. This this sounds like a uh like an onion spoof again, so let's just hope it's uh this doesn't go the wrong way here And I'm a creature of habit and it's gonna bug me if I don't get in at the end of the show and I got a feeling I won't have a chance to get it in at the end of the show. So I'm gonna mention now some things I've been reading. Some a series of essays by Samuel H. Larson, uh Global Kingdom Vision And the Westminster Confession of Faith is one thing that he wrote. Also uh Christa Christocentric uh understanding of linguistic diversity, implications for missions in a plurastic uh pluralistic era. Huh? Who's that written by? Both written by Samuel H. Larson. I wrote uh I read a book recently, Alice Dare McIntyre, okay uh about the uh question of whether or not uh whether or not language changes uh how we rationalize things and it is a fabulous, fabulous book. It's found actually that essay was found in a book by uh Michael uh Pocock and my uh editors of uh Michael Pocock and uh Mike uh Darnett. Nice. Anyway I throw that out there every once in a while just to make people think I'm really smart. I read it, doesn't mean I understand a single word of it. Alright, this is the faith debate and read as much as my dad ever did, and that is impressive. I'm just saying Yeah, yeah. Not many do that. Yeah, well your dad and I were screwed up. That's it. My inheritance is wrapped up in his library. I know. You buy a really good bound quality book for forty five dollars, try to resell it, you get a buck. But you can't start a Bible college without a big Bible, uh without a big library. And so uh that's So last week we had the same panel gathered and uh we agreed that Rick Santorm doesn't always say things as cleanly as he probably should, and that the Attorney General of the United States is not Now he he may or may not have been, but I want to say it occurs to me that He's guilty of speaking in broad, generalized brush strokes. Shame on him. But aren't you guilty of that too when you say that all Islamophobes are Republicans? No, not at all. There aren't any Democratic Islamophobes out there? I make that if you read my article I Clearly say that in the article saying nearly. In the in the article I say yeah, of course, because I quote numbers. I don't hide that fact. I say that there are democrats as well. And in fact in the article once again I say I like Republican core values. I just watched the movie Lincoln. I cannot imagine what happened to the party. And believe me, I'm not the only one saying that. You have a different slant to it. New York Times has a different slant to it. But When I look at small government, when I look at conservative values, when I look at gay issues, when I look at marriage issues, believe me, we align more with the Republican Party as practicing Muslims But when I hear things like that coming from the leaders of the Republican Party, then I'm lost. It's interesting by the quicker side of the Lincoln movie, it's funny to me that Because that's the beginning of the end of small government. So it's ironic that what happened to the party, that's what happened to the party. I say the same generality that you say You say Republicans are uh Islamophobes and most Democrats are not, but a few are, and I say the same thing. Most Muslims follow a radical ideology that is violent and there's a few that don't. But that has been debunked. Once again if you look at that article since nine eleven. Every single nation from the Arab Spring went radical Muslims. Every single one of them. We are going Everybody told me again and again, John Schweitzer, that you cannot automatically assume that those countries gonna go that way. You gotta believe that the moderates are gonna rise up. We've got to give them a chance. And I said the same thing to every one of them But in fairness, the moderates aren't ever been ought to be militant. went radical and the reason for that well I mean my reason for thinking that they were gonna go that way is because historically That's always been the case. We are gonna I I'm not gonna go into that conversation. That's a very different angle and we've talked about it before. I think the question really is What kind of You're right, you can't win that conversation, I agree. Oh I cannot win any conversation. I can't win a conversation with my children. You know, I'm I'm a I'm a peacemaker. I'm not here to win anything. But the point, Ray, is We need to use language. If we are interested in building bridges, if we are interested, I don't know what the intentions are anymore now in this media driven Twitter fed word. You know, it's very hard to really glean what the truth is, but if we're interested in making peace, we gotta use the same kind of language. That works in our own household. Okay. If you do in your own household that they don't work, if you call your teenager a certain way, that teenager's gonna walk out on you. All I'm saying is let's not call out nations and religions and the founders of religion in a way that you wouldn't call out your own children. I think family is a very good example. I I'm a pastor and I've worked with many couples, many of whom have struggled to get along with one another. And where one or the other husband has a habit, has a established reputation with their spouse of being mean and unkind, there is no language that I can use that can whitewash and somehow make that spouse look more attractive or get along better with their other spouse. Something has to change from the inside out and until that happens Honestly, I tell people all the time I have no hope for this situation unless there is a change at the heart level with both of you guys. I agree with that. And that's Precisely my point. I can sit there and if I tell them, guys, you've got a great relationship. You know what I've done? I have disserved them and I have I have made them think everything's okay when it's not, and then they get down a road and they break up and they come back to me and they say, you know what, Pastor? You were a horrible pastor because you wouldn't tell us the truth. about what we needed to hear. And all I'm saying is that there is a truth that the majority of the Islamic world needs to hear that as of yet They refuse to hear. Your argument would sound much more intelligent if you said the leader Oh, that hurt Yeah, in the in the lead because that would show that would show me that you have a nuanced understanding of the Muslim world. If the leaders of the Muslim world were to follow what their faith actually is, they are the ones to be blamed. Yes, I would agree with you hundred percent, but when you say Ahmadinejad, I'm hundred percent with you. But the moment you go and talk about hundred million people in Iran and Brush all of them together. I don't think any sane person will be with you. That's where you're so we have had extensive arguments here in the West about why Hitler was allowed to rise into leadership. And again and again the argument has come back that the small guy that did not stand up against Hitler was responsible to not go along just to get along. And I'm saying that until we see courage and backbone in the Muslim world, and I and I do see a lot of it in a lot of places, I'm telling you, I do. But but to this point we have not seen enough courage and backbone among the moderates that they've been able to establish a m an Islamic State that is successful and longstanding. We thought Turkey was gonna go that way and they didn't. But here's the here's the rub. Now the issue once again is and you're not gonna like this. But let's start. Where should we start? In Northern Africa Look at the past 50 years and look at who has planted these dictators in the Muslim world. Muammar Qaddafi, Libya, America backed. Husni Mubarak in Egypt, we backed him. We were giving him eight billion dollars every year to keep those eighty million Egyptian under his thumb. So we should not have to deal with eighty million people. We make one eight hundred call to Egypt and our job is done. Xiaol Huck in Pakistan. Let me finish. Let me finish. I mean no no no no. Let us think that was your argument. Let me finish my point and then we'll see the argument. Okay You go to uh Bashar al-Assad in Syria American po we we propped up these leaders. You go to Jordan Abdullah, we propped up that leader. You go to Saddam Hussein, we propped him up You go to the Shah, you go to Isaiahul Haq in Pakistan, you go to Taliban. Now that's our history for the past fifty years. We've squashed democracies in these countries. We've paid to squash those democracies. We've paid to prop up these leaders. And honestly somebody said it very rightly on the on the TV the other day. It was painful, but I thought it was true. that we have preferred hypocrisy over democracy. And now after fifty years we say, whoa, where is that democratic Muslim country? Well, go read the history. And what I'm saying Is that but you see my point? Yeah, and I'm disagreeing with it. Okay, what I hear you saying is that the the West is responsible for propping these guys up. And I'm in agreement with you. But I'm saying that the West did it because because the history of the Islamic world is that when they have the chance to go their own way, they go Sharia Law. And when they go study a law that Christians and all the other religions in those countries are persecuted violently I I don't know how you can say that honestly. So that means we have a democracy with both happened. No, so that means our values have a border that the moment we cross from our borders our values, our core values that we stand for, somehow freedom is not valuable the moment you're in Middle East, you know How do you sell that through the question that I've always had? That is very contradictory. This is the question that I've always had. What is it that is necessary for democracy? to truly work. When our fathers of violence. When our gr when our founding necessary every democracy is messy for a hundred or two hundred years. When our founding fathers established this this nation They told us when they set up the democracy, they said they said we have only started started something that can be maintained if America continues to be good people. Are you listening to this? Yes, I am. And what I'm saying is that the definition of what it takes to trust one another and and for all that to work, I'm saying that that I don't see, alright, I don't see in Orthodox Islam the necessary planks For democracy to work. Don't go there, I'm telling you this is where you will only know one-liners. You have no understanding of that nuanced history. This is not a one-liner. This is me talking to you. I'm saying there are many places around the world where people have not been able to get Democracy. My friend John is gonna teach me what Quran has to say about democracy. Teach me. I'm gonna tell you that that that the Quran presents to us a seventh century A D worldview that has not shifted that that if you're gonna be Muslim you have to study In Arabic, you have to study the Quran and you live the same way that they lived in the seventh century. And that worldview is incapable until now of of working in any kind of a of a legitimate way with liberal democracy. My friend you've used five hundred words to say nothing. Give me one specific example from Quran. We be b we believe in every word of Quran. You put one verse out there, I'm gone. If you put one verse out there. Uh husbands beat your wives if they if they don't do what you want them to do. It has nothing to do with the So tell me what it says. No no come back to democracy. If it doesn't? It does not say that. You then you don't know your Quran. I've read it in the Quran. I know the verse you're talking about. Where is it? My prophet has never hit his wife. That is how we practice Quran. Okay, but what does the verse say? Quote the verse to me. The verse says that there are th anyway, w I'll come to the verse. I'm not gonna d dispute that. But I I'm gonna I'm not gonna let you also hold it. No no no no uh At the root of democracy is human rights for everybody. It's equal rights. Okay. And if I'm allowed to beat my wife, then she does not Quran does not say that. Right. Then quote the verse for me. It's funny to me because you tell me that words are cruel and unkind. Yes. And you are a lot quicker than many people to use those words. Nobody on this show comes in and says everything that you just said is totally wrong. And yet you just went that direction and you're claiming that you're a man of peace. If that's and that you want to use words In a peace loving way. In a way that engenders kindness. Then I will apologize. And you just violated that principle. Then I will apologize. Good. I accept that that's the case. But the verse says what? The worst first of all, do you accept my apology? Yes I do. Okay. We'll see if you're able to continue along with it. You've done it three or four times already though, for the record. So then let me know. If anything is offensive, I'm not here to offend you. Alright. I'm I don't like that. But I I have to be passionate when I feel strongly about something I have to be passionate. I have to speak the truth. Because otherwise I'm lying to you. So the verse says that you do three things in this is about marital harmony and it says that you separate yourself, you don't sleep in the same rooms. And then third word, the word is daraba in Arabic. The word had eighteen meanings. And one of the most prevalent meanings is you distance yourself. Some people say it means hit But let me tell you, if you are schools of Islam teach that it means that you're allowed to hear me explain what the word means. separate yourself. That's what the Prophet So then understanding of that. There are many people who agree. How many of those schools agree with you? Many of them Many of them. Some will h have no clarity. I'm not defending them. Many and you use these generics. That's dishonesty. Well in the meantime, until we don't know the numbers, we gotta go with whatever perspective we see. By the way, and so let me say this. All of those people who, if they ascribe to this, to me once again that's shameful. I hear it. To me, they don't understand Islam. I fully reject that. Okay, so let me give you another verse. Uh O tree, if you're hiding a Jew behind you or a person of the book, tell me so that I can go kill him. It's not in the Quran. It's not in the Quran. I've read it. Tell me what it says. What verse am I referring to? There is no such verse in the Quran like this. You will check this later on and you will believe me. I will not know myself. I've studied it. I've studied it extensively. It says it in three or four different places. O tree, O rock, if there is a Jew or a Christian hiding behind you, tell me so that I can come and slay him. You can repeat it ten times, my friend. This is not in the Quran. Well then the version that I have that was given to me by the guys down uh by the um Muslims down at the University of Maryland that I have sitting on my shelf. It has it. Quran does not have any version. There is one Quran you could buy it in Finland or Australia or US. I will maintain there is no such I'm on the record. You can call me out on this later on. There is no such verse in the Quran. And as I said, I don't know how many people are listening to. There is no such verse in the Quran that says it. Yeah, I guarantee you that All right, well I'm gonna jump in here and reset. Jonathan Sweitzer is uh is gonna look that verse up and try to see if he can find it, I'm sure. I doubt he'll find it before the end of this show, but someday he'll see if he can find something close to it. He's the senior pastor of Cross Israelite Chapel. We're joined this week by Dr. Fahim Yunus, and we're getting we we lost our golden handshake there for a minute, but we'll get it back. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith Debate. on Freddy's News Radio 930 WFMD. One of the things I think is that we have to keep in mind, because you know Jonathan started to go political, Western democracy and that sort of thing. And I that's a critical point to be made that should be, it's not always, but should be different about how a Christian looks at the role of government. A Christian doesn't look at the church and the government as being one and the same. But that is different for Islam, right? Some Muslims look like uh they they do have an idea of theocracy and that scares me. But that's kind of where the whole the Sharia law becomes important because it's not just a religious guideline for life. It's it's a it's a it's it it's a total rule for life, correct? So that's what makes people who I'll I'll use the label to make to make whoever's listening happy, you know, the Islamophobes get nervous, like wait a minute, you want to bring Sharia law over here And if the Muslims if those radical Muslims ever get control, that's what my world will look like. And we get nervous about that. And I fully do too, right? I fully agree with you. I will say to you, to John, to the listeners Please tell me what we need to do to prevent that from happening. And I will do that. We need to convert the radicals to not being radicals. Right That's what we need to do. And and you know, again, but be more specific. That's what I'm trying to do. That's why I'm writing against it. That's why I'm you know uh to same use the same cliche. I'm trying to be the Paul Rivera here. Hey you Islamophobe. I think we'd better say, Hey, you realize that when you say something like that you come across as an alo islamophobe and very ill informed about what Islam is and and the variety of Muslim beliefs that are out there? And let me take some time to get you up to speed on the That would be better than this sounds mean spirited, but just on the the title of the article, it comes across as a name calling, a stab, right? Exactly. And then people tune you out like, oh he's he's just I'm a Republican. He's calling me names. I'm not gonna read anything else he has to say. That's what's gonna happen. And see this is this is the beauty now. Now we're getting to the heart of the matter. You have to see that first of all it's coming from someone who's heard for ten years and still continues to hear. that not all Muslims are terrorists, but all terrorists are Muslims. Realize the context here. That's what I've heard since I walked into a room after nine eleven. to a patient who was dying of an infection. He looked at me and he said, I don't want to be treated by a terrorist. And that's it. And then you should have said, well good, because I don't want you to be treated by terrorists either. Let's get to work here. That's exactly what I'm saying. Let's get you helped. My point is There is a very painful context to it. And that was I just flipped that same language and said and honestly I deep down agree neither that term is true nor this is true. I've written over sixty pieces. But whether it's right or wrong, it's it's it's human nature, it's a it's a protective defense mechanism thing that we have. I it's politically incorrect to say this all of us profile. You walk down a street and on one side of the street there's somebody wearing a hoodie and and baggy jeans with with uh with with a chain connected to his uh his wallet in his back pocket and he's got one of those You're like, I'm too hip for the room kinda walks going on, you're like, okay and got a bunch of tattoos and a shaved head and the other guy's wearing a three piece suit And carrying a briefcase, you're gonna walk on the side of the street with a three piece hit in the briefcase. Now that guy might have a machete inside of a or a machine gun or something inside. But you we all profile like this based on what Jonathan talked about last week, these general perceptions, these things we're bombarded with in our life. And so w the b when the majority of our experience, the majority of our images from the news media or from whatever, is that These Muslim guys are bad dudes. Yeah. What is it? Well tell tell our listeners what am I showing you? You're showing me a Time magazine with a horribly un unfortunately disfigured face of a what looks to have been a a lovely, beautiful Uh I'm a Sunni Muslim woman. Right. Can I see? Yeah, this is from August 20 and 10. So I brought it for a reason. You're absolutely right If I see that, that s sends chills down my spines. You know, August ninth, two thousand and ten. So your listeners can look it up online, just time's cover. It looks like somebody cut her nose off or something. So this is Scary to me. This is an Afghan girl whose parents cut her nose trying to punish her for some some ridiculous stuff. Her parents did that to her. She almost died of the bleeding that was going through her throat. It's a heart-wrenching story. So I brought this here not to hide it You know, this is my struggle here. When you look at it, I know your listeners cannot see it. But you can you imagine how to a liberal democracy. I mean, do you know how often they do that to Christians? Here in the United States? I'm sure they do it. They do that all the time. I mean, are those who are critical of their religious beliefs Christophobes? Well, that nobody's call nobody calls them that. And the reason why is because the phrase Islamophobe is applied to only certain group that the the phobe. You're a homophobe. Because right now, for whatever reason, people on that side of the aisle want to promote Homosexuality is something that's good. Or you are a what what's another thing that that they say you're a phob about? You're you're a ho you're a homophobe, you're a you're Islamophobe. You know, uh the point is is that is that they're trying to John Sweiserophobe. Yeah. Whatever it is. Uh by the way, I found it. It's you're right, it's not in the Quran, it's in the Hadith. But you knew that, didn't you? But you wouldn't tell me a few minutes ago. It's shameful that you wouldn't admit, not at all. Because the Hadith is considered holy We can talk about that. We can talk about that. And so it says the hour will not be established until you fight with the Jews. And the stone behind which a Jew will be hiding will say, O Muslim, there is a Jew hiding behind me, so kill him. It's exactly what I was saying And you would not admit that it was in the holy writings of the Hadith. No. I'm telling you, if you understand the principles of Islam Right, but that's an Ahmadinijad, I mean Ahmadinian uh perception. That's not The Shiites, the even Qur'an is the word of God recorded in real time. Yaya Hindi here in Frederick. Who is the the guy he agrees with me that the hadith is considered uh holy to top? Same thing with the guy that is the that that is the Islamic the leader of the Islamic society Frederick. He agrees that this that that the hadith is considered uh uh considered something that that is to be obeyed by Muslims. And and you're you of course disagree. I I thank God that you disagree. Can I can I explain? Yeah. So go to An But it's Ahmadian perspective. Not Ahmadi. You know again We I'm I'm very honored and proud if that's what you want to call it. I'm fine, I'll take all the credit, no problem. But the point is, Quran to all Muslims in the world. is the book that we believe is the word of God that was recorded, written in real time. The Prophet would say, I was revealed these verses. People would memorize those verses, they would write on leaves, on hides, it was wr written in real time. Hadith are the sayings attributed to the prophets, which were recorded a hundred years later So the principle that we use, any hadith that goes contrary to the Quran, we reject that Simple principle because Quran is supreme and is the word of God. Quran says there is no compulsion in religion. Quran allows you to marry Jews So how can a hadith say that you kill Jews when the Quran is saying you can marry Jews because they are people of the book? So I think and that's the reason. You know, our community we have uh a mosque in Israel. I have written about to preaching to other Muslims that you should accept the sovereignty of Israel that you should not threaten Jews, any Jews. No Jews should be threatened by any Muslim. I've written that, I've said it. So You know what we're being threatened by right now? The timekeeper Oh, wasn't it? Yeah. Jonathan Sweitzer, Fahim Yunus, I'm Froy Skinners, the Freddie Faith Debate. Thanks to our sponsors, Putmint Plumbing and Heating, How it could make you smile, and BMC Insurance. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.