Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the hearts of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate. Our sponsor is putting for Megan Meeting. How can we make you smile? Face Debate is online. WFMD dot com keyword face takes you right to our page. You can also see us on the WFMD Facebook page. Uh I'd say on average maybe every fourth day, something like that. But don't wait every four days. Sometimes it's two days in a row, sometimes it's a week and a half, but on average it's about Every fourth day. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer not here. He's busy uh recovering from uh overstuffing himself at the Thanksgiving table. Uh-huh. Uh happy belated Thanksgiving and welcome to the uh beginnings almost of Advent Season for those who subscribe to such things. And Somebody who doesn't yet subscribe to such things. Hillary Papuches, who is the guest on the show. She is a social media doctor, Hilary Dillary Doc. That's right. The mouse went up the cloud. Yeah, you can follow her. Uh I I I'm just gonna go go to our website. Go to the website, the social media the sm doctor dot com. SM Doctor, the S and M stand for the social media. You got it. All right. So the sm doctor. com, and that we can see how to follow her on Twitter and all those things that social media people do these days. That's correct. I understand how it's supposed to all work but I still don't do it. So Right, we just have to get you into a rhythm. Yeah. Well, you know, find time for that. Anyway, we were talking uh since last week's show about a couple of things we mentioned. Was it last week's show or two shows ago now about Um psychology and the environment. So we definitely want to make sure we make time for that. Yes. We talked about our understanding of the gospel. So we want to try to understand that. So let's try to do it in order of how we've talked about it as far as our listener is concerned. We talked about the environment. And you asked the question of well Christians they should really care about the environment. Yeah, that sounds like a big job. And so uh I would say yes. Now I I wanted to ask, are were you were you asking that question because your experience is it doesn't seem like Christians care about the Well no, and the in like the news media it just seems like sometimes the Christians are just like, Oh well, we're gonna go to this afterlife and it's gonna be great, so we don't really care about the environment. But you're saying that that is incorrect, that's a that's there is there is a strain of uh of thinking along those lines. uh in in Christian circles. Unfortunately they are not short sighted because aren't they going to have offspring or they are not really thinking about what's going on. See the pr the the problem is uh as I understand it anyway, right? Who might have said what the problem is? But it it seems to be or a problem, a significant problem here, is this idea that, you know, well the here and now doesn't really matter because there's going to be We're all gonna be up in the clouds with you know d uh looking like cherubs with wings on our backs. Right. Which is not biblical by the way. Oh so that's not that's not the future that awaits us. Or the idea that we'll all go to heaven but w we might look more like angels, not cherubs, or we might not even look like angels, but we'll go live with with God in heaven and our our goal is to go be with God in heaven. That's not biblical either. Okay. Um or others are, you know, God's going to destroy the earth. You know, his wrath and everything. He's going to destroy it. And so what do we care if it's destroyed in the meantime? He's going to destroy it anyway. And that's not exactly true either. Okay. The truth of the matter is the world as it is as it exists now will be quote unquote destroyed in the sense it will be transformed. Oh. And it will be all that it was meant to be to begin with. And so all the brokenness and the and the violent weather, for example, or whatever, all the things that are wrong with with the creation because sin has invaded it. will be taken care of forever. And so the world as we know it will be quote unquote destroyed, but only because it will be renewed. Well sometimes you have to destroy things to create something new. And heaven we do we do uh live, Christians believe, we do live with God in heaven forever, but heaven comes to earth. So we don't leave earth to go to heaven. Heaven comes to earth Oh and so and we are to care. Uh the book the first book of the Bible. if you're going to say the ecol the ecology and the environment doesn't matter. Because God creates everything and he said, you know, day one, day two, day three, day four, day five, and every step of the way it's good. And then day six creates man, and then he says it's very good. And then he charges man with being basically a good steward of this over what God has created. You are now to take care of this. Seems fair. And so that's our job. So if we're not going to take care of it. So we should be at the forefront of leading taking care of our environment. Unfortunately, too much too often we're not. And A lot of times what's happened in the American context anyway is it it starts to divide over political lines. And somehow, somewhere along the line, I'm not sure I understand exactly where this happened But those who are more left in their political views ended up grabbing on to the environment as an issue. And so the those who were lean more right In their political views, well we must disagree with those on the left because well they're on the left that we're on the right. So we're gonna have to disagree and but What i i the conservation movement conservation conservative If the conservatives can't stand for conservation, then they don't understand what it means to be conservative. So i it's it's a real problem with con the conservative movement and a lot of Bible-believing Christians because of the abortion issue and other questions would would would identify as Republican and be to the right. But that's even that's overplayed There are a lot of honest to goodness Christians, Bible believing Christians who vote Democrat because they believe in the social programs and taking care of the poor that the government does. Now, I disagree politically with that, but I can totally understand theologically why they would go there. So Uh Christians don't have to be revo that's another falsehood. Yeah, oh yeah. Oh Christians have to be re be Republican. No. No. If Jesus were around today, would he vote Republican? Uh I don't know. I don't know. Would he vote Democrat? Uh I don't know. I'm not sure. We can't really make that assessment because it's just so I mean, our world is so different than like when he was here. And then there's different views of what happens at the very end, and I don't want to get bogged down in with eschatology end times uh view. Yeah, oh my gosh, so I can even Yeah, so but there are diff but there are different views of what happens at the very end that w uh that if you believe in a particular view, you're gonna be more in the camp of well it this The here and now doesn't really matter. I mean I'm very much in the here and now. But what really is driving all of that, you as a philosophy major, you might appreciate that. It's more of a of uh more of Plato Mm-hmm. This idea that there you know there's the material world and the spiritual world and the world that we're living in now, this material world, is really nothing but shadows and there's this real world out there And so this shadow world doesn't really matter. Yeah. The material world doesn't matter. In fact you might say that there's something dirty and bad and wrong about the material world because it's not the ideal. The ideal world is this other world, this spiritual world And so when you buy when you buy into uh um what Plato was teaching, mm-hmm, you're not gonna care about the environment. No, you wouldn't and under that And so Christians that buy into the falsely, un unfortunately, buy into this idea, well the environment doesn't really matter, that's not they're not embracing Christian teaching. They're they're embracing the teachings of a philosopher from what, three thousand years ago. In Greece. So but it gets assigned to a certain segment of Christians. And so that's part of what I do on this show is say, No. That's not true. That's not Christian. Right. It's Ancient Greek philosophy is what it is. It's wrong. But not everything about ancient Greek philosophy is wrong. No. There's a lot of good that comes out of that too. Yes. Right? There is. You were a philosophy major in college, so you would agree with that. I do agree with that. I loved early um Greek philosophy. It was fascinating. I think some of those people are my you know long lost relatives because I'm Greek. So it's it's within me. It's within me. To just entertain all these different all these different philosophies and how Just they were living in the world at that time. And whether you're not we're here. We're we're all their descendants in the West. Exactly. I mean they have uh Plato and and Socrates, uh Aristotle, I mean Aristotelian logic drives what the mindset for the West has been ever since. Oh yeah. And it has had a huge influence. Has had a huge influence even on the church, the Christian church. And in some cases it's been a good thing and in some cases it's it's it's it's been a bad thing. But anyway, we won't get bogged down all that. So we were talking about the gospel and that's a word that gets thrown out all the time. You wanted to get my and we assume that everybody kind of knows what that means. Um I think Uh let me set this up. Oh, sure, sure. I don't know if it was a social media thing. I can't remember where where I saw this. It might have been a social media thing uh somewhat recently. Um Oh, I wish I could remember. I would love to cite it. But anyway, it was this asking people basically, hey, what's the gospel mean to you? And you want to know what the overwhelming answer was what the gospel meant? What? It's a genre of music. Interesting. Like it. Well when you asked me that question earlier, you were like, what do you think the gospel is or what it means or what? So don't say go uh genre of music because that's what I won't that's not what I was gonna say. That's not what I was gonna say at all. I was actually gonna say When I think of when I hear the word like gospel in that context, I think of like opening a book uh like a Bible And seeing like shiny golden letters like going, ha like that's what I think of when I think of the gospel. So there's something ethereal about it. Something otherworldly. Something just hyper spiritual. Something hyper spiritual, like super shiny, and just something really all encompassing and something inspiring. a working definition. You just have this idea. I have like a picture in my head. I don't really have, yeah, the words for it. I mean I think there's I d I don't even want to say 'cause I don't want to like sound like an idiot. No. Well I I think that you're probably in good company. I think most people probably wouldn't know how to well shame on somebody like me and John Sweiser who's not here today, so shame on you, John, if you were here. Yeah, we haven't done a better job of letting people know, first of all, that there is a gospel and that it means something. I mean gospel means the good news. So what is the good news? Oh w I I know that. So so okay, so what's the well Well I know I think I know Uh that's when Jesus came back, I guess, from uh he was resurrected, right? And everybody was happy about that? Is that is that correct? You're you're kind of in the Am I warm? Yeah, you're you're touching on some of the the the elements that are key to this is like my elements like you're just exposing how elementary I am in a lot of things. I think if I walk up to the average person and said, what's gospel? What's the gospel mean to you? A lot of people probably would say it's music. And they might mostly mean like black spiritual music. Yeah, of the last kind. But even contemporary Christian music they might count as gospel music. Right. And I guess it's fair because that's music that's proclaiming the good news. And so in that sense it's but that's not really a good thing. But I think you're talking about a more in like a Right. Or others might say, oh the gospel, well that's the first four books of the New Testament, you know, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the four gospels. Some people might say that. Uh but but that's not and that's not wrong. Just like saying that the genre is wrong, it's not wrong, but it's kind of missing what the real point is. Because what's the message of those first four books of the New Testament? Heck, what's the message of the entire Bible, I would argue? It the whole Bible is the message of the good news. And so the good news is what we were talking about a couple of weeks ago, nobody is good enough they can earn pr their way to perfection. Which is such a crazy thing to think about, you know, when you really break it down, you're just like, man, it doesn't really matter how hard I try. And God is so holy and perfect and powerful and magnificent and like his radiance of his glory is so bright and powerful and immense that anything that's imperfect can't survive in its presence. It'd be like you and I trying to go stand on the face of the sun. Wow. Yeah, we just burn up. We would burn we couldn't exist. And why can't we exist? Think about when the shuttle disaster happened when on re-entry a number of years back, not the challenger which B blew up on takeoff with um the the uh Yeah Discovery. The Discovery is that one it came in it blew up on entry. Why? 'Cause there's a crack in its in its tiles, right? Yeah. So the heat on re entry was able to get through those tiles So it's kind of like that. We're trying to approach God, but we're coming in on entry towards God and we burn up. Mm-hmm. But Jesus Christ provides the tiles. Wow. So we need those tiles. And the good news is God has done that for us. He's provided us a way that we can stand in his perfect holy presence and not be utterly destroyed. And but even more than that, not only not be utterly destroyed, but be utterly embraced. That's that is Unconditionally, right. That is pa yeah powerful, powerful good news. And the fact that people don't even know that that's what the gospel means, we have fallen so short as a church in proclaiming the gospel. It's it's it's sad. Isn't it sad? It is kind of sad I'm I'm saddened. I'm like not even Christian. I'm like really saddened. I'm really saddened. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Hilary Papuchis, who is the social media doctor. Um again, happy Thanksgiving belatedly. Um I I was fascinated with a couple of weeks ago we were talking about the some of the things you thought were I don't want to use pejorative language, uh but I'm trying to use something that's relatable. Things that were like hang-ups about you know Christianity for you, like I I wouldn't want to join that team because well that team does this or believes that. Yeah, I think that's a good idea. Are there any other big ones that we haven't touched on already or we touched on most of the big ones? I think we touched on most of the big ones. I think for me it's like it's just really hard for me to like s join any group. Like I think I'm just a really Um kind of just like I I just want to beat my own drum kind of person. Um You're familiar with the phrase though, uh even he who re who uh doesn't make it uh he who doesn't Make a choice is still uh he who doesn't choose is still made a choice. So yeah, I think I get what you're saying. Right, you've still chosen. I've still chosen. So if you haven't chosen him, you by default have chosen against him. So you're on a team. Oh my gosh, that just sounds so mean. So you're on a team. No, it's just it's just the reality. You're you're either on his team or you're not on his team, right? Yeah. And you would say right now you're not on his team. Right. I think I would say that. So you're part of that team that is not. So by default you've you're You've joined. The non team. Yeah. Which might be fine for you. I mean it might be fine for me. I I don't think it is, but you might decide I don't know. I don't know at what point um you get to in life where you like want to join the team. Like I know for a lot of people it's easy because they're like, Oh well when I was a kid like I my parents signed me up for this team. But like My parents didn't do that, so it's always kind of like self-driven. But I've never been able to like really make that whole thing. Now here's a distinctive from my this is I mentioned last week how I fall more in the reformed camp. Right, you're breaking that down. So here's where there would be a difference in a reformed uh way of saying something from a Arminian uh oh that's uh Yeah, no, that doesn't mean anything. But anyway, a non reform view, let's say okay. And I say that specifically in America, 'cause the American Church does not really represent the global church very well. Um most and these are big theological terms. You've probably heard about the idea of the rapture. Maybe you don't know the word, but the idea that people are gonna be disappear one day, right? That is an almost uniquely Christian thing. I mean uh uh American Christian thing. That is not That's on the global thing? That is not what most Christians around the world believe. Really? Do they believe in a rapture of some sort? Most no. Really? No. Huh. And I don't either. Where does that come from? Then why do we why in America do we believe that the first time we're going to be able to do that? It comes primarily from the influence of the Schofield Bible. Back in the eighteen hundreds, you know, with uh uh the rise of of what is modern science and the the definitions that are employed by modern day science and Darwin's theory of evolution, all those sorts of things started to push back on on things that were of the the uh uh uh supernatural, the enlighten you know, post enlightenment kind of stuff going on. And so people started saying, well the Bible's not really true, we shouldn't take it literally. Even the truths that that you know, we want to look at it metaphorically and come at some truth, but we don't even want to say that that truth is literally true. Everything's subject to interpretation and and whatever, and the Bible isn't really all that. And so the evangelical conservative Christians pushed back and said, No, the Bible is true. Right. And so there was uh a guy who put out a study bible back in the early nineteen hundreds If I get my dates exactly right, I think that's uh I think it's early nineteen hundreds, that was strongly advocating for the truth of the Bible and that there was a historical Adam and a historical Noah and a historical Abraham and all that sort of stuff. And so that's very attractive about it. But it was a study Bible. So I had study notes, you know, at the bottom of the page. And his view was what's called dispensational. D say it again? Dispensational. So he had a he had a dispensational theology. Okay. And so his dispensational theology what had advocated for this rapture idea. Well his conservative the Bible is true Bible became embraced by huge swaths of the American church landscape. And so tons of Christians in America star reading this Bible and reading the study notes and using it to guide their Bible studies. And so, well, the Bible says right here the rapture means this. And The study notes say it. So it's gotta be true. The scripture doesn't necessarily say it. And I th uh I would argue that the proof texts that they use for that don't necessarily say what Schofield wanted them to say. Now, I'll give a wide berth on that and say, you know what, we can agree to disagree and I'm not gonna fight over it, you know, on this show I might, but in real life I'm not gonna fight over it. Right. But I would say that I have some honest uh theological intellectual problems with that view. So anyway, that's a long way around that. We went on a on a tangent there. I apologize. That's okay. So what I wanted to say though was uh what what did I want to say? What were we talking about? Uh we were talking about the Rapture and then we're talking about uh teams against him Oh. And you're talking about joining the team. Right, right. So those who aren't reformed in America have a tendency to believe the sinner's prayer. You need to make decide for Christ. You need to make a decision. Yeah. You know, sometimes they'll even manipulate and put a lot of pressure on you to You need to make a decision. Yeah, I don't like that high pressure to say. Because if you don't make a decision today, you might die on your c on your way home in a terrible car accident. Right. And then what'll happen? Then you're stuck. And And the truth of the matter is there's some truth to that. Right, but it's maybe not presented, that's not really presenting it in the But the the flaw in that F from my view theologically is I understand that the choice really isn't so much yours as it's God's To accept you? So God has chosen you, Hilary. Yes, Troy. He has chosen you. Mm-hmm. You're one of I'm I'm Uh I'm I'm speaking hypothetically, right? No pressure here. No, you're fine. God has chosen you to be one of his children. to share in the blessings that come with the sacrifice that his uh his one and only begotten son, Jesus Christ, paid, the penalty for. Right? So he's given you he's he's he's calling you to himself. He's not asking you to choose him. He's already chosen you. And so rather than trying to fight and decide and choose, try to choose this team or choose that team, he's inviting you to surrender to a choice that's already been made. He's made a choice for you. And he's just asking you to stop kicking and screaming against that choice and just and stop swimming upstream and just rest and go with the flow. The flow that says You're beloved. You're wonderful. You're special. I want you to be with me forever. And if you decide to continue to try to make a choice rather than surrendering to his choice, then he's gonna be you know he's a gentleman. He's not gonna force you against your will. He says, I I've chosen you, but if you don't want to cho if you don't want to accept my choice Okay. Now, I would say that if it's true that God has chosen you, then the day will come when you will surrender Hmm. Because he's God. Right. His love is irresistible. Irresistible. You'd be li why would you not want to surrender to that? It's it's it's irresistible to surrender. So you might So you might currently, right now, be chosen and not have surrendered to that truth yet, but five minutes from now, a year from now, fifteen years from now, it's going to occur to you that you know what? I'm one of God's children. And it's true because of what Jesus did for me. And I don't have to try to make the right choice. I don't have to try to do the right thing. I don't have to try to follow the rules. I don't have to buy into all the church andity BS. I just have to rest in God's provision that He has a plan and that plan in that plan includes me. Right. That's the gospel. So I think that I can't know God's plan. His ways are not my ways. Right. And I can't know somebody's heart. But it strikes me that and I'm speaking you represent a whole Segment of people? Somebody that's as inquisitive as you are, that's kind of searching for understanding what the truth is, is open to wanting to know, hasn't so seared your heart that you're closed off to the idea Yeah, no, I'm never close up to anything. It gives me some confidence that, you know, you might indeed be chosen and you just haven't it hasn't dawned on you how true that is yet. Maybe. I mean sometimes I do feel like that, but I don't know. I just I get like um uh I get like nervous, you know what I mean? You're just like, I don't know, I don't know, I don't wanna I don't wanna say it or What would be the downside to saying, you know what, yeah, I'm gonna rest in that. I'm gonna just surrender Well I love that phrase, rest in that. Like rest in What was the thing that you said? Yeah, rest in the truth of that. Be still and know that I am God. Yeah, no, I'm never resting Troy. You know, me. Rest in his provision. That's the whole Oh I I get distracted by the Usually I Jonathan is talking when I have to uh take care of some of this technical stuff. And uh right now Jonathan's not filling that time for me. And I don't have any other skills. There we go. Well you probably do, but you're sitting over there and I'm sitting over here. Um rest. I mean I want I think I want to rest sometimes and be a pe I think I do have moments throughout my day where I do try to like mindfully rest. my my brain and my soul and you know I know when I just need to take a show pill and say, Okay, that's you did the best you could today and that we're gonna But see that's the point I you know, you might have noticed I open every show You know, with kind of the same k little catchphrases, right? Some of them I say just for fun and the fact, but one of them I truly believe and that is, you know, preaching in Frederick County is like pine pavement. I've heard that from s Plowing pavement. It's rough. This community is rough. Why are you saying that? Sure. Go ahead. Um and the reason it's tough is because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. And I would suggest to you that trying to find your inner peace and your and s and your center and do your yoga things and trying to find rest within yourself is Unsatisfying. And wh why do you think that's a good thing? You will always be re because you're resting in something that can't be fully trusted. You can't fully trust yourself. Oh my gosh. So you gotta rest on something you can trust. If you're gonna be sitting on a wobbly stool, you're always gonna be nervous that that leg's gonna give out and I'm gonna fall and hurt myself. Wow, what a great visual. But if you're resting on something that's solid And we've talked already about how you you admit you're not as solid as you would want to be. None of us are None of us are, yeah. So you're trying to put your rest in something that can't be counted on, so it's not really satisfying. And even if you can make a great point. And even if you can persuade yourself that it's true for a moment, so you can have these moments of isolated, ooh, I finally got it, but then it's ooh, where'd it go? It flitted away because it wasn't really real, it was an illusion. You know, you satisfy yourself on an ice cream Sunday, but ten minutes later you're going into shutter shock and you're not so satisfied anymore. You know, it it it's it's an illusion. So we're chasing these illusions rather than than the the the the heart of the matter. There's uh C. S. Lewis You know the name? You know the Narnia series and all that sort of stuff? Of course, yeah. Uh you know, greatly influential uh twentieth century theologian. Yeah, he's one of my faves. And he talks about people, you know, being satisfied playing with their mud pies Because they don't understand how wonderful it would be to have a holiday, which is English for vacation, at the sea. You know, God is saying you can have a an eternal vacation at the sea. You know, you know no no no no no I'm gonna find my center here in these mud pies The mud pies are unsatisfying. Yeah. But we keep putting our hopes in those mud pies. Why do you think people do that? Just because we're creatures of habit? Because we're sinners. I should have known how you were gonna say that. Anyway, thanks so much. Thank you for our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? What am I reading lately? Eyewitness the life of Christ told in one story by Frank Ball. Visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith, and on the WFMD Facebook page. Until next week, on behalf of my partner in crime, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, who wasn't on the show this week, but I gave him a plug anyway. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much. God bless.