Broadcasting from the West. of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is a Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Futman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of links and podcasts and the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blogs email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post pretty much whatever you send me. I sent something recent uh posted something recently. It had to do with uh the best tip for how to separate the yoke Yes, fascinating. Yes, exactly. eighteen items a day, Monday through Friday, it's ninety items a week that uh you send me that I put up there and I would say probably half of it is religious. related stuff. The other half is politically charged or history anecdotes or poems or links to some book little kid singing a cute song or it's it's an odd Mixture. Uh so pretty much whatever you like or whatever you don't like, you will find it on the Faith Debate blog. Uh on the show today you already heard him chime in a little bit, Jonathan Sweitzer, co-founder of the show and senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church and Frederick, Jonathan Schweitzer, and we're joined this week by Jonathan's longtime friend. And yes, Jonathan has friends, even longtime friends. That's right. How about that? Michael O'Halloran, who is a uh worker be Christian uh at Fourth Presbyterian Bethesda and he's he's done a little bit of everything. It's it's interesting talking to him before the sh show started. He's been all over the world. All over the world doing what he can to advance the kingdom of Christ So welcome to the show. Thanks for being here. Thanks for having me. John we have been friends for I almost too long to admit. Right? It's eighth grade, is that right? Yeah, eighth grade. Now let's talk about that. So you've known each other, you grew up together. Now you Jonathan, I you either I can't remember if I should know this, you either were you weren't homeschooled Maybe for a stretcher homeschooled, but you never I was never home school You were never homeschooled. Nope, my first uh in in kindergarten I was going to a public school that began to experiment with open classrooms and my parents said, no, we're not letting this happen to our kids. And so they sent me to a Christian school up in uh Mount Airy, Damascus area for uh no, Mount Ary area for three years, first, second and third grade. And then we went back to a differ a a public school on the other side of town. And then when I hit seventh grade My dad and two other pastors, a messianic Jewish guy in a in a church up in uh uh Damascus, came together and started a a school. They started with fifty students of first year. And the next year, Michael Halloran came uh to be a part of the school. And I remember early on, he asked me and our good friend Chris Moody to come over to his house for a sleepover, but it was during the week. And my parents said no, but Chris's parents said yes. And so it was like a school night. And so so I remember I wanted to be there. I didn't get to be there. But that was like the the start of us hanging toget hanging together with clearly a scarring experience. You still remember it. Yeah, you still I remember it well. was telling me a lot of things that I'd have done that I've totally forgot about. So it was actually a very productive productive evening. Yes, I joined the school a year later. Uh, I was in eighth grade and how I got there was I was an absolute failure in school. And in seventh grade I went to the middle school 'cause they that's when middle school started. Uh and I was picked on every day. I was really small, really scrawny. Uh some of the older kids got my locker combination and threw me in the locker. You know, my locker, like I don't know how I got out. I think I banged and someone came in, they stole my lunch It was uh like Ridge View Middle School. I've never heard this so yeah there was a ramp and throw me over the ramp. So my parents were desperate, like what are we gonna do with this? I never heard this stuff. I landed in this smart Christian school in a in a church in Montgomery Village And just I I see God's hand even then uh using, you know, seventh grade bullies to drive me to a school where and this is interesting, uh that so I started school that fall. in eighth grade, uh really small school, but I loved it. John was a uh just great athlete, really tall. Chris was not as tall as he is now, but he was taller than me and just we c connected There was just something there and a and and years later w we still talk, not as much 'cause John has a lot of kids, Chris even has more. Um so you know, life hits in the way. But I just see God's hand even even then, just um So that winter we had a winter retreat so they'd bring all these middle school and high school kids and there was this crazy looking, very passionate Puerto Rican preacher with black hair, big beard. It's hilarious. He was I first time I really heard someone really unpack the gospel and what Christ had done for me. How he had gone to the cross for me and for my sins. And this man's speaking and there's a thousand kids maybe in this room. This is up at Summit Lake. By the summit Yeah, it's it's a it's a bow lake. Up near where Camp David is. Right? And so it's like right right around the mountain from uh from Mount St. Mary's. Right So a thousand young people in that I feel like he's talking to me. And they and they were the when when they would worship, right, during this time, because it was like at the height of kind of the charismatic movement, the whole room Would just be really hot. Yeah, it got really hot up there. Yeah, yeah. But nonetheless he preaches and I just hear God Call me. I just I I can't explain it other than the fact that, you know, it was the Lord invaded my life and said that you are in need of a savior. And I am the one that saved you. And um that man actually is now my father in law. That's crazy. Years later, um years later I'm at church playing drums on the worship team and this girl walks in and I this may not sound real spiritual, but I miss I missed my beat. On the drum. And I was like, who was that girl? And I walked up and said, Hey, are you the preacher's kid? And and that was it. That was words, just won her heart, and we've been married almost eighteen years. Great pickup line. Hey, you're the preacher's kid. Now Jonathan uh gr obviously grew up in the church. His father's a pastor, his grandfather planted churches Yeah, and you were part of the charismatic movement probably from the earliest. Seventy nine is when we had moved in that direction. So y yeah. So that's kind of Jonathan's background. And now you you went to this school, um, you're in this charismatic environment Had you up until then been involved, is your was your family involved in the church and if so, was it a charismatic environment that you were part of before that? No, um my my father had just come to faith uh probably a year before he put me uh in MCCA, the school that we went to. He had just come to faith. I I won't get into that, but um drastic conversion uh was uh was just a a man that was um pursuing the things of the world. And uh needless to say, God miraculously saved my father. Through the work um of a man by uh name of Dr. Eddie Sweeson Yeah. Who uh was a longtime associate Fourth Presbyterian under Dick Alverson. Way back when started the church after a few years after uh Dick, I think, became the uh Senate chaplain. I started a church in Rockville and it was an E P C church in Rockville. And so my father started going to a Bible study uh in a man's house. Um 'Cause his life that he was being sued in federal court for he was involved in savings alone. But we want to get into that. So he starts going to Bible study. Um at an EPC show on Sunday mornings I was going to uh Presbyterian church, Evangelical Presbyterian Church. Um and it was that was kind of um different than what I was learning and and and doing uh, you know, in the kind of the more of the charismatic messianic Jewish uh community at school. Um but I I felt like it was a you know a place where I was um hearing a lot of similarities and some things a little bit different. Um and I I wouldn't say I was had a whole lot of questions because I just I just knew I just knew Yeah, I just knew my life was totally a mess. Uh and that God had saved me and that He was doing a work in my life. And I had great friends and we would spur one another on, you know, as teenagers to live for Christ the best we could. And here you g you both are all these years later. Yeah. And Jonathan's still involved in the charismatic movement if you if it's still called a movement. I'm not even sure it's called a movement anymore. In in charismatic circles. Charismatic so much anymore. They use other terms to kind of uh differentiate themselves from, you know, the larger mass. Yeah. So any so Jonathan is still there and uh you're in a Presbyterian place now, Mike. So obviously there's some things you still would agree on strongly. Uh but obviously there's some things you're gonna just do. For example, I went away to college And while I was in college I I uh was one year t uh intern with Teen Mania and then I'm out of Or Roberts University and I got home from college uh after my last year And Mike invited me over to his house. He chose to not go to college at the time and he had bought a house uh and had already put a down payment on a house and was moving forward you know, with with his life and career and I remember it well that that, you know, here the three of us were coming out of college. One had gone up to Gordon College up in uh Massachusetts and there was a bunch of guys that you were listening to on the radio at the time uh like um skip heisek, you know, some of these guys that I remember that that you were like, Man, you really like those guys, but you were going to church I guess it was a uh what was Greg Zetz? What what was that church was was what they did denomination. I think they left the EPC for you know a lot of reasons that you know I won't Yeah. But they kind of moved in a charismatic direction. Yeah, uh Greg was uh is uh very charismatic, not only you know in his personality. Um but also and you know just grogar as Greg. But you know just has a someone that was you know saved um you know crum out of drugs and alcohol and just you know was really uh charismatic. So it's interesting. So I'm listening to a lot of, you know, expository Bible teachers on the radio. This is in the early nineties. I'm young, uh, had a lot of time in the car for job for my work and and so I would hear these guys teach the scriptures and you know they had a little bit of different slant on some of the charismatic stuff that I'd heard and grown up with and it lined up a little bit more with the some of the Presbyterian things that I was hearing on Sunday morning um at my church when I was as a kid. Um so that's interesting. So even then you were kind of making some of those connections back to some of the EPC stuff. Correct. Yeah. So I in in nineteen ninety four I took a little time off of work and I moved I think it was ninety four, uh somewhere in that time. I took a year off of work, so I spent three months on the mission field in the summer and then that w that fall and uh spring I did a two uh semester Bible college out at uh Calvary Albuquerque, uh Calvary Chapel, Albuquerque, they had a school of ministry. Uh and so after and then after that year I spent that summer on the mission field uh and then I came back uh to uh Montgomery County and um moved back to my house and started working again Um and um and at that point I was back in the area, Chris Moody was back in the area, and we all got married like within a year of each other. Right. Uh almost like, you know, it was just like bam, bam, bam, everything just fell into place. And so we kinda saw each other and e and in that time frame, within a cup no, no, that was later. But then for the next five years like I ha went off to Chicago and during that time you were still with Greg Z. Is that correct? No, no, no. in ninety four um to uh eventually go, you know, to mission field that summer in the into Calvary. When I came back I I hadn't I was I left Greg's church. Yeah. It's now called King of the Nations, I think at the time I left it was still called Christian Covenant Church. Okay. All right. Let me jump in and uh as we f we We have thrown around some terms that a lot of people know what they mean, but there might be somebody who's not real familiar, so I'm gonna just uh help to explain some of the things we're talking about and maybe use that as a chance to to launch into some specific faith debate kinds of of stuff. Uh expository preaching. Uh Mike made mention of that that he was going to a church and it was expository preaching. Um expository tell me from an an exposition of the scripture. You take a a particular uh section It could be a verse, it could be a paragraph, could be an entire chapter, but you work through uh that passage in a methodical way and do an exposition of the pa of the passage and that that becomes kind of the norm for that church as opposed to picking a a topical series and saying we're going to spend the next eight weeks talking about how to health have a healthy marriage or or what God says about finances, that would be more t a topical approach. An expositional approach is is uh uh more rooted in just following the flow of of the pages of the Bible as you come to them kind of things. That's what he's talking about there. And then charismatic Uh you know, I'm guilty. I threw that out there and like what does that mean, charismatic? And it can mean a lot of things. But in this context we're talking uh I think in general terms we're talking about uh those in the Christian church who uh believe that um the the ki what are called the charismatic gifts are still available and active in the church today. So there are people that might still utter prophecy, might speak in tongues. uh might have a gift of healing, uh those those sorts of things would be in the charismatic movement. Yeah. And those not in the charismatic movement um don't believe that those things uh continue in the church. They d they don't say that they never existed, but they're n they say that they aren't in the church today. So and then the E P C we're throwing that out like it's a label that means something to people. The those three letters, EPC, stand for Evangelical Presbyterian Church. Church, we all know what that means, I think. Uh the first evangelical, we probably all know what that means, except it's But that doesn't mean anything. Yeah, it's oftentimes used as a pejorative and it could be a loaded term, but in this case it just means people that are rooted to the fundamental teachings of the Bible uh the scripture is the authority, um and Christ is the exalted, kind of the the traditional evangelical movement stuff, not the the uh moral majority evangelical. Yeah, modern evangelicalism. political issue. So this is e this is evangelical in the original meaning of the word going back y you could probably get away with saying forty years ago evangelical still meant evangelical Yeah. Now it means political position or something. It's weird. And then Presbyterian just speaks speaks to style government. Uh having a having a uh a hierarchical body of uh of uh uh of of governors for the church as opposed to a CEO model or an episcopal model like the uh like the Roman Catholics where there's You know, the the Pope has his cardinals, the cardinals have their bishops, the bishops have their priests, you know. Uh it's it's uh it's groups of people coming together to govern the church um in different spheres. So that's again We we don't do that often enough. Or maybe we do it just the right amount of time. I don't know. But I sometimes wonder because I listen back to this show, because as you know, we're not doing the show live. And I listen back to this show and sometimes I'll hear something like, ooh. I wonder if Eighty-five to ninety percent of our people have no clue what that was. And so I just every once in a while I like to take time to do that. So that said, setting that all up Jonathan's church does not use a Presbyterian style of government. That's right. Uh the church that Mike goes to, uh Fourth Presbyterian in Bethesda, is not charismatic. No. So there are differences. Correct. Yeah. Yeah, so you want us to what are some dig in on this? For every sentence I've read, John's read ten books. So let's just let's get out there. You know that. So take it easy on me, John. Yeah, but for every book Jonathan's read, there were at least a thousand pictures in it. Yeah. Just for the record, Troy reads at least ten times as many books as I do. Well, he's like my dad. I read but a book a week Like crazy. I read maybe a couple paragraphs a week. I'm slow. Remember anything. That's why I was picked on. Now I'm not saying I want uh everything you guys talked about to be about Charismatic versus non-charismatic or or Presbyterian versus congregational government. But I just want to get a sense of that's a good thing. And obviously you have a lot of agreement. So many of our discussions through the years, Mike, I feel like have centered around leadership in churches and trying to grapple with um the leadership styles that we've seen in places, you know, even in a Christian school environment grappling with you know, uh what we thought of different teachers and, you know, how they handle things. Like everything it seems like so often comes back to well, you know, this church is led this way, and this is how they're handling things here, and this is how they're handling things here And uh, you know, the charismatic movement has a certain bent towards its leadership styles, right? And uh and actually I think uh the set of churches I'm a part of doesn't fit the majority of of uh the charismatic movement. Uh but I don't know that you necessarily would would agree with that. Uh and then of course we have the messianic Jewish guys that are kind of in this you know in this whole mode of their own, but that has kind of been in our background But then you're out in the Calvary Chapel circles and you saw you know what was going on there. You're involved over King of the Nations and there's a certain leadership style there. And it seems like um it seems like all of us have kind of been grappling with You know, okay, what does it look like to be a godly leader and to build a church that, you know, that that fits this, you know, the glory of God in Christ Jesus? And um and so I guess I want I would ask the question like what are some of the uh the breakdowns that you've seen through the years? Uh and I'll probably jump in as well, but it seems like there's been a lot of situations where where we come away like, uh, you know, that that just can't be what Christ meant for us to do in terms of leadership. You know, and it seemed like that'd say it's a very it's a very sensitive topic because um y I I I think if if someone does uh attend a church and they attend regularly, they typically really like their pastor. I mean you would h hope that's the case that if they're attending on a regular basis. Um and you know, a lot of pastors are you know are are underpaid, overworked, you know, so I it's it's not a You know, I I don't have a a desire or heart to, you know, like lambass pastors because I mean they're underpaid, they're overworked, they've got stresses, they some of them work other jobs. Mike is saying all of this because he wonders if his pastor might be listening. Totally. Well this this is why it's so personal because you know Is your father in law a charismatic? Yes. Okay. Very charismatic. Um a wonderful man. Um loves the Lord. And um but I I will say this. I th I think the common thread is um usually when growth happens, uh separation happens. You know, as the pastor in the church grows, the pastor becomes he he climbs the corporate ladder. And and which is fine. I mean, you know, he needs to study and those types are fine. And that was honest, you know, not the You know, I I one of the you know, Calvary Chapel, I'll just say it, one of the things that really, you know, kind of the Lord used to really lead me away is the fact that it was just this very Moses model way of leading. Uh, you know, it was one man, you know, dictating everything that was going to happen from the stage to the who worked there. And just it seemed like it, you know, they would You know, they could just walk in and fire people with with without any really justification. uh in some sense aren't they? Yeah, I think in the sixties. Like they were the ones that literally a guy walked into a church. The story is that a guy walked into the church uh with no shoes on, you know, and walked down the aisle and nobody knew what to do with 'em and kinda s you know, there was no place to sit, so he kind of sat in the middle of the aisle. Is that A story. And so so the guy that started Calvary Chapel did it with a bunch of um uh, you know, beach bums that just started gathering around him as he taught the word of God. It was had a lot of life in it, it was a lot of good stuff. You know the problem is the with with success usually, you know, as I said a minute ago becomes separation. I mean it it and it's in the corporate world It's an interesting word separation. I d I don't know that I was expecting that one. And you know, I I I have the microphone. I'll I'll say this. I joke with a good friend of mine, you know, and we follow a lot of different people on Twitter and all these social medias. And there there's a word a lot of churches nowadays have green rooms. You know, like rooms were you know they're off the like I I think green rooms are like in concert halls and things like that and and I would just have to say that if your church has a green room You know, I just uh do you really have a church? You know what I mean? It's like the pastor the idea behind a green room, like you guys probably both know what this means, but I I'm not sure that I do. It's a place where where the the leaders hang out and they're protected from all the other people until it's time for them to come on stage or something like that. you know, green room you have multiple services. And it's just a it's a place where you just kinda you're separated. You know, you don't really worship with your congregation. Um you know, you preach, you teach and you you kinda leave and you you kinda live, you know, a little bit outside of the community and unfortunately some of the pastors, you know, um it just it just seems like there's a separation not only just in in just how they interact with their congregation with accountability. Um you know i some of them just you know they they start really you know doing silly things with finances. And that's a big That can be a big function of of the size more than the the the governmental model of the church. Yeah. Somebody that's got a uh a a really big church even if they they want to be involved in a very intimate personal way with everybody. They just can't. Sure. Despite the model. Um how would you we have a couple of minutes left before uh we'll probably We'll get into some nuts and bolts on leadership questions and stuff, but for for now, Jonathan, how would you describe the leadership model for Crossroads Valley Church? Well, what we have always wanted to do, um, in honestly, um my dad is the one that has driven this in the circle of churches that I'm a part of. is try to discover or study, you know, what is what was the biblical New Testament model uh for church governance. And it seems like there's there's kind of an a one-two punch there. One is the the the whole apostolic uh part of things where where somebody comes in and and he's planning a new church and and there's kind of the apostolic team where you have apostles and prophets and evangelists kind of working together. And then uh after Paul went through, he would go back and he would he would set elders in place, and there seems to be the impression that the elders would do the work of uh uh deaconing. The word the word for ministry is the word deaconing. You know, so everybody, you know, Christ was a deacon for that matter. Paul was a deacon. Everybody was ministering. And so he would set up elders in the various congregations that did the pastoring in the congregations. Uh and so there seemed to be a sense that there's not one guy that's the pastor of the congregation, but there's a team. and that the authority rested in the local church, but that Paul as an apostle had what my dad would call de facto authority, that he would come in and he had the authority to come in and say, Well look, you guys just aren't following good doctrine any longer and you need to change. But he didn't have any any uh uh actual organizational authority to come in and say, Well you guys need to stop doing what you're doing. that he kind of released that over to the local church that would be led by the elders and deacons and so the authority rested in the local church. And so there's kind of the the apostolic authority that is more relational. And then there's there's uh a circle of of elders in the local congregation that leads the the local. At the local level. But the next level of uh beyond the local environment, there's a significant uh difference there. So that might be where we we kinda start next week's conversation. The the the the apostolic uh leadership model and the presbytery uh meeting and session and regional presbyteries and all that sort of that's a very different thing. So we could talk about that a little bit and definitely and um I'm I at some point think about the between this week and next week, Mike. Think about the if somebody were to come to you and say, Hey, I know you kinda you got saved for crying out loud in a charismatic worship service. Listening to a charismatic preacher. You were involved in charismatic circles for a lot of years and yet here you are today and you married the charismatic preacher's daughter and here you are today you're not charismatic. Why? And I'd be curious to know what the one or two central reasons for that. might be if you want to give some thought to I'm not sure if we'll get into that next week or not, but we plan to do it a series of shows so at some point maybe we'll we'll tackle that. Wow, I'll think about that. All right. Uh my Michael O'Halloran, uh worker be Christian Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossos Valley Church, want to thank our sponsor, Putman Columbia Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. Um I'll tell you what I've been reading next week because I'm running out of time. I have no time for all of that. Check us out online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. So 167. 5 hours from now, God bless