This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Ah. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Yes, buddy. And in this corner. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Swaiss. You need to walk away. Sometimes we need to step back and realize that it's not personal, that a person's argument might not center around us. Sometimes we need to examine ourselves. At all times we need to remember that we are accountable to God. Always we should pray for others, including our enemies. Sometimes you must agree to disagree, but always we are to treat people with love. How's this going for us? Do we know when to walk away? Do we know when to press in? Do we know when to ask the hard question? Do we know when to give a revealing vulnerable answer? Well a couple of guys who know all the questions answers to questions like that. Particularly when it comes to Christians and Muslims dealing with each other and the current societal crossfire. Jonathan Schweitzer, he is the founder of Cross Bridges and Jim Eaton The pastor of Mosaic Church these past uh what did you say, thirteen years? Thirteen years. Feels like twenty six. Our church is an adolescent, so that's why we now meet in a high school. Oh. They're go they're going through puberty. Wild boot swings taking place at Mosaic Church. Yes, they're coming into their sense of who they are in a big way. So this is round four now of what is I think gonna be a four part uh a four uh a four round heavyweight prize fight uh on the question of how Muslims and Christians interact. And last week if you've missed it you can hear the first three shows by going to WFMD. com uh find the Faith of Eight page and there you'll find links to the podcast. That's the easiest way. You can also find the podcast on the audio vault at WFMD. com. All of the shows are housed there, or at least I'm told that all of them are housed there, I don't know, I don't always check. I assume they're all there. Uh Anyway, last week and you can't find a channel. Yeah, please do. So last week I asked the question, you know, when a Christian and a Muslim are are interacting You know, what is it that the Muslim would like to know from the Christian? And I thought we might have time to get to the follow-up question on that last week and we didn't. And so I'm going to ask it this week. When a Christian and a Muslim get together, they've they've let down their barriers enough. They've decided that they're going to try to love each other or at least respect each other. They're going to try to enter into some sort of a of a friendship a dialogue to get to know one another. Um th they they've equipped themselves to know what they know about their own beliefs. We talked about that a couple of weeks ago. And so now it's happening. And now the Muslim is going to start asking questions So I'm the Christian and I need to be prepared. What am I likely to be asked? And what is the Muslim likely to be asked? So last week was the Christian's perspective. This week's it's the Muslim's perspective. The Muslim is going to be asked what by most Christians do you think? So you're asking like what What kinds of questions might a Christian want to ask a Muslim if the relationship was strong enough and trustworthy enough you could really ask someone? Exactly. Sure. Not necessarily lead with this when you bump into them on the side. Right, right, right. Right. So I was part of a retreat um some time ago, maybe eighteen months ago, with imams and pastors from around the DC area. So we met for three days. And one of the exercises we did was that very thing. So the imams got together in one group and the pastors in another group, and we just brainstormed what questions do we really want to ask each other. And this was after maybe a day and a half where we were building trust and friendship and all that. So there are some interesting questions. And uh so you're saying what a Christian would like to ask a Muslim, right? Yeah, if they if they if if yeah, if there was enough trust in the relationship that they didn't have to worry about, okay, they might be offended if I asked you a question, but I feel like we're in a place where I can ask the question that might be taken the wrong way. What are you doing? Yeah, one of the one of the first questions that came up was why does it seem like in most Muslim majority countries that there's less religious freedom? That's an authentic question, because there's a lot of truth to that. So you can go to many Western European countries and there seems to be more of a separation of church and state, more freedom for various faith traditions, but you go to most Muslim countries, Muslim majority countries, And there's a tighter restriction on faith. So that's a legitimate question. Now I don't uh know that we need to answer for them, but uh so without necessarily giving away the answer You were at this confab, this conference, this camping trip with uh with Muslims, uh and that question came up obviously. Did they have An answer that you thought was satisfactory. Like, yeah, I kinda like that answer. That was a good answer. Yeah, they actually had a mixture of answers. So th uh one of the answers was that They feel uh that some of those who answered, so they were not trying to speak for everybody else, but they feel that Islam itself is in need of a reformation. Just as Christianity went to a reformation in the fifth fifth fourteen, fifteen hundreds, sixteen hundreds. Before that, Christianity was extraordinarily intolerant. And you had Christians burning other Christians at the stake and drowning other Christians at the stake for modes of baptism and things like that. following the Reformation and particularly in America with Roger Williams and the Rhode Island experiment, which then became the formation for our Bill of Rights of religious freedom. That was kind of a new thing. These imams were saying Islam needs that too. It needs to have a more moderate tone and posture to allow for full religious freedom. in Muslim majority countries for all faiths. So they they owned it. They said this is something that needs to happen. I think it's a it's a fair comparison. difference though, and this is I'm not trying to s enter into a long debate on this question, it's just a thought that popped in my head. From my perspective, the Christian Reformation was about getting back to the roots of what the scriptures really teach. and being obedient to those. And I feel like if Islam were to have the kind of reformation we had hoped for, they'd have to have almost the inverse of that. Because if they're going to be really true to the most conservative theologically conservative view of their own holy writings, uh it would seem to lead them into that more strident. Which leads to another question that that I think I would ask and I'll throw it out and let you respond. um is is the law of abrogation. Is it really true true that authentic uh Muslim inter Islamic interpretation of the Quran means that that those scriptures that were written later abrogate meaning meaning that if more authority than what came before authority than what came before and so if there's a passage you know, that says that that seem to contradict one another that the later passage is the more authoritative passage because that's that's language that is used often among those that warn about Islam that it's the later Muhammad that was the war uh war lord, you know, that was uh fighting against Christians and the Jewish people and so the later passages seem to be the more violent. And so, uh, you know, how how do you how do they navigate it? I don't know the answer to that. I'd have to do more conversations and research. I don't know what the answer on that is. But I do know that I've been in in settings with um some fairly significant Muslim religious leaders who are arguing that Islam has been misinterpreted by those on the very conservative side. And therefore and that's why the extremist movement is rising. So for example, I heard one say, and I'm just paraphrasing because it's it's in my head, something about the fact that uh before the bombs go off in the s in the in the street, the bomb has already gone off in the head. Meaning that the people are not thinking well through the Quran. So some of these Muslim leaders are saying that the better interpretation of the Quran is to have more tolerance and more religious freedom for those who disagree with you. Now how they actually go about doing that, I'm not an expert in that. I'm just starting to learn. Sure. But I do know I've been in in conversation with many who are saying this is the way Islam needs to go around the world. Now I think that the typical Christian who only knows what they know about Islam from what they see on the talking head shows on cable TV uh is is gonna possibly ask questions like uh nine eleven, what do you all have to say for yourself? Uh, Sharia Law. What the heck is it and should I be afraid? And do you want it in the United States? There's there's a couple Muslim congressmen now. Like do we need to be afraid that that they're gonna push for Surreal law in how different is that from, you know, other law? Yeah, that that area I'm not very um I'm really not that adept on that, but the conversations I have had uh with Muslims are saying that there's no foundation in their minds to have any intimidation regarding Sharia law. That Sharia law is merely more governing their private practices. So it's like a like a a devotional guide, so to speak, for their own life, as opposed to something that would usurp American civil law. So they're fully in support of American civil law, the separation of church and state, uh religious freedoms, all of those types of things. I'm curious, the Muslims that were at this uh retreat or whatever it was, the conference that you were at, do do you know which uh stripe of Sunni Islam they were I believe most are Sunni. Okay. 'Cause we've had uh a couple of different types of, you know, Muslim representatives on the Faith Debate Show and the ones that sounded the most like what you're articulating or the Ahmadiyya Muslims. Yes, they would tend to be more of that stripe as well. Now there are differences among the Muslim community and how they perceive Ahmadiyya Muslims versus Sunni and Shia. So they're They're viewed as different sects within Islam, somewhat like the difference between, say, Catholicism and Protestantism and so forth. Do you like that? Arabic thing going on there. Cool. Yeah. Clear my throat. Uh so uh they were the guys that were looking to move into Walkersville uh a couple years back in more than a couple. And uh it is it's a long time ago now. But they um their story is that in all Sunni and Shiite nation nations that that the Ahmadian guys are are persecuted and considered uh to be a minority. And so they they've moved to the West kind of ahead of other Muslim group Muslim groups. That's true. And they seem to have already had the Reformation And it felt a little bit to me like um w when they described it like I described them as as Jeffersonian uh Muslims like Jeffersonian Christians, you know, kind of cut out the miracles and and and they're they're looking for the moral teachings and and you know kind of read the Bible through the grid of science. Uh and it felt to me like the Ahmadian guys did the same thing. Uh whereas yeah, so anyway, so the guys you're interacting with are not Ahmadian? Uh the some are here and there, but mostly they're of the mainstream. This is the face debate. I'm Troy Skinner. The other voices you hear are those of Jonathan Sweitzer. He is the founder along with his wife Carol of Crossbridges. And Jim Eaton is the founder and current pastor of Mosaic Church and Frederick, now meeting at Tuscara High School, and that's a relatively new change. So maybe if you don't have a church, go check him out. Uh you know, bring some rotten eggs and tomatoes and throw them at him while I thought they're preaching. He always appears. He's a big fan of that. You just radicalized our our uh listeners. So Uh this is the faith debate after all. So let me uh on 930 WFMD. So let me throw out some, you know, faith debate kind of things. What are some of the theological questions that those who kind of n are more deeply studied in Christian teaching and and what the Bible has to say from a Christian perspective. What are the kinds of questions they have of Muslims and what are the kinds of questions that the Muslims again the the academic thinking Muslims have for Christians. What are we wrestling over? Well the Muslims the primary question has to do with the Trinity. Yeah. That's a major um thinking block or roadblock to their thinking. And what con confuses it even more is that they frequently misinterpret in their understanding, excuse me, uh the Trinity to mean uh Jesus, Joseph, and Mary So it's hard enough to explain the it's very you know, it's impossible to truly explain the Trinity. It's a profound mystery. But Often the first kind of baggage you have to clear out of the way is to say the Christian concept of the Trinity is not Joseph, Mary, and Jesus. It's God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. And then you can start moving from there. But that's an enormous mystery and uh conceptual roadblock for them because they can only conceive of God as one monotheistic God and of course we say, well we agree. We're we're we agree just like the Jews agree. But then you have to bring in The second question that comes in that's very, very important, is the difference in their perspective on who Jesus is compared to ours. They do believe in Jesus. They believe in him as one of the greatest prophets of the of the scriptures. So they hold him in equal esteem with Moses and Abraham and so forth. But they don't believe that he went to the cross. They believe that on his way to the cross God took him to heaven and put a man in his place because it it was too humiliating. A stunt double. For yes, for the the the prophet to undergo something as God. He can do whatever he wants, I guess. Yeah, look at those double those are two big, big areas of um of discussion. My understanding is that they even believe that Jesus is the only one who they believe he's born of a virgin. Right, and that he's the only one that that has the power to heal. That there's something unique about him as a prophet that he has the power to heal and so those aspects of um of their belief in Jesus is pretty significant. They also have a different understanding of Abraham's sons, mm-hmm, right? And how that plays out in history. Yes. Isaac versus Ishmael. Yeah. So Did that something that came up at your conference? Sure. Mm-hmm. And what did I'm curious because we've had Muslims on this show and I've tried bringing this up and I've never gotten them the answer in a way that brought clarity into my mind. Other than just other than And this is a pejorative kind of a way for me to think about it, is kind of where I was left. Other than them wanting to think it's true, but why do they think it's true? Because when they say, Well, the the the Old Testament seems to be pretty clear, like oh, but that's been corrupted. So first of all, I'm I I'm not sure what their evidence for the corruption is, but even if they had evidence of the corruption, w how would they be able to say what the original autograph, the original copies of the of the scriptures you know, did say to support their view. Do they do you know what their answer was? I don't know the answer on that one. Most of the conversations we've had actually have not been so much theologically based. They've been more questions that that that pull apart what are the things that that keep us apart on a more relational level. So that can we in other words, like one of the ways we have the conversation is to say, since we're going at this in a multi-faith direction, since we understand we have these great differences, and we do talk about what some of those are Just as when we have rabbis in the room, we talk about the differences on how you view Jesus, okay? But the bulk of the conversations are really more How can what are the what are the virtues that we do align on? And then how can we come together in a neighborly way to love your neighbor or to be your neighbor's keeper? in times of crisis or in times of difficulty, both here in America as well as in other parts of the world. Because that's one of the things that the scripture calls us to, and really The American Declaration of Independence and Constitution calls us to that as well, uh, in in in its precept, and that is that we should be able to live together as citizens in collegiality and love and friendship and s and go to our separate places of worship. So those are more of the conversations we have as opposed to going back and forth in a debate fashion on the theological issues. I think it's important for uh just not just with Muslims. Uh well let me start there though, because that's what we've been talking about for three and a half shows now. Uh the Christian needs to recognize that the the theology of Islam is not biblical, therefore it's you know it's not the word of God, it's not inspired inerrant, infallible, it's so therefore it's it's wrong. So we need to acknowledge that. But we don't then need to condemn the Muslims for that. They already stand condemned. So it's not our job to condemn them. So whether they be Muslim or Buddhist or Hindu or atheist or anything that's not biblical Christian, we need to feel brokenhearted over their lostness. We need to enter into their world to try to develop a rapport and a relationship. uh and show them the the the grace, love, and mercy of Jesus Christ, uh so that hopefully God will uh use what you're doing there to uh change their heart, uh bring them to himself And then you go about the business of making a disciple. And then you hold them to account and say, Well, now that you're a Christian, there's a f you know a few things you might want to think about uh altering in your life, you know, because Christians don't do this and they do do that and I just a do do on the radio and I hope I don't get fined for that. Uh and so I think we need to do that in general Rather than li I meant I use this phrase a few times, was it last week or the week before about l lobbing grenades at people? We don't need to say, Oh, what you believe is wrong is I'm gonna throw this grenade at you. No, no, no, no, no. What you believe is wrong and because of that, you're going over a cliff. There are eternal consequences that you face. And so I need to enter into your world, get you to understand that I have your best interests at heart. that I authentically really do care about you. I want to get to know you. I'm curious about you. I want to know your story, your background, your history. I want to know what you believe and why. I want to know where your sore spots are, where your pain is in your life. I want to know about your victories too. I want to get to know who you are And through that have you hopefully have a you know a curiosity about me too and they're gonna say, Well, what about you? And you say, Oh, couldn't be better because I know I have eternity With God. And and do it that way. So often we're pointing fingers at those who are lost. We're trying to put a yoke on them that, you know, we couldn't even carry the burden. I think of that verse in Romans where it says it's the kindness of God that leads us to repentance. And I had a conversation uh about a year ago I was at a conference with imams and rabbis here in DC um and pastors and we were having lunch one day and there's a rabbi from a different state. And he he we were starting to strike up a friendship and all. He said, can I just ask you a really candid question? I said, I love candid questions. He said, okay You're a Christian, you're an evangelical Christian. He said, are you concerned about my soul? Because I'm a Jew, I'm not a Christian And I said, yes. I said there's a two-part answer I would give you. I said the first part is yes, I am. Because I'm a Christian. Jesus was very clear on how you find eternal life. So Jesus said you find life through him. So I said I am concerned that way. I said the second part of my qu my answer is I know world history. I know history. And throughout the history of much of supposedly called Christian Church There's been a lot of anti-Semitism and mistreatment of Jewish people. And I said, so I have to also bring with my answer a lot of humility and say You have experienced, you and your ancestors, ancestors have experienced many things that are the antithesis of what Jesus taught as to how his followers should conduct themselves. And so I said, I would always want to come into any relationship saying, here's what I understand in all candor and honesty that the Bible teaches. But I also have to come in with humility because there's a lot of baggage that we as Christians carry with us that we should not be having to carry. But it's because a lot of things have been done wrongly in the name of Christ. And he stood there and he said, I have never had a conversation like that with a Christian He said, can we keep in touch? Can we, you know, if you're ever in my city, can we go out for lunch? He said, I'd like to talk more about that. And I just think if we just come in with humility and kindness then the Holy Spirit will create the opportunities for the truth to be brought in with kindness and humility. So when I'm interacting with anybody, friend, you know, s uh my brothers uh and and and they feel it's necessary to address something that I've done wrong. Uh, for me almost always I get, you know, defensive first. I mean, I'm just I'm just defensive first. You know, I uh I I don't think to myself, Oh, this is cool, you know, look I've done something wrong and I've I've did it again, you know, I just you know, I'm I'm still working through that. Uh I'd rather not have, you know, done something wrong and maybe they read it wrong and, you know, so I just kinda gotta work that through in my own heart. The reality is that as Christians in a uh multi uh cultural pluralistic society, multicultural society, uh we we end up representing not just ourselves but representing Christianity and that question of uh Uh Jewish people, Muslim people recognizing that that they as a religion or as a people group have been hurt by Christians. They need that answered. And I think our tendency in the church is just to be defensive. Oh, they're just trying to rip rip Christianity, they're trying to change our culture, they're trying to, you know, do do all this. You know, when I think If we would give them the benefit of doubt of the doubt, they want that that you just described. They just want somebody that's willing to admit that they can have the discussion so that they can Set their own heart at rest. That's right. That that's not going to happen again. And if it helps illustrate in your mind, if you're familiar with the Westboro Baptist churches out of Kansas, they're so hate-filled and and and so anti uh Christ in the way that they present themselves. You know, God hates you is their message. Yeah that's gonna c that's gonna melt my heart. Yeah, I I want to agree with you. God hates me. Yeah sign me up for more of that baby. Yeah, anyway, this is a faith debate. John Sweitzer, thank you. Sue Eaton, thank you. Jim's the pastor of Mosaic Church. John's with Cross Bridges, I'm Troy Skinner. Oh absolutely thanks for accepting. Many are afraid to. This is Faith Data at 930 WFMD. Till next. Speak 167 and a half hours from now, God bless