This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Is that it? And in this Corner weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Switzer. No, I'm just getting longed up. Disagreements and misunderstandings. standings, they will happen in life. But is it ever an excuse to disrespect others? The Bible does tell us that we should speak to others with love. Even if we have to deal strongly with certain people, love and respect should be our guide. Our speech should be kind but firm when necessary. Speak firmly but speak with respect. Is this right? If so, how is it accomplished when dealing with the kinds of people that history indicates might be especially difficult people for Christians? To deal with. Take Muslims, for example. What is there to say about this? I imagine there is much to say about this, and here to talk about it are Jonathan Sweitzer, the founder of Cross Bridges, and Jim Eaton, the pastor of Mosaic Church. Bridges and Mosaic are both in Frederick, Maryland. And actually give you a little chance for a uh a plug, you guys not too long ago changed location. So where's Mosaic Church meeting these days? We now meet at Tuscora High School, 10 a. m. on Sundays. So anyone listening, you're welcome to come. And if you're one of those kids on detention on Friday afternoons, just hang out for a couple of days and you'll take in the gospel on Sunday morning. Yeah, we like to say to the young people in our church, you know, you're you're in high school all week long and now you get to sit in high school on Sundays as well. Yeah. What you should do is have a uh second service there on Sundays and then it could be it's every day and twice on Sunday. Well you never know, that day may come. So this is the second week we've had this panel together. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer uh has had experience dealing with Muslims through some confabs he's been invited to. uh and interaction on this show, playing soccer with a guy. Uh Jim has extensive experience. He touched on it last week with uh a pastor he knows in Texas that has introduced him to a number of um well spoken, articulate, well-informed uh Muslims, leaders, imams, things like that. Uh and he's got even more to his story. I'm sure that'll come out as as the as the show uh and shows that that we have uh unfold. But I teased last week that this week we're going to dive into why is it that Christians and Muslims don't behave the way last week we told ourselves that we should And we decided last week that we should respect each other and speak out of love and we should love one another and respect another one another enough to be honest. about our distinctives, about our differences, and say, look, you might not know this, but what you and I think about certain things is very different, starkly different. In fact, so different that there are eternal consequences. Let's talk about that Uh let's be forthright. We decided that was a pretty good place to be. And we made the comparison with what well I don't know if It's a coin I've never heard it framed this way before, so I don't know if this framing is a new thing that Bob down uh Pastor Bob Downfree's last name. Bob Roberts. Bob Roberts I won't forget that again. Robert Roberts. Um yeah, that's true. Never trust a guy with two first names. Um anyway, Bob Roberts, uh uh makes a distinction between multi faith and interfaith and mostly what we see around us in the ecumenical movement is this interfaith idea and John shared a story about that and the challenges that can come with that last week. Um So how do we get people to behave in a multi phase? Well I liked your first question better. Why is it that we don't? Yeah, why don't we and how do we get them too? And and I know for me, I'll just own it personally, the moments when I'm not doing that right, it's because I'm insecure. uh about what I believe and I'm I'm caught up in measures. Uh Jim and I can you are insecure about what you believe? Yeah. Come on. You always uh that's what my parents always told me the bully was was the most insecure guy. So to the extent that you think I'm that on the show, it's because I'm I'm insecure and uh there's significant for me uh in my uh growing up years just um uh what's the word? Uh envy that I would that I would just fall into, you know, wishing I could be like this or wishing I could be like that. I mean so You know, like did I teach my kids to to uh not respect one another? Uh no. I taught them to to care for one another, but pretty early on in the process they realized that you know, when there's one toy, only one gets to play with it at a time and and so, uh, why don't we do it? I think we don't do it because Because doing it's like one of the highest expressions of self control and you know, in and just being at peace in your own soul And I just don't think there's as much of that out there, especially in our day and age. Like nobody knows how to talk anymore. It's like a lost art to know how to have a real conversation with people uh about places where you disagree without you know somehow losing your temper and having to tell somebody, you know, question their their motives and question their their intelligence and I agree with that. I think that a lot of I think a lot of this stems out of fear And it comes because we have a lack of relationships. We have a lack of personal relationships. So uh someone did a study not that long ago, and I can't remember who it was, but they did a study on on the extent of xenophobia in America between say Muslim and Christian or between African American and Caucasian, that kind of thing. And they found that the the more remote or alienated the people were, the higher the suspicion was between the two groups So in in in regions where you'd you'd talk to a white person and say, I don't I don't have any kind of relationship with black people, they would tend to have higher distrust or suspicion or among Hispanics or or Christians among the unknown as whereas if you came into an area where there are people had regular interactions and relationships Then they began to sort out what was myth and what was fact and what was truth and what was fiction and and I think that's that's really true. I I grew up um overseas. My parents were part of a medical mission. Now for in South Asia. It was East Pakistan and became Bangladesh. And so I moved there when I was six years old and grew up there. And Bangladesh is a ninety percent Muslim country. So uh most of my friends were Muslims and then some were Hindu, some were Buddhist. And so growing up To be Muslim simply meant to be another neighbor, to be someone who lived there. So I never really I mean I understood, of course, I I became a Christian when I was eleven years old. Um so I began to understand and I could see the differences as a child. I could see the difference between a mosque and a church and and how Muslims prayed as compared to how Christians prayed. I could see those. But They weren't the kind of thing that would cause me to be fearful or to pull away. In fact, quite the opposite. I grew up loving Muslims because I had so many relationships and the same thing is here in the DC area. I love all the relationships that are developing. That would have meant that you even uh grew up with the call to worship like a going out across the from the Mosfeed, yeah, five times a day. Now in that environment where it's overwhelmingly majority Muslim, um and some like to argue that we live in a country that is overwhelmingly majority Christian, although it depends on how you want to define Christian, I think. That's precisely the discussion you get into within Muslim health. And that's the question I'm asking about uh Bangladesh. Yes. It's ninety percent Muslim. Is it ninety percent Devout Muslim? Yeah. I'd like to do some research. Was your sense that they were really Muslim or they were culturally Muslim, whatever that might mean in the place? Of course the religious leaders would tend to be more passionately uh fervent about their faith. Many of the people, lay people, people working, you know, farmers or business people or whatever. It would be a a a range, just like here in America. There are many people that we would know that would say I'm Muslim because my family's Muslim, but they weren't really observant. Just like here in America, many people say I'm a Christian, but they show up to church, you know, Easter and Christmas and not much more. So So it's interesting, John, you pointed out Uh if I could, you know, try to boil it down to two words in your explanation as to why we don't do what we should be doing in interact interacting with people of other faith, it comes down to fear and ignorance. Right? We we don't know, and so we don't maybe feel equipped to express what we believe. We don't know what they believe, so we don't feel equipped to interact with them on things that they might potentially be expert in. Uh and we're also afraid of putting ourselves at risk, being exposed for being frauds or being dunces or maybe legitimately being afraid of being beat over the head with a tire iron. I mean what who knows what kind of fears people might have. So I'm gonna again we did this last week, I thought it went well. I assigned you each a different task and you handled it with a plum. Here we go Good job last time. Thank you. But this time I'm not sure who to assign which. So which one of you wants to tackle the uh you know what it is, why are we so afraid and how do we o overcome that and who wants to tackle the why are we so darn ignorant and how do we overcome that? I'll st I'll attack the sphere one. Okay. I'll go after that one. So I think I think there are two things that are going on. And it this this also is very interesting. A lot of these things that apply multi-faith also apply with intercultural issues or multicultural issues. There are a lot of overlaps. So Uh one of the things I teach our church is there's prejudice and then there's postulus, which is a word I made up. So I'll really dump for half a lot of things. I recently googled it and it was out there, so somebody else made it up too. But so And they have the same definition do you think it means peaceful rule by the way there you go. So prejudice means to judge beforehand. So you make up your mind, you meet someone, you already have formed a judgment And you already have condemned them and the jury's already done and they're gone. That's prejudice. That's prejudice. You're prejudging. You don't know a thing about them. You've just been taught to think poorly of that. However, postudus is you've had a set of personal experiences and now you've formed an opinion about someone. And those are two very different things. So to be prejudicial You may never have encountered a Muslim, you may never have really had a relationship with a Hispanic or whatever, but you've heard so many things over the years, you already have formed an opinion. But what happens So this plays into the fear thing. So much of fear comes from a lack of relationships. But what happens when you actually start developing relationships and then you get hurt? then you start to have a different set of dynamics. And I think those two things keep us apart. So like in our church, which is very, very diverse, we have a lot of cultures in our church. So it's it's one thing to teach what the scripture teaches that we're all made in God's image and so it's a it's wrong, it's sin, it's evil to look down on anyone because of the color of their skin or the texture of their hair or whatever. Um but now what happens when you start to develop relationship with somebody of a different culture and you get wounded by them, now what do you do? So it's the same thing with multi-faith. There are real reasons aside from the ignorance and the fear. There are real reasons why some Christians have some fears about Muslims because of radicalization, Hamas, Al-Qaeda, ISIS. Those are real things around the world. They're not representative of the vast majority of Muslims, but they're just enough that people get afraid. And the same thing, if you start to have conversations with Muslims, inevitably you'll start to talk about colonialism. And what happened with colonialism. So in many parts of the world, there's an there's a instinct for Muslims to go, I love America, but America, not so much, but Western Europe certainly, colonized much of the world where they grew up and experienced unchristian behaviors by people who called themselves Christians. You know, they stole property, they dominated the country and so forth. So I've had many, many conversations with Muslims here in America about we have to have a two way conversation. It isn't just You're going to have to help me understand why I shouldn't fear Muslims when these bad things happen. But I also have to interact with them and let them say, but some bad things have happened too at the hands of so-called Christians. So I think it's a two-part answer. Okay, then the answer to the ignorance question really goes uh goes along the same lines is Uh, you know, just why bother? If I've got the fears, right, and um my fears seem to be based in um well thought out prejudice. Well well thought out postjudice, you know, as you're saying. Postjudice is how you said it. Meaning uh people that I know well that I trust, you know, said these things and or, you know, this is what happened to me. You know, so then why bother trying to learn more? I know enough of what I need to know. And um and so, I mean what leads to ignorance? in any situation is a is a it's a general pride that I know what I need to know, I don't need to know more, you know, whereas humility and wisdom kind of calls us in in, you know, even with my wife for that matter, like at what point do I decide I know my wife so well that I don't need to keep learning? about who she is, you know, and and instead I've I've come to my conclusions. Well well that's the point at which the marriage begins to fall apart and the relationship begins to fray. But if I'm committed to uh to learning more and to growing in my knowledge and my understanding Well well that's at the heart of a um respectful, caring relationship, recognizing that this other person has experiences that I could never uh even if I had all the time in the world come to fully understand their perspective because, you know, they're spending their whole time living in you know, from inside their head, looking out through their eyes. And so there's always more for me to hear, you know. uh what their perspective is. And so I think that the the basis of ignorance uh is is a pride, you know, selfishness. I think I know what I need to know. And I'm just gonna leave it at that instead of, you know, I care so I'm gonna I'm gonna dig deeper and keep learning. Yeah, and I I agree that certainly gonna has to be part of it in some cases. I have another thought that occurred to me but I'll save it for half a second. This is the faith debate. The voice you heard before mine was Jonathan Sweitzer. He is the founder or I guess co-founder, I gave your wife equal billing on that, right? That's right. So uh Carolyn John Swife have a new organization in town uh w within the last year or so. called Cross Bridges. And Jim Eaton joins the panel this week. He's the pastor of Mosaic Church, which has been in town now for what, somewhere around thirteen. Thirteen years. No, it's more than thirteen. Thirteen. Oh, it's more than thirteen. You're just getting started. You're like an adolescent. Really? And the faith debate show started in two thousand four, we're in our fifteenth year. So we must have had Jim on like right when he was a brand spanking new church. I think I was on before our church actually launched, if I remember right. We were I was still out meeting commu people in the community. We hadn't even started Sunday service. Yeah, we start at the very end of 05. You know, and has has uh extensive maturity. And so just thinking about his most recent endeavor, thirteen years. Yeah, I mean I say that genuinely that I don't you know, I don't perceive you as a you know As an upstart. Well he's got a pastor of other churches before he came here. Precisely. Yeah, it takes one to know a map. So anyway. Anyway, the other thoughts that occurred to me about the why people are ignorant and why they won't put themselves out there and uh risk being exposed for their ignorance perhaps, uh, and won't take the time to learn more about their faith so they don't have to worry about being ignorant. is most Christians at some point in their life wrestle with I mean really have struggles over assurance. They have real heartfelt doubts that and what I'm believing first of all am I really saved And what does that mean? Uh am I believing a lie? And they're surrounded by a society with cultural influences that are battering our uh the Christian sensibilities with the the higher criticism, you know, the the academics who are really smart guys and they keep telling me that I'm a fool if I think these things and Well, I do think these things, and I know that if I think these things, then I have eternal salvation, and I don't want to put at risk that I might somehow come to doubt or change my mind on those things. It's not worth it. I don't want to know I think you're right. I think there is that as a factor. Right. Like like they they dug in just far enough to say, okay, now I'm secure and so la la la la, I'm not gonna listen to anything else. And and that's pretty insecure faith. My dad Growing up, I feel like helped me along these lines in a big way. And he encouraged me to ask the hard questions and people, you know, in his congregation to not uh just, you know, uh settle for easy answers and the hard questions kind of require you to pay attention to you know, I I get the sense that your dad did a similar thing for you, you know, just in in terms of grappling with, you know, f uh what do you really believe in, you know, a faith No matter what yeah. It's funny that I was gonna say that. Uh no matter what you believe, if what you believe is not willing to have hard questions asked of it then you really gotta question it. You know, you mean y that's the point at what it's Yeah, I mean we have questions people in our church that way that they want to learn how to share their faith, but their their own personal faith is kind of shaky and they're not that confident in it. So you have to teach people to be confident in the faith they hold and that there's there's no shame in saying I really don't know the answer to your question. That's a great question. But I'll go and work on it and I'll get back to you. There's no problem in doing that. And um I I personally find that it really is very invigorating to your faith. When you're around people, you start to build a relationship and soon you find out you really like being with them. Like Natalie and I have some friends. uh very very good friends who are and live in Rockville and they're Muslims and we're becoming very very close friends and they invited us to be a part of their son's wedding back in September, a three night wedding. It was incredible. And it's such an honor to be there. So when friendships begin to develop and then when you sit and talk about faith it challenges you to think more deeply about what you believe. And sometimes it's in a in a context of we're comparing with each other or we're asking a genuine question about one another's practice or faith or belief. But I think it actually uh stirs us up to have a stronger faith. And if I could just give you a pastoral note as we approach the end of today's program. Uh we have a few minutes left, so it's not like we're wrapping it up right at this moment, but we're in the in the final stretches. And you guys are pastors, so you can uh you know give a pastoral note too. Um People are afraid that they don't know uh that what the real answers are, as Jim was just talking to, but they f feel like everybody else assumes that they must know. And so they don't want to be exposed for being frauds. Yeah. You know, so they don't un they don't maybe don't know the answers to the why do you believe that. So you're going to say, well you're Christian, why? Well because Jesus died on the cross for my sins. Well Why do you believe that? Well, because it's in the Bible. Why do you believe the Bible? You know, and and they don't I I I I I don't know. And they don't want to be exposed. Let me here's the pastoral note. The people you think Know all the answers that are assuming you know them too? They're the same place you are. They don't know either. Put yourself out there, you'll be shocked, you'll be surprised. I mean some of them do, praise God, thank God for those people who do. But nine out of ten don't. So you're you're in the majority, you know, put yourself out there, you're not alone, and allow that ten percent or the one percent in America, uh that maybe can help you answer some of those questions, give them a chance to say, you know what, I had those same questions up until just a few years ago when Sure. You know, uh I really pressed into study and started to learn some of these things and blah blah blah. So take that chance. You guys want to address I'm reading a book by Philip Yancey about prayer right now that Darren Gerald recommended to us, Pastor at Strong Tower And um it m one of Yancey's um sticks, you know, what what makes him so uh well liked as a as an author is that he's He he s he says all those things that he knows all of us are struggling with inside, right? He he gets past the facade and says, Look, let's quit acting like we got it all together. in all the books that he writes. And so, you know, about prayer, you know, and what he says in prayer is that the most important place in prayer to get to is that point at which a at which you are laying out all of your doubts, all of your insecurities, all the the realities of who you are before a God that already knows that to be true about you. And once you've done that, then that's when prayer has happened. You know, that where where where you're you're totally you r you realize how naked you are before him and and you just let it happen and and lay it out. And I feel like that's at the heart of this whole question of of fear and insecurity and trying to look like we got it all together is that we don't know how to uh receive the love of a God that knows all our weaknesses that we're trying so desperately to hide way better than we even know ourselves in that has already uh extended forgiveness to us, you know, and love and grace and mercy. That's so true. I completely agree with that. And I also think that when you put people in the context of community, it helps them a lot. So we try to uh teach at Mosaic that we're a church, we're a we're a community, we're a fellowship. You you're never alone. You're not walking through this alone. So Whatever it is that you're questioning or you're worrying about or you think you're the only one who doesn't have it all together, just come to church. Just come and we'll and we'll help you. We'll we'll help one another. We're all uh it messed up at a certain point. We all I share with our people from time to time on Sundays, this is a struggle I have, this is something I'm working through, this is You know, I'm just like you. I mess up too. I sin too. God is wonderful. And when you have people that can help one another on the journey, it really, really is a wonderful thing. He's the pastor of Mosaic Church in Frederick, now meeting at Tuscarora High School, Jim Eaton, and Jonathan Sweitzer. course on the panel again. He is the uh co founder with his wife Carol of uh Cross Bridges. Thank you John for being on the show again, my friend. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. Find us online at WFMD dot com. Keyword Faith takes you right to our page where you see our ugly mug and uh uh well and your your pink t shirt. Go look at the website and note the pink t shirt that I have no fear, I'm not ashamed. I know every reason why I'm wearing this pink shirt. for listening. Uh actually the panel will be back again next week, God willing the creeks don't rise. Until then. But they say yet 167. 5 hours from now. God bless