This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master of the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-brawl forum. Hua, where Faith Community leads to the. . Wrestle over the truth. Yabba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run ball Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the fate-to-bate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Switzer. No, I'm just getting long done. Many Christians recognize a distinct pattern. and given in Matthew eighteen for dealing with a problem, or more specifically people who pose for us the problem. You might believe that this is primarily talking about dealing with problems among believers, and that would be a good belief. But it can also be applied to many situations. Doesn't it always make sense? You first go privately to one with whom you have a problem. And then if you need to take a couple of people with you if necessary to help clarify facts, avoid unnecessary argument and then ramp it up to the point where action must be taken by those in authority to do so if that's what's required. Makes sense, but it's too rarely what happens. Particularly true in today's societal context when Christianity intersects With Islam. What to do, what to do. Here to talk about it are Jonathan Schweitzer, founder of Cross Bridges, and Jim Eaton, pastor of Mosaic Church. Cross Bridges and Mosaic Church, both in France. Frederick, Maryland. Frederick means peaceful ruler. Peaceful ruler. Not city of peace as we were once led to believe in an effort to pass off Fake news. I guess Rick means ruler and Fred means peace. I mean which part of that means peace and which part means ruler? I thought Rick meant like a town, you know And so Fred was peaceful town. But apparently I was right. I've clearly thought about this way too much and not enough all at the same time if it's possible. Well, I've known you for almost twenty years. That's it's part of the course. Anyway, so Jonathan Schweitzer and Jim Eden back for round three uh on on this uh panel discussion. uh are interacting, should be interacting, how we please stop interacting uh with uh people who think differently than Christians do. I want to uh Talk about I mean I alluded to it last week. We didn't really go down that rabbit hole. Maybe we'll have a chance to bring it up in in a renewed context. Rabbit hole and rabbit trail. Because they're different. I'm like really feeling funny today. This morning. Either you're on your medication or medication. So uh social media is an interesting place for us to look But I I don't want to spend a whole lot of time there because it's not the real world. You know, it's not really social media, it's anti-social media as I've grown to call it. It's uh where people live faux lives with faux friends, uh having faux relationships lofting grenades from their bunkers at one another and uh giving hugs to those who they think are like-minded. I mean it's very polarizing. If you're either on the in-group or the out group. If you're the in-group, it's all You know, fuzzy, warm bunnies. And if you're on the out group, it's you're an idiot and your mother dresses you funny. Um Which by the way, if you looked on the website, Troy's wearing a pink shirt today, and so I think you need to see if His mother dressed in funny. I just want to say last week Jim was talking about how loneliness uh or estrangement like breeds distrust towards other groups and I don't think it's too far a jump to say that that the anti-social media phenomenon uh that has led to loneliness, suicide, you know, uh opioid addictions, all these kinds of things, uh increases the xenophobia of different groups because you're already feeling alone, you're feeling estranged because of the way social media works and it just exacerbates whatever distance you already feel from other groups, you know, in in terms of your ability to ask questions and to build relationships. And so It's just more difficult right now for us as a nation than it has been. Exposing our hearts. Um we want to be with people who are only we only feel safe and secure and unafraid when we're with those like us. That's where our heart is. And because we're afraid of those who are different from us, we we need to demonize them, hate them, launch grenades at them kind of thing. So it exposes our heart. Which is fine. I think it's good to expose the heart. But then you wanna you wanna follow up that left jab with a right cross, you know, and the social media context does not provide the right cross. So there's no corrective There's no c there's no countermeasures that are e th that are uh easily practiced or at least very present on social media. So our hearts are being exposed. Good. Period. Not good. Any hearts are exposed. Now what do I do with the brokenness of my heart? Remember Jerry Maguire? Right at the beginning of the movie, this amazing, you know, uh like mission statement. Mission statement for life that that says that we need to connect with one another. Then he gets with his girlfriend. His girlfriend shares these you know, secrets about, you know, like what's really going on in her heart and he's like, Whoa, that wasn't what I was talking about. Right? And and that's the point is that that when we go to share our hearts The reality is that there's a lot more ugly stuff in there than than we probably realized, you know, and so if we don't have a way to kind of wash through that together and move move forward, then we just end up getting stuck and things get worse. And so here's why I bring all that up and I'm you know I'm gonna turn to Jim and get some wisdom from him hopefully on on some of this. If Social media, if I'm if I'm at least partly right, that social media is is exposing our hearts in this negative way and we've got these fears and these doubts. And part of it we've talked about the last couple of weeks of What what's causing that? We we don't know our own faith well enough. We don't understand maybe the faith of the other person well enough. We don't know their perspective, their life story, where they're coming from, what their real agenda, motives and fe all that sort of stuff. If you missed all that Go to WFMD. com, go to the Faith Debate page, find the podcast and catch yourself up. We had a couple of, I think, uh a couple of our better shows in a while the last couple of weeks. So definitely want to check those out if you can. So now we we know all of that I'm I've now imagine I'm a Christian listening to this show uh the last couple of weeks and now the beginning of this week, and I'm I'm convicted. I need to do better. I need to have what we call a multi-faith approach, not an interba-faith approach. I need to be authentic and transparent about what I believe and be willing to go there, whatever that means. So then I get mo I get myself educated on what Christians believe and why, and I go there with somebody that I know to be a Muslim. What are the things that Muslim if I only had X amount of time to spend, what are the one, two, three, four, five things in your experience dealing with Muslims that they really need to hear from the Christian? I think they need to hear especially in the climate uh we're in right now as a country, post election Anti-Semitism and Islamophobia have spiked considerably. So there's a a much greater level of anxiety among Muslims right now. And uh we have conversations with Muslim families um a lot. And they tell stories about this is what happened with their child, they were being bullied in the school and they had to who are eating their lunches in the restroom because of bullying and there's just there are a lot of things happening. So I think a good starting point is just to try to build a relationship. So though those stories are in Frederick schools? They're all up and down the two seventy corridor. They're these are anywhere from Bethesda to Frederick. So it's in Montgomery County, it's in it's in it's in Montgomery County, it's in Fairfax County, Loudoun County, Frederick County So and it's not obvious it's not everybody, but the the the tensions are higher right now. So What we're finding is just having uh an open heart and a desire to build a relationship, to build a friendship uh means a great deal to Muslims right now. So the the average American Muslim is pretty much the opposite of the media impression of a Muslim. So there's a lot of You know, media f feeds on sensation and notoriety and bad news, right? So um I hadn't noticed. It's it's kind of it's that kind of thing. A lot of people think oh Muslims are scary or Muslim because you have you have these isolated uh horrible experiences mainly in other countries. But the vast majority of American Muslims are patriotic, they're very conscientious, they're faith based, they're Um they're trying to raise their children to be responsible citizens. So when you start to actually build a friendship, their their hearts open up because they realize, oh, you're a Christian and an American who wants a relationship with me. Whereas their perceptions often are, again, because we tend to live in silos, right? So we live in cultural silos or religious silos. they're not really that aware of how the average person really sees them. They kind of go on media impressions too. So when you actually have a a sit-down like Natalie and I are my wife Natalie and I are involved in a lot of conversations in Muslim homes where we'll have a dinner and then p we sit around and have conversations throughout the evening, uh many times it goes to topics like this, the concerns, fears. Uh how can we build bridges? Uh not not not really trying to build a bridge between the the great differences between our faiths, but building bridges of friendship and neighborliness and having each other's backs when when times are different. So the first step is you're a Muslim, I'm a Christian, I love you. That's step one. Well they understand. Yeah, just just try to build a friendship. Like if you find out there's a Muslim family on your street, just Try to build up. And I wasn't trying to be trite. Oh, okay. I was trying to be simple. Oh, okay, yeah. That's basically yes, you're right. Yeah, I wasn't trying to mock or or or be dismissive. I mean I'll even say like when we're having conversations, I'll say, look, I'm a Christian I'm a Christ follower, so Jesus said, you love someone to the extent you're willing to give your life for them. I said that's the true posture of a Christian. But as I say that, sometimes Muslims in the living room or the family room, they'll actually begin to cry because some of their experiences with people who call themselves Christians in America has been so opposite of that. And the Christians who have treated them that way many times are doing it out of fear that the Muslims are going to treat them poorly. So it's a cycle that's like. They might feel comfortable asking questions. Absolutely. And so what what might be the the one most, or if you can't limit it to one, what are the you know two or three most common questions that Muslims want to know answers to? One question we've we've heard a lot is how can we posture ourselves or message ourselves better so Americans are not nervous around us. So Americans realize if we if if they're walking to an airport and they see a Muslim family kneel down to pray in the airport. That's not intimidating. It's just an act of prayer. Uh or if they're seeing someone and a woman has a head covering that that should not make them cause have a cause for fear. It's simply an act of faith that they have. Just like in American culture we have Amish and Mennonite and we have people who have different forms of dress. The vast majority of Americans uh Muslims in America are not radicalized like that. Whereas in some other countries you do have a fair segment of the population that has been radicalized and are very conservative. But in America Most of them, the vast majority, are coming here because of these freedoms and because of the opportunities for their families. And they're very much proponents of religious freedom and uh all of the different freedoms we cherish. So they want to know how they can not be so scary to people and what sort of advice can we give them. Well, we've we've said um Continue to do the things we're doing. Break out of your silos and be willing to open up your home. Be willing to have conversations over lunch at work. And we've told them just be authentic, be yourself. So if you feel like somebody is intimidated when you're having prayer, just talk to them about this. It's just your faith. Because you know, there was a time in America where America was very anti Semitic. Just before World War Two. We have a pretty sordid history about turning away Jews that were trying to escape from from Nazi Germany because there was a lot of anti Semitism in America and that is m considerably less now than it was fifty, sixty years ago. And I think that uh many Muslims have talked to me about how they're hoping to see Islam have some kind of reformation of itself in America because here you can be free to to find a way to practice your faith just as other f uh faiths have done in America. Muslims are hoping to do the same. So Um it occurs to me that this entire discussion is a subset of of uh how to get past stereotypes, right? Like like the the reason why they're stereotypes is because people do things consistently enough that that you get the sense, oh, those kinds of people do those kinds of things, right? The prejudice comes from or postjudice as as uh Jim uh uh coined the term uh last week meaning you're judging after the fact, post you know, after the fact that that there's enough of seeing, hearing, interacting with various things that that you get a a sense like, oh, I wonder if that's common to you know, everybody in that culture, everybody, you know, that's Latin American, everybody that's that's Muslim, everybody that's, you know, Jewish or whatever it is, you know. And and so, um So the the question, right, with with all of those scenarios is is how to treat each person that you meet you know, uh as a unique individual, uh and to to give them the chance, you know, to to win your trust you know, and to kind of start afresh as it were. And even, you know, when there's uh when you've started afresh with somebody and they handle something wrong to give them the second chance, you know, like like Jesus talked about to to forgive seventy times, seven times, to you know, to to not give up on people in uh I think that that well that's when the disciples asked Jesus to increase our faith. It's the only place that they asked their faith, you know, to be increased was in learning to forgive people. And so I think that's one of the hardest things for any one of us to do is to uh uh back in the late seventeen hundreds, Edmund Burke wrote a book uh and he talked about prejudice and said the prejudice is super valuable you know, in terms of giving us um a way to anticipate something that could hurt us. Right? And so you do something, you y you touch a a plate and you get burned and so you you develop a prejudice. against uh flames, you know, or you know, uh uh hot plates, you know, and and that that there's a healthy aspect to that and so things like like lying, cheating, you know, uh that that there's you know, that that you're kinda teaching your kids, you know, to to stay away from those those kinds of things, to don't you know, don't build friendships with people that are lying to you all the time and you know, those kinds of things, it's a healthy prejudice to to, you know, learn to develop the right kind of relationships. And yet in in a nation like the United States where s where all these different cultures are coming together Somehow we have to get past the prejudice and give each individual the chance to, you know, to you know, step out of the stereotype, whatever it is, and to to, you know, build relationships with one another. So if somebody is just listening for the last few minutes, they don't know who the heck's talking. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer was the voice uh that was speaking before me. He is the founder of uh Crossbridges And the person I interrupted, but am now about to let speak is uh Jimmy. He is a pastor of Mosaic Church in Frederick. Oh sure. So I was just going to say I think that Uh sometimes some aspects of political correctness can can hurt us if we're trying too hard to simply just say things that we don't really mean. But I think a pluralistic mindset is a very healthy thing. So a pluralistic mindset is really what America at the r at the core is all about. That you can come and you can become an American No matter your ethnicity or culture, no matter your faith tradition, you can become an American. And when the pressures rise and the tensions increase in our country, we've always had seasons where we shrink back and like Lincoln urged us to the better angels of our nature and when when things get tense it's like the worser demons of our nature arise. And right now we're in one of those seasons where Nationalism is rising, xenophobia is arising, but the best parts of America are really more pluralistic. It isn't that you give up your beliefs, you you hold your beliefs, you hold your traditions But you love and honor and respect your neighbor who can do the same thing. And I think that there as Christians, as Christ followers, that's how the New Testament was written. It was written anticipating that we would be in pluralistic settings where we may we may be the minority, we may not be the majority, like in previous decades American Christians have felt like they were the majority. But I think actually Christianity functions best When we don't assume we're the my the majority. We assume that we're simply people who love Christ and follow him, but we're also going to love and honor and cherish our neighbors no matter what they believe. And once your friends and neighbors start to sense you genuinely love them, then when you start to articulate differences, the relationship can handle it. Because people know you're disagreeing with me, but you still love me. You know it's interesting. Uh Jim, you and I aren't probably in the uh in the same place about like our pol our our approach to politics. I think we've we've um acknowledge that, you know, uh in the course of our relationship on a number of fronts and and uh and so I'm gonna just make a di a uh a distinction Like nationalism for me is a moment when when we're drawing some boundaries that that feel to me more like a multi-faith boundary All right. So so I'm like I'm like making a comparison that that that is pre big comparison. Um in it in that it it felt to me like like globalism as a whole had turned into this space where everybody was saying, oh, you know, it doesn't matter that there's any distinctions, you know, we we we can all just get along. Like like we we stopped respecting the fact that there are distinctions in cultures and uh even uh aspects of those distinctions, uh i. e. human rights, you know, uh in China or various places that that we stopped paying attention. to where our convictions really do mean that we need to draw a clear line in order to be true to ourselves and even true to them. Right? And so so in my mind, nationalism is is a resetting of those boundaries to say, hey, wait a second Uh let's just be clear about who we are. You know, make sure that we know who we are and and you know uh do it in a way that that um uh that we're we're caring for those in in our midst so that as we're developing uh treaties with other nations that we do it on a basis of respect and not on the basis of uh kind of this feel good, you know, hey, we're just gonna create this, you know, international world that everybody just gets along. And so, uh, you know, just in terms of of that distinction Unfortunately, it feeds into a measure of xenophobia when you're doing that reset. But I feel like that reset is super valuable as long as we are diligent to not let the you know the xenophobia rise and you know and and take over but but that we do it you know with real conviction and and and pressing in together and so Uh anyways, that's that's a distinct distinction about um nationalism and even the rise of xenop xenophobia in our day and age that Uh I think you and I might be in different places on Could be. It sounds like you're saying that uh when it comes to na uh ideas about nationalism, what we've had is this internationalism. Right And what we've had in the faith circles is inner faith, and you're saying what we should have is multinationalism to go along with multi-faith. Is that the is that point you're trying to make? Yeah. Uh I I wanna I had a thought popping in my head that happens from from time to time. Uh when Jim was talking about five, ten minutes ago, but I didn't want to interrupt. Yeah, when somebody comes out of their silo And you say, what do you tell somebody who's you know wants to be liked and you know, come out of your silo, be you, do what you're doing, be be vulnerable. Um and in addition to that, I I think uh a strategy or a tactic uh to use while you're coming out of your silo and being vulnerable is be curious. Ask questions. Right. You know, don't come out of your silo and say, here's what I believe in. Why? Is anybody listening? It's more like coming out of your silo and saying, Hey, stranger, what's your name? And so I was like What do you believe? What do you think? When Christians come out of their silo, we tend to come out feeling like God called us to evangelize and I need to I need to evangelize and I know I haven't been and so I need to do it. And so we don't come out naturally building relationships, but kind of with this this internal sense of guilt, like, okay, finally I'm I'm I'm gonna finally do it and you know, somebody taught me, you know, the five steps to do it well and so I'm gonna go out and do it and And in instead of just building relationships out of which there's a natural opportunity to share what we believe and to to explore that, we end up entering into these faux relationships that are not really founded on the basis of, you know, let's get to know each other, but founded on the basis of I'm here to convince you. of Jesus. Yes, and I think I think people pick up on that right away. So Jesus said I did not come to be served, but to serve. So if you have the posture of humility and you want to genuinely get to know people to serve them. I don't see where I have to ever apologize for the fact that I believe passionately in Jesus Christ. And I believe in evangelism. I've had conversations with Muslims where I say, my greatest joy would be for you someday to see Jesus as the Son of God and commit your faith to him. But I'm never going to strong arm you, I'm never going to deceive you or mistreat you. I'm going to love you and serve you, and that's up to God. That hasn't impacted our relationship at all except to enhance it. So I think that that the uh th there is also uh maybe all over on another sector or in another part of the thought field, there are people who are saying, well you should never evangelize, you shouldn't say the name of Jesus. I don't agree with that at all That's why I talk about pluralism over over secularism. I think secularism is a deadening influence in America. And I'm glad to see its its forces weakening. It's still strong in sort of the blue blood places, like a lot of the media and so forth. But it's not growing on the grassroots level. Pluralism is growing on the grassroots level. Uh John's with uh Cross Bridges. Jim is with Mosaic Church. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm with the Faith Debate at 930 WFMD. Till next week. God bless.