This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master of the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Hoorah for Faith Community. leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Let's get ready to rumbo Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. In this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweitzer. No, I'm just getting wronged up. Christians should try. To get along with other people, right? What does that mean? Does it mean Christians should always agree with people? Does it at least mean to not intentionally look for opportunities to anger and upset people? Romans chapter 12 says that if it be possible, as much Such as lie with you, live peaceably with all men. This Bible verse does not say it's always gonna be possible to live peaceably, but the effort should be there, don't we think? This is true with respect to all people, and therefore One might argue it is true with respect to Muslims. Here to talk about Christians interacting with Muslims in today's world. Jonathan Sweitzer, founder of Cross Bridges, and Jim Eaton, the pastor of Mosaic Church. Uh John's organization is in Frederick. Jim's church is in Frederick. My name's Troy Skinner. I'm in Frederick. And wherever you're listening right now, hey God, peace be upon you. So, and you know Frederick means like city of peace. Like the term Frederick means made that up. I kid you not. It's true. No. It is true. Look it up. Frederick means city of peace. Yes, sir, it does. Oh Yep. Do you are you buying this? Have you heard this before, Jim? I've never heard that before. I'm gonna Google it right now just to confirm. So this is live on the air. And if he finds something on Google then we'll know it's true. That's right. Well, Wikipedia is true, right? Seriously? Where did you hear that? Sorry, this is an aside from the subject. I've been paying attention to that for uh quite some time. So if it if I find out that it's not, then I've been believing something wrong for a long time. Wow. Frederick is a masculine given name meaning peaceful ruler. It's the English form of the dynamic main name Friedrich. And so that's from Wikipedia. There you have it. All right. So not exactly city of peace, but urban dictionary means peaceful ruler, a king. Hmm. So there you have it. Okay. Do you feel bad that that I was right on that? I'm not going to concede you were right. You're a little intimidated. You're like back on your heels, man. You said city of peace, not peaceful ruler. That's true. I was I was off. Frederick. Anyway, rulers. So instead of us arguing, let's go argue with some Muslims. I mean let's talk about how Christians should be interacting with uh Muslims. How how Christianity should interact with Islam in general is you know theological points to be scored and debates that could be had and you can articulate the differences. Uh I'm not sure if we're gonna really go there because we don't have a Muslim scholar here to do that. So this is kind of an intramural or intramural uh discussion among three Christians, right, about what we should be doing, what sort of advice we would give to those who are interacting with those who don't share um uh the Christian faith, maybe even a a a Christian worldview. Uh in a culture where, you know, if if you try to be agreeable, then you'll be accused of siding with them or being one of them. It's pretty toxic. You're not allowed to I have a uh difference of view on something, uh, without taking up their cause. So I'll let you start, John, with your generalized thoughts and we'll whittle down from there. When interacting with somebody who's different than you, uh particularly as it relates to you interacting with somebody who's a Muslim Right. What are some things you try to accomplish? And if you want to include this now, you can, otherwise we'll swing back and ask it to the second question. What are some things that you would say you're trying to avoid? Yeah, so I think in general, uh this is where Jim and I got to talking about it and uh and what kind of inspired us to say, hey, let's go ahead and do it here. Uh There there's a couple different approaches to conversations between religions. You know, there's kind of a comparative religions approach. that uh is more academic that kind of argues that that all religions are myth and help us to understand who we are as people and so um uh they don't necessarily you know a comparative religions uh academic does doesn't necessarily think there is a God so much as you know they just appreciate the power of religion. You know, you're talking kind of critically of what happens in a classroom at a college campus. That's correct. That would be more in that context. Okay Uh but then uh there's a number of people that would that would say something like, Ah, we all just worship the same God, you know Uh so w why can't we just get along? And so that would be another approach. We all worship me? Yeah, yeah. So clearly when you're in the discussion it takes a whole different turn. Uh and so I'm happy for it to go that d that direction. Uh and and you know, and then there's like uh you know, some ecumenical discussions that um Again, you know, if if you're if you're claiming that that we all worship the same God, then some of the distinctives between the different religions are minimized uh in favor of of peace and finding ways to get along. Uh but then Jim has uh been interacting with some really amazing, uh exciting discussions. both here in the States and overseas into the Middle East that uh I'm gonna kinda turn it over here to him to to tell us about that argues that we uh we should just admit that we don't agree with one another But do it respectfully and in a way that still builds a genuine relationship. And I guess there'd be one other way, and that is that we just yell at each other and and say, I disagree with you and And uh, you know, you're going to hell and and uh don't you wish you could be us kind of a you know, kind of uh uh irresponsible, you know, ineffective form of communication. And so um Jim, you've been working for several years, you know, with I think it's a guy down in Texas somewhere. So tell us a little bit about like the distinctives there. Sure, sure. So I was invited uh several years ago by a uh pastor friend of mine, Bob Roberts, who uh pastors in Dallas, Texas. And um there was an event here in the DC area held at He wears a big hat. So I was invited to attend an event. um in another church here in the DC area. This was about three years ago. And so things began to kind of take off from there and he's invited me to several events, which is one sort of stream of um conversations that we've had and then there's another stream of conversations, all of these with Muslims primarily, some with Jews, but primarily Muslims. The other stream occur started about two years ago. I was invited to a a round table Down in DC with Muslim leaders. There were about fifteen of them. And they just wanted by Bob Roberts. No, this one actually happened uh an invitation from a Muslim leader in the DC area and he was just trying to find a pastor to come and talk there because that was kind of separate from your Bob Rabbit. Totally separate. Yes Uh how are those streams of conversations happening? Uh well they the one with Bob Roberts just came about through friendships. And then the second one was uh a pastor friend of mine in the DC area, John Jenkins, was invited to be at this round table and he called me and said, Jim, this is kind of more in your wheelhouse than in mine. Would you be willing to go in my place? And I said, Sure, I'll go. So when you say friendship, I just to clarify my own mind. So Pastor Bob has friendships with a number of Articulate. And that goes way back. That goes back a number of years. So I've read some of Bob's books and uh he uses Uh two terms which I agree with. So the one would be and more people are familiar with this, and that is interfaith And then the term he prefers is multi faith. Yeah, this was the distinction that is so. And I think it's a very important distinction, and I'm finding so far that it it yields a lot of um effective and flourishing not only conversations but relationships as well. So interfaith, as Jonathan was saying, is a little bit more of the approach that we come together and we all agree that Uh all religions are somewhat more or less the same and we in a sense we kind of minimize our differences. to to get together and to appreciate one another. Whereas multi-faith takes more the approach that our respective differences in particular the three Abrahamic faith traditions are very sharp and strong dis differences. So up front we admit that we uh hold dearly to our faith And we understand the significant differences among us in the thr among the three different faith traditions, and we own them up front, but then we say what we want to do is we want to develop respectful, honorable relationships around the virtues we share while at the same time having candid and open conversations on the areas where we disagree. And I think that's a more fruitful way to go uh in the long run. If you're right, we're in trouble because that's not the way it it typically happens. It's more the interfaith model that you're talking about. I'm wondering, did uh Bob in Dallas um foster an environment to have these friendships because he has this multiphase idea and he wanted to interact with them or he just was members of the same country club, got to know them and realized, hey, we've got some sharp distinctives here, um, but I don't like the interface idea. Let me coin a term, come up with multi-face and And approach it that way instead. How did that come about? Actually. And they were doing mission efforts primarily in Vietnam. And then they began to do th through local friendships, they began to foster relationships among Muslims as well. So he was invited to something overseas and he happened to be sitting with some Muslim leaders overseas and they um lovingly kind of rebuked him. They said Uh they challenged and they said, This is wonderful that you're over here interacting with all of us, but there are a great deal of uh problems, Islamophobia, uh fractured relationships. between Muslims and Christians in America. Bob, maybe you could go back and try working on those as well as working on the ones in the Middle East. So Bob took up that challenge and so he began to make friendships with Interesting. And I don't want to put words in his mouth, but he's got some of this in his books and So forth. I'd probably have to chat with him again to get the exact details, but it was something along that line. Okay, yeah, but uh I reason I pressed it, I wanted to see you know where the kernel of it or the beginning the seed was planted. And he made himself available to having a conversation. That's right. He obviously wasn't argumentative and dismissive in those early moments. And reminds me that we've had on this show a number of times Muslim guests. In fact, we've had the uh past president of the Islamic Society of Frederick on numerous times. That was funny. And Khalil ended up coming on the show because Jonathan met him playing soccer. We were on a soccer team together. His brother and me and my wife and him. And you had real authentic you know, conversations and you were friendly, you weren't dismissive, and uh before you know it you're having real real challenging theological discussions and worldview argument, you know, and not argument like we're gonna get into fisticuffs, but you know, intellectual argument. Discussion. And then invited him onto the show to to carry that out uh in a public space so we could show people how it's done. And in that context we ended up uh developing well I ended up developing relationship with uh Imam Yahya Hendi who at the time was the chaplain down at Georgetown University and he was uh running a couple classes through Johns Hopkins University. Okay. And so uh in that context, you know, we just had additional opportunities just to talk about where we agree and disagree. Mm-hmm. I remember at one point saying to Imam Hendi that that it felt to me like uh he probably would have more in common with parts of the church that I represent and some of the parts of the church that he was interacting with in terms of uh moral um uh moral what, uh relativism or, you know, moral absolutes. Yes. And uh I've heard I've had conversations like that too. And he responded to that and that was where he extended the invitation to join them at Johns Hopkins. And what you meant by that is Muslims tend to be a little more absolute in their moral rigor. They believe in absolute right and wrong. a perception among Muslims that I've had conversations with that American Christians are considerably less um committed and and willing to say the tough things according to the teachings of our faith Um and so there's often a a a pleasant surprise when you have conversations among Muslims and you share some of the distinctives of our faith. Or the times that we're in the public square. uh somewhere in the world, in the marketplace, uh whatever, and we run into situations where we become uncomfortable because our faith calls a certain thing from us that doesn't fall in sync with the world, with the culture. And they'll say, Really? I thought we were the only ones that face that. And I'll say, No, no, no, no. We we have those kinds of things too. So um It often creates further conversation. That's the voice of Jim Eaton. He's the pastor of Mosaic Church in Frederick. The other voice joining uh panel again this week is Jonathan Sweitzer, the Founder of Crossed Bridges. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debata 930 WFMD. So we talked about interfaith and multi-face, and I'm going to give each of you a uh a task. I'm going to assign you one of those and ask you to talk about it. So John I'm going to want you to talk about inner faith and all the things that might be problematic with that approach. And then I'm going to turn to Jim and talk about multi-faith and talk about what he thinks are the um particularly perhaps in context of in com contrast with inner faith, what the strengths would be. So So um I'll start with a with a recent story just in the last um just recent history back at the uh turn of the year, um some friends of mine whose uh teenage youth are in a choir here in Frederick, that is uh the the Frederick Community Choir sang together at um a local Catholic church that does a um a New Year's Eve service every year. And uh going into it, I mentioned to them that um that I think they would find uh that that event was likely going to be less comfortable for them. than maybe they expected, precisely because it's uh it's interfaith. So they'll have uh at that event they'll have local uh Muslim leaders uh and um people from different parts of of the body of Christ, uh people that have no faith, uh Buddhists uh will be ha have been a part of that. So this is true for the event, not for the choir. um is promoting itself as as a Christian choir. It's promoting itself as a community choir. So they do, you know, some secular and some, you know, gospel kinds of uh kinds of songs. Obviously at an event like this they would do the gospel songs. But the event itself is led intentionally in an interfaith kind of a way, and they make no distinction about you know, is is one faith right or is another faith uh wrong or and and they don't uh really get into any of the distinctives, they just come together and pray together in and and so I've been uncomfortable in that setting uh precisely because um because When I'm in a setting like that, I'm often inviting people from my circles to come with and uh and I don't want to give people that that uh are following my lead the impression that I think all faiths are okay. Right? And so if we stood on that stage and we say, hey, this is a group of of guys interfaith, like like uh what Jim is describing that recognize that we disagree with one another and we're having a public robust discussion uh and so I'm inviting people to come so that they can kind of kinda be a part of the that's one thing. But if there's no clarity about uh, you know, uh the fact that we have very different beliefs, then uh I could be encouraging those that that follow me to To also make no distinctions, just think that there are no distinctions. Uh because I I'm listening with others' ears as well as well as my own. Do you want to uh re Yeah, so what I've always said is that um uh is that religion right is something that we all hold, you know, of course, very personally. And and the heart of it really is what is it you believe to be true about life? And so by uh you know, as a Christian I believe that Jesus Christ uh is the way to the father and uh the passage where jesus said I'm the way the truth and life no man comes to the father but by me so for me um any religion that doesn't recognize that Jesus is the way to the father then is not um is not uh uh preaching the truth. There's elements of truth, I think, in all religions, but ultimately uh for me Christ defines what is the truth and what is not the truth. And so um So I'm not comfortable saying that another religion is is right or okay um in terms of of a person's eternal salvation. However As a citizen of the United States, I'm super grateful for the First Amendment and the right for everybody to worship according to their conscience. I would never want uh a nation to somehow force anybody from any religion to to have to believe what I think to be true, right? I I think it's best for people to make that choice w uh uh with a free will and in and openly you know thinking through the merits of of what's being presented. It certainly clears it up for anybody that might have been fuzzy. So Jim, what do you uh what do you think the merits of the multi-faith and if there are weaknesses we should be thinking about, you can share those. Sure, sure. Well I think I think there's several. One is that you're going in excuse me, I'm getting over a cold, so uh you're going into any conversation with a perspective, and I'll start with this one uh from the scripture. This is in the New Testament where it says, But in your hearts regard Christ the Lord as holy, ready at any time to give a defense to anyone who asks you for a reason. for the hope that is in you. Yet do this with gentleness and respect. So I think that as a Christ follower, the way I'm supposed to be looking for and and negotiating and uh managing and flourishing in relationships with people no matter where their faith uh perspective is. is to have two things in hand. One is to have a clear understanding of what I believe, and then the other is to always be treating others with humility and with respect. So If I back off on what I believe, it may at first create more comfort in the room because we're all saying nice, warm, fuzzy things. But Ultimately, what I've discovered is somewhere deep down inside every person is some type of a longing for candor and authenticity in a relationship. So that if I say He I I understand there's some differences between us and these are significant differences. So if I'm with a Muslim, there's a significant difference. in articulating uh that Muhammad is the primary prophet, is the most honored prophet and Jesus would be one of the honored prophets. There's a difference between that perspective and a Christian perspective that says Jesus Christ is not only a prophet, but he is the Messiah, the Son of God. So we can have an honest respectful discussion about those differences as long as the second factor is also running at the same time and that's the humility and the respect. So sometimes In the interfaith world, you have what seems to be uh friendship and respect, but you don't quite have the authenticity because people aren't being real with what they believe. Uh uh I mean some people are. If they if they have a more um generalized view of faith, they may be authentic. But for those of us who have a very fervent, specific understanding of our faith It helps to have the respect and the humility and the candor and the authenticity. And what I found is whether someone is Jewish or someone is Muslim or Hindu or Sikh or whatever their their faith perspective, when you have those things operating and they sense from me that I'm being very truthful with them at the same time with honor and respect the conversation just takes off because then they suddenly relax and go, okay, well can I be really honest? Can I ask you a question about how Christians are in America? I've always wanted to ask this question. Suddenly they feel free to ask it because they're sensing the respect But they also sense that I'm going to be really clear with them about where I think we have differences. Yeah, and we're gonna that's uh uh uh I think that felt like we tied a knot there almost. So this is a nice conclusion for this episode. We're gonna bring this panel back together again next week. There's a lot more to to um to unpack. I'd like to spend some time next week talking about why we don't see this happening. Maybe we could talk about why we're not seeing it uh in specific ways like on social media uh why we're not seeing individual Christians that we know interacting with people this way. You know, if if this all seems to make sense on the surface, so why isn't it happening? I think I'd like to Talk a little bit about that next week's show. So thank you for listening. Thank you. That's right, because there's another organization down in DC called Bridges. I stole it. That's all right, we'll take them out. And then uh Jim Eaton is the uh founder and pastor of Mosaic Church here in Fridge. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. You can follow us online at WFMD dot com. Uh go to the Faith to Bay page and you'll see uh podcast of previous shows. In fact you'll hear the podcast of this show. It'll be up there within a couple of days, at the very least, usually anyway. And you'll see uh get a tease of what's gonna be on uh in coming weeks on the show as well. And you get to see our Beautiful pictures. Uh huh. There's a reason to go right there. Yes. Until next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless.