This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others Learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. Weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. Welcome to the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, as the announcer just said. Thank you for listening. We uh you might remember a number of months ago we did a series of shows that were called the Lost Lockdown Tapes because we couldn't record the show we know the way we normally would record it because of all the restrictions that are emplaced upon us And so we find ourselves in a similar situation now as well. And so these are uh the lockdown tapes, uh part two, I guess. uh redux lockdown tapes. And so you're gonna hear uh s um uh uh a portion of some comments that was shared via social media uh in kind of a church setting context by me um back oh was in April. I think this was uh actually this is Palm Sunday of twenty twenty. So Uh that was we enter 2021. And by the way, happy new year to you. Welcome to a new year. Hopefully it's better than the last one. That's I think we're all rooting for that. Anyway, so here's what you're you're gonna hear. It's kind of a family meeting discussion about a whole bunch of different topics that have to do with how we should react to the lockdown and uh live our lives as in Christians uh ask questions in that sort of a context. So without further ado, here we go. Let's maintain our perspective in the face of scary statistics dominating the news coverage at the moment. There is great reason for hope. There's always great reason for hope, knowing that God never loses control. However, there are also practical realities that give us great reason for hope Sickness and death are bad. All of us get sick, all of us will die. And yet we still live lives blessed by God. in the here and now, seeking to be joyfully obedient even amidst tragedy that has swirled about us our entire lives. The statistics regarding coronavirus are problematic, but not necessarily more problematic than some of these. Alzheimer's and dementia. More than 5 million Americans are affected right now One in three seniors who get it will die from it. It will cost the nation $305 billion this year. 50% of doctors say that the medical system is not ready for the growing number of people diagnosed. The death rate is up 146% from what it was not so long ago. The source for these staff, the Alzheimer's Association website. Autism. An estimated four million Americans have currently been diagnosed and the numbers are climbing. The CDC has determined that one in fifty-nine children is now affected. There is no trustworthy medical detection available. On average, a diagnosis will mean a projected annual cost of $60,000 per year for every year of life. Nationwide, the annual cost of caring for these individuals is expected to reach nearly half a trillion dollars in the coming years. To source for the stats, the Autism Speaks website. Seasonal influenza, the World Health Organization estimates that worldwide there are up to five million cases of severe illness. The number of deaths is estimated to be five hundred thousand. The CDC estimates tens of thousands of deaths in the United States. Medical experts report that it spreads easily with rapid transmission in crowded areas, including schools and nursing homes, and when an infected person coughs or sneeze, droplets containing the virus are dispersed into the air and can spread to infect persons in close proximity. To prevent transmission, people should cover their mouth and nose with a tissue when coughing and wash their hands regularly. Sounds familiar. The source for these statistics, the World Health Organization and the Centers for Disease Control. The list of illnesses is long. I'm going to share just three more tomorrow. Again, the point isn't to make us all feel depressed, but to help us all see a bigger picture. Ecclesiastes tells us that there is nothing new under the sun. There have been dramatic threats to our lives in the past. And when we pause to consider it, there have been dramatic threats to our lives for each and every one of the days we've been alive. And yet God uses all of it for the good of his people. And the COVID-19 threat is no different than all the rest. We should also pray that God's word remind and convince his people, that when each of his children dies They each go to a life of flourishing in unimaginable ways, in intimate communion with the Lord forever. Yesterday morning I emailed three groups of statistics for gaining perspective in light of the fears swirling around us regarding the coronavirus. Today I offer one more group of three datasets These were shared during last week's worship service, but not all of us were able to be in attendance that Sunday. The first traffic accident fatalities More than 40,000 people in the United States have been killed during this past year in an accident. Each day, more than 100 Americans die on our roads. Worldwide, approximately 1. 24 million people have died over the past 12 months. That's more than 100,000 per month. This is now the leading cause of death, or one of the leading causes of death among those between age 15 and 29 Middle income and low-income countries are at greatest risk. Men are more likely to die than women, and the annual economic impact in the United States is an estimated $1 trillion. The sources for this uh information, the World Health Organization, Safer America, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, and Allen and Allen. Induced abortion. Worldwide, an estimated one million will die this week. Globally, twenty-five percent of the world's very youngest people will die this year. This is a worldwide phenomenon with developing nations more greatly affected than developed nations. The region most dramatically impacted by this is Asia, followed by Europe. Sources are uh Singh S. et al. and the Glitmacher Institute. H1N1, also known as the swine flu. Side-by-side factoids from the 2020 pandemic that we're all going through right now and the 2009 pandemic, these statistics are collated from the World Health Organization, the National Institute of for Health, the uh Centers for Disease Control, and the U. S. National Library of Medicine. The first cases of COVID-19 infection are believed to have occurred in December 2019 within the borders of China, a huge trade partner with the United States. The first cases of the H1N1 swine flu infection are believed to have occurred in March 2009 within the borders of Mexico, a big trade partner and neighbor of the United States. The COVID-19 strain represents a unique or what's called a novel influenza virus never before seen in humans or animals. The H1N1 swine flu strain represented a unique combination of influenza viruses never before seen in humans or animals. Within a few months of the outbreak, the World Health Organization deemed the COVID-19 spread to be a pandemic, with 121 countries reporting cases. Within a few months, the outbreak The World Health Organization deemed the H1N1 swine flu spread to be a pandemic, with 214 countries reporting cases. At the three-month mark of the COVID-19 spread, covering early December 2019 to early March 2020 The virus was estimated at that time to have infected many thousands in the United States who were not even yet diagnosed, with more than 1,800 confirmed U. S. cases and 41 Americans having died. At the three-month mark of the H1N1 spread, covering late March 2009 through late June 2009, the virus was estimated to have infected more than 1 million people in the United States. with more than twenty-seven thousand confirmed US cases and one hundred and twenty uh one hundred and twenty seven Americans having died. During the COVID-19 pandemic, the most at-risk members of the population are older adults, especially those over the age of 70, and particularly those Who already face significant preexisting medical challenges that have left them with compromised immune systems. During the H1N1 pandemic The most at-risk members of the population were children under the age of four. The next most at-risk group, school children, kids under 18. Followed by adults under 65. And as a result, 80% of deaths during the 2009 outbreak were suffered by people younger than 65 years of age Until we were recently reminded, if most of us even remember the H1N1 pandemic all that well, it was only 11 years ago. It infected 60 million Americans with 265,000 hospitalized and worldwide 575,400 people died And yet here we all are, standing on the other side of it more than a decade later. Something that's dramatically different this time is the economic shutdown and the quarantining lockdowns And these could be history altering, and they too need our appeals to God in prayer and a recommitment to being obedient to our Creator. Let's press into God's Word and ask the Holy Spirit to illumine our minds to his truth. And this is, by the way, a an extended quote that's been modified. C. S. Lewis wrote something rather profound a little over 70 years ago at the dawn of the nuclear age when atomic bombs had dropped and the Cold War began and everyone was very afraid. Those of us old enough to remember know how scary that was And particularly at the beginning of it, I think it might have been even scarier. So that's the context. And what I did is I took C. S. Lewis's quote And I swapped out his language for atomic bombs and nuclear war and that sort of stuff and replaced them with language that relates to the coronavirus. So quote in one way, we think a great deal too much of the coronavirus. How are we to live in this pandemic age? I am tempted to reply, why, as you would have lived in the 16th century, when the plague visited London almost every year Or as you would have lived in a Viking age, when raiders from Scandinavia might land and cut your throat any night. Or indeed, as you are already living in an age of cancer, an age of syphilis, an age of paralysis, an age of war, an age of railway accidents, an age of motor accidents In other words, do not let us begin by exaggerating the novelty of our situation. Believe me, dear sir or madam, you and all whom you love were already sentenced to death before the current crisis was invented. And quite a high percentage of us were going to die in unpleasant ways. We had indeed one very great advantage over our ancestors, anesthetics. But we have that still It is perfectly ridiculous to go about whimpering and drawing long faces because the scientists have added one more chance of painful and premature death to a world which already bristled with such chances, and in which death itself was not a chance at all, but a certainty. This is the first point to be made, and the first action to be taken is to pull ourselves together. If we are all going to be destroyed by COVID-19, let that virus, when it comes, find us doing sensible and human things. Praying, working, teaching, reading, listening to music, bathing to children, playing tennis, chatting with our friends over a pint and a game of darts, not huddled together like frightened sheep and thinking about bathroom tissue. They may break our bodies. A microbe can do that, but they need not dominate our minds. This is the faith debate on nine thirty WFMD. When Martin Luther was dealing with the Black Death play, he wrote these wise words that can help inform the way we approach things happening in our world right now. Quote, I shall ask God mercifully to protect us. Then I shall fumigate, help purify the air, administer medicine and take it. I shall avoid places and persons where my presence is not needed in order not to become contaminated and thus perchance inflict and pollute others and so cause their death as a result of my negligence. If God should wish to take me, he will surely find me And I have done what he has expected of me, and so I am not responsible for either my own death or the death of others. If my neighbor needs me, however I shall not avoid place or person, but will go freely, as stated above. See, this is such a God-fearing faith. Because it is neither brash nor foolhardy and does not tempt God. End quote. If you're curious, the source for that is Luther's Works, volume 43 Page 132, it's a letter that's been titled, Whether One May Flee from a Deadly Plague. He wrote it to the Reverend Dr. John Hess. Quote Fears of dying underscore a reality for all people. Everyone dies. And let's not bury our heads in the sand. There are people really dying from coronavirus. This is intensely sad. People are also really impacted by all the various economic shutdowns, lost jobs, fixed income challenges. This is scary and anxiety-inducing stuff. Also life-threatening for some. Emotional angst is affecting people. People you know. They need hope. They need to know there's a sovereign God who is in control. They benefit from seeing Christ's people maintain hope in all circumstances. I'm reminded of James chapter 1 verse 2. Count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds. We're not to ignore or deny suffering, grief, and pain. Bad stuff doesn't feel joyful. But troubles are avenues to deepening our relationship with Christ. Troubles teach us how to walk more intimately with Him Trouble isn't good in and of itself, so we don't pretend to be joyful. Rather, we are to count it as joy when we face troubles in this life. God uses these troubles to call himself, call people to himself, to make his people more mature, to build up the believer's ability to endure by faith. And our Lord uses it all to refine his children in their sanctification. Our Father works everything together for good in the lives of his children, even in tragedy. Hence we may courageously look for opportunities to grow. As we suffer. Counting our suffering as joy is certainly easier said than done. But it is made easier when we maintain focus on where our true hope lies. Keep in mind for the believer, pain is not forever. There is a new heaven and new earth coming. This is good news. End quote. And then the email continues, to be as transparent as I can. Here's why my core principles led me to share the information that I have shared this past week. I am advocating for human flourishing, which includes remaining alive and also continuing to live. Fear and panic are not helpful to either of these. So I've cited data that aims to offer a broader perspective, which will hopefully help people relax a bit and therefore be better able to make reasoned decisions. Put simply, I am opposed to panic, hysteria, and uncritical thinking. I am in favor of believing God and acting on that belief in obedience. In worship tonight, here are some words from a book I'm reading right now, and it's totally coincidental timing. By the way, it's a book that my daughter got me either for Christmas or my birthday this past year. I can't remember which which it was. Quote Cowards die many times before their deaths. That's William Shakespeare. Quote, nothing is terrible except fear itself. Francis Bacon The only thing I am afraid of is fear. Arthur Wellesley. Nothing is to be so much feared as fear. Henry David Thoreau. The only thing we have to fear is fear itself, Franklin Delano Roosevelt. Life was meant to be lived Eleanor Roosevelt. And here's one more from Eleanor. You gain strength, courage, and confidence by every experience in which you really stop to look fear in the face. So I promised in the beginning that this unusual thing that we did with me reading all these emails was going to tie together into a Palm Sunday message. And believe it or not you heard a Paul's ending message. Maybe I need to explain to you how that's so I opened by talking about all of the reasons, whether it be worldly reasons or biblical reasons, that we can have boldness and confidence and not cower away in fear Even though there are very real dangers staring us in the face. Palm Sunday, the triumphal entry, Jesus Christ. gets on the donkey and enters Jerusalem in victory. It's a victory that is guaranteed and promised and inaugurated And we as Christ's people, if we are Christ's people, we are walking in that victory. His kingdom is now. Not in the way that it will ultimately be, but there's an aspect of his kingdom that is now, and we are citizens of that kingdom Christ on the cross said it is finished. The victory is won. The kingdom is here. He is our king. Now and forever. And so we can with boldness and confidence Walk in that victory. And we should, with boldness and confidence, walk in that victory. Just as Jesus with boldness and confidence entered Jerusalem, but he did it with meekness and mildness. So we shouldn't be bombastic, we shouldn't be mean-spirited to others who aren't seeing things the way we see things, who aren't Christians, who don't understand. the kingdom is here. We need to follow Christ's example. And part of Christ's example is what awaited him. Just days later. He faced all of the dangers that he knew were coming. Jesus wasn't surprised that he was going to be beaten, that he was going to be put to death, that he would die. For him it wasn't a chance of death anymore than it was a chance for us. For him it was a guarantee of death, and for him it was a guarantee of death that week. And still, knowing that he would die that week, he entered with boldness and confidence and walked in the promises of the kingdom of heaven. That's the call in our lives. There's a chance we will die this week. Odds are we won't die this week, but there's a chance we will die this week. Even so, we should be walking out our life with boldness and confidence and assurance. That what awaits us is even better than what we're desperately trying to hang on to in the here and now. So I appeal to you, as I appealed to you last week, please Be of service to one another. Be of service to your neighbors. They need to see you filled with boldness and confidence in Christ, empowered by the Spirit. They need to see you demonstrate love. And it's hard to demonstrate love when we're hiding our lives away in fear. I'm not saying to be reckless. As the Luther quote that we shared earlier this evening points out, we are not to be testing God. We are to exercise wisdom. We are to seek out what God's best in our context would be, and we should act upon that, our biblically informed conscience Should be what we act upon. But if we think that our biblically informed consciousness telling us that we should go hide in the basement until it's all over, we have misunderstood the Bible. If we are that afraid to die We have misunderstood the gospel. And we're going to pause there. Thank you for listening to this very special edition of the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I appreciate you listening along. You know, special times that we find ourselves in, and so uh special times call for special measures, and so we're listening to the Faith Debate lockdown tapes Baj Redux. We did some lockdown uh episodes months ago and we're finding ourselves in another uh pretty difficult lockdown situation, at least as I'm recording right now. Hopefully by the time these air We'll like them all the ease, right? We'll come to our senses and live our life again. That so would be nice. Uh anyway, you can find us online WFMD. com keyword faith. You can follow me personally on Facebook if you want. I'm spending more of time on Mi Wee and on Parlor these day so try to find me there. I'm Troy Skinner on both platforms. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. Thanks for listening and God bless.