This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of Reno? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary. The Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Good morning. Seventeen years ago, this week, that one of the most momentous happenings in my lifetime, probably in yours, uh, took place. You could argue it's one of the most momentous happenings in the history of this country, of Western civil civilization, and it certainly has had an impact not just on our culture On our politics, on geopolitical concerns, but on the church. Whether it be ecumenicalism, uh for better or for worse, um church's response to such things. Um of course I'm talking about what happened this week, seventeen years ago in September. It was a Tuesday morning. September eleventh, two thousand and one. Good morning, America. I'm Charles Gibson. I'm Diane Sawyer, and it's Tuesday, September 11th, 2001. It is beautiful outside. Perfect September day with lots of sunshine. Oh, would you look at Washington, huh? I'm going outside today. Other than that, it's kinda quiet around the country. We like quiet. Well, it's quiet. It's too quiet. Is that America 11 trying to call? We have some planes. Let's stay quiet and we'll be okay. We're returning to the airport. The pirate everyone's mistaked. They're in the back of the airplane and they're not Oh the hijackers are in the cockpit. Oh no Okay, we've just lost connection. This is CNN breaking news. This Justin, you were looking at of obviously a very disturbing live shot there. That is the World Trade Center, and we have unconfirmed reports this morning that a plane has crashed into one of the towers of the World Trade Center. A gigantic sonic boom. The air is filled with hundreds of thousands of pieces of paper that are just sort of floating like confetti. You say that emergency vehicles are there independently so but of course the major concern is human loss. I mean Oh my gosh, another plane has just hit Oh my god. Why do you say that was definitely on purpose? It's because it literally blew itself into World Trade Center. Early report Reports are that at least one of those planes was a hijacked American Airlines plane en route from Boston to Los Angeles. Thousands of people that have been running from inside these buildings were blanking dying when asked what was happening and hung up There was screaming and yelling in the background and a follow up call was not answered. We heard a big thing. And then we saw smoke coming out and everybody started running out and we saw the plane on the other s side of the building and there was smoke everywhere and people were jumping out the windows over there to jump out the windows I guess because they're trying to save themselves. I don't know. Bodies started dropping from the top floors of the um tower closest to the highway. Obviously they had two choices to be burned into f in flames or to uh leap and end it all. It was quite At nine oh five A. M. White House Chief of Staff Andy Card whispered into Bush's ear, quote, A second plane has hit the second tower. America is under attack. David, David, we're going to capture control. President Bush is speaking. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a difficult moment for America. Today we've had a national tragedy. Two airplanes have crashed. into the World Trade Center in an apparent terrorist attack on our country. And have ordered that the full resources of the federal government Go to help the victims and their families. And the and to conduct a full-scale investigation to hunt down And to find those folks who committed this act. Terrorism against our nation will not stand. And now if you join me in a moment of silence. May God bless the victims, their families, and America. Thank you very much. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness, there is smoke pouring out of the Pentagon. Associated Press is reporting that a plane grass at the Pentagon, the heart of the military uh command center of the United States of America, John. It can't get much worse than this. Let's hope. It should be noted that there are sharpshooters on the roof of the White House who have anti-aircraft missiles for just this kind of situation. Wow. And some people were. Jamie, I need you to stop for a second. There has just been a huge explosion we can see uh a billowing smoke rising. Let's go to the trade tower again because John we now have a what do we have? We don't it looks like a a new plume a new large plume of smoke. We're not sure exactly what happened, but it was another explosion on the far side of one of the buildings from where we're standing, the verb the the reverberation and another explosion on the right hand side. And I can't I'll I'll tell you that I can't. see that second tower, but y there was a cascade of sparks and fire and now this it looks almost like a mushroom cloud. What is behind it which I j I cannot tell you. But just look at that. That is about as frightening a scene as you will ever see. The whole side has collapsed? The whole building has collapsed. The whole building has collapsed? The building has collapsed. It closed it down on itself. All of the few of us in this office. We're not ready to buy it. Oh there it goes, there it goes there it goes there it goes And there as you can see perhaps the second tower the front tower the top portion of which is collapsing. Hi here, Captain. I would like to remain PC, uh home of course, and uh going to take the airport and our demand. So please remain quiet. Did you hear uh some interference on the frequency room uh a couple of minutes ago screaming? We have a report that a seven forty seven uh is down in Pennsylvania. I need to interrupt you. This is a Taliban spokesman uh talking uh now in Kabul I believe. Uh sources are telling CNN that there are quote good indications that people with links to the Osama bin Laden organization are responsible for today's attacks. West Bank, thousands of Palestinians celebrated today's terror attacks in the United States chanting God is great and distributing candy to passersby. I don't know that I've ever shared this on the Faith Debate program before. Maybe I have in passing. I don't recall that I did. Uh I don't talk about it very much, but I was On Manhattan Island that day. This is by the way Troy Spinner on your listening to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Not much of a faith debate happening here. I'm doing a recollection of uh a shared memory that we all have from seventeen years ago. It was 17 years ago that I moved to Frederick, my family and I. We actually purchased our house in um July, closed in August. The family moved in before school started But I still had a job in New York City at the time I was working for Westwood One and uh uh hadn't quite yet started my I would soon be working here at WFMD and sister station WFRE, but I was in transition. So my wife and kids were in the house in Frederick and I was uh heading to work in New York City. And was running late that day for some reason and uh missed my initial uh um bus and then had to get on a second bus and So my biggest concern was, Oh great, I'm gonna be late. So listening to the the radio, but then going through Lincoln Tunnel didn't hear uh the radio anymore. You lose coverage there. And so that's when everything started to happen. Uh the news cover started to break in. And so I'm in the tunnel when all this is happening. So I come out of the tunnel, get off the um uh the bus and start making my my trek towards my my office on fifty seventh and as uh and that trek took me through Times Square and they have all those big giant jumbo screens, you know, the big gigantic television screens. And you could see, I have no context, mind you. I have no idea what's going on, but I hear sirens And I see a bunch of people and there's always a bunch of people in in Times Square staring at the screens, but not quite like this morning. And I'm looking up and I'm saying, what are they looking at that for? There's the big screen of of a close up of a tall building with smoke coming out of it and you could see the little graphic underneath saying plane crashes into the building. And people are talking to each other and somebody comes up to me. This never happens in New York City, so this was a strange event. Somebody comes up to me and says, What's happening? And I was like I don't know. Apparently a plane has hit a building somewhere. I have no idea where it is. And I'm looking around and say I don't think it's here in New York 'cause I w from my vantage point I couldn't see anything. So maybe it's Chicago or out on the West Coast or wasn't thinking about the time difference. It probably would have still been possibly dark or twilight in Los Angeles at that time. And the early reports was it was a Cessna that hit the the the building with some sort of accident. So I continue on my way, walking uh the rest of the way to work By this point now I noticed that there's a whole bunch of barricades uh put up at s on side streets and there seems to be a stronger police presence than usual. Not not over the top militaristic police presence, but police presence uh uh more than usual nonetheless And then I get to our building where I worked at Westwood One and I get on the elevator and for the second time a stranger spoke to me. Again, people in New York City don't even make eye contact. with one another, much less speak to strangers uh on elevators or otherwise. And the guy says to me, This is an attack. This is an attack. That's not an accident. Two planes, there's no way that that's an accident. And I'm like, Two planes? What are you talking about? So I get up to the the floor that my offices are on and there's this the th shortly past the lobby somebody had a little cubicle kind of office with a little tiny TV, like a I don't know, like a six inch TV or something. And Everybody's gathered around trying to see the TV and like, what's going on? And somebody said, Yeah, the plane crashed into the World Trade Center. So the World Trade Center? What? I said, Yeah, I couldn't see it. Well I was coming up sixth, and from that vantage point you couldn't see the World Trade Center, but coming up fifth I could have, so I went back downstairs. I go to fifth, I look up the street, and sure enough I see these two gigantic uh smokestac uh with dark black sooty smoke coming out and I you know, stood down there and stared at it for a while, like a d bunch of other people did. And it didn't seem like the situation was changing much and I was like, okay, so now what? I go back upstairs. And our boss, believe it or not, called a meeting. He wanted to have a sales meeting with the affiliate sales division. And we're like, Are you crazy? The World Trade Center is on fire. Come on. And uh he was insistent. Somebody finally talked some sense into him and so that meeting got uh got cancelled. But he did tell everybody, get to get to work, get to your desks, get on the phones, come on, let's get to work And so me and a good buddy of mine, Stu, you know, uh we we try to get back to work but none of the phones we couldn't get through. Nothing but busy signals. And we're like, okay, well this is weird, so now what do we do? And so we're sitting there talking with each other, like, what are we supposed to do? Our boss is nuts, he wants us to do something, well the phones aren't working, there's this crisis going on down the street, we're not sure what to make of it, and all of a sudden this woman comes running past us with I'm I'm not kidding, you hear this phrase all the time, she looked like she'd seen a ghost. I'm telling ya, she looked like she had seen a ghost. She had no color in her face. Mortified, running past us. And I turned to my friend Stu and say, Stu What in the world was that? He said, Oh, something else must have happened, I said. He said, No, she probably just found out about it. I said, She just found out about it? No, she couldn't have just found out about it. It's been too long. Too much time has passed. Something else must there must be a new development Let's go find out. Well by this point, the conference room that had been reserved for that meeting that never happened was now open, and that's where they had some larger televisions. They had three TVs up toward the ceiling. Um and there was the the three major channels for New York. There was the CBS station, the um the the NBC station, the ABC station, maybe there was a fourth TV, maybe a Fox station was up, I can't remember. There was a panel of televisions up there and we're all watching. And The that's when the second uh uh the the the I'm trying to get my my bearings first. Yeah, so the second plane had hit. That's when the woman went running like holy cow. No, that's not right. I'm I t told this out of order. So there was a debate earlier, let me backtrack. There was a debate earlier about how were they going to fix these buildings. This is major, immense damage being done to these buildings. And uh one of the guys that I worked with said They're not gonna be able to fix that building. Take it down and rebuild it from scratch. If they take it down from scratch, no, just from where the planes hit. Take it from you know take that apart from there, like save the top And he's like, no, it'll never work. And I was like, really? Well anyway, what the woman went running past us, uh what she saw, or what she heard, I guess, on her radio, uh and wanted to go see on the TV, was that one of the buildings had collapsed And so we went in there and sure enough, you know, and so the guy who was arguing about the uh the building uh needing to be deconstructed before it could be reconstructed. Um you know, in the moment, dark humor plays, I guess, and I turned to him and I said, Well I guess it's a moot point now, huh? For that building anyway So we're standing there watching and they're replaying now this is local coverage. Everybody else in the country is probably watching the na watching the national coverage, but I'm watching the local coverage uh in New York City. And so I'm not sure what you saw, but they were slow to catch on what was going on on the local coverage. Well you can't blame them, right? I mean, what is going on? It's crazy. And so we're watching the replay. They're showing the replay of the building collapsing over and over and over again and and the and the announcers, the news anchors are describing it, but then they You know, they can only describe it so many times, so they start talking to each other, interviewing the reporters out on the street, that sort of thing. Meanwhile, the video's still playing over and over again, but then they cut the live shots, go to video, cut the live shots, go to video And then I'm noticing it looks like the video had shifted and that this was like a fresh experience. And I'm thinking, the second building's falling. And they're like, No, no, no, that's the that's the first building. I said, no, this is this is I'm telling you, the second tower is falling. And everybody's like I think you're right. And like five seconds later, the announcers on TV said, Oh my goodness, is that the second tower? Is the second tower coming down? That's how surreal is nobody expected that this was going to happen. And nobody expected what would follow. By the way, I'll I'll spare you the details of a long odyssey, but uh there was lockdown, you couldn't get off the island in Manhattan and um And you couldn't get a call out because uh part of it is you lost all your cell coverage because the big cell towers were on top of the World Trade Center. So when the towers came down that was the you lost your cell service and it was nuts. And we uh in New York City where there's a restaurant every other foot uh that we couldn't find a restaurant open for lunch. So, but we did finally find a place that was open for lunch. We decided to try to wait and eventually they'd let us off the the island, right? They have to. In the meantime, to to to to uh buy ourselves some time until that would happen, one of my other co-workers, Chris and I, uh decided to see how close to the World Trade Center site we could get, and we walked down there. And I got with them three locks, by the way, and I still have a uh little small little piece of the World Trade Center that uh that I picked up and still have with me, just a small pocket sign, like I mean two inches by one inch kind of thing. Um And it was nuts and the the dust, the so was so fine that a police officer cruiser went by doing I'm not kidding, he had to be doing like two miles an hour. And you know how when a plane takes off really fast you can see the little swirl of black smoke come off the wings There was a swirl like that of the soot coming off of the vehicle, even though it was barely moving. It was just unreal. So We walked back. It was hot. I was tired uh exhausted. Uh we heard rumors that other buildings were going to come down. Another building actually did come down, as you know, I'm sure. Uh ended up getting across uh there were hazmat suits. It was like that Dustin Hoffman movie where he's wearing the B costume kind of thing. And uh it was it was crazy. Chris and I actually, you know, we cut in line to get across. We just couldn't hang in there anymore One of the surreal things I remember from that day is walking through the city of New York, right down the middle of the street, and there were no cars. Like no cars. I'm not talking about like no cars moving. There were no cars anywhere Looking up down the street, where'd all the cars go? They weren't even parked on the sides of the street. I have no idea to this day where all the cars went. I have I have no idea Ended up crashing at uh my friend Chris's house in in on the other side of Manhattan in uh Jersey City, uh Hoboken I guess is where he lived, and and uh crashed there and through an odyssey got uh picked up by my aunt's neighbor who uh got me back to my car at the park and ride, uh going the wrong way on one way streets and getting around barriers because everything was shut down and locked down. Got in my car uh and was the only car on the road getting back to my father-in-law's house, which is where I was staying at the time because again we had just moved to Frederick and uh I was in transition. So I left the office on Tuesday at noon and I walked through the front door of my father-in-law's house on Wednesday at noon. It took me twenty-four hours to get home. And the most impactful part of the story is well I came back I I drove s straight uh grabbed some lunch, grabbed some clothes, drove straight to Frederick and then spent the rest of the week. in Frederick with my family which had been evacuated because we lived near the Fort Dietrich area, uh evacuated from there, or it was a voluntary evacuation, but they they evacuated. Um anyway, went to be with them, calm everybody down, and um then went back to work and walked like I always did and my path of walking took me past um took me past fire stations. uh a couple of them and I had to keep changing my path because I was trying to avoid them because emotionally I uh I couldn't handle it anymore. Uh there were these signs these of of of m missing persons. You know, if you've seen this person, you know, call this number and flowers and wreaths and stuff, but these signs, these haunting photographs. They weren't missing persons. I mean at the time everybody was hoping that they were merely missing persons, but you knew in your gut you were looking at a loved one who had died. And it was so unnerving and depressing and sad and I would actually weep walking to work and weep walking home from work as I passed them so I I kept rechanging my my circuit until I uh until I found a route that didn't pass them anymore. And then I came to work in Frederick and didn't have to worry about passing them for a while anymore But let me say this, this is the faith debate, so let me put a faith spin on this in the last couple of minutes we have for the show today. There was a change in the spirit of the people in New York. that lasted at least several weeks from what I under since I left after several weeks came to Frederick. But I understand from my friends who continued to live there that it went on for several months. uh a real sense of community and connectedness and uh and understanding and love for one another and voice sad that we've lost that. The other thing that happened in the aftermath of that, and this might be the subject for some debate on this show down the road There was this spirit of ecumenicalism and it was cross religion. You remember some of the worship services. It wasn't just, you know, Protestants and Catholics getting along. and the Orthodox, but it was also Muslims and Jews and anybody of any faith, of any stripe, coming together to worship together, to pray together. And there's something about that that seems beautiful on its face The problem is all these different faith traditions are claiming a different God. And it becomes a problem for somebody who's staunch in their faith like me to try to make sense of that and say, wait a minute. Who are you praying to when you pray to God? Are you praying to my God? And it's an interesting question that should be sussed out. It has been sussed out by many over the years, and we'll we'll maybe tackle that issue on this show. um in the uh in the days ahead as well. Anyway, I've never shared that story uh on the on the air, I don't think. Uh I've shared it before in person and it was I don't know, ten, twelve, fourteen years after the fact before I could finally tell it without actually breaking down and crying and blubbering. So I got just a hair of mist in my eyes this time, so I'm finally emotionally healing, I guess, from all of that. So it was this week, seventeen years ago that the world stopped turning in the words of Alan Jackson. Do you remember where you were? I'm gonna let the the the last portion of this show, the last minute or or so of this show end with the theme music of our show, just so you can kind of meditate and think. about where you were on that day, what your life was like. I'll tell you one last thing is I had a profound recommitment to my faith during that period. Um I started listening to religious radio uh almost exclusively in the aftermath of that. And there was something that uh Charles Stanley said in one of his radio programs that just stuck with me in a way that made the the gospel message crystallize in a way it never had be before and that changed the trajectory of my life. I was a Christian before that. But not like I became a Christian. Not that I'm a perfect Christian, but I'm talking about a a a depth of commitment, a depth of understanding of faith. So it had in fact impact on me, I'm sure it did on you. So if you think about those thoughts over the next you know thirty to sixty seconds as I let the music play out. Till next week. God bless.