The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. And yep, we're on the blowtorch 99. 9 FM HD2. You gotta have one of those fancy radios. I don't know if those are popular or not anymore, but uh These be the upscale cars that all have the HD two radios in them. So if you have an upscale car, good for you. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Fate Debate. Um joined as always by Imran Razby and Daniel Razby and we're absent one Our best looking member of the cast, uh David Forcy, or at least our deepest voice member of the cast, that's for sure. I'm not sure who's the best looking. I think the three of us all got an equal shot about it. I think we can make a run for our money. So Uh w we we're not before we jump into what was the scheduled topic for today, we're going to uh put some loose tie up some loose ends from last week's show. So if you're listening to this as a podcast, some people I know will sometimes listen to Uh we record these shows in ARCS. People who have been listening for 17 years plus now understand that's what we do. Have a tendency to do the same general topic for three, four, five shows in a row. And so I know some people that like to listen in rapid succession. They wait till an arc is over and they'll listen to three, four, five shows in a row. So for you, this is a seamless transition. Last week we were talking about the um uh the phrase, Let's go, Brandon. Uh it's become very popular, a lot of songs, all that sort of stuff and uh uh somebody uh infamously said it actually to Joe Biden on a Skype call or something like that. Uh ended the call with let's go Brandon and the president said, That's right, I agree, let's go Brandon clearly you talked to lunch on what that means. So that's interesting. But anyway, it's been brought up by some people that I know saying, man, do you should Christians really be saying that or not? And so I posed it to you guys and and uh Imran quickly said, Yeah, absolutely not. Christians should not say that Uh Daniel didn't get there as quickly, but kind of ended in the same place. He kind of explained his reasoning for why he was saying Christians shouldn't say it. And so I want to give a and o to be honest I'm a little ambivalent about it. So I'm not saying that it's absolutely the best thing in the world for Christians to do, but I'm not really hardcore against it either. So I might be able to be a a a voice for those who feel like they need to have their voice represented in this room. So Here are some thoughts. One, it's not the actual original phrase that was being chanted, you know, the the F Joe Biden chant. Uh it's a euphemism. And we use lots of euphemisms for what would otherwise be considered coarse, inappropriate, and polite company kinds of phrases. And so um I think it's much preferred to have a euphemism than the coarse crass language, particularly as you know as a parent who once had little kids, I'd much rather they hear Let's Go Brandon than hear you know the original phrase because it's easier to navigate that as a parent. So there's that. The other thing is I think that the whole phrase, it's not just a replacement, at least this is this is why I'm a little bit unsure of exactly where I want to stand on this. It's not just a replacement for the F bomb, you know, uh followed by the president's name. It's more complex than that because the way that it all began to become popular was at the NASCAR event when the racer had just won a race and the fans were chanting um the original version of the phrase. Can't say it on the radio. Uh nor would I really want to say it anyway, but can't say on the radio. But you know what? I think if you're listening to a station like this, you know what I'm talking about. They chanted it and the reporter on the scene She's hearing what they're saying, and then she misrepresents that by saying, Oh, listen, they're saying, let's go, Brandon. And so I think this Let's go Brandon thing, this phenomenon, became a phenomenon. One, because it was a way to have a euphemism for saying it to satisfy with the way the president's doing his job. And it's also a way to call out the media for lying about how things in reality are happening. So it's a twofer. And so When you think about it that way, when you're calling out the media and you're calling out the president and you're calling out your dissatisfaction with life in general and you don't want to uh use a curse word plus a good way to try to diffuse totalitarian mindsets is to try to ridicule and mock them with humor. And this is a way to do that. It's a very complex way So if we're not going to say it, and I'm not saying that we should, uh I I'm I mean I've said it on this show in this context, because it's not an FCC violation, and in this context I don't think it's it's an issue. Uh some people could disagree with that, I suppose, too. But if we're not going to say that, what would be an alternative? What would be an acceptable alternative? What would be a way to to mock and ridicule the tyrants Or should we be or should we be mocking and ridiculing? Or should we rather use um more eloquent speech Well, what would be the biblical basis for that? Well, there's a certain amount of respect and honor for anybody in a position of authority. Now And God puts people in position and takes them out of position. He raises up people and and uh tears down people according to his will. And Whenever somebody is interested in just like Saul was anointed by God, David was then anointed, but he would never lift a hand against Saul. He would never say anything bad against Saul, even though Saul was trying to kill him. He would never fight against Saul, he would not even defend himself. He would run away, but he would not do anything against Saul, God's anointed. And whether you believe Biden is God's anointed or not He is in a power p uh position of power and no one can be in a position of power without God's authority. And when God tears him down, that's one thing. But while he's there, is it our job to be that way? And one thing you were saying earlier, uh uh the same euphemism, I don't even say OMG because it's the same thing as taking God's name in vain. And so that's the same reason I wouldn't say let's go Brandon because that's what that means is is something else The F-word is merely crafts language. It's not taking the Lord's name in vain, right? And that's a good point. And to to argue the other side for a minute. Jesus used some pretty harsh curse words. Among the political leadership of his day. So basically he said, You son of a snake Now we have another phrase in English which I'm not gonna say on the radio either. And I don't say it in the views, right? They they use that word in in dogs. a really clear difference between that and what Jesus said you son of a snake. Jesus is actually saying you son of Satan. The snake was uh in the Well brood of vipers in j general. Uh I don't know. That's that's It's the it's it's uh i it clashes with the image that people have in their head of Jesus. Oh Jesus is all love and all gentleness and all kindness. And and he was all of that, but he was also the guy who went and braided a whip. so premeditated and beat up a whole bunch of people and threw them out of the temple and and so on. I mean th there there's a lot more um shall we say traditional masculinity manually in Jesus then than what you know the culture is uh today is is saying. Yeah. Yeah, I I I know. I I want to have, you know, since m maybe because I'm not exactly sure where we want to land on this, I want to have, you know, a measure of grace for those that would disagree. Um Because on the things for which I don't think there's any room for disagreement, I'm not going to give them the grace. But in this case I could point to examples. I mean Paul, uh the Apostle Paul, um, you know If you look at it in in in the in the actual Greek, he's basically telling somebody to go cut off their you know what. You know what I mean? That's pretty direct, crass kind of imagery and language that he uses. In the Old Testament where there's There uh you don't see it in the English translation so much, but if you understand the euphemisms and the idioms of the of the day, uh it's basically the same kind of language in the Old Testament where we read it in the English and it's about something about, you know, your your leg Um you know, something's gonna bad gonna happen to your leg. Yeah, we're talking about a certain kind of leg, if you know what I mean. Uh you know, or I will kill I will I will kill all the males. Well the Hebrew doesn't say males. It describes the difference between males and females in how they go to the bathroom and so on. And so there are some And as far as mocking language, I mean uh among the ruling class of the day in the Old Testament would have been the uh the the false prophets and priests of of the day um had the ear of the king and all that, and Elijah goes way out of his way to mock and ridicule uh the the priest of Baal. You know what I mean? So if well the priests of Baal were not the position of authority, they weren't uh the the authority there, they were priests of a false god. There's a difference. And I think you can make a real good point of mocking or tearing down authority if God calls you to that. But I would say the masses are not called to that. And uh this is the one and only country that I know of that actually in the constitution it gives us a right to tear down the government if the government becomes offensive. And uh so in this situation I guess uh you could pardon that and say yes, we're acting within the authority that uh this constitution was was there. But even then I tend to s err on the side of let's stay away from crass language. I if you're educated enough you can find other language to say what you want to say without having to be crass And that just brings that crassness to mind when you say it even in in the non crass words of let's go brandon, what comes to mind? That's that's what comes to mind. Yeah, I I guess but again I guess the part that makes it a little more comp complex I think is I I think for me to be honest, the first thing that comes to mind is the image of that reporter misrepresenting the truth. That's the first thing that comes to my mind, rather than the crassness of of the language. And to be honest, and I don't know if I haven't thought this through this is on the fly in response to our conversation here. But I think I'm far more comfortable with somebody using the S word or dropping an F bomb or using the B word that we didn't want to say earlier. I'd much rather hear that than hear the Lord's name taken in vain. Absolutely. So you know, and I'm guilty of you know, of of all of it at some point in my life, you know. So I'm the I'm not I'm not uh throwing rocks uh living in a in a glass house. Uh but I s th still that being the case, I I'd rather what you know, watching a TV show or a movie, like it doesn't get any sort of a negative rating held against it if it takes the Lord's name in vain. But it will get a negative rating against it if it uses, you know, the F word or an S word or something like that. And so we've got that inside out in our culture. Anyway, well we took up probably a little more time on that than I wanted to, but I thought I think it's I think that's helpful. And so Here's a pastoral takeaway, at least, and if you can add to this, you could this doesn't have to be the last word on it. At the very least, if you've been using that phrase Maybe now for the first time you're hearing that maybe you shouldn't be and you need to examine your own heart and your own habits on that and decide whether or not you feel Um as you understand God's word and your conscience before God with a biblically informed worldview, whether you should be saying that or not. And you might be of of a mind to say, oh I should say it all the more. You know, but you know, at least now you've you've heard some talk about it, maybe that's helpful to you. And that's one of the roles this show is supposed to be doing for this community. We do a better some weeks than others I know. Maybe you replaced that phrase with pray for Biden Biden. Yeah. Pray for Biden. Yeah. That's not anywhere near as funny. And that is part of it. Humor, you know, I think we've got this really bad stick figure, you know, mannequin view of who God and what Jesus was like as he walked the earth, you know, two thousand years ago, that he had no sense of humor. I have a feeling he was probably a pretty fun, funny guy Right? He had the fullness of of a of a perfectly formed personality. I think I can't imagine that humor wouldn't be part of that. Well one of the things is does humor have to put somebody down to be humorous? Oh, no. But in this case you're trying to point out that the guy who who has been put in authority, I w would agree with you, been placed in nobody's in authority without God putting them there. But because God has placed him in authority, he's responsible to God and from a biblical point of view he is failing miserably in living up to that. And in this country, particularly where it's a government of the people It it's people's job to hold their elected officials uh to account. Yeah, that's what when Ahab came to Elijah and he said, Oh, are you the one that's troubling Israel? He said I have not troubled Israel, but thou and thy father's house, you've been causing all his problems. He says it to Ahab's face. So but he also is not not using crass language in that in that uh scenario. He's speaking more eloquently. And I think you can be classy about it. Yeah. Alright, so let's uh Let's transition a little bit, and if we don't have time to finish some of these thoughts today, we'll carry them over into uh our next week's show. So we we want to talk today about um the loss of a desire for truth. Yeah, we like to say oh everybody desires objective truth. Everybody desires the truth. Exactly. Right, yeah. But that truism doesn't really feel all that true anymore. There's a loss for the desire of truth. And some examples that that that I thought of that would help to exemplify this. And different people on different sides of the fence are going to respond differently to some of these things and throw out. I get that. But take the frontline doctors as an example. Their whole goal is to say, look, we're medical professionals, we're dealing with people who are sick on the front lines. Here's what we've seen, here's what we understand to be the truth. These are the ways we should be approaching this. And instead of hearing them out, having a debate, having a respectful dialogue back and forth, maybe even mocking them with some let's go Brandon phrases if you want, let's go, uh frontline doctors or whatever Instead of that, we're getting them canceled and shut down because we just don't want to hear it. We don't care. Maybe you have the truth, maybe you don't, but even if you have the truth, we don't want to hear it. They get shut down. The social media, you know, fact checkers, which some people are uh calling fact blockers, uh are are getting in the way of the free exchange of ideas. I mean Dr. Robert Malone got canceled on Twitter. Um he's one of the guys that was involved in the invention of the whole MRN uh MRNA technology that's behind uh most of the shots And he's now saying things that has people concerned in sort of shutting him down so they don't want that truth. Parlor, a social media platform got shut down. Um, you know, people are fleeing Google uh Google and going to uh platforms like Duck DuckDuckGo to do their search engines uh stuff because there's less censorship there. Uh I'll pause there for now. I mean there those are some examples of people in the mainstream not wanting the truth. How can we try to encourage people to be like, hey? It's okay to have the truth. In fact, you want the truth. How how do we incur how do we get back to that? You can't handle the truth. Remember that movie? I do. A few good men. The same uh probably my favorite Tom Cruise movie of all songs. I I think the leadership and the people that are in uh that are very, very wealthy and controlling the media don't believe the public can handle the truth. And so they only want them to have the truth according to their will. And this country where w used to be where e the ACLU would fight to the death for anybody's right to speak. They may disagree but they're the right to speak. Now they're saying that oh I'm glad so and so got cancelled. Second President Green just got canceled on uh um Twitter. Marjorie Taylor Green, yeah. And and ACLU came out should have been done earlier. Why? How is that? I thought ACLU they canceled Donald Trump. Exactly. So when he was the pre while he was president So that's a different side of the thing. So that's a different topic altogether, which I think is Could you imagine if they call it FDRs, fireside chats? Could you imagine? Oh, we just won't print the fireside chest anymore. You know, we yeah, the radio stations won't carry 'em anymore, not allowed. Or even updates on World War Two. We're not gonna carry that anymore, 'cause it's not true. We're just not allowed to be on the I think I agree with you that there could be a they can't handle the truth and we're we're not gonna trust the the mud people to handle the truth. That's Yeah, that'd be part of it. But some of it isn't it's it's not that is they're trying to orchestrate what the truth is, right? Like the whole what's causing climate change if it's even like an important thing or not. Are we all going to be dead in twenty thirty? Because that was a projection, you know, twenty forty or is it twenty three? No, I died in twenty fifteen when uh you know um Al Gore, who was in the Internet, uh said that we're all gonna be dead by twenty fifteen, wasn't it? Yeah, well and if you want to go back, I mean I'm old enough to know, I mean there was gonna be um The world was gonna end because of an ice age, so that was what the the big thing back in the seventies. And then by the eighties it was we're all gonna die 'cause the earth was gonna burn up. And by the nineties they were kinda back to an ice age and then we got into two thousands, that was just climate change. Like so if we get an ice age or the earth burns up, they're right either either case. And that drives that drives an agenda that's political. But p politics, you know we g I'll be careful how we phrase this, I guess, so that we can stay on tact wi uh on on point with the faith debate But your religious worldview affects all of life. The Bible addresses everything, your finances, your marriage, your sex life. It addresses everything, including your politics. And so if God's got the truth about what politics should be, and those who are the enemies of God and his truth have their politics, and those who you know, would disagree with some people on the on the leftist globalist kind of agenda. They're using the global climate change to instill fear and go for like the everything's got to be green, the Green New Deal. Even if it doesn't make any sense. So it's not just they can't handle the truth, they want to control and kind of indoctrinate you into what they want you to think the truth is. Don't you think? There I want to look at it from a little bit different angle from the people that are reading the news or watching the news or listening to uh you know news and truth and trying to find and discern what is true. There's a few different ways I've seen people handle their uh what they see on the media. Number one is that just a very surface level. Hey, turn on the TV and Nine out of nine out of ten channels are more l left leaning, so turn on the TV, heard a left-leaning topic, talking point. Oh yeah, that's probably true. Okay, great. Next next thing. And just go on with your day and meanwhile these things are s sifting into your head. So that's one level and then there there's a deeper level and you have some more liberal and more conservative politically speaking people that do go on a deeper level and they recognize that most people in the media have some sort of bias, whether they're left or right or whatever. and they'll look at different sources and try to discern what what they think is is correct based on that or they'll favor certain channels just because they think they're more truthful. And then you have the s the cynical minded people who really are of the opinion that it's impossible to know the truth anyway. And I'm I'm talking about Christians, I I see this I I know a bunch of people that that are this way. These are Christians who believe in absolute truth and also believe that there's absolutely nothing you can do to figure out what the truth is because everything is so unreliable on the left and the right. in the uh you know news media in any any sort of way that you could get facts and information. And so what do you say to those people? How do you discern what is really true if Everybody's a liar. If you can you know, I've been you've been recording me long enough you can probably take my words and mix them up with some kind of fancy software and make me say whatever you want me to say and I can spout all sorts of blasphemy to you from your computer now Because you have enough recording of me. So we have the technology to do all that. How do you know what's what's really true anymore? What how do you discern as a Christian? Yeah. That's why it's so important that the churches not stop meetings, but that the leaders in the church do lead, do point people to the truth. And the truth is Jesus Christ. The truth is found in God's Word. You know, and uh so instead of you can't handle the truth it's what is the truth? And the problem is most of the church leaders It's the corruption from within. They have been corrupted by the seminaries, they have been corrupted by their their their leadership uh of churches, of uh panels of the uh advisors to to pastors. It it's it's craft from within. The enemy within uh is is there and they will not tell the truth and and as Daniel said, most of the people that I know that have really focused on Christ and Christ centered have really become cynical of knowing that the the truth cannot be found in today's media. In today even to today today's mainline churches, you cannot find the truth. They're not going to stand up for the truth. So really not just the main lines anymore. Yeah. Even the smaller ones. Even the ones that have a reputation for being biblically faithful in the last half a dozen years that reputation has gotten to be unreliable. And that's why the home church movement is so important where you can actually challenge somebody when somebody says something. something, challenge it. Let's go to the Bible, find out what the Bible says and discern what it what what's going on there. Yeah. No, just commenting on what you said, the the even what even the less mainstream, the more conservative churches have And again, conservative as in a traditional minded uh you know the church, they've they've fallen off. Um I mean, the Southern Baptist Convention voted to adopt critical race theory and to and to believe that just, you know, uh fairly recently here. And that's that's unheard of for a w you know, a a a a tr traditional fun uh fundamental Christian And because it's so hard to find any sort of trustworthy source anymore, uh pretty much all of the big sources are compromised at this point, right? And I'm not talking about just CNN, MSNBC, ABC, CBS. I'm also talking about Fox News, Newsmax. Absolutely. They're all compromised at this point. So where do you go And so then you've got to try to suss out places that seem to be consistently uh sharing what aligns with a biblical worldview, and then you you start to grow to trust them a little bit, and then you start to compare them with other people that you've grown to trust a little bit. You start to multitask and you take in a half a dozen or more sources of reasonably trustworthy people, comparing and contrasting, and then try to navigate through that through, okay, based on all of that, this is probably what the truth is. The other thing I've been trying to do like crazy, but it's harder and harder because now we're not getting even true raw data. But I used to try to go back to like the core. You know, what is the actual data as best as you can trust that Uh and then if somebody's not saying something in alignment with that data, either they know something about that data I don't, and I need to find out what they know that I don't. Or they're just not informed because they're not echoing the data. I mean how many times we heard the argument about the the guns and you know, gun violence is caused by, you know, uh skinheads or oh Altright wackos or um No, by the guns themselves. The guns themselves, you know. Well, if you ask uh the Baldwin family, they they they think that actually, I guess, is what happens. But uh Um yeah, and but you look at the data and it the actual data itself doesn't support the arguments that they make about the guns and yet but it's not about the facts. See that's the problem we're having. It's not about the truth, it's about the emotion. Yes. Right? You're not gonna win an argument with an emotional person. I think it's our responsibility as Christians to really dig deep and filter everything through the Bible. If it's contradicting the Bible, then obviously it's not true. Um but it's not a new thing. I mean if you look at when the country started, there was a there were a lot of extremely opposing newspapers that would clash their headlines against each other. People were just well informed and could use critical thinking to find out what the truth actually was. Yeah, because they didn't have uh you know uh government funded pagan schools back then. Yep. Alright. Anyway, that'll be the last but um bump word of the day for today. Uh this is the Faith Debate. Thank you, uh Daniel and Imran Razley. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Find us online, Household of FaithInCrist dot com and of course WFMB Dot com till next week 167. 5 hours from right about now. God bless