Unless you live under a rock, pay no attention to electronic or Prince Media, then what I'm about to say is no surprise to you whatsoever. Do you say happy anniversary on a day like this? Ten years ago today, actually almost ten years ago to this moment, right, because it was between eight thirty and nine o'clock in the morning on September eleventh, two thousand and one, that the first plane Uh crashed into uh the I think it was the North Tower. Yeah. Uh Tower two, I believe, was hit first, if I'm not mistaken. I get that confused now. Uh and I won't bore you with the details. I was on Manhattan Island that day So I have very vivid vivid personal memories of that day. My wife was here in Frederick. We live near Fort Dietrich and it was concerned that Dietrich would be a a target. So my family was evacuated from our home that day We called everybody. I called my brothers, I called my mom and dad. It just felt like I needed to make contact with people that day. We have a dear friend of our uh family who lives in the New York City area of New Jersey, who uh suffered a breakdown af in the aftermath of September eleventh because of all the friends that were lost. Wow. And his guilt over having survived. And he has not fully recovered to this day, ten years later. Wow. And in the aftermath of that, by the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How can we make you smile? And Deer Valley Landscape Hardscape and masonry. Uh Shane, good friend of mine, Putman's good friends of mine. You can trust them both uh with work at your home. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, thank you, and co-founder of the Faith debate show coming up on seven years, if you can believe it. And Fahim Yunus, who is uh Dr. Fahim uh Yunus, is the Secretary of Education for the Ambadiyya Muslim community in the United States of America. He is a physician. Yes. So if you don't like him for one thing, you can like him for the other. Come on, how can you hate a doctor? You know what I mean? He's got kids, he's got a wife, he's got a flag pin on his jacket. So anyway, in the aftermath of all of that, uh it seemed like there was crickets where there should have been an outcry of American Muslims saying they're not us And when we first started this show, uh almost seven years ago, one of the earliest shows we did uh had a Muslim guest on. Local guy. Local guy, and we were asking the question, hey Why don't you guys speak up? Will you speak up now? And he was resistant to attacks, but he would not denounce the attacks. Yeah. And we were screaming, where are you guys now Where are you guys who will denounce this from the m from the Muslim perspective? And The Ahmadiyya community apparently represents that perspective. Absolutely. Your voices were drowned out or ignored at that point for a long time, and it just seems like recently I've begun to hear some things about you guys So were you not as bold in shouting early and or were you bold people were ignoring you? Why all of a sudden uh am I familiar with with you guys and you That's a great question. Let me tell you a little g bit of background. First of all, I think I condemn those attacks with every possible cell in the You did so right away? I did so right away as well but uh locally I'll tell you exactly you know I was I was an average Jew. I was an infectious disease physician back Right. And I had no clue that I'll be on a radio show ten years from now. This is a sea change for me. It's almost like you know, you've turned a f I don't know. You smile when you talk, they can't see that. You give me golden handshakes like you did last week. But I can tell you that I have gone through an enormous metamorphosis. As probably hundreds of thousands of other Muslims have. And I'll tell you a little background. I I was born and raised in Pakistan in Lahore, cosmopolitan city. And when I was training in New York, New York felt like the lap of a mother. The city just pulls you in no matter what color, shade, creed you are. It just brings you in. And I'll tell you, on June afternoon. I was trained in New York. Right, right. You know, anger and you're not going to be able to do it. Right. When you got to New York you felt like it was friendly and loving and embracing my mother. This was June of 2001, three months before September eleventh. And our secretary says, Dr. Eunice, we're talking about Islam and this crazy terrorism and whatever else And she she knew me, she knew my position where I stand on these issues. And she goes, Doctor Eunice you mark my words, if we ever get attacked, it's gonna be New York. And I look at her, I'm like, no, no, no, don't s don't say that, right? Interesting, yeah. Within and then this is the year when remember the Super Bowl? Ravens won. You know, we were we were the winners in two thousand and one. I came here for my interview. Yes. Well maybe you. Yeah, yeah. Of course I got nothing to say about the red too, but nevertheless. I came here. Three months later I was seeing patients in a hospital here in Baltimore when my secretary told me that an airliner, a checkliner is h so that's my memory thinking Somebody told me three months ago it's gonna be New York. Do you think it was somebody that like knew somebody that knew somebody that was planning it? No, I don't think so. I think it's I think we should call the CIA and make sure that we uh track that down. I think it was their strength, it was their conviction that it represented the heart of the nation in certain ways. It was their pride of the land. But anyway and my reaction to that was numb I was like a four year old kid who doesn't know how to react to that. Like I'm I'm appalled but I don't think that as a physician I can tell my patients I'll tell my children. Right. I'll you know, I'll talk to youth in my mask. Right. But I d didn't really feel compelled to come on rad radio TV. That was not my forte. I was I was a scientist, I was a doctor, right? Mm-hmm. So I felt like those who were running the masks Those who are having the titles today, it's their job, they'll come out and condemn. And in Ahmadiyya Muslim community we did everything we could. Prayer vigils, people were coming to our mosques. Very good friend of mine. Young guy. He's our age. And uh w what was it, two years in that we're smiling 'cause he said, he's a young guy, he's our age. I'm smiling at that. Anyway. That's good for you to smile at that. You're a young guy still. So we know. Young gets older every year. That's what I noticed. So anyways, but but the point is is that is that w when was it that we ran into those guys? 'Cause the Ahmadian community here uh wanted to move into Frederick two, three years ago and nobody Nobody could quite get their head around the fact that this is not a fundamentalist Muslim group. Right. But this was an Ahmadiyy Muslim group. In fact we were So, you know, we had them on the show. We talked through all those things, you know, we met with a bunch of pastors in them back in the day. And even still there was a sense that Nobody could quite delineate between the two. You know, that they just was were all one big group. Exactly. Now the Ahmadian community from the very beginning, those who were in leadership at the time, because you weren't in leadership like you are now They were speaking out but their voices maybe weren't being heard. Right. But now the the Shi'i ed Ahmed was exactly right. He's a local. He was involved. I remember meeting with him and they did speak up pretty clearly that they condemned. Ahmadiyya Muslim community hails the first Muslim periodical in USA titled Muslim Sunrise. It was launched in nineteen twenty one. And in nineteen twenty one because in the Silent Cal was president. It in Post nine eleven. Silent cow? Yeah, Calvin Coolidge. They called him silent cow. Oh cow. What? No. Cow. There was an article in nineteen twenty one Muslim Sunrise denouncing the jihad of the sword and essentially saying that jihad means struggle with your inner self. So we are no post nine eleven bandwagon that's just come out here. Clearly that's the case. Now I just wanted to make sure that we've been saying this message for the past ninety years Not just tomorrow. But my perception, and I don't think it's I'm alone in this perception, is that on the whole, the Muslim community in America was kind of quiet when they had a real good opportunity to stand up and say, that's not us. Like the Westboro Baptist Church out of Kansas that uh protests at the uh the the funerals of of our fallen soldiers and has r hateful things about homosexuality on their signs and just And they call themselves a Christian Baptist Church and announce them. And we're like, No, no, no, no, no, no, no. They're neither Christian nor Baptist as I understand it. That's not us. And we didn't hear a lot of that. That's my sense. And I think you you c I think you agree that maybe we didn't hear enough of that ten years ago. It's very complicated the way I see it as a physician. that if my you know, we this is what I teach all the time to my students as well, that when your patient goes through surgery and next day they say their belly hurts, you give 'em medication. And if after giving five, ten milligrams of morphine they say it still hurts, you don't question their pain. You give 'em more. Till their pain goes away. Okay. So I think What might have happened, and I'm just giving you one of the possible explanations, that the country was hurting way more than what some of the Muslim leaders thought it was. And they just denouncing once, just writing one piece, just making one press conference is not enough. Like I'll tell you that. So you're you're you're kind of uh advocating the idea that that the even the fundamentalist Muslims in the United States weren't reacting because they they just didn't get how hurtful it was. I'm saying this could be one possibility, but here's here's an example as to what we are doing. That's interesting because because all of a sudden you've gone from defending the Ahmadian approach to defending all of Islam's approach. No no no not at all. I'm glad you opened that up because that's not at all. Oh so so you're meaning to defend the Ahmadian Muslim responses. No no I will I was just gonna give you an example as to how do you go the extra mile. I was just going to give you an example as to how do you control that pain. Okay, but what I'm saying is that that just now you said that you you don't think the Muslim community understood how much pain there was. When you said that, are you referring to the Ahmadi Muslim community or meaning of the United States? I'm referring to almost all of the Muslim community at large in f in in the United States. Jonathan, I'm referring to all of them. The reason is because when I go to their websites I see these press reports I see some very clear condemnation. But here's the point. Today, at the tenth anniversary of nine eleven, the Ahmadiyya Muslim Youth Group, we have pledged that we will raise three thousand blood bags this year. Yeah. Commemorating nine eleven. We wanna save life in order to commemorate the three thousand lives lost. We will be having a li a walk-a-thon in the world. when when all of a sudden you went to giving a an apologetic for the whole Muslim community, uh because um Because I've been kind of developing as we've been talking here this sense that that you represent the Ahmadiyya approach and that Ahmadiyy Muslims have a certain mentality And so I guess I feel like I need then to hear from you um w what what was the difference at that point between the Ahmadiyy Muslim response and the rest of the the Muslim community here in the United States? 'Cause Uh and maybe you can only speak for what the Ahmadi Muslim uh mentality was, but but I need to I need to know if there's any difference. Because if there is no difference, then that means that I go back to lumping you in with everybody else. I kinda feel like that's not what you want me to do. You can do whatever you like. I'll just tell you where I stand. My issue is, and I always say this that you gotta be Claritin Claire. You remember that ad of Claritin where there's a haze and somebody just comes and says, you know, be Clareton Claire. By the way, I have no interest. Good metaphor, yeah. No interest not a sponsor of the show. Not a sponsor of the show, I have to say that. You must be a position, yeah. Not an interest, right? He's mentioned it now we have to do a thirty second disclaimer with all the side effects that you get. That's right. Ask your doctor. No. But see the point is Ahmadiyya Muslims are clarity and clear on these issues. and other Muslims are not. Okay. Okay, so you do draw a distinction there. Absolutely. I have written about it. I have this on the record. There is an op-ed I wrote about it when Peter King was making you know having these hearings and I said Muslim community has to be clarity. And I don't see them as clarity and clear on these issues. the the rest of the Muslim community that are not Ahmadi Muslims, do you think that they are not clariton clear because because philosophically they're f they they are not opposed to violence uh against those that are um non Muslim? See, I'm I'm not a divisive person by nature. So I'm not gonna get into their head and see what they think. I'll tell you what makes us clarity and clear, and that is universal leadership. Ahmadiyya Muslim community has a universal leadership. We are established in hundred and ninety countries and we have one leader which we call the Khalifa. The Khalifa has clearly denounced every act of terror. In fact when Jillian Poston wh had those nasty cartoons about Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. That Friday he gave a sermon and he said, We don't like it, we abhor it But we're not gonna threaten any anybody for their life. We're not gonna go and burn property. We will get engaged in a rational discourse. We'll talk about it. But we're not gonna behave in a in a nasty, crazy way because we're representing our profit. That set the tone for our community in 190 countries. There's never been a single attack of extremism associated with any Ahmadiyya Muslim. So I think the issue is you have a central leadership that keeps you sane, that keeps you straight, and gives you that message of peace and love. And then i if you don't have the leadership then of course the message goes in ten different directions. Now you're saying the Ahmadiyya approach is the approach of Islam. That's right. So the the the radical element uh within what we would identify as Islam that has this, you know, sword first mentality and you know, down with the infidel, it's off with their heads, that's sort that they're not truly Islam? Are they not Muslim? See, that's an interesting point. I will say their acts are not the fitting of the acts of a Muslim. When you say about defining Islam, nobody can get seventy virgins. There is n no such thing as seventy virgins in the Quran. There's not in in Qur'an the word there is no such thing as seventy or seventy two or two. Okay, so that's a theological distinct distinction that Ahmadiyya No nobody nobody in the world can show you in the Quran. So even those extremists Interestingly, what many people don't know, they these people don't know how to read and write, they are dying of hunger. So somebody comes along and he says, Hey You want to ride with me in the bus? I'll pay you equivalent of ten dollars, which will last you. It is not in the Quran. It is and in uh the way the hadith is interpreted. Yeah. There is there's a very beautiful YouTube video on this. Your vi your listeners can go online. It's an amahmarian I was gonna say it's from an agnostic Jew. Okay. Her name is Leslie Hazleton. Okay. L-E-S-L-I-E. Hazleton H A Z L E T O N. Just go on YouTube. Search for Leslie Hazleton. It's about a tenure video. And it's about this question from the Hadith. She answers this question from Quran and Hadith in a TED talk. These are, you know, Ted talks to your listeners might be familiar with it. Oh. It should then I I and I just wanted to show what? It basically she s she tells from data that that's a complete fabrication just to incite the youth and get them on their bandwagon. They want people to be doing whatever they want them to do. This mind control Which is not grounded in any kind of data from Quran or authentic hadith. That's the voice of Dr. Fahim uh Yuna uh Yunus. Sorry about that. He is the Secretary of Education for the Ahmadiyya Muslim community in the United States, Jonathan Sweisser, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. So I'm still not clear on the answer then so they're not following the teaching um that defines what Islam is, at least as your uh understanding it. Right. And let's for the sake of argument say that you've got the right understanding. Right. So they're not following that. Well isn't that what Muslim means is to be a follower of Islam? So if they're not following it, then they're not Muslim. Troy, I I hope nobody finds it offensive, but to give you an example, if a Catholic bishop molests a child I'm gonna I'm not gonna say he's not a Christian. I don't have the right. I don't know. In Christianity we're if he's unrepentant, he's not a Christian. Okay, then that's different. But in in my opinion, I will say this is not befitting of Christ's behavior. He is a shame for Christianity. and people like him should be marginalized, they should be they should repent, they should call it. Okay, but let's clarify. If 'cause again you're you're using a metaphor assimile to Christianity. In Christianity, if Um anybody that is a Christian does something that is a clear sin, like uh, you know, a pedophilia Right. It's an obvious clear sin uh that scripture's very clear about. If that individual repents, then we c we consider them still a Christian. If it's a gen you know, and we d we can't judge the heart. So but if they repent then then we treat 'em as a Christian and and we look to help to redeem them and bring them forth. If they don't repent, then that's where they get excommunicated, they get put out. And so so that uh it's a But can they still call themselves Christians? Not not by anybody who is a Christian. No but can they We are told. That's what I'm saying. So this the definition a false believer. Okay. We would say that they that they're liars and that that they don't understand the truth. Okay. So we'd be very clear. We wouldn't have any qualms At least not on this show. Uh uh evangelical Christians, I'll say, have no qualms about being abundantly clear that such an individual uh has has left the faith, even though they claim to still be a Christian that they've left the faith. But you're not saying that you're willing to go so far as to say that those people have left the faith. The point is who is a Muslim who's not is an individual act in Islam. And I'll give you an idea as to There was a one of those defensive wars, a companion of problems. No, no, I was just gonna tell you some data so you know it's not my opinion. Because this