Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Troy Skinner, and I welcome you to join me on a brand new Odyssey. Find out we've got a new start with the program, a totally different way of doing things. I'll fill you in as we go. You can find me online at WFMD. com, go to the Faith Debate page, or you can find me at Household of Faith in Christ. Um this is a season of change. A big time season of change. You know what I'm saying? Those who know me well, this isn't news to you, but not everybody knows me all that well, so I'm going to share with you uh some updates. Moved into a new house in recent months, reorganizing the ministry with Household of Faith in Christ in recent months, and no longer using the WFMD studios in recent months. There's been some changes at the radio station, and for years and years, ever since 2004, the faith debate has been recorded in the studios atop Grofield Road. uh for WFMD and that is no longer going to be the case moving forward uh unless something should change again down the road and so we're trying out a completely new setup this time So this is kind of an experiment. Uh so it's just you and me as I figure out if this is gonna work, uh how to record things, how to properly adjust the levels, how to make the sound quality as good as absolutely possible. I'm Not positive if it's gonna go perfectly well, but we're gonna try our darndest. So with all these changes, uh it's been a little hectic and uh now we're just trying to deal with in the moment as we plan for the future. So as of right now The plan is that the radio show, The Face of Debate, and its podcast, The Faith Debate, will continue. And you can continue to ask uh access rather the faith debate where you always have. So you can listen on Sunday mornings live on the radio or you can listen to the podcast whenever you darn well feel like it And you could access those podcasts at the WFMD. com website or through the Household of Faithinchrist. com website, or you know, your favorite podcast platform, which uh might be the Christian podcast community, which we've been talking about. uh quite a bit in recent weeks as we have the show has now become part of that platform of of Christian podcasters. And if you listen through the website of WFMB, then there's my understanding is that somewhere around 100-ish shows are uh platformed there, but we've done way more than a hundred-ish shows And so all of the shows are migrating over to the platform for that is used by Christian Podcast Community and is housed at household of faith in Christ. com. So if you want to get all of the shows that we have available going way back into the Wayback Machine, then uh you'll want to go to Household of Faith in Christ. You're going to be looking for the faith debate. So there's going to be two podcast versions out there, the one that's managed by the radio station is called Frederick Faith Debate. And the one that is managed by me through the Christian podcast community is The Faith Debate. So if you want to get all the same shows but more of them, go to the Faith Debate. But you can go either place. That's fine. The most recent shows will be available in both places. Now, in recent years, it's been a habit with the Faith Debate to include not just audio, but to have a video component And posting those videos on you know occasionally YouTube, mostly on Rumble, always on Odyssey. com, also on sermonaudio. com, places like that, and then distributed via my social media platforms, whether it be, you know Twitter or I guess it's X now or or Getter or Truth or you know whatever, all the different Mi Wii, what have you. I'm not sure if this new setup's gonna allow us to do that very easily or Or not, we will find out. I don't think there will be video for this particular episode, but if I can figure out how to make that happen for future episodes, then it will be a video aspect as you move forward Uh I mentioned the archived podcast all of the older podcasts going way back or being added to the Faith Debate podcast uh designation, which again you can access through the the church website or the uh Christian podcast community. Right now I'm not sure exactly how many are over there right now. Like I said, it's uh it's a hundred plus I think on um going through the radio station's website. It's well over a hundred plus. It's at least a hundred plus. On the other one, I'm not sure how many I'll try to figure it out, but you can get more than a hundred podcasts there right now. And we're going to keep adding it and the goal is to have all of them there Relatively soon in the coming weeks. I know I've talked about that a few times in the past, but with all the changes, the change of house, the the change of the studio situation, the changes going on with the ministry, all sorts of of things have uh been a distraction from getting all of that squared away the way that we want and need it to be. So I appreciate your patience with us if uh if if you want to hear all those old shows. They're gonna get there. God willing, I promise they're gonna get there relatively soon. Another thing that uh wanted to be doing but uh couldn't do as well as I wanted to right now because of all the distractions is to do a better job of staying current on my personal pastor's blog, which is made available through the Household of Faith in Christ dot com website and and distributed on the various social media platforms that you can link to all of those social media platforms through the church's website. It's the easiest way to find me. You can search for me. I use my name, Troy Skinner. Not hard to find, but there are other Troy Skinners, don't you know? So Sometimes just typing in Troy Skinner isn't going to be helpful. And I actually had to be, I think, the Troy Skinner on X or what used to be called Twitter because somebody else already had Troy Skinner or something. So anyway, but if you want to connect any see what social media uh platforms I'm on and then connect with me there. Just go to the church's website and you can click on the link. It'll take you straight to my page and you can do what you do from there. So that's what's kinda going on as far as what's happening and what the plan is for now. In the short term, what does this mean? Well, as you can tell, in the short term it means we're experimenting with a new equipment setup, a new studio setting, new microphone, new New uh the whole new recording setup, new software, new everything. And boy I gotta tell ya, I've been in this business for a time, uh since the nineteen eighties. And it's changed When I grew up it's basically an analog world. And uh it's gone from an analog world to a hybrid analog slash digital world, uh you know 20, 25 years later, that's kind of where we lived. And now it's almost entirely digital. And I haven't kept up with all of the technical changes in real time. And so it's a bit of a learning curve for me A lot of the things I learned years ago in the analog world are applicable now, but there's enough difference that it's uh a little befuddling for somebody like me who didn't grow up with social media and quick access to everything on your smartphone and all that stuff sort of stuff. And there are people that are called early adopters. Like if there's new technology, they jump on it right away. That's not me. I wait until it's really tried and tested and proven by a whole bunch of people who are okay, I guess I'll I'll jump on it We've got bandwagon now. And so I'm a little late to the game on this and I'm figuring it out. I appreciate your patience with me as we work through this together. And we haven't had a number of panelists on the show lately because of this transition, but we're hoping to get back to having panel discussions and tackling topics that the panelists would find interesting, but more importantly that you would find beneficial and interesting and educational and that sort of thing. So if there are particular things, questions you have or topics you want us to tackle, it's something you've always kind of wanted to know, like, what am I supposed to make of this? What's the answer to this question Contact me. Uh my email is available through the church's website. Just email me and say, Hey, could you guys do a show about this or these several things? And we'll do the darndest to try to make that happen uh relatively quickly So while I'm learning this new equipment setup, doing this with guests who are gonna be patient with me as I learn almost feels unfair to them. So for the next several weeks anyway, I think my plan is to make use of audio from me appearing on other people. shows and editing that to fit the confines of the faith debate show and make it work within a faith debate context. And so you're going to hear me and other people with me interacting on theological faith-related matters but it won't have originated as a faith debate show, but it will be presented to you as a faith debate show. And I'm mentioning all of that and belaboring a little bit because there's something I should say. I feel like it should go without saying, honestly, but I'm going to say it anyway, just to be sure. My appearing with other people on their shows or even having them appear on this show. Me appearing with other people is not me endorsing those people. Sometimes I would endorse them. I would have no problem endorsing certain people. But I don't endorse all people all the time, and even the people I endorse most of the time, I don't endorse them all the time. I mean good example. If you've listened to this show since its inception back in 2004, then you know that at the very beginning, the friend of for a long time of of mine, Jonathan Schweitzer, was a regular panelist. He's kind of the co-founder of the show. He's drifted away in more recent recent years but uh early on it was me and John and I was kinda handling the technical stuff and the the radio aspects and the you know whatever marketing we did for it and and the hosting and the getting all the audio uploaded and And ready for the radio station to air and for the podcast and all that sort of auto-tanling all of that stuff. And John's primary role was to bring in guests And be a gadfly. You know what I mean? Anyway, Jonathan and I go way back. I've always had a high regard for him personally, and I think and hope that he has high regard for me, but I don't agree with everything he has to say, particularly as time's gone on You know, years ago we started the show, I think we were a little bit closer together. I would say I've got increasingly theological conservative since back then, and Jonathan has drifted I think increasingly more theologically liberal on some key issues since then. And so I think there's more division in our viewpoint on things now than there was back then. So if you hear an old show and you're like, wait a minute, John and Troy are talking it doesn't mean that that's where I am now. It doesn't mean that John was right or wrong back then. Just know that I'm not necessarily And then after John Sweisser kind of stepped away from the show, after well probably five hundred or more shows of the fake debate feature John Schweitzer, probably a period representing more than eight years. Jace Broadhurst was on quite a bit of shows. That might be a name you remember. if you've been listening to Safe Bay for a long time. He was probably on, I don't know, maybe the hundred-ish shows over the years. So that's what, nearly two years worth of radio shows and podcasts. And similar. You know, there was a time when Jace and I would have been very lockstep on a lot of issues, but even more so than Jonathan's flights there, Jace has been a much different kind of a direction than me. And I don't know if he would appreciate the label or not. I'm not sure if he's a fan of labels anymore, but just to give you a sense that I have no problem identifying myself as almost a biblicist, right? A strong, stalwart conservative Christian guy who will fight tooth and nail regarding the inerrancy, the inspiration, the infallibility of God's word in our Christian canon and that that canon is sufficient, it is truly sufficient for all that we need to know about our faith and how to live our life and all that sort of stuff. And I'm not so sure that, you know, somebody like Jace, for example, would say things exactly that way. And uh a lot more into mythic understandings and newer fads of Christian belief and that sort of thing. Uh and then of course in there was a period of time after John Sweitzer and Jace Broadhurst were both stepped away from the show where uh we went through a season where it was just me and a whole bunch of different kind of guests, you know, a bunch of different guests, including guys like Paul Monday and Tim May from this radio station. or the politician Dan Cox, even and other politicians. A number of authors over the years, including William Paul Young, who wrote The Shack. You know, very controversial and popular podcast people like A. D. Robles I've got a number of Muslims and rabbis and various mystics and new agers and eastern type of religious faiths or whatever on this show. Clearly I'm not endorsing all those different people. In fact, some of the people I just mentioned I specifically would not endorse I would go out of my way to speak against the things that they taught. That's what the faith debate's all about. Me arguing for what I uh I'm pretty darn persuaded, is what the Bible says and and them saying otherwise and us hashing it out. So just because they appear on the show doesn't mean I'm endorsing them And to be honest, I can't even say I would endorse everything I've always said, because as we learn, we grow and we change and our perspectives. So there's things I said or the way I might have said things back in 2004 or 5 or 6 or ten or two thousand fifteen even and I'm like, yeah, I don't think I'd say it that way now. I'm not sure I really believe it exactly that way anymore. I've shifted on some things. And so I'm just you know, I just want you to be even handed with what you hear and don't be persuaded by me or anybody else that's on this show you should be persuaded by what God has to say. So I'm not trying to persuade you to believe anything other than trying to persuade you of the importance of believing what God has to say. That's where it really matters And there's been a number of shows by the way as I continue to think about this that didn't have any guests. It was just me. This is an example of that, right? There's been a number of times. During COVID, uh wasn't allowed to have guests come into the studio to do shows. There were times when we had to get a show recorded because we're up against it as far as the timeline of things and we had things scheduled and guests didn't show up or various illnesses or accidents. or pastoral emergencies come up, whatever. And so we've had to scramble. So there's probably been, goodness, I don't know, maybe there's been at least 50, I'd guess, maybe a hundred, I don't know, shows over the years where it's been just me. Even those shows, I'm not necessarily 100% endorsing. And so all of that said, I mean to add that what these shows you're going to be hearing featuring me being a guest on somebody else's show, it doesn't mean because I appear on their show that I'm endorsing them or their shows or anything that they have to say. In the past, for example, here on uh Jennifer Charlton's show from WFMD on Saturday mornings and she had me as a guest and then I was uh for an hour and I repurposed some of that audio to create at least I think two faith debate shows from that. And Jen is a friend and you know, I like her and she likes me, I'm pretty sure. But uh she wouldn't endorse everything I say, and I'm not gonna endorse everything she says. You know what I'm saying? And some of the shows you're probably gonna be hearing in the upcoming weeks and or months Richard Henry, Ray Fava, John Harris, and so forth, you know, like Tim O'Higgins that uh recently aired. I agree with some of what these people have to say, and I disagree stridently with other things they had to say. And some people in the past that have had on the show, I would have recommended them at the time, but I no longer recommend them. There are people that I don't recommend now that maybe someday down the road I will recommend them because they will shift and get in a better direction, you know? So there's been a shaking of the Christian tree in the last uh ten years, particularly the last five or six. I mean, a lot of things have been clarified, who stands where and why and what the support for their positions is. Some people have gotten rather mean spirited That's not a very Christian way to look at the world. Some people have gotten bogged down in their Christian nationalist ideas, and depending how you want to define that uh which has gotten into sort of an ethnic prejudice which is very unbecoming, very unfortunate. Uh there are a lot of people that uh in the past have given reason to wonder if they really un Understood the idea of repentance and forgiveness and now the way that they've conducted themselves, at least publicly, yeah, on social media and elsewhere in the ways that the world can see into their lives. Yeah, there's reasons why you might have said, I wonder, does that person really understand repentance and forgiveness? And you're like, yeah, no, now I can see pretty well that they probably don't. Well a lot of things. You give somebody the benefit of the doubt for a long time, but now you can't give them that benefit of the doubt anymore. They've kind of robbed themselves of the privilege of having a benefit of the doubt. And so I say all of that because we're going to be airing some audio from shows that where I appeared here or two or three or I don't even know how far back some of these might go And uh at the time I would have had no problem with a lot of things those people had to say and now I would have a lot of problems with what those had to say. Or even if now I have a I would be confident in much of what they would say, maybe down the road when you finally get around to hearing it as a podcast, because podcasts are kind of evergreen, you know what I mean? I listen to podcasts sometimes from years ago And you can kind of feel the arc of transition in somebody's thinking and life. And they start out fine and they end up in a really weird place. You know what I mean? Kind of the poster trial for some of that in most recent times, a very polarizing figure, would be a guy like Joel Levin And those who are uh supportive of what Joel is all about. I mean Joel is uh it might as well be the stone choir at this point. And if these names mean nothing to you, then you know, I apologize, but just know that they're kind of on the fringe. Lunatic fringe maybe Uh Joel fancies himself a pastor, but he's been disqualified from the pastorate, but these people still call him a pastor. But anyway, I mention him specifically and people like him because five years ago, even four years ago, a lot of the things They had to say were really good and true and biblical and somehow drifted in a direction that's just eats you up inside. It's like a cancer And then unfortunately some good guys get attacked by these newfound knuckleheads. Good guys that you could trust and you still, for the most part, can trust, but they're having their reputations torn down. Dr. James White comes to mind Now James White, I think I've said this before, I feel like he's got a bit more of a thin skin than is helpful, and I think he uh allows himself to be dragged into online Twitter wars and and spats on social media with people that really aren't worth the time. He gives them a platform that they don't deserve, that they haven't earned. And so I wish he wouldn't do that. And I don't just agree with Dr. James White on every theological question, by the way. But I do thank the Lord for bringing him into the uh view of the American church over the last decades. His approach to apologetics has been great. The work he's done in dealing with the Muslims and Mormons and Roman Catholics and so forth and liberals within the Protestant traditions has been great. Some of his scholarship is wonderfully helpful. He's one of the good guys. And so to tear somebody down like that who's been so faithful for so long, not good Now, I've got a few minutes left in this show and I wasn't sure if I was gonna touch on these things, but I I made a note to myself that if there was time that I would touch on these things, and it looks like there's some time Just within the last recent number of days, uh I've I've allowed myself to kind of get dragged into uh some discussion about some um controversial type of figures And so I'm going to address those here, and maybe we'll schedule a show with some panelists to talk about some of these uh men and their teachings, their problematic teachings in the future. But for now, I just I'm going to try to touch on it a little bit so that anybody who's been engaging with or watching me engage with others on these questions via social media will have a little bit more context on some of the questions. this. One of the names is Herbert W. Armstrong. Now Herbert W. Armstrong is such a heretic that he has a heresy named after him. It's called Armstrongism. You've got to be a rather noteworthy heretic to have a heresy named after you. Herbert W. Armstrong founded uh what back in the day was called the Worldwide Church of God Uh they had a split a number quite a number of years ago now, and I think there are some people that still possibly use that name that would be far more faithful There are a number of uh uh um people that uh probably still believe in Armstrongism but don't call themselves Worldwide Church of God anymore. And I think that the main branch that's more biblical has changed the name and I'm drawn a blank now what they've changed their name to. But they've they've um basically refugiated uh and and rejected all of the Armstrongism or most of the Armstrongism in their tradition and they become quite a bit more biblical. Okay, faithful. But anyway, Herbert W. Armstrong is a problem. And the debate I got into somebody regarding Herbert W. Armstrong was somebody who was suggesting that, well, all you gotta do when you're talking to these people that believe what Herbert W. Armstrong taught. is you just have to point out, you know, the ill logic of what um Herbert Armstrong had to say. And uh and make sure you you you make clear what his error was, point out the inadequacies of his beliefs And I suggested, well, yeah, that's all well and good. You know, but you uh you want to meet people where they are, and and it's certainly fine to uh to help somebody do an in what's called an internal critique of of their belief system, but you gotta get into the word. You gotta you gotta make biblical arguments, you gotta show them what the Bible says. And I got pushed by saying, no, no, no, no, you can't do that. What are you talking about? If you're a believer in Christ The word is what it's all about. And if you if you don't have confidence that the word can do the job, then you don't understand what the Bible says because God's word does not return void It will accomplish what God wants it to accomplish. Sometimes it softens and changes and renews hearts, and sometimes it hardens hearts and turns people over to the depravity of their own mind. So that was the context there. Another name that came up recently, um, Michael Heiser, uh Unseen Realm, I think, is one of the most noteworthy books. title of it. He's written quite a few things and kind of a scholarly sort of a guy. Um he's he's he's was a he's he's passed away now, but he's uh was a big time proponent of what's called the Divine Council and the plurality of God of of uh of the divine realm of kind of a multitude of gods. Now um my understanding and having read Heiser and been familiar with his arguments for a while is he would have called himself a Trinitarian monotheist, but he defined the terms differently than than uh a lot of other people would have defined them, including me. And so he's got the it's uh more of a henotheism or a monolatry kind of a thing where there's yeah, there there there is this one ultimate true Trinitarian God. But there's a bunch of other lesser gods too. And you know, they're they're doing battle in the heavens and kind of thing. And The Bible's clear. There is one and only one God, and all other quote-unquote gods are pretend. They're not real gods. We could call them gods. People can imagine these figments of their imagination to be gods, but they're no gods at all. And Heiser upsets the Apple cart on that and he gets people very confused and he ends up getting the the the gospel a little bit warped too and it's led to a lot of confusion and as a pastor I've met some of these people and I've had to Uh because like I said, Faiser's a academic, smart guy, gifted was gifted in many ways, and so he can be persuasive and you get untangling, unwinding people from all of that Now does that say that Michael Heiser ne uh never said anything true? Or even Herbert W. Armstrong for that matter, that they've never said anything true in their life? No, they have said lots of true things. Both of them are dead now, but while they were alive, both of them have said a lot of true things But they also get a lot of bad things, and those bad things are very confusing and dangerously so, and we should be warned about those sorts of things. things. And so I'm not making a decision about whether Michael Heiser is is is uh in heaven or not because that's not my rule to make that kind of a decision. God knows But it is all of our roles to be discerning, to be good Bereans, and to judge what people have to say against the clear teaching of Scripture. And so there's some context there. And the last thing I wanted to say is the whole Scott Adams thing that became an issue this week uh and in recent weeks. You know, the creator of Dilbert, uh he he died after his lung battle with cancer. And he publicly said that, you know, he's basically going to take Pascal's wager and you know, what do you got to lose? You know, if Christianity is true, then I'll spend eternity with Jesus, and if it's not true, well, you know, I'm gonna and just be uh rotting in in in the dirt in the ground like I like I imagined that I would for all these years. Well, that's not really how the gospel works. If you're going to say, oh, I'm just going to place my bet on Jesus, where's repentance? Where's the acknowledgement of your sin? Where is the understanding of your need? And it it's a total twisting and misunderstanding of the gospel because it puts the actor, the the the one who's doing the action, is i all that action is in the hands of the person, the in the human being. The creature. So it's not about God, in this case, saving Scott Adams, but it's about someone like Scott Adams saving himself by placing a good bet. A smart bet, because I can't lose. If I place the bet on Jesus and it's true, well then I'm going to be in heaven. If I place the bet on Jesus and it's wrong, well then you know what did I lose? I didn't lose anything That's not what the scripture teaches. The scripture teaches that we have a creator who made us in his image, and that creator does exist. And we are fallen sinners who have lived our lives in rebellion against this creator. And so we are stuck in a bad place and we need a rescuer. And that rescuer is Jesus Christ. And when you come to recognize that you have been rescued by Jesus Christ out of humble gratitude, you want to live a life of obedience that honors him. and helps point other people to him so that they can join you in the hope that you have to spend eternity with Christ in glory. That's not what Scott Adams was talking about on social media. And if you're confused about that, then I just I would encourage you to dig deeper into the scriptures, talk to your pastor, get a clearer understanding of what the gospel is Well, it looks like I'm gonna be pretty much out of time here now. Um I'm gonna see if I can't figure out how to get the steam music playing. I'm not Real good image. Yeah, where's where's the audio for my theme music? Oh, I think it's coming. Well, until next week, one hundred fifty seven and a half hours from now. God bless