Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Grid Lod County where preaching with impact is like Pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is a Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by BMC Insurance, Cruise Holidays, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you find links to all sorts of interesting things including the Faith Debate blog. Have I hyped that uh enough for you lately? The Faith Debate blog. I gotta hype it because if you don't send me email, there is no blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. My blog is your blog. So whatever you email me, I post. Sometimes it's political commentaries, sometimes it's what's on T V. I don't know. I get the most bizarre things, but a lot of times it has to do with Christ or Islam or You know, pick your favorite uh spiritual flavor. Uh there's a lot of that uh in there as well. And you'll find out information about Jonathan Sweitzer, like that he's married, he has kids, and how to contact him. You can follow him at SweitzerJonathan. He's on Twitter. I'm not on Twitter. 'Cause I didn't want to be a tweet or twitch or twittering. And we're joined this week by Dr. Staccato Powell. I don't know if you're w uh involved with Twitter. You on Twitter? I'm not on Twitter. I'm kind of a caveman. Hey, the caveman. Ah. Are you on Facebook? I am not on Facebook. Oh made after my own heart. And I don't own a cell phone. Dude, this guy's like a monk. I didn't realize we had a spiritual father in the house. We need to enclose this guy's the real deal, man. We need to enclose this man in glass and put him on display because he's one of a kind Anyway, he's with New Church Believers and you can follow uh what he's all about at NewChurchbelievers dot org. And speaking of dot org, frederick forty eight dot org. Yes. Uh that's about a month away. Yes, right around the corner. Yeah, and and the gist of that, right, is that last year we raised three hundred thousand dollars on two days at the end of September, Frederick forty eight, forty eight hours. for uh nonprofits, 26 nonprofits that are helping out with the three biggest needs in Frederick, at-risk youth, those overwhelmed by medical bills, and those who are on the verge of homelessness or homeless. And last year's $300,000. We're convinced we can beat that this year. So you've got to tell all your friends September 26th and 27th is when that's going down. Come and be a part of it. It's at Frederick48. org. Frederickthenumber 48. org. And last week's Dr. Staccato Powell uh challenged Frederick to uh have dozens and dozens and dozens of people join the FAST. That's right. And uh he's convinced that if we can do that I think he said three billion dollars will be raised. No? So this year we have all the commissioners, we have the aldermen, the mayor are all doing uh a what's called the food stamp challenge, living uh and eating only four dollars and fifty cents worth of food every day and we already have some eighteen uh people that are gonna do a full 10-day fast. And so uh the point is that we're trying to draw attention that everybody would come together on that day. And obviously for me, I'm of the opinion that when we go before God and sincerely ask him to move that he moves in a big way. So we're really anticipating that that will be the case here in Frederick. It's the best diet plan to hit Frederick County and aid. Great. So Troy just signed up, wasn't that great? Dina just signed you up. So what we're talking about uh these last three weeks and now again uh today is what's going on with this uh newchurchbelievers. org movement that Powell's involved with stuff. And uh if you haven't, I'm gonna have to recap really quick so you'll know what we're talking about. I'll give you just enough of a toehold so you'll be able to follow this week's show. Basically the church is divided and divisive. A lot of uh people fall into the denominational camps and they live there and they dislike or distrust other Christians who uh don't belong to the same denomination that they do. And Dr Paul Dr. Powell was saying, let's get past that. Let's get past the divisiveness. Let's not get bogged down in doctrine that isn't central to the gospel. You know, let's find out. Yeah, it's about Jesus, about unity in Christ, all those sorts of things. There are like ten p churches in Frederick that are starting a Bible ministry training school that come from different denominations that are based on this idea. That's exciting. Uh in words. That's really exciting. We're looking to start classes in the spring. We got it we got the board together. We're putting together uh the teaching staff for it, you know, from all the different churches with the intention of cross pollinating, you know, in the midst of uh of the basics, but recognizing that uh that we hold beliefs that that aren't about the basics but that can enrich us uh uh if we Sit under one another's teaching. So it's very exciting what what God is doing here in Frederick along those lines. And the thing that's exciting is that's exactly what I envision. Is it really? For the future for new church believers. That's exactly what I envision. I envision that five to ten years from now you will see more of that taking place that people will begin to identify themselves first and foremost as believers. What we don't realize is those of us who have gone to Bible college and who've gone to divinity school and seminary, we are the greatest proponents for doctrinal division. Yeah. The ads. Absolutely that end up being ca somewhat side to the main issues. Yeah, so we end up being per perpetuating division. Because the average person, they could not explain to you the Calvinistic position. The average Presbyterian. I don't know. They've all watched Calvin and Hobbes. They've read the the comic strip. They can tell you what Calvin's like. They go to the Presbyterian church because it's closest to their house. they might have a good program for their children. Well, except for Calvinists. Calvinists happen to be as a denomination more intellectual than others. And so they do pride themselves on not just knowing their doctrine, but knowing why it's so important. Nevertheless, the rest of us are a little bit less. Earn it. Okay um but you're not saying to get rid of the denominations. No, not at all. Uh you know, God will take care of that. Yeah, amen. God will take care all of that. We're not in the pos business or the position of trying to eradicate, eliminate, being antagonistic or counter or or contra anything. We're simply advocating that people of faith People who are believers and I want to go back to what I said in the first show, I believe Jesus Christ is the only way Yeah, I mean. So I don't want to just Jesus Christ is the only way. I unapologetically, I believe that. And you're not saying that Calvinists or Lutherans or Wesleys or whatever have to stop being those things. They just have to Uh make sure that as they're those things they're more open to those who disagree with them on some of those Well not even being open to disagreeing, but believing. Basically, Dr. Powell is a is a movement example of what the faith debate is all about, right? That we we you know, I like you, even though you and I disagree about some pretty significant uh uh issues theologically because we agree on on the basics and we bring people on the show, you know, and we we work from that standpoint. Well that's the same thing that that he's arguing for that Everybody wants to be that way. That you and I are on the cutting edge of what God is doing. Can you believe that he actually thinks that? And Do you believe that? You're the first. At a long last. People understand us. Frederick forty eight. Yeah. the Bible college that you all be are starting real soon. All of those are examples, or both of those are examples. of what new church believers are all about. When I went to Uganda, I had assemblies of God, I had Methodists, Baptists, Pentecostals. And those people could care less, but we were all there in the same room dealing with what matters most to people who choose to believe. So what needs to happen to make it happen faster or what is it a grassroots thing? I I think it's grassroots. I think sometimes we have gotten I know personally I have Too anxious for the move of God. We look back and we see a movement that has blossomed but started out with one Who recruited another, who then went and got another, and then there was twelve. And we know how they soon disintegrated, doubting and betraying and in many instances uh denying. Yet we are here today in this room because of that movement. We talk about Paul being a tremendous church planter. But Paul didn't plant mega churches. Most of what Paul planted, I think, were probably house churches. And we don't need to be anxious about this going viral. It it doesn't matter to me if we have ten, twenty, fifteen of the because if this is in fact the move of God, and I believe that it is, It's not if, but when. And we're seeing expressions in this very room. In this county. has moved away from orthodoxy. So if orthodoxy is in the middle, they moved off of orthodoxy into doctrines where they don't believe that Jesus is the only way to the Father and they don't believe the Word of God can be trusted anymore, right? So so much of the body of Christ has moved off of that. So those of us that are left that were worried about all of these distinctions about what we believe, uh have an opportunity to step into that hiatus that has been created by those that moved off of orthodoxy and reclaim the broad orthodoxy boundaries uh of the body of Christ and by stepping into it, like he's saying, I'm I'm convinced that we're gonna see colleges across the nation that that are popping up all over the place. I'm waiting to find them. It sounds like you're ready to start one first chance you get. Uh you're at least you surround yourself with people that are really committed to you know to to higher education and that we're gonna see more of that. precisely because people are recognizing that the bro broad boundaries of orthodoxy is what the early church was. Absolutely. And to they had some disagreements, but they were clear on the basics. And they accepted the rest. And to go even further, I believe that as time goes on, we're going to begin to see more people identifying themselves in this way as opposed to trying to get into these camps, trying to fit into the box. And what's happening and people are frightened by this denominational people are frightened by this. Because they're trying to maintain the organization. It's really collapsing and as opposed to embracing the transition and what's happening in this transformation, they are retrenching and trying to hold on to something that has outlived is usefulness. But when they let go, they don't have to let go necessarily of their Presbyterianism or their uh Episcopalianism or their congregationalism, right? They they can still hang on to some of the d the things that are distinctive about their tradition. Or are you saying that those things need would go away too? No. When we surrender, I'm not even saying let go. I'm saying surrender to God. Listen, you're talking to a person Who grew up in the African Methodist Episcopal Zion Church? I'm not first generation. Amen. If I if I drove the AMEZ, I'd be a big thing. I'm third, fourth generation AME Zion. Okay. So it's not like I'm out here railing against it. But the reality is there is a huge drop off in denominational churches. You see it with members of the National Council of Churches, Episcopalians, United Methodists. uh William Willemond writes a book entitled Bishop. Willemont is a United Methodist Bishop, now retired. He says that when he was presiding over Alabama, he had like twenty five hundred churches and he challenged his churches. Challenged him that by annual conference that they would bring one new convert to conference. Yeah. And some of the people really objected because he didn't set the bar high enough. Hm. And not even half of them bought one new person. Yeah. Hm. This is the Frederick. This is the Frederick Faith debate, the one saying about breaking out. That's Jonathan Schweitzer, still in puberty. Over there, a senior pastor across the Philippi Chapel. Uh, I'm not sure how to respond to that one. I'm yeah. I do have a son Jonathan that happens to be there, but maybe I am still there. If his voice cracks a little why. Dr. Segato Powell is with new church believers. Uh you can visit them online at newchurchbelievers dot org. I'm trying to think about because I'm excited about what we're talking about because it's about unity in Christ. And Jonathan I have talked about this on the air and offline. I mean if uh if there's a central core doctrine, if you will that really drives my thinking on things is about unity in Christ. The number of times that the the words in him, in Christ, in Jesus Christ show up in in in the New Testament is is amazing. It's all about that unity thing. But ecclesiology pops into my head. Church government. Oversight issues. The Presbyterians aren't going to give up their style of government very easily and they're going to think that those who are doing it differently maybe aren't as biblical. And the Episcopalians aren't going to give up their style of government as easily, and they're gonna think the Presbyterians aren't aren't as biblical. Or the Congregationalists, the Baptists out there, the more independent churches, they're gonna say, you guys at these superstructures or these institutional models, you're totally wr you guys are They're gonna continue to disagree on those things. But i I think. But it's okay. Is that okay what you're saying is that's okay. Yes, it's fine, they can disagree, but they will not carry the day The day will be carried by individuals who have parked those issues on the side. That the post denominationalism, because I think you're right about that, isn't going to mean that people don't disagree about those things It's just that that the focus on the basics will be the primary driver of what they're doing in the areas where they disagree uh will be areas where they enrich one another by challenging one another about what scripture says, but that that isn't the the meat and potatoes of their mission uh moving forward. And so the result is that people still have opinions about baptism, they still have opinions about ecclesiology and eschatology and you know all these different things. And even opinions that are strong enough that that, you know, they'll get in the into passionate conversations with one another, but that they will refuse to let those issues divide them or water down the intensity of their working together for the kingdom. And so I don't as I don't know if that's a disagreement with you or not. As much as I would like to say you are dis you're not. You're saying the exact same thing as a matter of semantics. I when I say But it was a lot more fun when we were disagreeing. So if you want to be disagreeable, that's fine. However, I think that you're right. They'll have opinions on soteriology and ontology and eschatology and all of that. But at the end of the day, it's those things that resonate within. Exactly. That they are passionate about that will catapult them to a new place, a deeper level, if you will, of intimacy and a relationship. It's not gonna be as much about religion as it is about a relationship with the Christ. In Christ, as you said, with Christ. And I think people are yearning And what they have been given and what they are holding on to does not fill that void, that hunger and thirst after righteousness is really what's driving them. They w there are people who want to be right. And even the doctrine I'm one of them. And even what that wants to be right is I want you to be right for a long time, but he keeps hanging out with me, poor guy. He's getting close. He's getting close. He's getting close. What do you think, Troy? What do you think about this? Well I'll see uh I'm seeing even among the we were playfully calling those uh Calvinist friends of mine, you know, the frozen chosen. Yeah. And I can say that playfully because they refer to themselves as the frozen chosen playfully, you know. But even in that upper register intellectual uh uh vein of of the American uh Christian church, you're even seeing evidence of what we're talking about there. Yeah, guys like Tim Keller, who is a a Calvinist Presbyterian in New York City who is huge at contextualizing his message using uh images and uh and examples from life that will resonate with with non believers, with New York City dwellers, and people outside New York City say, Man, you're like way mod. You're too modern for us. Uh but they still love him. Right. Yeah. And then you take a guy and we're like the mod squad here. And then stated yourself. Tim Keller, who's uh as far as I understand, is is friends with a guy like uh John Piper in Minneapolis, who is also a Calvinist, but he's a Baptist. And they're both friends with a guy in Seattle at Mars Hill Church, Mark Driscoll, who's a Calvinist, but he's um a shock jock Calvinist such a thing. I mean he's in your face with his preaching and his his language choice and that sort of thing. And you got guys like Sovereign Grace Ministries. They're Calvinists but they're charismatic They have an awful lot in common with Crossroads Valley Chapel and and and the way that Jonathan's church looks at things. So even in the frozen-chosen hyperintellectual Calvinist world There's the dropping of some barriers that had been there for years. There's the the m melding and blending of ideas. You know what? Sovereign grace, I'm gonna disagree with you about the the the I'm more of a cess you know somebody might say I'm more of a cessationist about the the gifts than you are, but You know what, we're still brothers and we can still do ministry together and we're s you know seeing it there. And if it can happen there it can happen just about here. I remember when you were kinda trying to figure out where you fit in all that and uh and you know it it when it came to the Calvinist doctrine, you felt like maybe y you weren't so good a fit, but as you got out there and you saw it, you were like, No, there's there's a lot of space out there in it and I From where I stood, it looked like all of a sudden you found freedom and a little bit of wings to say, all right man, I'm gonna go for this and I'm gonna I'm gonna really enjoy it. Yeah, there's a phrase that I've used a couple of times. I don't think I've ever used it on the air, but you know uh it It can replace to your your Calvinism or your charismaticism or your your whatever. I think we hold to those things because they're dear to us and we're convinced, we're persuaded by Scripture that those uh are essentially right. Most most of those ideas that fit together are right and that becomes your your biblical worldview. But I think we need to hold those uh hold them in our hand, but hold our hand with a uh with an open hand, as opposed to a clenched fist. When we hold on to those doctrines with a clenched fist Well we're in a fighting posture. Well if we could hold them in our in a in a open hand and say, Look, I hold on to these same things you do. I'm just not going to fight over 'em. And I'm and and I'm going to allow God the the the flexibility that to show me where maybe they need some of these things can just slip between my fingers. And not hang on uh clenching my teeth against even what God's trying to show me sometimes. Say, No, I can't believe this because my Calvinism tells me this or my uh Arminianism tells me this. No, if Scripture tells you and God's working in your heart, you say, okay, uh my Armenianism or my Calvinism is clearly wrong on this point, or might be wrong on this point. It it seems like it's it it it's a humility that allows itself to be enriched by those that are disagree with me. Right? And and when we when we engage with that kind of, you know, like not clenched fist fists but with the with the Quick to listen, slow to speak, slow to become angry, you know, with with a humility. I feel like it changes everything and all of a sudden there's the potential for for this this stirring, this cross pollination, this this word this synergy is the word, you know, that so many have have overused that you know that that builds where I don't have to be like you and and we can work together with the strengths that your theology brings and the strengths that your theology brings and the result is that we end up seeing the kingdom of God. Come forth. Before Dr. Powell responds, I just want to say you criticized me for being 80s with Maude. You're very nineties with Synergy. In terms of your observation of Troy. Yeah. And how it seems that he's sort of uh become free. Yeah. Or liberated. Freedom. That's exactly what happens. When you begin to focus on the the relationship with Christ and in Christ, there's a freedom and there's a truth that you don't quite experience when you're trying to do this intricate dance and between our doctrinal statements and our confessions and professions that we're so weared to those things that we find ourselves in bondage, if you will. That's right. And it's so restrictive that we never quite a sense the presence and the power of God. And when you open up and surrender, it's amazing what God does in our lives. Talking about being free is uh I am free. Great song by the News Boys. Yes. Right. There's a live version and a studio version. You familiar with the News Boys? I am. Okay Ah. No air condition. You crazy? Some say so. This guy's a true saint, I'm telling you. Wow. He's living simply Mother Teresa of uh W Washington, DC, right? But it's so free. So free. So free. And I also believe in having all things common. Hm. Like like the like the Axe Church. Yes. I mean I I don't like You mean like his tie? I yes, I don't like my house. Lock my house rather. I don't like it. I don't lock uh my car. I leave the key above the sunbite. Common among believers Or your Illumina. Yeah. And that happens. And it really happens. He you know, if if Wallace is coming through town, it doesn't matter if I'm in at home or not. I could be traveling. Wallace is his good friend who's with him in the studio. But he knows the door is open. Right? Yes. And and and one guy came by once and he stayed and he locked the door. I said, why would you lock the door? I couldn't get in. Now wait a minute, it's not it's your thought for testing it. You should have the locks removed. That's Dr. Siccato Powell. We'll have to have him back sometime. We'll talk about that. He's a TV TV pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. I want curious to know. Grace and Glory by Gerhardus Voss. You read that? I'm sorry. What's the guy's name? Gerhardus Voss. Yeah, that's just a great name, I think. Yeah, it's one of the all-time great names. If he he'd be tough on Twitter though, it'd be it'd be at Vos Gerhardis. Yeah, yeah, and pronounce it is that'd be hard. Anyway, visit us visit us on Facebook. It wouldn't be hard to be Gerhard. Sounds funny. Oh my goodness. It's too early in the morning for this Anyway, thanks for listening. Uh this is WFMD, I think. I don't know. We'll be back next week if they don't kick us off. Be good. Support Frederick 48. Check it out. Frederick48. org. God bless.