Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfied things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you find links to podcasts, news items, and the faith debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post whatever you send me. Uh within reason. Ninety blog updates go up each week, eighteen a day, Monday through Friday. So uh even if you don't send me something to post, I encourage you to go check it out and see what other people are sending to be posted On the Faith Debates it uh show today, special edition, I consider them special editions, hopefully you do too They've had a string of uh scheduling snafus uh uh in in in recent uh weeks and months on the Faith Debate show. So I apologize for that. But fortunately I've got uh uh a little bit of a stable of of audio that's fresh and new and never been heard before on the on the show. On occasion, as I've explained in the past, I have opportunity to speak uh from the pulpit at local churches. Uh they invite me to share uh uh the gospel message with them, uh people that I know well enough to trust me to do that and uh been invited back a few different places and I always appreciate that very much and I appreciate the opportunity to share this with you As you know and listening to the show, if you listen to the show with regular basis, my participation is somewhat limited most weeks. I allowed John allowed Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, and uh and uh his counterpart counterpart having a hard time speaking this morning. His counterpart guest uh to run with it if as long as we're having a good spirited uh fair debate. And I only opine when uh when I feel like it's absolutely necessary. So sometimes it's hard to tell where I, as the host uh of this show, fall on things. So when you hear these messages it gives you a chance to get a sense of that. So here's a message I shared at the Mosaic Church in Frederick uh uh a number of months back, a this passage uh a um a message titled Filled by Ep Emptiness. Filled by Emptiness, I hope that uh it fills you uh with with joy and hope. Good morning. It's always a wonderful experience to come and worship with you, and I want to thank uh Pastor Jim Eaton and the other elders and the rest of the church leadership for extending the invitation for me to come and share God's word with you this morning. Uh it is an honor and a privilege and a responsibility that I uh uh take very seriously and hold very dear. So I I thank you for that Uh, and I thank you despite the fact that I'm if I'm going to be honest, I have to open with an admission and a confession. Proverbs 1922 says that what a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. That's the NIV translation of that verse. My admission is that I quote this verse repeatedly. Often saying that it's one of my favorites. And my confession is that I ignore this verse repeatedly. I didn't really realize that was true until I was preparing this message. As I studied the 20th chapter of John's Gospel, I was impressed by the fact that I have a problem. Lots of problems actually. Problems of idolatry. Problems I was blind to, and problems that I now want to warn you of. Warn you of idols that are almost certainly in your life as they are in mine. So if you have your Bibles, if you would, pick them up. Turn to John chapter 20. We're looking at verses 1 through 9. If you don't have a Bible with you, there are Bibles in the back. And uh unless they change the policy, my understanding is that if you don't own a Bible, grab one of those Bibles in the back and take it home with you as a gift from mosaics so that you can read the word at home as well as your church. John chapter 20, verses 1 through 9, the story of the empty tomb, one of the most famous parts of the Bible. And because it's so familiar, we might think that we know all there is to know about it. But if you're like me, this morning, you're in for a bit of a surprise. God's Word says to us, Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark. And saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple when they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together, but the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And scooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in. And then Simon Peter came following him and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there, and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths. but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple who had reached the tomb first also went in, and he saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Can you pray with me? Dear Father, we thank you for your presence with us this morning. We thank you for the privilege of gathering together in your name to honor you, to praise you, to lift up your name, to be drawn by your Spirit closer to our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We ask that you would clear our minds of all the clutter, the distractions, the the anxious feelings we might have brought with us here. We ask that you would make those dissipate so that we can focus clearly on your teaching. I pray that you would open my mouth to utter nothing but the truth, and in places where I'm inadequate, I hope that your Spirit would would overcome. So that everyone here will be filled with the word of truth. And would walk in it. In Christ's name, your son Jesus' name, we pray. Amen. Verse 1 starts now on the first day of the week. That's Sunday, the day after the Jewish Sabbath, which was the last day of the week. This is the third day after Jesus Christ was put to death on the cross. Before he was killed, he said that he would give the sign of Jonah, who was in the belly of the whale, for three days. We read about that in Matthew chapter twelve, chapter sixteen, and in Luke chapter eleven. Jesus also said that he would re rebuild the temple, referring to his body. In three days. You read about that in Matthew 26 and Mark 14 and John's Gospel chapter 2. Jesus was indicating that he would rise from the dead on day three. This was day three. But Christ's followers had somehow for the moment lost sight of this promise from Jesus. Verse 1 continues, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early. Matthew's gospel account tells us that there were two Marys. The accounts from Luke and Mark tell us there were two Marys and other women, even providing names. John doesn't draw our attention to these other women. And that can cause some problem for people who want to compare the gospel and say, oh, see there's errors, there's mistakes. But because he doesn't mention them doesn't mean that John doesn't know that the other women were there. In verse 2, we read, Mary reporting that the body is missing and we don't know where it is. We, as in other women that were with her. But John doesn't talk about these other women because he doesn't need to in order to make his point. And if you're curious, by the way, if you want to do a comparison, John also doesn't include the earthquake like Matthew and Luke do. It doesn't tell us that there was an angel who took the stone away, or that the Roman guards fell down in shock, or that Mary and the women were bringing spices. Matthew and Luke and Mark include details that make sense for what they're writing And John includes details that make sense for what he's writing. They each can't write down everything. Remember, John tells us at the end of his gospel account that if he wrote everything about Jesus Then the world itself could not contain the books that would be written about them, about Jesus But if you're still somehow, if you're one of those that's still somehow bothered by the selective use of detail, I'm going to give you a little scenario. So You get home from shopping and you say, guess who was at the store? And your spouse says, I don't know who. And you say, Julie. Now, does your spouse think that it was only you and Julie at the store? No other shoppers? No employees? Why wouldn't you say something like, Among the fourteen employees and the seventy-three other shoppers in the store, one of them named Sally, by the way, I saw Julie. You say what is relevant to your spouse. And that's what's happening here. What's relevant for John is that Mary Magdalene was there. And part of what's relevant for us in that fact is that this increases our confidence that what John has written is authentic and true. Because if you think about it, John has created for himself a witness problem. The testimony of women back in that day in that culture wasn't worth a hill of beans. Only men were seen as competent to provide witness, and you needed two of them. Not one woman, two men. So what was John to do? Alter the fact that women were the first witnesses of the empty tomb? This would ignore the example of Jesus. Who gives great respect to women. So John doesn't discount the women. Although, I gotta say, perhaps to address the female witness problem, he's a savvy writer too, I think. John does give emphasis later in this passage to the fact that two men, two males, raced to the tomb and witnessed it empty. But again, back to the problem of bringing up Mary. As we were saying, considering the ancient Jewish culture in John's day, women were not highly regarded. And in this particular case, we're talking about a woman. Who had been demon-possessed. Not by one, by seven demons. Definitely a social problem for Mary. But John doesn't try to hide from these facts as he relates what happened. In fact, he would say he's highlighting these facts because he knows that there is no more male-female status distinction in Christ. And he knows that there is no more shame from the demon possessions in Christ when you're redeemed in Christ. Jesus had female disciples following him, and one of them was Mary Magdalene, and he loved her, and he loved the other women, in a way that the rest of society did not. And so now, shifting her focus from what John was thinking to Mary, what she's thinking, Mary is distraught. The man who had delivered her from the seven demons, the man who loved and respected her so much, he had died. And now his body was missing. And she cried. John tells us about her crying ten verses later. She had an idea in her head of what Jesus would mean for her. And that idea ended up In this moment coming up empty. Back to verse 1, which next says, while it was still dark. Now it's easy to gloss over this as possibly just merely a time marker. John's telling us what happened and when it happened. And there's no trouble with this as far as it goes. Thirty verses later, John writes that he has written so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. He didn't write a history book. He didn't write a newspaper article. He didn't write a blog titled Fun Facts About Jesus. He wrote a gospel so that we would know that Jesus is the Son of God and that if we believe, we have life in Christ's name. So with this as his purpose, why does John tell us it's still dark? John regularly draws stark contrasts in his writing, and a common contrast that he makes is that between dark versus light. The light versus dark is to be understood in John's writing typically as good versus evil, as understanding versus spiritual blindness. For example, in chapter one, John writes, The life was the light of men, the light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. In chapter three, he writes, The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. In chapter eight, Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me In chapter twelve, Jesus said to them, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light. Lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he is going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light. And so you get the idea. Well, the very last time in his gospel account that John uses the word dark is right here. Chapter twenty, verse one. He says, It's still dark. And it was for them from their perspective. Imagine the Jews have this long, rich history. From Abraham and Moses and David. But then they had to deal with wars and exile and Oppression. In the first century, when this story takes place, when this story is written, the Jews are being ruled under the ruthless Roman Empire. They wanted a deliverer. They were promised a deliverer in the Old Testament. And some of these Jews, like Mary and John and Peter, they thought they had found this deliverer in Jesus. And then he's arrested. That's not good. And then he's mocked and ridiculed. That's not good. And then he's beaten nearly to death. Definitely not good. What's going on here? And then he's killed on the cross. And so now Christ's followers, they are depressed, disillusioned, scared, in hiding. Everything has unraveled. They don't know what to think. Everything that could go wrong had gone wrong. All their earthly hopes that come up empty. They were in darkness Passage continues through verse five. Mary thought the stone had been taken away from the tomb, so she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together. But the other disciple outran Peter, reached the tomb first, and stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloth lying there, but he did not go in. So Mary Bagelin comes and I'm frantic. Peter and John run to the tomb. The body is missing. The tomb is empty. And I can almost hear them in my mind wondering, how in the world could somebody stole the body? Can you put yourself in their place for a moment? What would be going through your mind? What would you be thinking? I think I know what I might have been thinking. Might have been thinking something like, are you kidding me? Just take me to the asylum Have me committed! Lock me up! I can't take it anymore. This is nuts. Everything I trusted in gone All my hopes that Jesus would lead a political revolution, that he would teach everyone a better life, that he would something, anything, I don't know. It's all gone. All my earthly hopes, all these idols that I've constructed, have come up empty The disciples were still in spiritual darkness, and so they saw the empty tomb. And they saw nothing. I can empathize You know why? Because sometimes, as in every day, I know there was an empty tomb And what I see too often is nothing just an empty tomb Empty. The disciples were hoping for earthly things, trusting in earthly solutions, knowing Jesus. Is still full of angst. I have found myself hoping in earthly things, trusting for earthly solutions, knowing Jesus. and still full of angst. Just a few short years ago, I was hoping for earthly things in my employment. Had a pretty good job. Lots of responsibility, lots of community respect, lots of ego gratification, lots of money. Not Bill Gates or Oprah Winfrey Money, but real money I was keeping up with the Joneses. Back in my neck of the window, some people looked at me and said, You are the Joneses And then despite my good performance, I was laid off. The hopes I had placed in my career came up empty. I also place my hopes in the economy. I worry about it. I still put my hopes in the economy. And I worry about it even after the stock market crash of two thousand eight, which cost my father-in-law his entire retirement fund that he had with Lehman brothers. They went bankrupt. His hopes and his investments came up empty. More recently, I've placed my hopes in politics. During some recent election cycles, many of my candidates lost. My ballot question issues mostly lost. My faith in the electorate came up empty. Now there's a place there are hopes of candidates that won. But let me tell you something. I've had times when my candidates won too And my hopes in the government still came up empty. I've been in darkness. I'm talking about as recently as this week. Just like John and the other disciples. I place my hope in earthly things, and they came up empty like idols always do. Our passage continues with verses 6 and 7. Then Simon Peter came following John and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloth lying there and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. There are three interesting points. For us to note here. Point one on our list of interesting things to note about verses six and seven is that I have assumed that the unnamed disciple is John. There is nothing in the text itself that says that it must be John. And there's been some debate on this question over the years. But the majority view of evangelical scholars is that the disciple is John. The 2,000-year history of the church has pretty consistently maintained that this disciple is John. The evidence we have says that the church fathers, the early church fathers, believe that this disciple is John. And as I read John's Gospel and the other gospels, I become subtle that this disciple is John. So for all of these reasons, I'm very comfortable saying that the unnamed disciple was John, but if you might disagree, you know, later on today, come let me know. We'd love to talk to you about it It would be good for us to share in an exchange of ideas. But now on to point two on our list of interesting points about verses six and seven. has to do with the detail provided about the burial clause. Why does our author include the details here? Well one reason is because the burial clause were there He's reporting what he saw. But another reason, in case you might be tempted to think that somebody stole the body, think again. Why would robbers steal the body and leave behind the valuable cloths? Now you might not have known that. Did you know that these burial cloths were very expensive? Very valuable It's like somebody breaking into your house and leaving behind the safe. But even if they wanted to do that Be easier said than done. In the burial process, the way the the the body was ripe a wrapped with the spices and the balms, they're all mixed together and wrapped up in the burial process, the cloth would stick to the body as if it were glued there Remember the story of Lazarus? Jesus raises Lazarus, comes out of his tomb after Jesus brings him to life. That's in John Gospel chapter 11. Lazarus still had the cloths wrapped around him as he was walking out. The people had to help remove them. The cloth didn't simply fall off when he stood up And note that the head covering in Jesus' tomb was neatly folded and set aside. What polite robbers this would have been. Now, point three on our list of interesting points about verses six and seven actually connects with the next verse. Some have suggested that within a generation of Christ's death there emerged this rivalry between Christian camps, those who were followers of Peter and those who were followers of John. The Bible doesn't say anything about this But it's possible. We know from First Corinthians that there was a rivalry uh brewing between the followers of Paul and of Apollos and of Peter. Even today we can see some form of a rivalry kind of like this. Roman Catholic Church elevates Peter above the other apostles, claiming him as their first pope. If John intended to address this rivalry, he does so brilliantly. And we're going to find out exactly just how brilliantly with the conclusion next week on the Faith Debate Show. Want again thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, this is a special edition of the Faith Debate Show. We'll have a panel discussion coming up again in future weeks. Next week, obviously, we're going to have the conclusion of this message. And uh and and another message to to follow that as well as these messages don't time out exactly with how we need them to, uh to to match the timing of the show. What have I been reading lately? Tales from the Chicago Bears Sideline by Steve McMichael will fill a uh Arvia. Not a religious book at all I'm a Bears fan. I've read a few Bears books recently. That's one of them. Tales from the Chicago Bears sideline by Steve McMichael and Phil Arvia. Not necessarily a recommended if you're a hardcore Bear fan, of course you're gonna read it I encourage you, as always, to visit us online at WFMD. com KeywordFaith. Thank you as always for listening, for sending me your emails that I post on that website page. From my colleague John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Church, I'm Troy Skinner. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.