The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Now why would they say something like that? This is the faith debate. A 930 WFMD and yes! I'm sure it's true. And you know what? Whatever they say, I probably don't agree with them either. You know, it goes both ways. This is a free country, I think. Used to be anyway. Anyway, thanks for listening to Faith Debate and uh spending part of your Sunday morning with us here at 930WFMB. I'm Troy Skinner. I am the host of this show and the pastor of Households of Faith in Christ. And I'm joined this week again by Daniel Razby, one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house. And he's also involved with a ministry that had gone for a long time now, maybe 20 years sometimes, or longer. I don't know how long it goes. It's been a long, long time. 15 years, I think. It's called uh Concord by Love Ministries, and uh their website is conqueredbylove. org. So if you're listening last week's show, and if you want Where the heck were you? We missed you. I know it was Memorial Day weekend and all that, but come on. You gotta carve out your time for some faith today, you know? Otherwise we don't feel the love. Like in this new music, the angel can't hear because there's no headphones on. Anyway, we're gonna say goodbye to the music. Last week on the on the show, and if you missed it, you can you can check it out on the podcast. Uh we were talking about the uh not just the shot. But shots in general, vaccines and and uh how dependent many of them are on uh aborted fetal tissue and that sort of thing, what the ethics and w are of that and what the Bible says about it and those sorts of things. And We didn't really put a very fine point on it, but to be honest, I think that's because we're trying to be biblically consistent. Right. And the Bible doesn't put a fine point on that particular question for us, so we're we're we're we're left to navigate that. But related to that question, of course is the idea of babies in the womb having their ends their their lives uh their lives ended, having them be terminated. And there's and I was joking last week, like there's been something in the news about that I think recently Now we record these shows in advance. So uh as we record this, the uh Alito draft has been leaked. And that was a very recent thing to the recording of this show. Right. But the uh the final version isn't out yet, and who knows what else could have possibly changed. But we do know so it it's been released. Uh there has been a bunch of reactions, some of it very violent and like hideously insanely ugly, like just bizarre kind of reactions, and uh which I guess we would expect given the day and age that we live in Uh so that's kind of the context in which these remarks are made. Now historically, you were we were talking before the start of this show. Historically it would still be several more weeks probably before the final version of Right. Usually they wait until the very end of the session for the most high profile cases. So there's the the abortion one, there's also a big gun case that they might wait a while on. Um again as we're recording this. They might have released the official opinion. It might already be out on both of those. And maybe they changed it. And maybe they changed it. And wouldn't that be something? Let's talk about that. Because that's what I want to talk about first. Right. And uh So it's never happened before in the history of the Supreme Court that a complete draft opinion has been leaked. It's kind of ironic that there's been kind of an oopsie like this on this one, huh? Yeah. Um so it's a bad thing because now it it creates a lot of distrust with the uh in the court and the the court justices are actually very collegiate on uh uh uh and think they're very very close family even though they vehemently disagree on a lot of subjects. Uh Ruth Better Ginsberg famously said uh before she passed a couple years ago that we vote nine to zero on many more issues than we vote five to four So we actually do agree on many, many, many different things. It's only the ones that are 5-4 that we really uh uh that those are ones that are. Is that true historically? Yeah, it it is it is true. Almo almost all the cases or many more are s are very heavily slanted, you know, seven, two, eight, one, nine to zero, um, rather than the five four. The five four the cases are the ones that you hear about because those are the most controversial and those are the ones that are newsworthy. a nine to zero, not really newsworthy because everybody expected this is what's gonna happen. Um so that's the the point though is is that they actually are very friendly with each other as uh come com Contrast that with what you see in Congress and and the Senate and people get really angry with each other uh publicly, the Supreme Court justices generally don't do that. This type of a leak, I would say, is gonna stoke a lot of distrust in the court because of that And I don't think that's gotten enough attention. And I've actually heard some people go out of the way to poo-poo it. They'll say, well, I mean, the the case itself, that's so much more important than the leak. And we're talking about murdering babies. So yes, okay, granted, like nothing's gonna be more important than that than I can imagine. However, that said As far as long-lasting impact on our way of life and the institutions that make America run, this really has the potential, in my opinion, to be devastating and we're not even feeling that devastation yet. But to your point, if you can't trust it anymore, what's that what is that going to mean going forward? Right. And and that's that's why I hope they figure out what went wrong with that and and stop the leaks so there's no more leaks from the Supreme Court. I think it's a good thing. I I would say that there there's no point there there's no incentive for any on anybody on the Conservative side to leak. Right. There's no there's no point. The the only point would be for one of the let's say clerk of one of the liberal justices to leak it for two purposes. Uh one or both of these purposes that I could think of is that uh in order to stoke a lot of anger and pressure to uh you know to the justices to change their opinions before the actual vote uh um before the actual uh release of the of the the real opinion That's number one. And number two, if that fails to give them an extra couple months, all the politicians, Democrat politicians, to pass laws in each of the states or on the federal level to enshrine abortion somehow. Um so though that will be i why what I think. But who knows. Maybe we'll have figured it out. I think that's unlikely that we'll ever really know because I think it there's it's really not be giving the attention that it's deserves. Like you said So let's but I want to talk about what exactly is happening with this draft opinion because a lot of people they read that and like oh this is what's gonna be be released and maybe it may be very similar to that But I can almost guarantee you it's not gonna be that opinion that gets released. So if you look at the the list it was just a draft. It was a dress draft, it was a just a draft and it just a draft, but it was also a draft from January And this was leaked in what May, end of April, May time frame. And I heard it was a draft from February, but it was from January. Oh, Feb sorry, February. Yeah, you're right. February, but it said first draft, right? So this was the first attempt to get all the other justices to sign on to a legal's opinion, right? What we know is a couple of things. They all vote you know, have a preliminary vote after the oral arguments and then when they figure out which way is probably gonna go, then they assign somebody to write the opinion and then they see if they all agree with it. If they don't, then they make some adjustments and they write it again so they can all agree with it The fact that Alito was right in the opinion Which was a big surprise to me. That's a big surprise. It tells us that Roberts is not in the majority. Because Roberts is uh uh he can assign the opinion to somebody else, but he doesn't usually that's on the majority gets to write the opinion and he can defer to somebody else. So in this case, Thomas probably deferred to Alito because he would be more senior than Alito on this case. Why would that be Uh a majority. That that that would mean that Roberts sided with the left side of the court. And I was expecting Clarence Thomas to write it Maybe uh Or possibly they would have asked uh she wouldn't be senior, she'd be like a real the most junior member, but why not have the woman write it? Right. I don't know. And there may there may be competing opinions that they're trying to decide, you know, maybe both uh and and there's it's certainly going to be concurring b opinions. So you may see this end up be one of the concurring opinions and uh But maybe maybe uh Clarence Thomas writes the actual majority opinion. I don't know. What I am hoping does not happen is that Roberts makes a change and decides to actually jump to the majority anyway. And everybody's thinking, well why why wouldn't that why would it be a bad thing for Roberts to to join the majority? Well, because then Roberts is probably gonna wanna write them write the opinion himself and he is likely to have it much more toned down and not to actually fully overturn Roe v. Wade. Um because Roberts is much more of a moderate justice. And and so hopefully that doesn't happen. You're feeling very generous today calling him a moderate. Yes. Much more moderate, not not uh seriously the sides of issues that he's taken over the over the last ten years have not been moderate. No, no. Certainly not. But early on he was more moderate slash conservative, but Right. And that's why that's why I'm hoping that that that's not the case. The division that that's in the court stays the way it is through the release of this opinion. And we'll see. Um if the opinion is anything close to what's been leaked, then I would say that's a good thing. With a couple caveats. It doesn't eliminate all abortions everywhere. A lot of people think oh this immediately prevents all abortion. No, it doesn't. It just says the Constitution, the US Constitution does not protect the right to have an abortion And what's all it says. And one of the things this does, because of all the everybody freaking out and letting their hair on fire and the fact that abortion still won't go away, uh it just demonstrates the lie that we've been told your whole life, most of my life, that this is the law of the land It was never the law of the land. Yep. Yeah, what Roe v. Wade said was that there in the in the US federal constitution there was a supposed right to kill your baby. And even though it doesn't actually say that in the constitution. And because of that, all the states have to abide by it because of uh the doctrine of um Uh i uh i uh uh of all all the states have to be uh uh pr providing the protections that the federal constitution or at least as many protections as the federal constitution does. So if they eliminate that, they reverse that and they say, okay, well the federal government the federal constitution at least doesn't have anything to say about abortion. Well now the states get to say it absent any federal law and the federal government can still make a law about it, one way or the other. So I would support a law from the federal level s saying that abortion is murder and You should be prosecuted for uh for murder if you commit an abortion. Um and a lot of people say, oh well the states should definitely be the only ones well Mm the states should make such laws as well, but uh murder is murder and and so certain things are not uh i you know not okay for some states to say, well we're not gonna do this. But I think there's like S I don't know how many states, but a lot of states have springboard laws that are supposed to take effect if Roe v. Wade is r overturned, they take effect automatically and thus banning all abortions in that state, which is a great thing. That means at for the time being at least if this gets released there will be on day one that thousands of lives saved It raises lots of questions. are but i it you're you're a legal guy you've got your uh your your legal degree and all that you're a lawyer um what what are what's the likelihood of the or or how w would you imagine different states handling extradition Like if I live in Oklahoma where it's illegal to kill a baby and one of my people leaves the state to go kill the baby and then comes back into the state, into my jurisdiction. I could arrest her, couldn't I? Because she's a citizen of my school. Which and So if if the lady from Oklahoma goes to California to get her abortion and then goes back to Oklahoma or refuses to go back to Oklahoma, Oklahoma wouldn't have any standing to ask for extraditions. Not not under any laws that I know of. Now that'd be great to have such a law, right? We we may we have it about m murder. And that's the thing is a lot a lot of these states, they don't go far enough, right? They might say, Oh, you can't have an abortion But they don't go far enough to call it murder and actually treat it like murder and prosecute it like murder. Because if it is actually the killing of a person that there's no justification for, no self-defense, no saving of a life. uh or you know, those the various justifications for killing that y that they're illegal, then it is murder and so then you should treat it like that. So that then the extradition stuff would would kinda matter. But I don't I don't see any laws currently on the book or even being planned or promoted that say anything like that. Um okay so that might kibosh that potential Yeah. Right. So that's interesting you th that you're saying that uh the the the the local jurisdictions have to abide by the the higher jurisdictions. Well then w why are why are there restrictions about where people can carry their guns? The the federal rule is you have a right to bear arms and yet in local jurisdictions you're not allowed to bear arms here So why aren't they Well that's that speaks to uh what the definition of bear arms is and the Supreme Court has held that bear arms doesn't include carrying a gun. unfortunately. Um they're wrong in that. That's that's a really bad decision. Um I mean the whole point of the Second Amendment is to have the citizens be able, if a revolution would be needed in the future, to successfully win a revolution against the US military. Well for that the citizens would need tanks and machine guns and fighter jets and the aircraft carriers and all that stuff with no permits and and stuff. So That's that's really what the Second Amendment's about is is to have for the citizens to have their own military. Um that so for even in Scalia's the opinion for in uh in Heller in 2008 about the the guns was that oh well certain military things can be excluded still. Well that even that is not the purpose of the Second Amendment. So I disagree with that But uh that's that's why some states have restrictions because the Supreme Court has said you can have a lot of restrictions. You just can't restrict the right to own it in your own home. Okay. Well that was a little bit of a rapid roll, but I brought it up my fault. So back to the uh to to to the decision, the elito uh draft of of the opinion, as assuming that that holds, it wasn't just a row versus Wade, but it was the Casey decision as well, right? So does the And anybody saying that a Supreme Court decision must stand forever is forgetting Pussy versus Ferguson, Brown versus Board of Education. All these bad, bad decisions that were very racist and Yeah, Dred Scott comes to mind, right? Dred Scott. Um so there it Yeah, because the Supreme Court is not infallible and so they should i they can and should recognize when they've failed in the past and correct those failures. So that leads to this next question I was leading into, actually. So if Roe falls and Casey falls, does gay marriage fall? A lot of liberals are suggesting that that's next. I would say uh I hope so. As a Christian, I hope so, because homosexuality is a sin. Yeah, but uh Burgerfell, O'Burgerfell. know how it's pronounced, but yeah, I mean, because as a Christian, you and I both believe homosexuality is a sin. Um and certainly you can't call it marriage if it's not one man and one woman. And I mean a bio biological man, biological woman. We have to say that again now. All these disclaimers we have to add and qualifiers to our sentences now. It's just getting longer and longer to say what the definition of marriage is And so yeah, I I hope so. It's it's way too premature I would say to to make predictions about that. Again, we haven't even seen whether this is released yet. Now where we live it's not gonna change almost anything. No, because Maryland has a law that is a fallback from Roe. Maryland says that if Roe is ever overturned, Maryland still guarantees the c so called right of a woman to kill her own baby. And that's very simple. fighting to get on the ballot. Yeah. I think it should be on the ballot this year for to add to the Maryland state constitution. Yeah, to that you can kill your baby after it's born. Up to yeah, up to and and and including, you know, aft right after it's born I think is is is how that can be interpreted. It's not explicitly saying after it's born in the law, but the or in the in the language of the amendment, but the way it's written is so ambiguous that you could certainly justify killing after So this could be a a state that a lot of people from other parts of the country would travel to. Yes. So to your point, abortion won't end because places like Maryland would still provide the No. And that's why you would need some sort of federal legislation about that, um or you need some other Supreme Court decision say is stating that uh the Constitution protects the life of the unborn. Because the uh everybody it should have equal protection. All uh people in the United States should have equal protection. And so that should extend to unborn as well. But it does the problem with that argument is the language of the Fourteenth Amendment really says all persons born or naturalized in the United States. And if you haven't been born yet, then it's kinda hard to say the right those rights are supposed to extend to you. You know, something that um as I think about it should have been said last week and most definitely now must be said this week because um we're talking about um the ending of a life of an unborn child and we've been using rather direct, uh some would argue inflammatory language into doing that. And I don't want to um I don't want to miss the opportunity to sound a pastoral note. It's it's very possible based on the t statistics that there's at least one woman somewhere who will be within the sound of this My voice, your voice. Well hear what we're saying about this and and calling you know an abortion a a baby murder and and all and we should treat it like murder and the legal code should and and that's all true. Uh but e even if um even if a woman kills her fifteen year old child Mm-hmm. Which everybody I th unambiguously would call a murder. Well, give it about six more months, it might change. But for now, unambiguously that there's still redemption available. Sure. So you wanna you wanna talk you wanna you wanna put on the pastor's hat or you want me to put on the pastor's hat and talk because I I do want to So there's no sin that is gonna prevent you from Having Christ's blood cover your sins. There's nothing, nothing bad enough that you can do that Jesus isn't good enough to cover And uh that doesn't mean we should intentionally go out and and do all these sins. Um, but if you are covered by the blood of Jesus, it it covers all of your sins. Past, present, and future, um, because it's entirely from his grace that you're saved, and nothing you can do can change that. Now, without his protection, You're going to hell even if the worst thing you did was, you know, steal a toothpick from a store twenty years ago. You know? The the then you're going to hell. So the littlest sin is going to prevent you from getting to heaven. And the most egregious sin you can think of, and m for me murder would probably be that that most egregious that I can think of Can't keep you out of heaven if Jesus wants you there. But Jesus is is only going to be covering those who are called, those who are accept that the gift of salvation. So do you want to clarify more? No, no, no. I th I I don't I don't think anything can be clarified. I think I I will just add on a a little bit, just make sure that uh you know our heart is heard on this. Mm-hmm. Um Daniel, I think, would would admit right away that he's a sinner. Yes. I'm a sinner. I've committed sins I can't even count that high. You know, so this isn't when we're talking about something like killing a baby as as horrific as that is, I'm not saying that somebody who's done that is a worse person than I am. Um they've committed a worse sin than I have in that recause I've never murdered somebody But the collection of my sins uh all added up are pretty darn heinous. Uh and you know, the Bible tells us if you break one law, you you're guilty of having broken the law, the whole law. Right. So uh it's as though and and uh if you harbor hatred in your heart towards someone, you know, it's as though you've murdered them in a sense. Uh it's m may those will be Jesus' words. And so in that sense I'm a murderer 'cause I have hated people in at different times in my life. So the the point of all that is I I'm purposely using Stark language myself. I think Daniel is too, because we want to drive home the point. that this is a serious thing, shouldn't be taken lightly, and we need to stop the the nonsense of killing our our our offspring. We need to stop it. Right. However, if you're someone who has done that It doesn't mean that we hate you. It doesn't mean that we wouldn't uh you know welcome you and your repentant heart into our churches. That's the key phrase, the repentant heart. And it doesn't mean that I wouldn't welcome you into coming to talk to me. Sure. And work through it and say, you said it was murder and I'm guilty of murder. What are you saying? I'd be I would love the opportunity to talk with you through that and show you that you know what, you, just like the child that was killed, made in God's image Therefore, immensely valuable. So the defense I put up for the child is the same defense I would put up for you. I want you to understand how special you are. I want you to understand how special that child is And I want you to feel the weight of the fallenness of our human heart. And you should feel the resonance of your guilt. You can't run from your you gotta you you you've got guilt, you've got to feel it so you can deal with it. And how do you deal with your guilt? What do you do with your guilt? What do any of us do with our guilt There's only one thing any of us can truly do to solve the guilt problem, and that is to lay it on the shoulders of Jesus Christ, who pays the price for that guilt at the cross, and then better than that, he gives you his perfect righteous record Through his act of obedience, it's called. And so then you are no longer seen as guilty. You're seen as righteous by God. And then you can live a life progressively Being sanctified, progressively, uh pursuing a more holy life out of gratitude for what Christ has done for you, and you'll be enabled to do that better and better over time through the power of the Holy Spirit that comes to dwell inside. each believer, ultimately to the point where we're in glory with Jesus forever, and there will be no more murder, no more abortions. Nor guilt. That's the Christian message. And I want people to hear that. And so why what are you being so mean-spirited about the baby killings? Because murder is horrible. And we need to call it what it is. And so we we're using the stark language to to kind of throw some cold water in people's face. But because because we want people to wake up and and start living the right kind of lives. And so if you have any more questions about that, or if you want to yell and scream or whatever, you know, you can contact us. I'm easy enough to reach. You can go to my website, Household of Faith in Christ. I go to household of faith in Christ dot com. My contact information is there. I would love to have a conversation with you and and hear your side of things. And I I've had these conversations with a bunch of people over the years and it's it's heartbreaking uh in some cases, but you gotta shoot straight with people. Anyway, uh we've only got uh about a minute left in this show. So I think we're gonna put a bo is there any final thought you wanted to sneak in before we wrap up? That's a good good summary, I think. So we'll wrap up this show. Again, you can contact the ministry that Daniel and his family are involved with and their church. Their ministry is called Concord by Love Ministries, and their website is conqueredbylove. org. It's particularly good if you're raising a family and struggling to do so, or if you're trying to have a good marriage and trying to figure out how to do that, uh they've got really good resources. That's kind of their wheelhouse. And go to my website as well, Household of Faith in Christ dot com, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We've got links to vetted resources for you there. all our podcasts and social media links and a blog and all that sort of stuff. Thanks so much for listening until uh next week. I think we're gonna talk about end times next week. Till then, God bless.