This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the Mix Master as the Master of Ceremony. And the notorious Treble B, the Fig Bridge Builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Yeah but I'm a dope in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith to ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a more on here Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in the middle of the city. The top of Mid Maryland, 930 WFM. Connecting needs and resources in the local communities. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. Theological controversy can bring out the best and worst in the church if handled correctly. It sharpens our understanding of the message of scripture and its application to our content so the church can emerge. from a period of theological discussion and debate with a much greater clarity of the issue at hand. However, if badly handled, contention over a point of doctrine can be destructive and harmful for the church potentially leading to unnecessary division and ill-feeling between brothers and sisters in both biological families and the spiritual family of God. Just such a controversy is raging right now over what has been called the social gospel. Here to talk to Weitzer and me is Podcaster and minister of the good news, Adam A. D. Robles, and he has a YouTube channel. I can hear you just fine, yep. Oh, and I can hear you. I had you almost almost too loud there. And so somebody can find you on YouTube real quick. They they just put in your name, A D. Robles. Okay, so if he says something that uh strikes your fancy or angers you, uh you can go to his YouTube channel and you can uh comment under there and You've been doing this for a couple of years at least now, I think, right? And uh why don't you give a real brief bio ramping up to how it is, because your channel is almost exclusively devoted, at least to my understanding, to this particular issue. There's some random videos that aren't that I've noticed, but almost all of them are about So how did that come about? What's your background? What what made you prime what primed your pump and got you going in this direction? Yeah, I mean it was almost entirely by accident. I mean I think um you know I started doing videos shortly after uh Donald Trump was elected president. Um and you know, it it was very sporadic. I didn't intend to to start a YouTube channel or anything or anything like that. I just started to see some imbalance in the way that evangelicals were were talking about politics, uh specifically about Donald Trump And um I just, you know, was was gonna put an alternate perspective out there. I felt like my I'm uh I'm Puerto Rican, um and I felt like, you know That I was supposed to believe certain things that I definitely didn't believe. And so I wanted to just put an alternate perspective out there. And um Every so often I'd throw out a video out if it was something that kinda struck my fancy and then there was a uh a conference um that was sort of like the the straw that broke the camel's back and and the channel started, you know, getting a lot of views and attention and so I just started to keep doing these videos and and all of that. I mean I really don't have a a specific background that I think qualifies me for this. At the time I was a pastor. So um that was p probably part of it, but it was all just kind of by God's providence. Now you said at the time, so why aren't you a pastor now? Uh yeah, absolutely. So um, you know, there was um some controversy regarding my YouTube channel um at my small church plant, and um So I, you know, found a new church and all of that kind of thing Um but I'm not a casher anymore. So and the reason I asked is I was I was suspicious that it might have had to do with you entering into the uh controversial waters. So was it that was it that they disagree that the other leader members of leadership disagreed with your uh conclusions or they didn't They disagreed with the way you went about espousing your point of view or a combination of the question. So in in in fairness to him, um he he uh you know, maintained that it was about the the the style of my content and the the way I went about it. Um but in you know in further conversations it ri what it really boiled down to was that he didn't of uh certain people and certain ideas and things like that. And so when you what I found in, you know, being online and and doing things publicly Um you you tend to get a little bit more charitable uh interpretations of your approach when people agree with you. And when they don't agree with you, they tend to be less charitable about your approach. And so um Yeah, I'm sure it was about my uh my approach, but you know really what it boiled down to is he didn't agree with with the content uh so much Now listeners to the Faith Debate will uh know this name of uh if you've been listening recently will know this name about to mention John Harris. He also has a YouTube channel, Conversations That Matter, and he's been on this show the last four weeks. Um and that's how I came to find out who you are, A. D. I saw you as a guest on his podcast and and I thought that, you know, you guys were saying a lot of the same things, but it seemed like there was a s slightly different take on on certain uh aspects and so well let me see what what uh you know AD's all about and I noticed a bit of a ship And so I went way back. I went back to your earliest uh videos. In fact, one where you're just kind of testing the audio and you got a little child sitting on your lap or something. Yes. Yeah. And then so I kind of watched from there moving forward. And early on you were uh You you you struck me as high energy, which you still are, uh but but carefully measured and almost bending over backwards to try to point out the point of view of those who might disagree with you and and then that began to shift over I don't even know how many months. Let's say let's say six months later there was a shift and then six months after that you were full in on These guys these guys are liars, they're misrepresenting the gospel, you know, they can't be So what ha what happened with that that um for lack of a better word, the the tonal shift that do you undertook there? I'm laughing because because this is something I'm I'm self conscious of because I I I have noticed I I I know that I've I've shifted. And I did a video um it was actually pretty recently, maybe a month and a half ago And it's called uh Woke Church You Made Me This Way. And in the video I kinda described well w what what in the shift and And what what it really i what it really boils down to is when I first started, um, I I just assumed that, you know, there were there were some people that that that that their hearts were in the right place. They wanted to do the right thing. They they wanted to appear or or they wanted to th they they really were thinking that they were helping. And so I was assuming that that was the case. Um But they were wrong. And and you know, you know, people that are sincere and and good people can be wrong about things. I'm sure I'm wrong about things that I'm sincere about and all that kind of thing. Um but over time what I found was that There was a in not in every instance, but in many instances with the leaders of this organization, there was an intentional sort of um lack of lack of of of any desire to have any conversations publicly or to clarify anything that they've said that they maybe maybe it wasn't quite so so um so clear. a stone wall of silence. You know, for a long time I sat talked to some of you guys. I'd love to have a conversation so we can hash this out so I can find out, you know, w where you're coming from. What you know who who are you reading? Like where are you getting this Um and I did this for months and months and months and I was just really desperate to have the conversation because at the end of the day my my opinion has always been when you when when you can't have a conversation there's only one other way to solve your differences and we're seeing that in the streets of our cities right now. Um but the thing is though, so so over time I found out that there was no interest in that. This was this was all the the only thing they were interested in is is putting forward these talking points and that was that. And so over time I started to realize that there were many people that did not have good motivations here. And so that was kind of the the the the shift. And what I've what I've what I've found is that As my tone has shifted a little bit, I've actually had more results with people being willing to interact because of the bombastic nature of some of the things that I say. They they sometimes feel like they have to interact. I'll I'll do that. If that's if that's what's gonna work, I'll do it. And I'm not gonna I'm I'm trying not to cross a line. I'm not trying to lie about people or anything like that, but but um I'm trying different strategies and I'm I'm thinking this is working That's the voice of Adam A. D. Rogos. I think you used to go by Adam, you go by A D more rec more frequently now, I guess, right? That's your brand? Uh yeah. A D is your brand? Yeah. Yeah. All right. And uh I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD online at WFMD. com. Also available, of course, as a podcast. And I find out that we're on 99. 9 HD2 these days as well. So you can hear us in quadriphonic stereo And of course Jonathan Schweitzer, my uh longtime pal on the show, is here and I'm sure he has some questions, so let me uh welcome him into the show. Sorry, we've talked on for ten minutes and we haven't heard John speak yet. That's okay. That's uh that's probably the way my family would like it to be too often as well. So it's good to it's good to meet you, Adam. How are you doing? I'm doing great. Good. Thanks. So I had a question uh just in your description and and I haven't had as much time as uh Troy to uh listen to your podcast, but as you were describing the shift Um and your um your your hope early on that people were sincere and that they wanted to have the discussions, but then you know, Troy was saying that that it moved in the direction of you know, people just outright misrepresenting the gospel and just putting out their talking points. Um, that seems to me like that could be like one of at least two things and maybe others. Like one it could be that they are uh really Um what's the word? Uh intentionally moving in a direction that is away from say the authority of scripture or uh you know logical um arguments or it could be that they are concerned about the very thing that I think you ran into, right? That that there's so many people out there in the body of Christ that are in different places on this particular issue that if they're not careful, they're gonna offend all of 'em and they'll end up losing, you know, people coming out. And so is it possible that that's the reason they're not willing to go uh uh go on right now and and talk about this. I mean here here in the F Frederick County it's certainly been the case that we have people on both sides of the issue, pastors on both sides of the issue, believers in in churches that have uh for uh for a number of weeks now been in pretty intensive internal discussions trying to uh work out where do they fall on these issues, uh with everybody kind of recognizing that that were committed to biblical justice, but there's a language of the left and there's a language of the right and those two uh kind of political uh cultures have have gotten so far apart that Never the twain shall meet and there needs to be some kind of space, you know, uh to uh what, to navigate that without um just saying something that's gonna offend somebody because You can't use the language of the right without offending people on the left. You can't use the language of the left, which is critical rate uh theory at this point, without offending people on the right. Uh there's this whole uh translation issue that's going on that, you know, I keep asking Troy, can you preach the gospel in uh George Orwell's 1984 Newspeak? Uh can you use Marxist critical race theory to preach the gospel or is it completely impossible, you know? Good question, yeah. No, that's that's a really good point. And and and you y you you b you brothers probably don't know this about me, but actually I spent my high school years and college in the area. Uh my high school was in Gaithersburg, Quince Orchard High School, so I know the area. I know it's kind of a blend of a lot of different perspectives, especially in the Christian community. And and I I think I probably should backtrack a little bit because I think that there's a difference between how I would Um want to um want to approach someone who is on a national stage, has a huge platform, someone who's one of the evangelical elite, you might say and someone who is maybe um maybe they have a book published something like that. But they're they're they're they're just they're just minding their own flock. They're mining their own business. The small town pastor you know, the medium town pastor that doesn't have a big platform like that. Because I want to give a lot of grace for for those folks because, you know, some people, to be honest, haven't really had to think about these things at all. You know, unfortunately. And so I want to give a lot of grace and a lot of leeway to use um to to to to to to to kind of work through these issues in a careful way. where they don't have to necessarily go all guns blazing in on this issue. I don't wanna I don't want to pressure anybody in that in that position in that way. However, um people that have big platforms that have talked about these issues, one of my very first videos that took off was about Pastor Matt Chandler Southern Baptist pastor, big platform in Texas. And it was about white privilege or something like that. And I was very, you know, very whimsome with it, you know, and all that kind of stuff. And I got a lot of pushback for that video If you go back and watch it, it was very t um but but but he's decided to step into this arena, to start talking about issues like white privilege, to start talking about issues like white fragility and things like that. These are part and parcel of critical theory. And so, in my opinion, and this is just my opinion, he actually doesn't have the right to not be clear about this. He's a man with a big platform, he's very influential, he's decided to step into the waters And so now I feel like holding his feet to the fire a little bit and saying, okay, so what do you actually mean by this? And really having some kind of a back and forth. I think he I think he's required to do it at this point given how much content he's put out on these issues. But but I would by no means want to hold every pastor to that standard. It's not the same for everybody because not everyone has that kind of a platform and not everyone's stepped into those waters at this point. So um I am familiar with some of the larger uh churches here in the area. And my impression is that the larger your church is, um, it's almost like uh they already are constantly trying to be really careful about how they define themselves, right? Uh and uh and so this particular issue um honestly I think it probably caught a bunch of pastors across the nation off guard and that, you know, it what it's only been five months really since uh, you know, COVID and And uh in, you know, the Black Lives Matter thing took off in in such a huge way with uh with George Floyd. And so, um I th I don't know that I would expect sincere, godly pastors in those situations to be at the place where they've been able to really get their feet back under them, have done the the the study, and then put together like, you know, uh pay uh a a sense of, okay, this is where our church is going to come down on this. Right, like uh people that I know I think are still trying to get there in knowing what I know in different places about you know, pastors from behind the scenes, I think they're they're diligently working hard to try to get there. Um and so anyways, I I just Uh not not to say like I think I'm probably in a similar place with you about the danger of critical race theory and critical theory in general. I just um am also trying to navigate uh, you know Uh why is the church struggling to answer this? Yeah, no, definitely. on the situation, you know, the people that I criticize on my YouTube channel, again, they've they've chosen to step into these waters and they've been there a long time. It's not anything new. And so I would expect more of them than someone who's really started to think about these issues for the first time after George Floyd. That's I mean that's like you said, that's less than six months maybe. Um I don't expect anyone to have a fully fleshed out theology of what this looks like in six months. Um But there's a diff there's a in my opinion, there's a distinction there. That would be something that those who are more on the other side of the issue than I think the three of us are. uh they would maybe be critical of us and say any of you people who ha don't have any sort of a theology for this haven't been paying attention and that's evidence that you don't care about the the the plight of blacks in America or the oppressed or Uh because this has been a freight train coming. I mean it it's it's really coming to full flower, um I mean full flower this summer, but was really beginning to emerge as in full flower over the last eighteen months or so But even before that, this has been decades in the in the coming. I think that's a really important question, Troy. The question is how did the church get here? How did we get to the place as a nation where uh where the president can get elected saying that that sexual marriage uh you know that traditional marriage should always be kept the same and within two years have totally flopped to the other direction saying that anybody that is against that is homophobic. Like that that is another example of how uh the critical theory in general and the the teaching of that for what generations uh you know, I guess decades now in school systems and coming through, you know, various business trainings. uh that it was it was a lot more effective than anybody thought that it was and all of a sudden we had this this you know erosure you know um uh ground that we felt was stable and it feels to me like like that's happened in a bunch of different places and even the fact that we're saying that it's a problem, um we are told that we are you know, screaming that the sky's falling, that we're that we're uh conspiracy theorists. But that's precisely the point. Anybody that's been willing to talk about this for decades has been called you know, a conspiracy theorist and somebody that is just um, you know, uh living in fear instead of engaging the culture as it were. And speaking of conspiracy theorists, you recently had uh one of your videos, this is totally off topic, but yeah, uh on UFOs Are you a tinfoil hat wearer, Adam? Come on, AD, what's the matter with you? Well, I mean you obviously aren't familiar with So you're a proud tinfoil hat wearer. Well for the record, Adam, I grew up uh down in Montgomery Village And uh my father pastored a church there at the end of Montgomery Avenue right there in Gaithersburg, uh that my brother currently pastors in so um we probably know a lot of the the same places uh around there. Yeah Absolutely. Now you're not afraid on your YouTube channel to name names and you did drop one already for us on this show with Matt Chandler's name coming up. Who are some of those big platform guys? I think you like to refer to them sometimes as big Eva, right? Big big big evangelical names. Uh who are some of those people that you're most um Well uh maybe you can even put them in the in the which bucket we should put 'em in? The ones you're most suspicious of? The most the ones you're most most uh uh not even suspicious anymore, like you just know that they they've gone astray. Like you know, who are some of these people? Yeah, I have no problem naming names at all. And and again, you know, you know, I don't expect everyone to agree with me completely on where I what bucket I put people in, but I would say that For my for from from you know the people that I'm most suspicious of, uh their motivations, are Russell Moore, who leads the ERLC for the Southern Southern Baptist Convention. Um it also uh Jamar Tizbee, he used to be a Presbyterian. I think he might still be one, I'm not really sure. But um It might not be a household name but but but lots of your uh favorite you know pastors th celebrities know them know him. He's uh he's he's written a number of books. He runs an organization about social justice. Um Sabini Anyabwili. I'm not sure what his denomination is, but he's a big mover and shaker with Gospel Coalition. Um, Erica Mason, he's a pastor, a Baptist pastor out of Fifth. These are people I'm highly suspicious of, their motivations and what they're all about. Um I'm sure I'm missing a few, but but those are the ones that kind of jumped immediately. And you mentioned Gospel suspicious of them as an organization. Yeah, okay. And any other organizations we should be worried about From your point of view? Well Is the Super Maps conven convention up in the air now? Can you trust even the PCA? I mean seriously, I don't know. Where do you stand on some of those? Yeah, well my brother's a a minister in the PCA and and all of these organizations I would say that there's a there's a mixed bag. Um but the general thrust uh of of all almost all of these organizations is a drift leftward towards accepting a lot of the major tenants of critical theory. So um I don't want to throw shade at the organizations as a whole because there's good people in all of these. Um but but but the reality th th th th the truth about critical theory is that it there it can't leave anything alone. I've I've uh I y you guys might not know about about uh the board the tabletop gaming board community, but Magic the Gathering's a is a card game And Magic the Gathering has a social justice movement in it, if you can believe it. I've heard stories of knitting clubs, social justice movements in it. So there's this doesn't leave anything alone. Every organization people in it that are pushing this kind of a narrative. So I don't want to say that like these are special cases. They're not special cases. This is everywhere. Well, and we're going to talk more about where it is and what we can do about it. And we never really didn't answer John's question about the newspeak question. Can we preach the gospel using these sorts of assumptions and this sort of language? So we're gonna tackle that next week on the Faith Debate. Uh Adam A. D. Robles, he's on YouTube. Go to YouTube and type in A. D. Robles. R-O-B-L-E-S. You'll find his YouTube channel Jonathan Schweitzer, big bridge builder on the Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner. You can find us online at WFMD. com, find the Faith Debate page there and you can get a tease of what's coming up in upcoming weeks and access all the podcasts really easily That way. Till next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless