Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the hearts of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. As people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things, this is the Frederick Faith. Debate. Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Eating, Half We Make You Smile. On the show this week, Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church We're also joined by Imran Raz Razvi and his wonderful wife Tammy Razby. They are the founders of Concord by Love Ministries. You can check them out online at ConcordbyLove dot org We've been talking about parenting principles and the importance of feeling wanted, secure, approved, capable and needed. That's why Jonathan and I get along so well because he always makes me feel so wanted, secure, approved, capable. And the needed. Yeah, you yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. I I didn't know I was capable of making you feel capable and needed and want you to make me feel that way. So I'm feeling more secure about all that now. Alright, well I approve. So anyway that was good. I felt like you did that well. That was off the cuff. We should have recorded that. We've been doing the show for eleven years finally capable of finally So we uh we we talked about the beginning of the show last week about the words that are used and you know I I wanna s I want to take credit for the parts that are mine You do? You didn't ask me about the uh broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City. Uh but I asked you That's all me. Yeah, yeah, no the Big Brother. Nobody gave me that one. Yeah, yeah, in Gridlock County. Gridlock County, that's me. No, I was just thinking this Uh you know, this morning as you were uh opening up the show that Big Brother part. Like that was good a couple years ago, but I think you need to up grade that uh reality like to you know what's a better word? I don't know. Like Snowden and all you know, the fact that everybody knows everybody's business that that's not just Big Brother. That's like you know, the Naked Society. I don't know what you want to call it. I'm not calling it the Naked Society, I'm sorry. That's not that'd be a completely different show. We have done three shows with this panel together and uh we've touched on on most of the things I was hoping that we would touch on, but it it's also sparked some things that we wanted to make sure we we uh fleshed out a little bit more this week And there's one main thing I thought we'd spend a little more time talking about that we spent almost no time talking about. Okay. And we were under the illusion that uh October was um um adoption awareness month apparently led you astray. Apparently in some parts of the universe that might be true, but not here. In this part of the universe, November is Adoption Awareness. November Awareness Month. Which actually as it turns out today is November first, so welcome to it. Happy November everybody. So we are now entering Adoption Awareness Month and so Thanksgiving's right around the corner. Yeah, and we just had Halloween. You know, we ate lots of sugar laden candy. That's how we demonstrate love to our children. That's what I learned in the first show. First show did together. Raz said, if you want to love your children, give them lots and lots of sugar laden candy. No, maybe the guest the polar opposite of that perhaps right now. He's trying to figure out when he said that. So Uh I wanna uh we were talking about I asked the question, I think it was last week, I asked the question about what do you do about parents who don't want to put in the hard work up front to make sure you have a well-adjusted, emotionally healthy child Uh and you also don't have a parent who even wants to deal with the ramifications of not having uh a well adjusted, healthy, uh emotionally child. They just abdicate their responsibility. They're not interested in being a parent. Maybe they d want to disappear from the scene completely. Or they're there, but they've checked out. And I asked if you've had, you know, any experience with that. And it sounds like you have a personal experience with something along those lines. So um Tammy, why don't you share that? Well, I just wanted to share that adults also have those same five emotional needs that we were talking about with children. And sometimes there's uh something missing in a relationship and we tend as husband and wife to kind of point out all the problems in the parenting strategy and that maybe pull us apart from each other. As opposed to looking to see where the strengths are or where could I minister to my spouse, maybe some of their their reactions is they have an emotional need that's not being met. And sounds like the love dare from Fireproof, the movie. It does. Well, you know, when uh when I was a kid and my um my m mom had first become a Christian and she was going to church by herself and my pastor uh at that point uh uh said, you know, th I see a bunch of ladies out there in the audience by themselves and uh your husbands aren't there Why don't you just stay home from church next Sunday and and spend some time with your husband? And Blasphemy. Exactly. Exactly. And so the next Sunday she thought, well, okay, I'll try it. And so she'd been asking him to go to s church every Sunday, ask him to go ask and we go and he was like, No, no, no. And then that the next Sunday She stayed home, cooked a big breakfast, sat and visited with him, just encouraged him on things that had happened in the week, and he's like, Why aren't you going to church She's like, Oh the pastor told me to stay home and spend time with you She's like, Oh, I gotta go see this church where this pastor told you to stay home and reverse psychology. Reverse psychology. Is that what that was? and encouraged him and some things from the week and just spent some time we're just building that relationship. And now he was open to those discussions um as to what things were interesting her and they they ended up going to church and He had been saved as a kid but just hadn't had discipleship and began now again walking with the Lord and and they had a testimony of just a beautiful relationship where they were then ministering together to our family. And so that was a blessing. Sometimes stepping back and looking at your spouse instead of saying, This is what's wrong with you, you know, or you know, you you're not going to church, or you're not you're not uh meeting the children's needs, or you're doing this wrong in the parenting, sometimes stepping back and saying, What can I do to encourage you and point out the things that that I see that are good and um and I can meet some of those needs for you. to you on this. Oh wow. I'm tempted to to to want to like ask these questions that deal with the gospel and how we present how we approach the world, you know, do we approach them on the on you know from the context of their sin or do we approach them from the context of these emotional needs that would help them to feel that God understands them and what they need and wants to show his love to them, like which one comes first. But I'm not sure that we have time to do that because we wanted to get into some other things. So what is your sense? Well if if we can table that for now just so we don't uh uh false advertise because I started by saying we're gonna make sure we talked a little bit about adoption. So let's talk about that for a little bit. Time we'll make sure we have some time. And actually adoption gets into the whole thing. So go ahead. So, adoption. Adoption is the perfect picture of the gospel message, isn't it? I mean are we all adopted into God's family? Reconciliation. And and so, you know, if you look at a perfect adoptive family That's God and his children. And so we've got a beautiful picture of it. You know that there are seven million children in the world today who need families today. Seven million. Um various organizations that deal with orphans all around the world and you take their numbers and you add them together. Why should I even bother trying to help them? I mean it's just a lot of people. Twelve percent of the Christians in the world adopted, there wouldn't be a single child who needed a pain. Twelve percent of the Christians needed adopt one child each. Yep. then there will be no uh and so that's actually a combi combined statue of like a two parent family adopting a child. Only twelve only twelve percent Twelve percent. That's a doable number. And and scripture tells us that we're all cared, we're all called to care for orphans. Care for the orphans and widows. Every Christian is called to do that. So what does that look like? That looks like twelve percent of us are bringing home children by adoption. Clearly we can't all bring 'em home. There aren't enough children that need families. So if twelve percent of us bring home children by adoption What's the rest of the eighty eight percent doing? Supporting those children ahead of time or walking with the adoptive families through this challenge of having a child who's been through trauma in their home? Do you think If you've ever considered adoption, do you think if you had eight brothers and sisters in Christ walking with you through that adoption, do you think you could bring home that older child? and give them a family. Not to be too practical and pragmatic about it. You know, it almost feels dingy t to bring up this reality, but imagine if those seven million people are young you know, young people are brought into Christian homes. The Huh? Twelve percent twelve twelve percent of Christians would bring home. Yeah, you're ministering the gospel into seven million lives in their formative years. I mean you could you could be expanding the kingdom by leaps and bounds because Jonathan taught me, you know, we were talking last week about where these phrases come from at the beginning of the show and we alluded into it. You know, Jonathan has said something that's been formative for me. Um once when I was going through an issue with a family member and And he he kinda stopped me in the middle. These guys have really pulled out the best of us toward one another. Feel the love. Yeah, how about that? Yeah, yeah. And Jonathan stopped me in the middle of, you know, me seeking advice from him on something and he said, Well let me let me stop you and ask you something Does this person you're trying to you know minister to do you have a do you have a voice of authority in their life? And I said, What do you mean? Do you When when you speak to them, do they receive it as though you have authority in their life? Meaning they respect what you have to say that you have a relationship with them where your opinion matters to them. Otherwise you're just hot air. Like if there you know, but if you have a relationship and they're like, you know what? Like if Jonathan came to me and you know we joke around on the show all the time, but if he came to me up there and said, hey by the way, I just gotta let you know something, y you might not realize this, but When you do this or that and that it's really offensive and you need to stop. Right. I'd be like, wow, okay, well Jonathan is pretty perceptive and I trust where he's coming from and that's going to speak to me. Whereas if some, you know, knucklehead off the street said that to me, I might give it a half a second of notice, but I probably dismiss it pretty readily. Like, who are you? You don't even know me. Right. Who are you? I mean maybe I need to be more careful how I project, but that's not really who I am because you don't know me. And so um we would have authority as Christians in the lives of these seven million people because we would be raising them. That's absolutely correct. And if you look back at the history of Christianity, how did the Christianity explode in the first century? Because w Christians would take in all the downtrodden, all the outcasts, all the people that were left on the side of the road. That's how America exploded for crying out loud. Read the Statue of Liberty. Right. So that's how Christianity exploded. Should I suddenly we're talking about immigration and we're talking about it in a way that is really at the heart of it, isn't it? It is. If you bring somebody into your family, you now have authority. What America has done is given up that authority. So when immigrations come now, well you can keep your own own uh language, you can keep your own uh tradition, you can keep your own everything else. And so it's no longer having authority over these people. And that's why our culture is breaking down. So I'm going to avoid all the jack it up with us, though. I'm going to avoid dig digging into that too much just because there's a lot there. But the point is is that is that there's an authority that comes when we choose to invite people into our family genuinely. Correct. And whether we invite them or somebody else does. Now, adoption really is a uniquely Christian thing. It's a Christian theme. It's throughout the Bible. That's what God has done for us. Most other religions don't actually adopt They will out of necessity, if there's a couple that's not having able to have children, then they may adopt. But in most other cultures and religions, it's not really something that is a central theme And they will be able to do it. Because I'm a Christian, I want to think, yeah, that's one way that we're better than, you know, uh others. But but I really want to search that out. Like do mo do Muslims have a history of adoption to Buddhist I know that the Jewish uh uh community has the background of the whole Boaz and and uh Esther, you know, and into the the kinsman redeemer idea. And I want to jump in just in as a gentle, good natured, but uh serious minded uh rebuke of that uh of that of that spirit that a lot of Christians have. Right You know, of oh this is another example of how we're better. Exactly. That completely misses the gospel. Yeah. The gospel is we're not better, we're saved. You know, and we're being increasingly sanctified because of that salvation, but we're still sinful, we're still Egocentric or not better Christ. I totally fall into the egocentric thing all the time. And that's really where our spend lies. And we as Christians follow that theme of adoption as Christ adopted us into his family. In fact, more Christians adopt than any other group of people in the world Okay. Right now about five percent of Christians adopt. That's pretty large. There's no other group that even comes close to that. We need it to be seventeen percent, but it's only five percent. No only twelve. Well you said if twelve percent would adopt we'd get the seven million gone. Right. But we but that's all the children that need families. So I'm saying we have five percent that are already doing it, but twelve percent more would do it. So we only need seven percent more of the Christians to step up to the seven percent. And the amazing select of four million statistics twenty-five percent of Christians have thought about adoption. They've actually considered it, they've tabled it for one reason or another, and only five have acted on it. So if we get half of the people that have actually thought about it to actually do it instead of one out of five it would be completely different. And when we're not doing this, it's opening it up for a lot of other people to adopt There's a lot of other uh family situations that adopt, there's single parents that adopt with I'm not saying there's anything wrong with that, but that gives up that authority structure of a Christ-centered family And where there's a head of household and there's a family that that is a mother and a father that I think is the ideal setting of what Christ uh showed us. So Troy, these guys are just like you and Dina Right. You know, w when it comes time to have a great discussion, you guys are like cutting each other off and so Tammy's over here, for those of you that can't see it, you know, like reaching her hand over. Hey, give me that mic, I got something to say here too. How many children do you have now? I have five. Five how many of you have in your family altogether? We have twelve. Twelve so far. So and and a couple other families. So I'm gonna give Tammy a chance to We have five birth children and seven adopted children. Uh. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, but you're seven times better than him apparently because you have a sudden adopt that you're not. Again, this isn't about being better. It's about being full of love. And I tell you what, each one of them's a blessing, and we've been blessed. Uh it's a lot it's a lot of work to bring home a child by adoption. And uh and so we're not encouraging people to just well let's just do it to save the children. We want people to go into it with their eyes open. And that's what we were talking about before is it's not that just twelve percent have to step up. A hundred percent of Christians need to step up and follow that God calls us to care for orphans because if we come as a community around these children and these fa the families that are the ones bringing them home then it's doable. But absolutely these children come from hard places. These children come from backgrounds which are really, really challenging. Every child that gets to a place of needing to be adopted has been through some sort of trauma, even if it's day one at the hospital Okay. So so does it cost a lot of money? I mean I I don't have a lot of money to be able to adopt kids. Um you know, I I I live pretty uh simply by choice, you know, not not uh trying to uh as a pastor require, you know, huge salary. Uh how I mean could I afford it? Um the answer to is it expensive is yes and no So there it depends on what type of adoption you're doing. Adoptions that are done from overseas. So there's a lot of children all over the world that needs fam need families, and those are typically very expensive. However, um over and over again we've watched God provide the money when a family says, Yes, I'll do this. Lord, I can't afford it. Would you find the way to fund this if you want this child to be my family? And we have watched over and over, we have one of those testimonies ourselves where we were working on an adoption that was not going to cost anything. Um and we are waiting for a match and God picked up a little girl that needed a family and put her right in our lap and said, This is supposed to be your daughter and we said, All right, Lord, well we feel that you're saying that to us. We are excited about that daughter, but We can't afford it. We can't afford to do this as an international adoption. And without us making a request um to any person, simply to God, that money for her adoption was provided for us. in a way we couldn't have expected. And we've watched that story over and over again. So yes, it can be expensive if it's done overseas. Um if you're called to be adopting and you have a heart for it and you don't know specifically a country outside of the United States to adopt from It's possible to adopt within the United States for free. Um, zero cost. Uh that's uh and I can tell you exactly how to do that. There's There today in just in the United States, there's 120,000 children in foster care waiting for families um today. If somebody feels like you're speaking to their heart right now, if they were to contact you via your website you could help them figure out how to do this on the most affordable way possible. Absolutely. But the adoption process would be the adoption costs that we can ac talk to how to do that for uh with adoption costs without any cost. Um there's children that need to Concordby Love dot org Concordby Love dot org is the is the website. And it's it's for the purposes of adoption there's there's this a group called special needs children which means that they're harder to place. They don't find families for them as often. That's children who are um over six years old, or siblings, two children, maybe a two year old and a five year old, or any child of an ethnic minority. are harder to place children. They don't always find families for them. And some of these kids age out of foster care and have no one for their adult life to be have a relationship with. as a family. So these kids that are um in that category, uh the most states will cover all of the adoption costs. and the legal fees for those children to be f able to find a home. So yes, as you just said a minute ago, you have to pay to raise these children, but the cost for the adoption can be free. I want to ask uh 'Cause you guys have big families by today's standards, and I know somebody has nineteen children, you guys have a small family bike to that standard, but uh I used to be uh I've been in the radio business for a long time. I used to be on the programming side where I was coaching and developing talent uh for on the air and that sort of thing. And I noticed something over the years that it became a truism for me in a talk a spoken word format like like what we're doing now in talk radio, uh, there are a lot of people that are able to pull off a half hour show like this. and even an hour long show. But you ask them to do a second hour and they struggle to do that second hour. There's something there's there there's this hurdle, like this the sound barrier almost to try to get past to get doing the at first hour hit the wall. They hit a wall and doing that second hour is hard. But once they can successfully do a second hour, they can do a third, fourth thing you could they could do twenty four hours. I'm wondering, is there a similar principle with with children? Have you noticed that adding a second or a third child is s r hard, but once you add it once you got that many you might as well have twenty? I mean is is Do you know what I mean? I feel like I've I've noticed that. In some res For me that was somewhere between three and four. Yeah, in some respects uh Um th th things are easier simply because you've you started to put into place some some ways to do it. You're recognizing the need to train 'em, you know, and so That's a Bill Cosby line, I believe. I'm s is it? I think so. It is. I think it is, as a matter of fact, yeah. So however it is, there's still those individual emotional needs. And these children that are adopting was what I was just saying. It's important to go into it with your eyes open because you are bringing home children who have very high emotional needs. And that's why we need every Christian brother and sister to come alongside somebody and walk with them. How can we support these families? They're going to go through it to a three year period of letting this child develop that foundation that we talked about last week And that's important that they have that opportunity to do that with some support. Raz is Raz leaning in and saying, Oh, let me give that mic. I'm letting her know that I have something to say. We have four voices and we have three mics. So one of the things that I often counsel uh uh people is there's a lot of parents that will go into an adoption with the purposes of saving a child. And they have no idea that they're totally there's a martyr thing. Right. And there's no idea they're bringing in Um, it cancer into the family. Where it infects everybody else and the whole family starts falling apart, so no one falls apart. Because they they are thinking they're gonna save this child. They're not thinking about all the challenges and the and the time they're gonna have to spend and the time they're gonna take away from their birth children of the children that are already in the family to devote to the new child. And until they understand that, it becomes a conflict and a and a big problem. So it can tear a family apart And one of the things we teach is exactly the three years. You have to put aside three years, just like you had a new baby. Now we've had parents and families that have adopted. Okay? They've adopted an older child, has a has a lot of challenges, and that that same very same week they get a call from the church say, hey Betty Sue had a baby. Can you bring bring dinner for these three days? Hello. We just had a baby. Yes, our baby was seven years old. But it's a baby. And in fact it's much harder to raise a seven year old baby than it is it is to raise an infant baby, a zero year old baby. And I don't mean to make this uh equivalent in a way that would be offensive, but I mean uh A lot of times we have a feature on uh the morning show with Bob Miller where every week on Tuesdays they bring in a pet of the week and uh from animal control and you know they oftentimes will give, you know, a warning like, Hey, you know Don't just get the Christmas puppy. Because you know, oh we're gonna be prepared. Make sure you know what you're getting yourself into. Get prepared. Don't you know don't get uh Taken away by your emotions. Yeah. And then a week into it you're like, Holy cow Because the puppy you can bring it back to animal control, I guess, right? You can't do that with the child, I mean well maybe you can, I don't know what the rules are, but the reality is that some parents even just uh with their own kids get to the place where they haven't really thought through what it means to be a parent and get down the road in are stuck being a parent, not Even an adopted parent, just a regular parent, so anyways, yeah. Right. So so we need to go in to with your eyes open, so we talk about okay, well d go in with your eyes open. What does that mean What am I gonna expect? I'm going to expect that there are huge challenges behavioral challenges. Well as you want to sell 'em on the idea and then try to talk 'em out of it. Right. I No, I w I wan I want to say let's the There's a need. And some of us are called totally. Right. Right. Do you talk them out of it first? Do you sell 'em on it first? Yeah. Well l let me tell you what it looks like. It looks like I'm gonna allow this child to be a baby. So how do how do I do that practically? You know, I take I brought home a twelve year old. So if I have my newborn baby and I walk down the aisle in the grocery store and that newborn baby starts to scream 'cause she's hungry, you know, we get lots of real nice looks Oh, look at that cute baby and everybody thinks that, oh mom ought to sit down and feed her or something. But if I take a twelve year old and I walk down the aisle with that twelve year old who's never had his needs met And is an emotional mess and he starts screaming, I'm hungry, I need something, I'm hungry, get me some food Um, we get lots of looks too, but they're sorta different You know, bad parent out of concept. Right, and that and that's the reality is he's not acting his age, right? Absolutely he is. He's acting his emotional age. He has zero foundation. Right. And so he's acting the age of an infant, emotionally If we give him that foundation, then he can be able to act the age of a twelve year old. Anybody could walk them out, you know, especially if they are in Christ and so they're looking to Christ to get their own uh emotional needs met. But the reality is that when it comes to walking it out uh that's where the difficulty is uh because there's pain and there's discouragement and there's confusion in the moment And uh learning to, you know, you need a good support structure in the midst of all that. You gotta count the cost at every level if you're gonna move go into it. And that's where the other eighty eight percent of the Christians come in, they can support Why not provide meals for th for families that have uh done this? Why not come in and clean the house for a little bit because they already have their hands full? That's where the rest of the food families come in And this does connect to how we wanted to end the show with talking about how this all relates to the gospel. And I was, you know, kind of joking, but not really. I mean you want to talk people into you know make Christianity attractive, but then talk 'em out of it Because they have to count the cost. Right. You know, and that's the part that's missing in the in the the gospel proclamation uh in today's American culture. Well this you know, prosperity, gospel and that sort of thing. There will be sub two sides to it. Right, yeah So it uh you know, you're the pastor in the room, so we've got l less than two minutes. If you want to take sixty seconds and and explain a gospel uh give me the gospel presentation as it relates to what we've been talking about for four weeks. In sixty seconds. Okay, well I was gonna ask the question, do you start with the love or do you start with with the sin, right? Because go the gospel doesn't make sense that we've been forgiven. that the wrath of God that was coming toward us was taken by Christ, that uh we've been reconciled by the blood of Jesus Christ, uh you know, into his family. Like all those elements of the gospel uh only make sense if We were not reconciled if his wrath was towards us and and and we had a significant break in the relationship and we were uh genuinely sinners that that were headed for well then I'll answer the question. And so the question is what comes first? The love I think I know what answer you would would would want to give. Or the sin. And I know it's it's gonna it's gonna be a popular answer. We start with love. For God so loved the world that God loves us. But he had to give his son. Why? So the sin comes next. God loves you. He wants a relationship with you. He desires you to respond And the greatest of these is love. Everything else will pass away. Will be remaining is love. God is love. We start with love. We get so wrong headed on wanting to tell a bunch of sinners that they're s that they're lost and they're sinful. Yeah, okay, whatever. Love them first, become attractive, be winsome, and then they want to Hear what you have to say. He has some authority in their life. They want to respect what you have to say. And then they're going to hear when you say, you know what? That God who loves you, he needs you to turn from your sin. He needs you to repent. So love is a very good thing. That's Jonathan Sweitzha, senior pastor of Cross House Valley Church. Thank you to Imran and Tammy Rasby, founders of Conquered by Love Ministries. I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor Footman Plumbing and Heating, How Can we Make You Smile, and How to Read Proverbs is what I've been reading lately by Trimper Longman the Third. Another recommend. That's four in a row. Gotta love that. Till next week. God bless