P Article two as a Christian consensus under Jesus Christ the Supreme Lord and King of all creation and the establishment of the general equity of the Ten Commandments as a Foundational law of the nation, we affirm the responsibility of civil authorities to protect the soul, not to convert the soul. And that sounds a little bit like Charlie Brown's teacher all of a sudden, right? Wah wah wah wah wah. We'll explain all that in just a second. On the faith bay, thanks for spending part of your day with us here. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at Household of Faithinchrist. com as Household of Faithinchrist. com. So you can connect with my social media and everything else Daniel Razby, he's got a website. Well he and his family, they have an organization called Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. Uh Daniel's one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house. And uh David Forcey, he's on the panel again. Cannot chase him away. I don't care how offensive I act. He keeps coming back for more. Uh David Forrest, the good friend and one of the pastors in the area as well. All of us are pastors of house churches. We're working together and trying to build and grow a a network of house churches that work together and we and we've we've got a number of us that that do some things together and provide some oversight for each other and that sort of thing. If you're just interested to learn more, or if you're part of a house church and you'd like to just maybe connect and see if you can, you know, join us in some of what we do. Just reach out to me. Easiest thing to do again, go to my website, you find my email, and all my contact information at householdfaith in Christ dot com. So I started today's show. uh reading uh the beginning part of Article eleven which is the big picture agenda. And I just did that kind of in the the i interest of time, but in the interest of time we got cut off really last week's show. We need more time on this show, darn it Article 10, which was on on nationalism and policy priorities, and there's a lot to be said there because they jump right into a whole bunch of issues. And Dan you were saying that one of the problems is that they jumped right into a whole bunch of issues, right? Mm-hmm. Yes. They they didn't provide what did you say? They didn't provide a foundation for it or something? Well they they provide a basic foundation and they skipped a step, right? They said the government should do godly things. And then they said, therefore the government should do these things. But they didn't explain why these things are godly things. And I I think any Christian reading this is gonna know, oh yeah, these are the godly things. But if they're dry trying to market this to a broad audience, they may want to do the ex additional step and say, hey The Bible teaches that abortion is wrong and uh, you know, gay marriage is wrong and all those things. And therefore the government should So that that's all. But I I don't necessarily disagree with what they're talking about. Um, you know, formally the government should acknowledge the worship of Christ. Sure, great. Declare solemn days of humility and repentance. I'm not really sure what where that comes from I haven't heard a lot of calls for that specifically. Um the Bible does command certain solemn days of uh uh uh of re repentance, like Young Kippur, for example. That's a solemn day of humility and repentance. Um so but I don't think 'Cause the people that are generally these Krishnasis generally are not like really strong Old Testament supposedly ceremonial law followers, so they're probably not saying we should all just celebrate Yom Kippur now. I might say that, but you're not gonna say it. There there's sort of here is this idea we failed him and so we need to repu repent. Yeah, and and and specifically to say, Okay Like take the time to say what is it that we need to repent about. That'd be that'd be definitely something. You know that Christ was doing some kind of work there. Yeah, if they were walking around like that I would think they were a s uh United States Senator from Pennsylvania. Who shall remain nameless? Stood out to me a little bit. I I it's more of a playful. We were talking uh I think it was last week or maybe it was a week before about how they they're they're purposely using Biblical language where they can, they're avoiding, they haven't s mentioned like racism, right? They they didn't mention kidnapping. They're talking about um, you know, some sort of partiality, ethnic partiality or or man stealing. They're using different kinds of languages I appreciate And I couldn't help but notice the in in uh the affirmation for Article ten they talk about each nation's thriving, which is a good word. But it's not unusual in certain circles to hear instead of the word thriving, to hear the word flourishing. And I just can't help but imagine that they purposely avoided the word flourishing because that has become a buzzword. It's a good word too Unfortunately too many of the bad actors within American Christianity have centered a lot of their arguments on this whole human flourishing word and it be and it became a negative. It's almost like, oh, somebody who uses the word flourishing too often is suspect. So I I wonder if they purposely avoided using it there. I have not heard that word being used by any of these sort of things. I w I would say also, even on the ethnic partiality thing, like Yes and no, right? So the idea of what people when people think the word racist in in American parlance, what that means to uh generally is actually an ungodly thing, right. Mm-hmm. But God actually does show ethnic partiality all throughout scripture. He ethnically prefers the Jews, right? He's the these are God's chosen people. So there's and it's plenty of example when it says the nations and even even in the um e even in uh uh the Great Commission where it says go preach to the nations, it's it's the ethnos, like the ethnic groups, right? Not necessarily specifically country borders. Because Rome ruled a whole empire filled with a lot of different ethnic peoples, but individual communities were very ethnocentric. And I don't know that y you can s uh say that there that God doesn't notice or doesn't uh or or doesn't want anybody to notice that there are differences in ethnic groups and cultures and so on. I mean uh w if if you're a Christian, you've been grafted into Israel So you're subordinate to the root of Israel, which is uh any true uh f uh follower of uh uh of of God is gonna be follower of Christ in in Judaism, right? So you you are gonna be only uh in in uh the legitimate tri tribes of judah uh tribes of uh Israel. But that is still you know, we're part of Israel, but there's other nations as well and and they it's to the Jew first and then also to the Gentile So I I don't know. Yeah, I I So that that I think is a different conversation that we that we could have at some point. Yeah. Um you know, especially just thinking, okay, well, there's also now neither Jew nor Greek, right, in Christ. Um you know, we we'd have to We'd have to sift through all that together and and uh even in the old testament there are other ethnic groups, uh there are individuals that we know of that uh were not Jewish in but they joined in and they joined in and they became part of Israel. Right. Right. And then so anyway, yeah, that is a total acceptance as the Jews in the Old Testament disobey him, he then very much unprefers them. As far as Israel. Uh it'd be a good show. Um they they do uh put in here it says we denied it sinful ethnic partiality. has any place. That's true. And so so they they leave open the possibility that there may be a non-senful ethnic partiality. Right. And I think probably in their minds they're talking they're thinking about the Jewish people, the the people of Israel Well th and they might just be thinking about um you know, like nation like there are other nations in the world. That are not United States may actually be very ethnocentric. Yeah, and you know, and th and that might be part of their uh their identity as a nation, what makes them actually a nation. Yeah, and that's part of one of the questions I had about this. And well first of all, what's it mean to safeguard prosperity? And and what they try to mean by that is only they they say it right here in the statement, it's only for the United States But why if why if if this is a godly biblical righteous thing, then why would every nation I think you're mis misreading it, but I I don't think that's a that's um I think it's to be expected because this whole paragraph seems rather hastily written. There's several typos, there's several grammar issues in the paragraph. Um I mean the the uh so I can point them out but this it's easier if if you can see it, you're on the radio you can't hear it. Um but in that uh that sentence it says nations possess the uh the right to establish uh justice and safety, the peace and prosperity of their own citizens. So all nations have that And they're saying, but we who are signing the statement live in the United States, so we don't have control over China and Uganda and Australia, so we're we have control uh if any control we have is over the United States. So here's our short term priorities for our own country. I think that's what they're trying to say. Yeah. E each country is going to have their own their own short term priorities. I mean So they have other short term priorities to bring in more. So that that's all. But other than democracy building, these uh seem like they're generic, right? All the things that they're saying that we in the context of the good old USA are specifically calling our nation, not other nations, our nation, to have laws that formally acknowledge the Lordship of Christ. So they don't want other nations to do that? to declare solemn days of dignity repentance, abolish abortion, define marriages between a man and a woman, deweaponize uh the government against uh tar you know Christ targeting Christians. to get rid of censorship and persecution because of being a Christian, to secure the borders, to to defend against foreign invasion. Like which item on this list would they not have other nations do? You're missing the point. They're not saying that n it doesn't apply to other nations. The first sentence says, all nations need to do godly things. Then it says, in our nation specifically, because when we're talking, we live in the United States. So what can we do here? Here's some things we can do specifically here to further that. They're not even addressing what eliminations can or shouldn't or or should or shouldn't do. Because the laws of eliminations are are very But why do we uh that probably is their point, but then why wouldn't that sentence say we affirm that the specific short-term priorities of Christian nationalism is to call Whatever nation you live into, in her laws to formally like why are they setting on the side of the side? All these things on the list, they don't apply to all nations. Like some nations already do some of these things. There are countries where gay marriage is illegal. There are countries when where abortion is illegal. There are co there and there are c are several African countries specifically that formally do acknowledge the Lordship of Christ in their state constitutions. So a lot of these things are actually in there so they would have different short term priorities. Yeah. Not every country is as woke as America is. I'm I'm generally speaking on these sorts of sweeping declarations that are supposed to be for the church. When they're not for the church. When they for the the church the citizens of the church who live in America. That's what this statement is for. Okay. Well it says it's the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel. That doesn't say specifically the United States. I don't know. Feels too parochial to me. But you disagree. That's fine. Uh I'm probably wrong. Um Well whenever we disagree, of course th you know, I'll be I'll be right. That's And the way they they've structured the denial on Article ten, it it it kind of in my mind almost it's like, wow, so has any nation ever been Christian based on what they're denying today? No Right? So anyway. So I started the show today by reading um the first part of Article 11, which and I stopped at a split point because they split the baby here Which I think weakens their argument. So they have an opening paragraph and then they have right underneath that opening paragraph, which I already read, says, here's an alternative option for those who affirm legislating only the second table of the Ten Commandments Exactly. That's what they mean by that. Did they did they second the split did they split the baby or stretch the tent? Yeah, well the people who wrote this are clearly in favor of the entire Ten Commandments, right, being part of this. But they're trying to, in my view, split the baby and not stand on their convictions. Do you b should it be both tables of the law or not? Tell me where you stand and argue the point. Trying to go in both directions at once is being of divided mind and I think it weakens the argument. And I to be honest, I actually probably would be one who, if I were to agree, would probably take this second option. I'm saying that as somebody who's like, oh, they put something in here that might be for me. And I still don't think they should have done it. I d uh anyway. So that so that part that they say on the uh The second half of the affirmation says we affirm that the Christian Nationalist Project entails national recognition of essential Christian Orthodoxy, again referencing Article II, as a Christian consensus under Jesus Christ, the Supreme Lord King of all creation, the establishment of the general equity of the second table of the Ten Commandments, Laws five through ten for the uninitiated, as the foundational law of the nation. with warnings informing citizens of the consequences of blasph so just warnings of blaspheming of the one true and living God, often resulting in second table violations, namely the harming of our neighbors' lives. and property. And then they have a very short denial. We deny that laws against public blasphemy coerce conversion or hinder religious liberty in private. This is probably one of my least favorite parts. We've talked about this in the Artheonomy discussions and other discussions that we've had. I think mostly Daniel and I were in those discussions. Not gonna re-litigate all that right now, but David, do you have any Thoughts. Do you even know what I'm alluding to? I have a concern here about the binding of the conscience of unbelievers placing on them a button that they could never carry because we can't even carry it. uh is honoring parents is on the first table. And so I you know Part of the question is well actually what no that's there's number five. They're saying one through four and then five through ten. Yeah. Why are you splitting it like that? All right. But see and that's the thing. The Bible doesn't actually tell us which which ones are in which table. Yeah. Doesn't really differentiate between the two tables as one being better or worse or more uh more important than the other. Yeah, I think this is I uh I know, I'm the bad guy. This article is a mess because they're splitting the baby. You can't do that. God's law is God's law and everyone is intricately intertwined with it's like trying to split the Godhead Right? You can't do it. God's law is God's law. If you violate law number six, you've violated law number one. Here's where I think they're all intimately related. I I think uh so going back to who has what sphere of authority, right? What what what gets enforced by by what sphere, right? What gets enforced by parental authority, what gets enforced by uh you know, Troy as as you would like them to include. Uh individual like authority, personal authority over oneself, right? And uh you know, so then the and then and then church authority, civil authority, right? So so where I I I think that is worthwhile in when looking at the Ten Commandments and saying, okay, like who what sphere of authority, you know, is supposed to enforce? You know, or or has enforcement in what area. And so I I I like the idea, I lean towards the you know, a Christian civil uh government in enforcing The the things that are particularly uh have to do with neighbor to neighbor. Yeah, that's that's what I was I was thinking it would be a better way to even even the the way they differentiate it, I don't think you're gonna necessarily agree with five through ten, uh, and one through four being the thing. I think you would probably agree more with what David was saying that the government should be have the job of Which is any laws of God that have to do with interactions between humans. Which is six through nine. I don't know how they're gonna enforce the coveting the coveting issue. Well and and that's the thing, right? 'Cause 'cause even in their example, one the even the second set of pe uh uh uh of uh of signers are saying, oh well one through four And then five through nine. So I guess one through the Sabbath day I guess is not being They just lost the argument. I'm sorry. If this was a formal debate, they just lost the debate because they just sacrificed the first four commandments. I mean so if those are negotiable, why aren't the others negotiable? Like they just they the the premise that there's an inconsistency in their argumentation they have a mess. They gotta fix this, they gotta pick one. Pick one. I don't care which one, but pick or pick or or or explain the reasoning of why they picked only five and two ten, right? It's not arbitrary. Like David has a reasonable I I don't and and as as you know, I mean I'm in favor of all of the law laws of God being enforced by the f uh civil government, at least the ones commanded in the in the Old Testament. But I what what David's saying actually makes sense. At least it has some logic to it, that hey, whatever is interacting between humans, between each other, that's what the government And and that's you know uh and maybe there's a point there to say, okay, maybe you just need to specify what you mean by enforcing all ten of the commandments. What it what what role does the civil government have to play within their sphere of authority in each of those? Right. So if, you know, Uh now they do say, like right after this, I don't think we've read this part yet, we deny that laws against public blasphemy coerce conversion or hinder re religious liberty in private. Yeah, I didn't read it, but I whipped through it, so I'm glad you're not sure. that that actually is the same thing as the Catholic Church or Muslim congregations just wholesale forcing everybody to become converts to the religion, right? Yeah. Yeah, this is kind of like the reverse of what happened with Daniel. You can pray to God as long as he can't catch you, as long as we don't see you, and he, out of a conviction of wanting to worship the one true God made sure he was seen. You don't think that a Muslim, a faithful Muslim, is going to go out of their way to be seen worshipping Allah? Well as as you know. Or that a Buddhist isn't going to be seen publicly trying to uh pay some sort of homage to uh to a a Buddhist statue or something or other belly. You don't think they're gonna go other way? And as you know, and as we discussed in this show before, I think those are two totally different things. The Muslim is actually worshiping God and Yeah. He's just not accepting the worship of the Bible. And the Buddha and that's why you use include the second set. So I uh you're right, there are gonna be people but so what? Right? Th that is that is a law of God that you you don't have the option to just blatantly blaspheming the the creator of the universe. You you can't do that. It should not be allowed in any society Yeah. It's the fundamental, most foundational law that you could possibly have. And that's where the the blending of this Christian nationalist debate and the theotomy Debates. And this is the crux thing. Cross polidate. This is the crux of it. Either Either the government is gonna enforce God's law and then in that case they do have to also enforce blasphemy. And where they should not be involved in that at all. Well then how do they pick which laws to have on the books at all? Right. Murders and where's the thing? Murder is wrong. Well how do you know? 'Cause God said it. Oh well then why aren't you enforcing the blasphemy? 'Cause God also said that. That that's the p problem, I think, with getting into Yeah, I think there's concerns for not only the non believer uh being able to live in a society like this and not be stoned to death by Thursday. Um but also even believers who would fail to keep the law, because none of us keep the law perfectly. None of us do. Praise God for Jesus Christ and his blood on the cross. I mean Uh that that's the piece that really troubles me on some of this stuff. But anyway, we've got uh time to at least read Article twelve. We'll see if we have time to have a lot of discussion about it. This one is headed On the vocation and calling of Christian officials and legislators, we affirm that God extends the rule of Christ in the world by calling to and gifting Christians as his servants on vocation as civil authorities. That the sentence structure there is kind of odd to me, but anyway. We affirm that citizens are to submit to our civil authorities as unto Christ for his glory and our good. We affirm the need for more Whatever that means, I don't know. Theologically sound Christians to enter the political realm to proclaim the excellencies of Christ and his law, and then a relatively short denial. We deny any theology which holds that Christian participation in the civil realm is necessarily unwise, unfruitful, sinful, or anything other than a fitting and necessary vocation and calling for Christians. So say goodbye to the Pietists. Goodbye. But anyway, um it's funny they said we affirm the need for more theologically sound Christians to enter the political realm. Um more more of the cr m more people that are theologically sound or uh people that are more theologically sound than the ones we have now? Uh they probably say yes Right. Uh a hundred percent. Yeah. Right, yeah. So that's that's uh that's why it's like more, whatever that's supposed to mean, what do they mean? More in quantity, more in quality, what are they talking about? I think yes, absolutely, yeah. I I think ultimately they're saying, right, that Christians are called to participate as well I think Christians it may be civil government as civil authorities. It may be one of the callings for a Christian. That's what they're saying. No no no. I I think they're almost saying like, you know, Christians uh right, so just like Christians are called to do you know, are called to farm, right? Are called to uh are called to missions, you know. Right. Are are called to accounting. They're also called to politics political They're gonna discuss missions in the next article. So so so Christians as you know, as in the body of Christ, like we're supposed to be involved in the world in every way. Yeah, if if you come into reading this with particular presuppositions in place, you could find yourself agree because this was my experience, it was like, oh I can agree with that until I've read it like a second time or a third time that Or it's got the difference between this and several of the other statements we've done over the last year. Most of them are much more precise than that. Yeah. Yeah. They say they start with a whole list, here's what w this word means this, this word means this, this word means okay, now I'm gonna use those words and craft a statement. that we can all agree to based on what the we know these words mean. Yeah, and I I I'm not sure why that is. I think part of it could be that they didn't have a big committee and a long conference with a bunch of really smart guys get together and argue over the language and make sure they're being as crystal clear. There's just a couple of guys that uh my understanding that wrote it and then ran it past a c a few other guys that they trust and said, What do you guys think? And they tweaked it, made some editing choices and it just didn't run through the vetting process. Uh not so much the the worldview that's I think that they're all in agreement on their worldview, but how to articulate that worldview in a way that would be for mass consumption, I think. I'm glad they didn't because then we wouldn't be good to Getting to have such a good discussion. Oh, look at that. Look at that glass half full. David Forcey. And Daniel Rasby is over there. I don't know. Well, his glass is probably half full too anyway. I can't quite see his glass. Mine's always half empty. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at Household of Faithinchrist. com, House of Faithinchrist. com. Thanks so much for listening. We'll be back next week around the same time. Until then, God bless.