Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD brought to us By Putman, Fleming, and Heating. How can we make you smile in Deer Valley landscape, artscape, and masonry? I want to encourage you to visit us online at wfmd. com keyword safe. There you'll find a updated blog, uh each weekday anyway, not on the weekends, and a link to Jonathan Schweitzer's blog, which is updated I don't know when. Like every third full moon or something like that. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel on the show again. Hello, my friend. It's good to see you. And we're joined this week by Farron Kureshi, my close Yes, that's perfect. Okay. Well I don't know if it's perfect, but Ferron Caressi who uh is not officially with a church, although he attends a church, we'll talk about that, but he uh would uh describe himself or is comfortable at least if we describe him as an agnostic theist So we'll be talking about that. Jonathan would be uh a free agent. Now does that make you a Gnostic theist or does that make you Jonathan? That would make me a Christopheist. Anyway, I have a tendency to forget so I'm gonna try to get out of the way. By the way, I don't s know if I said my name. Did I say my name? Uh I believe that you did, but I didn't be so used to hearing you. All the hate mail goes to Troy Skinner. So send all the hate mail to me, Troy Skinner You can email me at Troy Skinner at WFMD. com or you can link to uh the email through the website. Uh but I've trying to get in the habit of what I've been reading. Yeah, you know I've been thinking about what I've been reading recently. Do I get to share what I read? Yeah, but Only if you share this title with me. Any color you want as long as it's black. That's right. And the t and the book is called Kiss. Oh. Would you like to share a Kiss with me, Jonathan? It's about healing. Um, did you say? Well, all of his books end up being about some sort of spiritual healing, right? But uh no, it's about uh um The main character has the ability to she she loses sight of her past and she's able to reconnect with elements of her past when she kisses someone. Ooh. Ted Decker pushing the edges. Christian author. Yeah. Conservative Christian author. Yeah, very interesting. Yes. Um, although I would say sounds like it might be a little risque. It's really not. And if you've got uh a teenager or even may potentially a preteen, it might be okay. Some of Ted Decker's works I would not suggest for preteens, not because of sexual stuff. Because they're they're frightening. Some of them. Yeah, for real. So So are how for how long are you gonna keep reading Ted Decker? Because he until I until I've done He writes fast enough that you may never expect it. I know. He writes like four books a year. No kidding. It's impossible. I've read about half of his thirtieth books now. All within the last like six, eight years. Yeah, his new one is is now out forbidden. I haven't read it, but I do own it. I read a book by Carl Raske on postmodernism that I think every conservative Christians should read. Carl Raski. R-A-S-K-E. He's a rascally raske. Yeah, yeah. Fascinating though it's very deep reading. Postmodernism? Yeah, it's on postmodernism and it really gets gets extensively into the you know. How can I know for sure that Raske wrote the book? In fact, how can I know for sure that there is a book written by Carl Raske? How can I know for sure that you're even talking about this right now? Yeah, well the reality is that postmodernists are are not resistant to truth. They just think that it shows up in the context of relationships. And so truth is something that we find in the context of relationships, not something that is like out there and objective and just away from us. And so Interesting. They're they're close to the biblical biblical God there because he is an absolute personal God. Okay, you had to give the book away, didn't you? But that's the gist of where he gets to. He argues that that we spend so much time in the Western world trying to parse what truth is. that we have killed God, like Nietzsche says. And uh he he argues very effectively uh for us no longer being so um you know antiseptic antiseptic and and uh scientific about our continue though. Yes. Uh Faron Kureshi, uh did I get that right? Yeah. Kureshi? Kureshi. That's right. I'm sorry. I told him I was gonna do my best and I've already not done my best. It's kind of a soft E there. Kureshi. All right. Um It's hard for me to know how to introduce you because usually it's a so-and-so rabbi with this synagogue. I feel like he's kind of a postmodern guy. But you would describe yourself as an agnostic theist. Uh that doesn't mean you don't go to church. You do go to a church, a Unitarian church. Unitarian Universalism. Okay. And you're background growing up you were of uh a couple of different incarnations of of uh of Islam, right? You were uh one kind of Muslim then a different kind of Muslim. Right, right. Um So actually I think in terms of understanding where he comes from, it's pretty important to understand like which one you know which one he started out as he ended up. I want to ask you, can do you think you can give us the, you know Ninety second version of your life story? Sure, not not a problem. I was actually born and raised in in the United States. My grandfather uh was born and raised in India. He was a he eventually became a missionary uh for the Ahmadiyya movement in Islam. I know that you guys had Zaki Kosar on a while back who who was also a missionary for the Ahmedia movement. Yeah, they almost moved uh their retreat center into uh into Frederick County. Oh to the Yeah, okay. And yeah, their head their national headquarters is actually out here in Maryland. So you're gonna have a lot of Amadea population here in in Maryland, uh, comparatively to other parts of the United States. Um but my grandfather was a missionary for them um for twenty years in Africa, served in India, different parts of the world. And so that's kind of where I grew up. They believe in a guy named Mizabullah Ahmed who claimed to be the second coming of Jesus At least metaphorically speaking, not in a literal sense. Uh and that he came what like a hundred and fifty years ago. Right, in a hundred years ago. Or or somewhere around there, in eighteen in the late eighteen hundreds. And he claimed to be the second coming of Jesus. Now this denomination is regarded as h heretical by mainstream Muslims. Being persecuted Right, around the world. Although most of the uh well the most, the what four Ahmadi Muslims that I know are resistant to say that so freely like you just did. You'll ask them, well you guys are considered kind of a fringe, like well, you know, it depends. But that's my sense. They the the the uh the Abadian community uh community is similar to like Mormons. You know, uh they they they take the the the Quran but they view it through the eyes of like science And they're they they want uh they they are less inclined to believe everything that it says, more inclined to reinterpret passages that the fundamentalist parts of Islam would interpret that. But as far as they're being ac accepted by all the other big established groups, the the established Christian churches are considered heretical. Um and they have a a latter day prophet. Right. And that the uh the Abadians are considered heretical and they have a latter day prophet or whatever. And so you were what age and you said, you know, these guys are wrong, I'm gonna become uh what would you become? I was seventeen. I was seventeen years old and seventeen yeah. Right, and I went into the Sunni Muslim uh uh theology and got into that. What did your dad think about that? Well, dad, parents, family, they they they it was very devastating because the Ahmedia movement is a very tight knit organization. As many denominations are. Actually let me speak at their uh at their conference up in Harrisburg a couple years ago to the leadership group. Okay. Awesome. Yeah. Yeah. So anyways, it was a tight knit knit community. You you're really uh you felt the ostracism and how did that play out? Well, um i I felt that it was a it was a challenge for me. I i and it was more important for me to profess what I believe. rather than even what I wanted to be the truth or w or w the intimidation that was there. Sure. Because I thought that there were eternal consequences to finding, you know, what whatever God wanted me to find. And so then where'd you go from there? Well you were with that with the Sunni Muslim Muslim community. And the reason why I became Sunni in just in a quick nutshell is because I felt that it was incon that the Ahmadiyya teachings were inconsistent with the scriptures themselves That's where that's where that's interpreting the scriptures the way that the scriptures meant to beant to be interpreted. And what will be the biggest doctrinal difference that really drove you to that. Because I mean look different people Jonathan understands things in scripture differently than I do. But he and I, you know, we get along, we we consider ourselves part of the same community in in in a sense, right? But if he if he was way out there theologically, if he were a There would tend to be an issue or two that would define that. And then I'd say, ooh, you know what, we're not really in community. So what was what were some of those what was one or two of those big issues that made you make that decision. Well well the main thing w uh what what for me was sectarianism. It it was it was that was the main thing. I didn't think that Islam allowed s any sectarianism that you're supposed to disag agree to disagree and have different schools of thought. That was kind of And Islam does teach that to the point, but there's limitation in what you can interpret. Is that why you left the sect uh that is Sunni? Well, exactly. Exactly. Well now now in retrospect. But But there were also the the teachings about the return of Jesus, the the hadith it are very clear that Jesus, the son of Mary, is going to come back and do many things. Um which Mizabullah Mahmad really did not fulfill those those expectations. in an adequate manner and so therefore you needed to go back to the original which was was SUNY as well. Exactly. And that was one of the main reasons. Very interesting. Right. Okay. And then you were you were SUNY for how long before you said, you know what, this isn't right either? Uh around eight to ten years. The last two years I I kind of uh started to go back towards rationalism Um you utilizing reason. Which is interesting because that's kind of a move back towards Ahmadiyya approaches. Except that you kind of you you kind of put away the Quranic scriptures. Right. You know, just to say that rationalism should guard our spirituality, is that what you're saying? Well, rationalism is part of spirituality. I think spirituality is much more than rationalism. Rationalism is is simply science, the mechanisms. philosophy, the reason or the concepts behind it, but the experience of life, reality, and existence is is w where it's really at. Um very interesting experience of God itself. And so what was it uh about suing you or what was it that clicked in you that made you go that direction? Well the the main reason was was a belief in hell or the doctrine of hell that there's going to be so many good, beautiful uh people who are trying to do the best that they can um in their working potential that are going to be tormented uh for eternity. That was the belief. And actually I think this is where our conversation's gonna go for uh the next couple of uh of shows here. I think that this is uh a very ripe area 'cause this this is something that's very important to you. Yeah, very extremely important. Especially working in mental health. And seeing so much suffering, uh i it it really spoke to me in different ways. That's the voice of Faran Kureshi, he's an agnostic theist. Jonathan Sweisser is the other voice you hear. He's a Christian pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel here in town. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. So for the last couple of years y you've you've been living out this shift where you've surrendered The the Muslim teachings of any variety at at at a at a uh as far as having a personal commitment to them. I'm sure they still infect your life or in fact makes it sound negative. They're still a big part of who you are. Right? But but so are you s do you feel like you're settled now in this rationalist place or you feel like you're seeking and searching and trying to figure things out? I know life is an ongoing process. The more knowledge we gain, the more experiences we have, I think we continue to broaden our perspective. And that's really where I look at these different transitions. There's so many people who go through numerous transitions. you know, convert from one thing to another or accept different ideas at a later point in their life. And it's simply an ongoing process, I think. Okay. So truth is i i if there is for example if Christian if Christianity is true, why would I want to deprive myself of that? Why would I w would be open to suffering the consequences of of not accepting Christ as as Lord and Savior? That's part of what I'm asking, I guess, is I mean There are other uh communities within Islam you could you could explore those, but I'm sure you already have some pretty you sound like a pretty bright guy who does his homework, so you've probably already done that. Are you in the process now of exploring Buddhism and Hinduism and Christianity and Judaism and uh Zoasterism and are you are you going through all of that right now or what it Well I mean I studied religion for a long time. While I was a Muslim I actually debated for five years with Christian apologists about Islamic issues. I actually traveled throughout the United States. Debated with or meaning debated against Against, should I Okay. Against. I don't like the word against, but I I guess I was an opposite Yeah, opposition to at least ideologically. Um and I got to meet some some great apologists and and and scholars along the way. And I think that they made a lot of valid points about Islam. Um Uh uh some not so much, but I mean that I I guess that's rel relative to interpretation. But but now, yeah, I am searching different religions. Christianity is is one that I've constantly been looking at. Islam continues, I still want to learn more about it. There's always more to learn and And Hinduism and Buddhism. So can I ask a question? Do you feel like okay, this is this is totally a self-serving question, I admit it. Do you feel like the Christian apologists um in in the questions that they raised about Islam were part of the reason why you began to question it? Well that's a that that's a c a question that I've gotten uh uh a lot a lot of times. Not necessarily. Like maybe it would have been better to you you would have been able to stay a good Muslim if you wouldn't have, you know, uh allowed yourself to be poisoned by all those uh, you know, uh Christian apologists kind of a thing. Well w with good intentions. I know that they were. I experienced that they were Um the fact that the that the the idea of questioning Islam certainly from from a debate apologetic perspective that the Christians provided to me That yeah, that contributed to to me questioning Islam. Um but it wasn't the sole reason. I think my education in psychology, experiences uh in diversity and plurality in the United States, it was it was a mul multiple of things. Very, very interesting. And so then the question is um whether or not people will be going to hell for eternity. Yeah, well and and we're definitely gonna go there because that's a fascinating subject for us to talk about and we might get there anyway. You're doing all this exploring, you've you've interacted with all these Christian apologists. I don't know who they are, but um If they're on the debate circuit, they must know what they're talking about at some level, right? They're pretty knowledgeable. And so at this stage, what is it about Christianity that has you saying, uh, I don't know. I don't think Christianity is really It it's still on my radar, I'm still thinking about it, but I'm not ready to embrace it because is it is it the hell? It's hell and exclusivity. It's hell and exclusivity. Those are the two the the two things that I see. Everything else I see so many beautiful teachings, it's a beautiful tradition. brings about spirituality and structure and identity and all the good good things that human beings seek. Uh but the exclusivity and hell are it that's that's That's very interesting 'cause that's what kinda drove you away from the Ahmadian community. Exactly. That's the exclusivity And so it would appear that what drives you is a desire to connect with the mass of humanity around the world. You you want to find a way for you know, to buy 'em all a coke and keep 'em company kind of a thing. Uh yeah, I would say that incl inclusive and um uh I have a very inclusive ideology or perception of of of w how things should be. Hm. And that's why Unitarian Universalism is attractive because right there's it's not exclusive. faith traditions and tries to figure out a way to fit them together or or whatever. Which you can't do with the exclusive religions. Right. Right. Who say that by definition it's exclusive, so you can't fit us So and we've noticed this on this show, it's definitely the case that the Unitarian guys or Unity, the different people that come from that perspective. I talked to you just a bit about the difference uh between the two. uh on the um phone, they uh are very um uh unaccepting, resistant to anything that's exclusive. In fact you you could argue that that is their number one um bias. Mm-hmm. That if something is exclusive then they inherently want to exclude it. Mm-hmm. And everything else is okay, but when it comes to s you know, anything that's exclusive, then there's something wrong with that inherently. I I think to an extent. Because if you if you look at It it depends, because if you think about like for example enlightenment or or something that something that Hinduism or Buddhism would teach is an esoteric gnosis. It um that that is kind of there's only certain people who have that, not everybody has that. Sure. And so I think that they're they are accepting of of a higher level of awareness or consciousness that throughout throughout our species. But uh which would kind of you know uh kind of pep uh a little bit pepper of or spice of uh exclusivism. Yeah, w no, that's very interesting because it's there's definitely a a s significant difference between a um a Buddhist enlightenment approach to you know attaining higher consciousness and a Christian approach. And as much as people would try to minimize the differences Um, really the two are like oil and water. They they there's really not an ability for the two to mix 'cause 'cause Buddhism is is more about Moving beyond what you see here and letting go of your desire, letting go of your personhood so that you can be swallowed up in the great You know, Atman or or you know, be be released from the cycle of suffering. Whereas whereas Christianity certainly teaches a very opposite orientation where where we're coming to uh embrace where we touch the untouchable where we uh we we recognize um the individual not as something that that we need to escape from, but something that we need to redeem. You know, so we'll spend eternity in these bodies and these bodies are redeemable. And so we don't lose our personality, but in in fact we're we're glorified uh in the context of our individuality, you know, in the context of of the great God. And so it's a very The the two really can't mix. Would you be in agreement with that that the two can't mix? Yeah, I don't think that the two I I think that when you look at Christian theology there's there there's very specific doctrines there. And that that you really can't move away from and if you do move away from them uh you you can question whether it's Christianity. And so I mean I don't see how you can mix Buddhism with with Christianity at all. I d I do think those are completely different philosophies. Well I wanna before we run out of time on this show, I want to ask you kind of threw out as an aside But now I'm curious. Okay. You guys had a phone conversation to which I was not privy. Okay. It was talking about the difference between the Unity Church and Unitarian. You could have hacked our phones. Or Murdoch. Uh and Unitarian Universalism. So what are s what would be uh some key differences there? Because they get lumped in together a lot, I think. So what are the differences? Well I don't know that we went into great discussion about that. We just kind of uh assumed that the other understood the the basic but you guys had some big discussion about there's a unity church in town uh that is different from the Unitarian. uh church and um so their belief systems are different enough that um Tony Fish, the the director of the Unity Churches has been very keen on defy uh on clarifying that they're not the same thing. And somehow that's important to her. And I don't know that I'm fully up to speed on what those differences are. So I think that was really the first time. Gotcha in the conversation. So I didn't really miss out on much. I don't think so, yeah. Okay. And I and we've got like two minutes before we have to wrap up. I'm curious. Normally you know, I'm out talking to somebody and I can't help but have faith issues come up when I talk to somebody. It's just how I'm wired. Sure. And Jonathan's a pastor, so and he's connected to different circles of people and so it's going to come up. But usually I have an understanding of how the connection happened to bring a guest on this show I have no clue how the connection happened to bring you on this show. How how how why are you here? How did this happen? Well, I like I said, I w I'd previously been v involved in apologetics and um And I had and I'd come to know that um Zaki Kosa, who is an imam of the Ahmadiyya community, uh had been had had a dialogue with uh Pastor Sweitzer here and um and that motivated me to contact him Um, it was as simple as that. I I was motivated to contact somebody who's interested in And so do you interact with uh Zaki Kowser pretty often? I have, but um because I I when I originally left the Ahmedia movement that there had been, you know Because of how how the organization works. Um it's a very tight knit organization. So they take the time to pursue and to communicate that they rather you stick around kind of a thing and Right. In the context of that, then there was ongoing communication and appeal from them. Yeah. And then uh some internal politics happened within the Ahmadiyya community with Zaki Kulser, and we'll leave that at that. Sure. And so you called me and said that uh you'd be interested in coming on the show. Mm-hmm. Cool. And that brings us It's fascinating. I love that story because part of the reason we do this show is to get people away from the show, thinking about and talking about discussing these sorts of issues. And at some level this show is providing a forum for that and led to some dialogue about that and that's That's kind of cool. I'm a I'm encouraged. We have impacted at least Farron's life. Now, we are gonna talk next week uh on the show about hell. Does it exist, doesn't it exist, and if it does exist, is it fair? And if it doesn't exist, is that fair? Uh we'll talk about that. And uh I'm not sure where we're gonna go from there. I don't know if you guys cause I'm I'm catching you guys cold on this. Were there other issues that I need as the host of the show? Should we sensitive thinking about making sure we cover? Are there things you when you You contacted Jonathan because you want to be on this show. You want us to talk about what? Well those are the two main things. Exclusivity exclusivity and hell. And if if exclusivity isn't the the case then what does inclusivity mean? What does universalism mean? Is that something that's acceptable uh in in a in a person's spiritual journey? Of course not. Not acceptable. Not acceptable. You intolerant. That's right, we're intolerant. Jon well Jonathan's the intolerant one, but he's rubbing off on me after all this time. Hey, you got a nice time today that's got to count for Zoom. Thank you very much. Yes. Wow, to the we had to the end of the show to make it. At the end of the day. When all f when all is said and done. Yeah. That's the way it plays out. Thank you, my friend. Faran Koreshi Kureshi. I'm uh say it for me one more time. It's Farhan Qureshi. Farhan Qureshi. I don't know why I can't do that. Well I'm I'm I'm challenged, I'm limited in that. You are. He's a former Muslim of many different stripes and colors. And you can tell he's he's an intellectual, he's a thinker. He likes to study things through, thinks things out. I think it's gonna be a fascinating discussion next week. Hell Does it exist and how do you avoid it if it does? That'll be the topic next week, huh? 167 and a half hours from now. Thanks to our sponsors, Putman Fleming and Heating, how can we make you smile? And Deer Valley, Hartscape, Landscape, and Masonry. If you contact them, tell Shane I said, hey, good friend of mine. And visit us online at WFMB. com, keyword faith. We will find again that uh updated blog Monday through Friday and a uh link to Jonathan's blog and also a link to send us an email. If you are a uh a person who is either a spiritual leader of some sort or have some or Uh you can convince Jonathan or I that you have enough uh moxie and uh uh uh intelligence and understanding of spiritual matters to come on this show, contact us You know, everyone's welcome on this show, right? All comers. Welcome all the time. The reason why even if you do not lead a religious community, but you just have strong thoughts and opinions. And the reason that I qualify it at all is just because we don't want to have a bunch of schmoes come on this show and waste our time. So y if you have something to say and you can articulate it clearly, we would love to have you on. So if you could just come on for a half hour and talk about how stupid Jonathan Schweitzer is. Okay, that's too easy. But something like that, we'd love to do that. Anyway, thanks for listening. Thank you guys. Till next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pub and Plumbing, how can we make you smile?