Broadcast From the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. And people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. There you will find links to podcasts and occasional news items and uh uh links to all sorts of different uh religious traditions that are out there and the faith debate blog, which is really the faith faith debate vlog these days with uh videos being featured uh more prominently uh in today's day and age. And by the way, you don't have to only watch those videos on the Faith Today page, although I encourage you to do that, and they're always going to be stored there uh you know, and and be easy to find, but they're also posted on Facebook. Uh so y if you follow us on Facebook, I'm not a big Facebook user myself. Uh the only time I ever go on Facebook is work related here for the radio station, so I don't know exactly how that out works, but if you're on Facebook I guess you can connect with our Facebook page. Uh I'm maybe even if you're not on Facebook you can connect. I don't know. I have no clue how that works. I really gotta get myself educated about that. Um anyway Last week we heard the first half of a message called We're All In This Together, a sermon focusing on Romans chapter 12, verses 3 through 8. It was yours truly that had opportunity to share that message uh not too long ago at a local congregation. I get invited to preach uh a handful of times a year and uh most of the time I'm able to re either record or be provided a recording. uh of those messages. Not always is that the case. But when there is, I save 'em and then when we have a situation like this where we don't have a panel in place, in in this case because, you know, scheduling and the holidays and everything getting in the way May it made it difficult to do. I have something to f put on the air that's you know fresh and different rather than running a repeat show, which I guess wouldn't be the worst thing in the world. But uh I don't know. I feel like if I give you something fresh and different, I'd prefer to do that. So here is the last half. If you missed the first half, go online, listen to the podcast. Uh you know, I'll do that right in this second. But if you're interested to hear the first half, you can you can catch it on the podcast. And if you want to hear them both relatively back to back then what you'll have to do is wait a couple of days and then go to the audio vault on our website or go to the Faith Debate page on WFMB. com and uh and go to the audio vault portion there. And you can listen to the two last week's show and this week's show in rapid succession and hear the message kind of in its entirety that way. I guess that's a a way to do it. Anyway, so here's the last half of that message. We're all in this together. Um focusing on Romans chapter 12, verses 3 through 8, and even though you're joining it in progress, I think you'll be able to pick up pretty well what's going on Each part of the body has a role to play. The brain or the baby blue eyes might seem more important than the pancreas. But if the pancreas can just about shut down the brain or the eyes, then it seems they have an equally important symbiotic relationship going on. They all have their own specific role to play, and they are given the ability by God to perform just these very roles. Praise and thank God. We have the brain doing its thinking, and we have the eyes. Batting bashfully, doing their seeing. We have the pancreas contributing its part as no, but somehow knows that they're all in it together It's beautiful. My church is beautiful, like this too. When the various members of the body are each doing what God has given them the ability to do. So let's together praise and thank God for his design. Now in Romans chapter 12, verses 6 and through 8, Paul introduces what some of the gifts are. Having gifts that differ according to the grace given to us. Let us use them. If prophecy in proportion to our faith, if service in our serving, the one who teaches in his teaching, the one who exhorts in his exhortation, the one who contributes in generosity, the one who leads with zeal. The one who does acts of mercy with cheerfulness. Now, a couple of quick things maybe should be mentioned here out of respect for the fact that there are a number of people in this sanctuary that are a bunch of well studied students of the Bible and it might be a distraction if I don't at least touch on what might be familiar territory in a systematic theology. uh approach to these verses. Some people think that part of this list of gifts relates specifically to elders and leadership in the church, while the other gifts relate specifically to deacons and leadership in the church. And these professors are uh theology are usually pretty quick to point out that this is this list is not meant by Paul to be a complete and full list of all of the gifts for the church and its leaders. They reference different gift combinations that are provided for us in Ephesians chapter four and first Corinthians chapter twelve. And respectfully, truly, sincerely, honestly, respectfully, these are valid points. But it's not our main point today. Because while it's a valid point, it's not Paul's main point. It doesn't appear to be anyway. For eleven chapters. Paul talks about Christian doctrine. That is, and the thrust of this doctrine is that it's doctrine that is true for all Christians. And as I've been saying, he makes it a point to say that it's true for all Christians because, say with me, we're all in it together. And he makes it a point to say in the final five chapters what constitutes good Christian practice for all Christians. Why? Because, say it with me, we're all in it together. That's right. And so we must respect each other. There is no room for boasting and divisiveness. in Christ's church. This togetherness idea stands behind what Paul wrote in Romans chapter 3, verse 27, then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded. By what kind of law? By a law of works, no. But by the law of faith. And it's the idea that he repeats again in his closing chapter, Romans chapter 16, verse 17. I appeal to you, brothers. To watch out for those who cause divisions and create obstacles, contrary to the doctrine that you have been taught. Avoid them. So Paul isn't likely to be taking a three-verse pit stop in the midst of all of this to say something that is exclusively for church leaders as it relates to gift usage. And we're all leaders anyway. In a sense. We're leaders in training, sure. But we're also leaders just because we're Christians. We are used by the Holy Spirit to lead others to Christ, to make them disciples, to hold them accountable. We all do this. This servant leadership for each other and with respect because we're all in this together. Together, yet with different gifts individually. Has God given you a prophetic gift for proclaiming truth? Use it in faith. Has God given you a gift of service? Then serve your heart out. Gift of teaching? Then do that But notice something here. Some of us have special gifts given to us in these areas, but all Christians are called to all of these things at some level. All of us should exhort and give generously and lead with zeal and cheerfully demonstrate mercy. And notice something else. Paul doesn't tell us here to go identify our gifts. Well, it's okay to do that. But this isn't what he's driving at here. The emphasis isn't on identifying our gifts, the emphasis is on using our gifts. And what's more, it seems the emphasis is on letting others utilize their gifts. Yes, I should use mine. But I should respect him using his. Of course I should use mine, but we should use ours. God speaks to each of us individually in this text. But God is speaking to us here, Paul, through Paul, as he writes to a group. What sort of group is Paul writing to? A Christian group. With various religious backgrounds, various ethnicities, various gifts from God. A Christian group that's all in it together. And we are a part of that group. Remember earlier when I talked about some of the potential distinctives among us within the greater church, the global church, Presbyterians, Anglicans? Cessationists and charismatics, youthful youth leaders and old out-of-touch guys like me. We can all hopefully see that there can be and is unity without unanimity. Are we willing to respect this diversity in the church? Let me hit us where we might really live. We can all nod along and agree, but we're all in this thing together. Arminian Baptists and Reformed Baptists. Conservative Baptist and broadly evangelical Baptist. Southern Baptist and Independent Baptists. Dispensational Baptist guys and all millennial Baptist gals. But what about the Pentecostals? What about the Presbyterians? What about the Lutherans? Can we demonstrate unity without unanimity with them? Or in our creation debates, we've got the seven twenty-four-hour day literalists, we've got the day-age theorists, we've got the framework hypothesists. Can we look to them and with honest respect and love Say to them to hold to the same gospel preached by Paul, that we're all in this thing together. First century Rome was a large and varied city. So is the D. C. metro area. There's a bit of variety even in this room. Look around. We're different. Some of us even a little strange, you know what I mean? But we're all in the body of Christ. We are all in this together. For the promotion of God's saving design. We present our bodies as a living sacrifice. Paul told us in verse 1 of this chapter, chapter 12 If we don't do this, if we don't promote God's saving design, not only do we damage the body of Christ, but we do damage to the world around us. And doing damage with this infighting, this unforgiveness inside the church, the global church, the local church, it cripples our collective testimony. Bickering and jealous pride and self-righteous intellectualism and self-righteous moralism make us look like hypocrites. It causes a man like Mahatma Gandhi to have said, I like your Christ. I do not like your Christians. Your Christians are so unlike your Christ This is damaging to and for our witness to the lost world around us. And damaging the world around us is not promoting God's saving design. You and I, as Christians, are God's chosen people. We have been given faith. And gifts for the advancement of Christ's kingdom. That's why we received what we received. We have a special status. We do. But it is a status received by God's grace. For each of us. For all of us. Like Paul himself, we must not forget this so that we always remain humble. We know who we are. And that who we are is all because of God. Remain humble, and we won't try to do everything. We won't be prone to think that we are everything that is right and true about Christ's church We'll look for God's gifts that have been given to others, and we will respect those gifts, and we will praise God and thank God for them, and we will not be jealous or dismissive of them. We will help one another to develop these gifts and to use these gifts with diligence and bright spirits. Paul recognized that this is what God called him to, what God has called all of his people to. We must know that we are not all that, but that Jesus Christ is all that. And he has given his church all that is his, each in their own measure. In their own time, in their own unique way. We must respect what God has given each part of his body All of God's people benefit from the ultimate gift of salvation through the life, death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ. All of God's people benefit from individual gifts that have been given to us by, empowered by the Holy Spirit It's just like my unnamed extended family member. Her body is a mess because her pancreas didn't use its gift. But at the same time, think about it, the brain sent signals to the hand to pick up the sugar-laden food and place it into her mouth. over and over again for 70 years eventually making it impossible for the pancreas to utilize its gifts anymore Her body was kind of at war with itself. And now, instead of helping advance righteous causes Throughout the world, this woman's crippled, dysfunctional body has become a burden and a drain on the world around her. The impact has been massive. The financial cost is already at about a half a million dollars. Stress has rippled through the entire family and network of friends. Relationships have been and still are greatly strained. Let's not let this be us. Let's not forget that we are each and all in this together With different roles, different gifts. We must do our part And we must equip, allow, and encourage others to do theirs. Respectfully, thankfully, humbly. As leaders and future leaders in the church, we are to work with others in identifying and developing and committing to use their gifts that God has given. All to the glory of our Creator. As I read and study what Paul's inspired pen wrote, Increasingly I have begun to understand that this is what God has called me to. How about you? Are we in this together? Let's pray. Father, it is difficult to know how to approach you with humility. And respect is sometimes difficult to remain standing when we realize how great a God you are. As we begin to just begin to grasp who it is that you are, if we truly are, beginning to grasp it, we come undone. We desire to love you and to love the lost world around you and to love each other as you love your church. We need your help, powered by your spirit to do so. We know that you hear this prayer because you have promised to hear our prayer when they are lifted up in accordance with your will by the name of your Son Jesus Christ. And so with Christ as our intercessor, we ask that you help us to do the things you call us to. Help us to acknowledge areas where we need to ask forgiveness and to accept the forgiveness that you grant us. Help us to forgive one another. We are not your body perfectly as you call us to be. We are dysfunctional. We choose to sit things out. We go on strike. We are jealous of gifts that you've given others, or dismissive of them, or self-righteously important about the gifts you have given us. Change us. Help us to not live lives like this anymore. To be the body, to be family, brothers and sisters united in Christ. We implore you, Lord, please, please, please, please. Amen. And that puts a wrap on we're all in this together, Romans chapter twelve, verse three through eight. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. You can visit us online at WFMD. com keywordfaith. And uh you can hear this uh this and the previous message, which will put the two halves of the sermon together for you via podcast on our on our website and the audio belt section, it might be the easiest way to do that. And again, I encourage you to visit our our our uh video uh updates. They're on the WFMD uh uh face debate page, also on Facebook, WFMD's Facebook page as well. And I'm paying attention I'm a little dist can can you tell I'm distracted? I think I I'm I'm pretty sure I'm not masking the fact that I'm distracted. I'm trying to keep my eye on the clock and uh and have my my fingers on the right buttons at the same time that I'm trying to think cogent thoughts to share with you because I have to orchestrate all of this. Because as you can tell we don't have a panel today. We don't have Jonathan Schweitzer here or an or a guest. uh with us during this uh advent season time of the year and so I have to be like a kinda like an octopus and and then hit a whole bunch of different things at once So in just a second I won't be so distracted. And okay. No longer have a need to be distracted. So what have I been reading lately Uh well, I've got to tell a story about this one. It's a book called The Liar's Gospel by Naomi Alderman, and apparently it's very popular. My wife knows that I like Ted Decker, and so she went to the bookstore to buy me a gift and Um w we're looking to see if they had any new Ted Decker books and the person at the counter at the bookstore talked her out of a Ted Decker book. Oh you don't want to give a Ted Decker book. No, Ted Decker, he's He he might have been good once, I don't know, but he's he's not good anymore. You've got to get this other person, uh, this book. This is a really good book. You should you should buy 'em. He's gonna love this book. So she got me this book called The Liar's Gospel by Na Naomi uh Na Naomi Alderman And the liar's gospel is exactly that. It's the it's the gospel in liar form. And it's not meant to be a parody or to draw it's not written from a Christian perspective. It's in fact dismissive of Christianity. It's a false gospel if you want to call it that. It is not the gospel. It it says things that are completely untrue. It's it's it's a story. It's a novel. But it's one of those Novels it's like, you know, historic setting kind of thing. It's supposed to be based in reality. At least that's the impression that you're given. Um Naomi Alderman actually makes reference to some some sources that she used for her material, so it's supposed to have this air of credibility. There are things said about Jesus' mother Mary that are completely false. I mean completely false. Things said about Jesus that are completely, completely false. Things said about Judas that are completely false. And Caiaphas and Pontius Pilate. Main characters where radical errors are put forth as the truth as the truth. So you can read the book, it's fine. I didn't think it was that riveting to be honest. I don't think it was a particularly uh good book, but it was it was interesting, I suppose. So if you Put your guard up and realize that this is not what the Bible teaches, it is not what Christians believe, nor is it what biblical Christian believers should believe then you can read Goliath's gospel. Otherwise just stay away from it, read something else. There's so many good things out there. There's no need for you to have to read uh that particular book. So anyway, it's rare that I give a thumbs down. Usually my my rec I'm either ambivalent or thumbs up Uh but this is one of those cases, probably the third or fourth time that I can remember giving a thumbs down uh to a book that I've been reading. So anyway. Uh next week uh we'll we'll have the uh first half of a method called The Impeachment of God, based on Exodus 17, 1 through 7. I don't think there's any audio issues with that one. Oh, actually maybe there is. I don't know. We'll find out. There's always audio issues. Why do we always have audio issues? I'm tired of audio issues. Anyway. Again, thank you for listening. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Once again, we're online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith takes you to the Faith Debate page There you can see all the various videos that we shoot, and if you want to see them one at a time, uh as soon as they populate, I think maybe the easiest way to do that is to do that on the Faith Debate page, I mean on the uh Facebook page for the radio station I'm not sure that the the videos probably pop up in both places about the same time. So um I don't know. Anyway. Um Jonathan Swipes will be back uh on the show with me uh in the within the next couple of weeks anyway, I'm sure, once we get into the new year Thank you so much for your listenership and for your support of this program for now over a decade. It means the world to both of us. Till next week. God bless.