To cover thy head or uncover thy head, that is the question. Welcome to the Faith Debate. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning to us. Uh with us, rather. To us? What does it even mean? That's not even English. See, I went to public school. All the more motivation you might possibly need. Send your kids to public school never. Homeschool immediately. What are you thinking? Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner. I'm pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. The fact that I'm a pastor there, don't hold it against the church, please And uh Daniel Rasby with uh Conquered by Love Ministries, ConqueredLubby Love dot org, and also the church that meets at Imran's house. He's on the panel this week. David Forcy, the Wackamo Church, the the house church that meets at a different members home each and every weekend. It's a rotisserie league. Uh it's like the it's like the uh traveling uh team. Like we when you you ever play basketball or or soccer or something? It's like a random rotation. And you were like Yeah, and you're just so anyway, so David he gives you guessing he doesn't want you to he's nimble. He wants to keep the on the keep moving, right? Flexible. Chuck and jive. Right? Never know what he's what he's up to. Anyway, and we're joined this week by the author of the head covering, uh Josiah Bongiani. Mike Close? You got it? Okay. Bone Gi Bone Giani. Bone. Bone Giovanni. Bone Giovanni. You got it. You know, by the time we record like a half dozen. Alright, so I promised at the end of last week's uh episode, if you were listening last week, then uh you heard me give this promise I'm not gonna uh be derelict on my duty You spell it because it's his website. So you gotta know how to spell it to get to his website. So you want to go to www. js I A H B O N G I O A Now is this like the the real the real last name of uh John Bon Jovi? Is his name like John Bon? Bonjoyani or whatever. Is that his real last name? I have no idea. But I will point out I did put HTTPS there instead of WWW because W in Greek and Hebrew translates to six. Six, six. So I have a personal aversion to using something What do you think? But I got to cover it because W W might translate to 666, but W W W does not. So you're good. You're covered either way. Thank you. Yeah, the back of his book it does say H T T P S colon Slash slash. Does it consider it forward slash or a backslash? I don't know. Backslash. Backslash. Again, I'm going to spell it one last time. This is the only time I'm doing this. JOS I A H B O N G I O A N I Spelling it over and over is not gonna help you pronounce it correctly. Phone Joanne. I'm gonna be saying that in my sleep. Uh he he wrote a book called The Library Lesson, which you can check out as well, and the book we're talking about specifically though here on the show today is the head covering. Uh and if you missed last week's show, I'm going to reset the table real quickly. Uh I mentioned Daniel Razby's on the panel. Daniel Razby is of the opinion that uh yeah, it probably kinda is. Required But only in church. But only in church, which raises a question I want to ask you in just a second. And then there's Josiah, his opinion is, yes, any time a woman is uh praying or prophesying, she should have her head covered with a cloth of some sort and men should have their head uncovered. So if you're wearing a baseball cap like David Forcy is right now, I should take that cap off. I'll take it off when I start prophesying. And then uh and David said that yes he's all about that women have their head covered but not witness over the cloth that he thinks that there's some c cultural contextualization that That covering means something different in today's w m well, it might have been the same thing back then. The application of it is different today than back then. That's the gist of I think what you were. Yeah, the the the outward application may be different in appearance. And and my opinion is I don't have a strong opinion on this and so I haven't taken up sides just yet. I'm going to form one though and look out when I do And so for now for me I've just made it a uh an issue of personal conscience for the men and women uh to figure out on their own and I'll give them whatever insight I can, but I don't know that I'm all that well equipped on this particular question. So I have a question for you now in follow-up to last week's show and what I just said a second ago. I've been to the Church of Eats and Imran's house a number of times. uh probably three, four, five times now over the years. Right. And I know that there is a uh adult woman there who does wear a head covering. Mm-hmm. Um but I haven't noticed that most of the others are. So have you left it as a as a content? When they're married when they're married generally is is what I would I would be uh say is when they're married that's when the requirement we don't require it in order to attend our church. But if somebody asks me my opinion on the topic, I'll tell 'em and I'll preach about it. Why why not unmarried women? I d I don't I don't have a strong opinion on the married unmarried. I'm pretty I'm I'm pretty confident about the married for sure. I'm not entirely convinced that it's unmarried. So that's that's what I would what I would say. Um and uh the reason I get the in church part is because the passage I read the passage in context as dealing with a lot of larger other church issues. He goes right after this, right into the Lord's Supper and and stuff. And he begins this verse two with the ordinances. And which I would say implies the uh um it's this is a church service, the corporate worship s setting, that's when it should be. And I and I would I would I would say, you know, a lot of a lot of people think this is so backwards and why would you require women to do this? Well, most uh maybe not most, but there are still many of congregations, many of pastors who would um bristle at the thought of men wearing hats while they're leading others in prayer. But they don't want to make the women wear head coverings. So it seems like a Steve Steem's very hypocritical in that way. Now the Josiah mentioned when I when I told this uh a couple of weeks ago he said, Yeah, but it's less and less. That's true, it is less and less, but it it's funny that the women head coverings went away f faster than the the ball cap off to pray rule. You know, that's still there. I mean if you sing the national anthem, you take your hat off, you know, there's a lot of respect associated with taking your hat off. Correct. And that's still in our culture, even though the women's head covering is mostly gone from our culture. So that I think is very interesting to discuss. Now David asked the the the question of Josiah in response to what Daniel just said. So Josiah, do you make that same distinction between married and unmarried? So I do not. Um I do see the reason why um Daniel would would have that opinion. In in Greek the word for woman can actually be translated Wife or it can be translated just woman in general, like we use the word where it can refer to virgin or married or div or divorced or whatever. Um So it can have both meanings and about half the time it's it's it's right to translate it one way and about the other half of the time in the Bible it's translated the other way. So so do you know in this passage is is the word that's I mean in in the English Standard Version which which I have It it's translated woman in some parts of that passage and wife in other parts. Yeah. And David Forcey is referencing First Corinthians chapter eleven, by the way. Yes. Two through sixteen. So a as far as I understand, it's just the word gune throughout throughout most of the passage in one form or another. Um the reason I would take the view that it it applies to um all women in general is because actually for three different reasons. One Is that it says, every woman here? So in for example in verse five it says, But every woman who prays or prophesies with her head uncovered dishonors her head. It doesn't say just It c Paul could have said married woman to try to make that clear, but instead he purposely uses the word every woman and what is the purpose of doing so? But to perhaps say woman of every rank, condition, um, you know, of every age. Um So that's one of the big arguments. Also if you look to the passage, there's a bunch of analogies used. For instance, um if a woman is doesn't is not willing to wear a head covering and says she should have you shaved. So she should have her hair removed to show her the shame that she should be experiencing if she doesn't wear a head covering when she's praying and prophesying. And that is something that equally applies, just like all the other analogies in this passage, equally apply to virgins as well as married women. So that's just a hint or another clue that the word it sh could be a should be applied to to women of all ages. And No, when you say you're saying women of all ages, so you're not saying females of all ages, so it would be post puberty or little girls as well? No, the the word would not refer to little girls. It would just refer to post puberty. Um I'm When their cycle begins, is that what you would argue? Something like that, or you know, around twelve or thirteen probably. Okay. So is that culturally dependent? Um biologically dependent maybe. What is a woman? That could lead a soundtrail. But I do want to throw in the third third argument for why it would apply to women of all ages, and that is um and this is something the early Christian church points out. If you read I don't know if you guys read like the Antonicene Fathers. Um at all, but through Tolen. As often as I possibly can. So these are like the very earliest church fathers that come right after um like Paul and the biblical writers. So their successors in other words. And when they talk about head covering, um Tertolin wrote an entire little a booklet on it and he lived around the year two hundred AD. And in his book he points out that um the church in Corinth that had received verbal instruction from Paul practiced um like all their all females, you know, above puberty, um practiced head coverings, so virgins or married women. So that's the last argument Okay. What was um or what is, I guess, David Forcy, your um reason for having a more nuanced, culturally contextualized view Why is uh the Bible in general, and even more specifically, I guess, First Corinthians chapter eleven, uh to be understood differently in today's American context than in back then's ancient Near Eastern context. So part of it is because uh the the type of head covering is not uh Right, all of those things. And I would say I don't know for I don't want to get uh let you finish your your your your thought, but When I say head covering I don't really care how it's covered. I just a hat a hat is fine, uh uh some other shawl, some more Mennai style head covering. Actually I I don't p find those as as interesting. I I I prefer my wife to wear a hat, uh or a or a uh um Pakistani type uh uh you know shawl. Um but either either way, you know, the the the type of head covering is not, but I think the point is that you're clearly covering your head and it's not just hair. That's the point I would make is hair doesn't count. So I don't know. Go ahead and finish your your thought there. No, I I mean I think I think that's the gist of it. Um you know, uh uh again, you know, displaying uh difference and and place um right or roll, if you will, uh seems to be the the the thrust of the passage as far as what's being communicated. uh by having some sort of head covering. Um you know, I mean j just idea of thoughts on type of head covering. Uh because I uh you know, in between shows at one point we were uh we'd said something about You know, maybe just say you you know, like a like a little piece of cloth, like that. Yeah, like a token head covering, that doesn't count, so Well does I would say the heart is what matters most and if the heart of the person is I don't want to wear a head cover, I just happen to be stuck in a church where I do And so she deliberately wears a really small head covering just to to prove that she's doing as little as possible. I see that as a problem because of the heart state, but not because of the piece of cloth necessarily. Okay. All right. So But otherwise I don't think there's any problem with wearing any type of head covering. God doesn't say you have to wear a wireframe head covering with cheesecloth stretched across it. You can you can pretty much do as you want. Okay. In regard to women, of course. Now um last week's episode you mentioned just uh specifically cloth and now we're getting into more specifics what we mean by the size of cloth, style cloth, whatever. Uh and one of the common things that gets brought up in these kinds of discussions on this topic has to do with hair. And Daniel made it a point to say, and hair doesn't count, but why not? Why doesn't hair count? So some would argue and I think in their if they were in the room, I can't make their arguments very well for them, but they that that sounds I don't know if it's a hundred percent persuasive, but it sounds reasonable. So why would it be like unreasonable to say that okay they're they're they could be right? Well I think and I think that Josiah and I actually agree on this point is Uh i it y you do hear a lot if you if you go into a mainstream church and you say that women should be wearing their uh head coverings, the pastors uh are uh will often retort that Well, I mean, yeah, they should have long hair. I mean that's a covering. The Bible says hair is given her as a covering. So that's good enough. And the whole point of that passage where the hair is given as a covering It's to highlight that if she loses her hair she's gonna be so ashamed and therefore you should also feel ashamed if you're praying without your head being covered. So If you're using it to make a point about a head covering, then it is not the head covering. The hair the long hair cannot be the head covering. So just logically the w the way this passage is laid out Because he's using long hair or short hair from women and men, he's saying, Look, obviously you know that it's a shame to have long hair if you're a man, it's a shame to have short hair if you're a woman. So in the same way, it should also be a shame to not cover your head when you're praying or to cover your head when you're praying, depending on men or women. And and so I I I would say you can't read that passage honestly and come to the opinion that Paul was advocating that long hair could itself be the head covering that is acceptable. Um you know, otherwise I i yeah, it j it just doesn't logically fit at all. So I I I just don't think it's in intellectually consistent. So that's why I would say hair doesn't count as the covering. But sure, yes, women should have long hair. That's Is that something that Paul thought thought was so obvious he didn't even need to tell you. He just used the well obviously you believe this. It's kinda like when Jesus said, Hey you see this sky is red, so you know it's gonna you know, um uh it's gonna be a good day tomorrow or whatever because y you read the si signs in the in the in the weather. That wasn't Jesus giving a meteorological uh uh you know teaching he was to say, well obviously you know this, therefore this other thing that I'm trying to tell you. So that's that's what I say. Is the uh woman who's not wearing a head covering sinning? Uh I would say yes, if she is aware of the passage and has and you know realizes that she's supposed to practice it but deliberately chooses not to. If she is not aware of the passage or has been, you know, taught in her church that it's not applicable, I do not think it could be count it could be technically sin because it's a transgression law, but I don't think it would be imputed to her a sin. Like she wouldn't be necessarily guilty of the other. uh an offense that would be i in your church they require head coverings, right? Uh yes. Yes. If the women if if a woman started showing up for worship and said, You know what, I've been reading uh first Corinthians chapter eleven and the rest of the Bible and I I've become completely persuaded in my conscience that Uh that argument doesn't amount to a hilla beans. Uh my conscience informs I love this church, I don't want to have to leave this church, but my conscience tells me that I shouldn't be required to wear anything on my head. and she persists in that opinion, would that be an excommunicable offense? So it's difficult for me to say exactly what my church leaders would do. Um, I would say it should be an excommunicable offense if, you know, the person came into the church with that knowledge and um purposely goes against um the doctrines of of the Bible that's recognized by the church. Um however I I think my church would remove her from membership. Um I don't know if that counts necessarily as complete excommunication or not, like Well, removal from membership I mean I I assume in the Mennonite Tradition would mean removal from the ability to take communion. Uh yes. Okay. But I'm not saying that necessarily she would be shunned, which is also possibly part of excommunication, depending on what perspective. An attending unbeliever. Yes. Right. Okay. Yeah. But you could definitely not retain membership in the church and refuse to to wear a head covering. Yes. At least in the church service. I I feel I feel I feel like home in public w you know they're not going to be able to do it. She wouldn't be excommunicated for that. you know, going over okay, why why is it, you know, that um that some people see wearing a an actual physical head covering as like what what okay, what does that symbolize? What why is that so important? Well I would just point out that um if you go back a few hundred years, um things were quite different back in that time and Um we didn't have like female pastors and stuff back then. It wasn't, you know, women in high positions of leadership. There was no possibility of a woman being like President of the United States. And personally I would go back to that time and head covering is actually the symbol of what people recognized at that point. It's like um there's an order of authority. It's God the Father, this is actually in the head covering passage in First Corinthians eleven, um, the the first sixteen verses. Um, but it mentions that God the Father is in a position of authority over Christ. That doesn't make Christ inferior, but he is in a position of authority over him. Christ is in a position of authority over man and man over woman. And so that's that's what this the head covering is supposed to symbolize. That woman is in submission to man. And so it's actually a very counter-cultural um like statement. I don't know if you have any thoughts on that. No, I mean it it definitely was very common until quite recently and it was a lot of the women's lib movement that really pushed this and it and it it that's that's w the one thing that says to me you know, I I think we really should be very serious about the head covering issue because it wasn't that the church leaders and and various pastors of different denominations came up with the doctrine is no longer necessary. It was more of this this was uh women always were wearing head coverings, at least to church services. And and they always wore hats to church. until this whole women's suffrage thing and now we get the right to vote, now we're equal to men, now we're uh same or better than men. And oh also we're not gonna wear head coverings 'cause men don't wear tacit church. Why should we? So it's it came out of that And the church kind of say, Oh well I guess um are we really gonna excommunicate you for that? No, I mean you're just doing your silly little fad thing and then it c caught on and now that nobody wears them anymore. So I feel like it wasn't that the that there were some doctrinal or or theological debates in the church over the issue and most of them came to the conclusion it wasn't necessary. It was that the women's live movements forced their hand when they were marching for suffrage and then they also didn't wear half to church but they kept going to church and that the pastors just decided they were more in pr kinda like you said, Troy, more pressing topics that need to be discussed in church services and they didn't bother to continue that teaching. So that's where I feel like it it it uh the the modern uh cult culture of head coverings came out of that. So I would be very cautious to say that because our culture dictates this, then that should really inform. I'd be cautious in that regard anyway, but there are cultural differences. I I just don't feel like this is one of those That's on the good side. So so first wave so first wave feminism was burning out the head coverings and second wave feminism was burning of other things. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yep. I should I just would like to throw in in nineteen sixty eight the National Organization for Women, also known as Now um actually hosted like a public burning of head coverings because they were so against the topic they're like they recognized it as a symbol of what they called female subjection to males. And so they were like, let's burn these things to show our protest against the stock. I didn't even know that happened. But it was not common necessarily for women of all denominations to just always wear hats all the time. different cultures have had various opinions on that and there have been theological debates in the church history about whether you need to wear all the time or only when in the church or only when praying or whatever. But everybody agreed that when you go to church you wear a hat If you're supposed to be praying without ceasing, then maybe you should wear it all the time. But everybody agreed until very recently that of course when you go to church you wear a hat. That's what you do. And if you're a man, of course you don't wear a hat. And there are many women that would also wear hats in public j like in public occasions, maybe not when exercising or when doing tours around the house and things like that, depending on their cultural tradition. That may be something that the Anabaptist movement has always had held to. I'm not sure i uh just you could speak to that. But that will be more of a cultural and theological debate I think. But whether you should wear them at all in church, that seems to never have been up for debate at all for two thousand years until The women's live movement. I'll just point out there is a striking similarity to um the whole uh Mormon movement 'cause Joseph Smith's um you know a book came out, uh the Book of Mormon, and you know, there's a new cult that comes in and kind of the same thing up till about the same time in history. Most, you know, almost all women wore head coverings and and men removed them when praying or prophesying, or in church at least. And um things changed about that point. I mean, a lot of things changed, not just that. Yeah, and I don't know if we have time to get into all of this, but uh the another thing you'll hear people talk about is what's being talked about here as the the covering of the head is spiritual. You should have your head spiritually covered, meaning you should be under the the uh leadership, the authority of your husband, the the the male elders of the church, the pastor, that sort of thing. That that that's what's being talked about. You guys I I guess the I guess probably the argument would be made that the the physical symbol is a symbol of that spiritual Right. Well it's just like baptism doesn't save you. It's a it's a profession, it's a it's a public showing that you have been saved. But the baptism itself doesn't save you. Yeah. Chris is not dying again and and spilling his literal blood for us every time we take command. And that m part of my my question is why why shouldn't that be why shouldn't that that symbol of of structure be all the time? Right. So you would you would recommend uh to be all the time? I I would recommend whatever symbol is representing the spiritual truth should be all the time. Correct. Well I'll just point out I do mention this in my book, but in the military there's you know different ranks and stuff and they have different insignia that military members wear, but they don't have to wear it all the time necessarily. It's like sometimes if they're on vacation they don't. So in a similar manner in in in First Corinthians eleven, it says the head coverings be worn when praying or prophesying. So that's that's the times that God requires it. I I don't mind if people go beyond that and wear it more if they if they so desire if they want to make a statement all the time. That's fine. But it's not required according to scripture. And we're going to put a wrap on this episode with those comments from Josiah Bone Joanne. He is the author of The Head Covering. You can find that on Amazon or you can go to his website, uh Josiah Bonejewani. com David Forcy, Daniel Razvey, area pastors. Thank you for being on the panel again. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at household of faith in Christ dot com. Encourage you to pay attention to what we're doing here on the Faith Debate, see what's coming up in future shows, or access past shows in the podcast through the website of WFMD. com. There's a Faith Debate page there. Or you can link to all things related to this show. And you can even link to Conquered by Love uh Ministries, the the RASV. Uh you can even see uh the this beautiful man behind me at to my right, uh David Force at his picture. You can see all that sort of stuff. Uh at the one stop shop, Household of Faithinchrist. com is the place to find all of that. So anyway, we'll uh continue this conversation next week on the Faith Debate 167 and a half hours from now. Until then, God bless.