Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, we're preaching with impact like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help We Make You Smile. Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keywordface. There you find links to all sorts of interesting things, including podcasts of this very show. News items and the Fate Bait blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com I post what you send me 18 times a day, Monday through Friday, is 90 blog posts a week. Check it out. There's political comments that get sent my way. Funny jokes, cartoon things, uh recipes, some religious fodder, uh public service related things. I mean all sorts of things. are found there reading recommendations. I am sure that you will find something of interest to you. At least one item uh every day that we post something there. And if you stumble upon something you think is interesting, forward it to me and I'll I'll post it. Alright you can visit us on Facebook as well. getting in the habit of at least on occasion pointing to one of the items on the Faith Debate blog that might be uh you know interesting enough uh not not interesting enough, they're all interesting enough, but of particular interest in a Facebook venue to the post there as well so you can visit us there if you want. Um Jonathan Sweitzer not on the show today. No panelists on the show today. Another special edition. I know we had a lot of special editions. Trust me in a in a couple of months I'll be able to share with you, I think, what uh some of the conflicts have been uh in in getting regular panel discussions uh scheduled. But in the meantime, I need you to just trust me. It's all for good. It's a good thing. It's all good. Trust me Uh so what we've got here, it's gonna be all about me, which are my favorite shows. That's actually not true. I I love the the the the dialogue back and forth shows of our standard uh debate round table discussions that we have here, but on rare occasion it has to be all about me and I'm okay with that. You know, I'm I'm sinful. I like the the attention. So what we're about to hear is a Message I was asked to share with a local congregation just a few months back titled An Appeal based on 1 Peter 5 verses 1 through 4. Uh we're going to listen to the first half or so of that message because it's a little bit longer than this show will allow, and we'll listen to the rest of it uh in next week's um broadcast. So if you're a podcaster, that'll work out pretty well. You listen to the first half and immediately just grab the next podcast and and you're off and on your way. If they give us an hour for this show one day, we'll have plenty of time uh to to to have to do the to be able to do these sorts of things without having to be interrupted. So without further ado, here it is me talking about 1 Peter chapter 5 verses 1 through 4, a message titled An Appeal. Hope you enjoy it. Well I want to thank Jace and Kyle and Carl and Pete for inviting me to speak to you this morning and I wanna thank all of you for making me and my family feel so darn welcome. That was really awesome. And it's really neat to see some new faces. Excited to get to know you better over time, hopefully. And it's surely a delight to see so many familiar faces. And considering those who are gathered here together, we have an exciting passage for me to unpack for you here today. This is a room full of a large number of real deal Christians, leaders, and mature believers in the church. Now even if it doesn't sound like I'm describing you just yet, I have hope that it will soon. So this is a perfect passage for you. First Peter chapter five verses one through four. By the way, you might want to turn there now because once we get there, we're going to jump in pretty quickly. And while you're leaping through your Bible, once you find 1 Peter chapter 5 That is our primary text, but we'll also be spending uh some extensive time in John 21. So if you want to stick a thumb there or grab a piece of scrap paper and stick it in John 21. Also John chapter 10 and Philippians chapter 2. There are some other areas, but those three particularly you might want to be able to read along with as we go in later. That was John ten, which by the way, I'm gonna let you know right now. We're gonna read a rather lengthy section of scripture when we get there. Uh it's a little unusual, but I think it's Very much worth it, and hopefully you will agree when we get there. John 21, Philippians 2, and of course our primary passage, 1 Peter chapter 5, verses 1 through 4. Now in life we sometimes have to play games, we have to role-play, imagining a setting where we have uh a view in our mind of an audience that's not present with us. But that isn't the case for me right now because you are my intended audience, because you are this text's intended audience in a pretty significant way. 1 Peter 5, verse 1 through 4 is an appeal from the Apostle Peter to people like you. A direct appeal from the Word of God to you and to me. At the close of the previous section of this letter that we now call 1 Peter, right before the start of chapter 5, Peter is talking about Christian suffering. Now he sounds this note of suffering throughout the letter, but he really comes back and hits it hard at the end of chapter four, chapter four verses twelve through nineteen, where he writes things like, Dear friends, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal that has come on you to test you. As though something strange were happening to you. As you participate in the sufferings of Christ and are insulted because of the name of Christ If you suffer as a Christian, do not be ashamed, for it is time for judgment to begin with God's household. It is hard for the righteous to be saved. So then, those who suffer according to God's will continue to do good. It is hard being obedient. It's hard being saved And therefore, because it's so hard, so very hard for our Fellow brothers and sisters in Christ, Peter has an appeal to the elders in the church, the leaders of the church, to those mature in the faith. Peter says at the start of chapter 5, to the elders among you I appeal as a fellow elder and a witness of Christ's sufferings who also will share in the glory to be revealed. Be shepherds of God's flock that is under your care, watching over them, not because you must, but because you are willing, as God wants you to be Not pursuing dishonest gain, but eager to serve. Not lording it over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that will never fade away. Please pray with me. Father God, magnificent Creator in heaven, we come to you boldly right now because you say that we can in the name of Christ. We thank you for hearing this prayer, a prayer for illumination of our hearts and minds. We ask that you would remove from us distractions, from our busy Sin-riddle, challenging, suffering-filled lives. Help us to hear your word to the elders, to all of us in this passage of Scripture. Thank you for revealing this word to us. Thank you for this opportunity to come together to hear it in worship of you. Together, bound together by your Holy Spirit. It's in the name of Jesus Christ, your son, that we pray. Amen. So as we work through the first four verses of 1 Peter chapter 5, we are going to focus on three primary points of emphasis, and then we're going to wrap up with a consideration of What it's all about. We're going to ask and answer three questions. Who, what, and why? Who are the elders? What do elders do? Why do elders do this? And then we'll consider a big question that has a big answer. Is it worth it? So first, who are the elders? Peter writes in verse 1, To the elders among you, I appeal as a fellow elder. and is a witness of Christ's sufferings, who also will share in the glory to be revealed. So we see here that Peter is an elder. And it's fair and proper to say that Peter is particularly talking about the office of elder at this point. But I think it's appropriate for us to see in this portion of God's Word something for all believers. Those who are presently mature in their faith, and those who will one day be. If you are an officially ordained elder, you are certainly in Peter's mind, so be sure to listen up. If you're not currently an ordained elder, you still have to stay awake. Avoid the temptation to drift off into dreamland while I'm up here because I'm telling you God has something to say to you. And you, and you, and you, and you, and you, and you All of you. Peter identifies himself as a fellow elder. As such, he's a witness of Christ's sufferings. So are we, as believers. It's true that Peter saw things we haven't seen. He saw Jesus transfigured. He saw Jesus walk upon the water. He even tried to go out there to meet him. Saw Jesus taken into custody on the night that Judas betrayed him. He saw all of this and much more, including the empty tomb following Christ's resurrection. We didn't see any of these things. However, Peter isn't saying that he's a witness of Christ's sufferings in this regard, or at least not primarily in this regard. It's possible that he's alluding to his unique experiences, but What he's mostly targeting is his fellow eldership with elders. He's so focused on his fellow eldership that he invents a word. The Greek word that Peter uses for fellow elder, that we translate as fellow elder, is found nowhere else in the New Testament. In fact, scholars say that this word is found nowhere else in all of antiquity until after Peter uses it here. It seems that Peter might have coined the phrase because his fellow eldership is that important to him. As a fellow elder, he appeals to the other elders, and to you at least in a sense. You are also witnesses of Christ's sufferings. Ordained elder or not. The Greek word for witness is martyr. We of course use the word martyr today to describe those followers of Christ who have Given up their lives for that testimony of Christ and his sufferings. The testimony, the witness of Christ's sufferings. And they therefore shared in that suffering because of the testimony. You know, in America American courtrooms, we have witnesses enter the courtroom and they're called to testify to give witness. Sometimes a great risk to themselves. Christ's followers are called to testify, to give witness, sometimes at great risk to themselves. We know to be witnesses not just from what Peter writes here, but from what the whole Bible teaches. For example, in Acts 22, we read of the Apostle Paul and his conversion and how he was then charged with being a witness to all the people, charged with giving testimony about Christ. Paul was instructed to be a witness. Peter is here claiming to be a witness, and he is identifying you and me as witnesses. All believers are called to give witness to Christ and Christ's sufferings. In this we are called to be like our Lord. We're not always faithful to heeding that call. But praise God. Our Savior is. As we find written in Revelation chapter 1, it is Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, the firstborn from the dead and the ruler of the kings of the earth. How glorious a thought is that So who are the elders when considered in this way? First and foremost, they are witnesses of what Christ has done through his passion, through his suffering. And as witnesses, they will share in the glory to be revealed. Peter saw a glint of this glory on the Mount of Transfiguration. But that's nothing compared to the glory that is still to be revealed. And elders will share in this, because all Christians will share in this. And elders are first and foremost Christians. Any specialness about elders is because of and in Christ. Just as any specialness about any and all Christians is because of and in Christ But elders are somewhat distinct from younger Christians, those less mature in their faith. Non-ordained elders even. And that distinction is one of role, which brings us to our second point. What do elders do? Well in verse 2, Peter begins, Be shepherds of God's flock that is under your care, watching over them. So elders behave as shepherds. And shepherds care for the flock. Shepherds watch over the flock allotted to them, protecting the flock. And it's important to know that the flock it's not yours, it's God's The elders are to be shepherds of God's flock. It's a pretty awesome responsibility. Now shepherding involves at least two things. Caring for the flock and watching over the flock. So we're going to take a look at each of these in turn. First, caring for the flock. When determining how to care for God's flock, we need to determine what the Lord has said about caring for his flock. So we're going to flip over to John chapter 21 Because there we find a famous story that directly involves the Lord, Peter, and the flock. John chapter 21. We're going to begin with verse 15. There we read, When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, son of John. Do you love me more than these? Yes, Lord, he said, you know that I love you. And Jesus said, feed my lambs Again, Jesus said, Simon, son of John, do you love me? He answered, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And Jesus said, Take care of my sheep. The third time he said to him, Simon, son of John, do you love me? And Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, Do you love me? He said, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. Jesus said, Feed my sheep. Very truly I tell you, when you were younger, you dressed yourself and went where you wanted. But when you are old, you will stretch out your hands and someone else will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go. Jesus said this to indicate the kind of death by which Peter would glorify God. Then he said to him, Follow me. Follow me, he says. Follow me Jesus doesn't push and shove Peter. Jesus doesn't lead from behind. Jesus doesn't drive Peter forward at the end of a cracking whip. Jesus Steps out front and says, Follow me and Peter followed him. Straight to death like Jesus. A death that would glorify God like Jesus Peter followed because he knew Christ's voice. Let's flip back 11 chapters from where we just were in John chapter 21. Let's go back to John chapter 10. And here we read one of the other famous stories of Jesus talking about his sheep. The chapter begins with Jesus speaking. Very truly I tell you, Pharisees, anyone who does not enter the sheep pen by the gate but climbs in by some other way is a thief and a robber. The one who enters by the gate is the shepherd of the sheep. The gatekeeper opens the gate for him and the sheep listen to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes on ahead of them, and his sheep follow him because they know his voice. But they will never follow a stranger in fact that will run away from him, because they do not recognize a stranger's voice Jesus used this figure of speech, but the Pharisees did not understand what he was telling them. Therefore Jesus said again, Very truly I tell you, I am the gate for the sheep. All who have come before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep have not listened to them. I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved. They will come in and go out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life and have it to the full. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. The hired hand is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep. So when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and runs away. Then the wolf attacks and the flock. It scatters it. The man runs away because he's a hired hand and cares nothing for the sheep. I am the Good Shepherd. I know my sheep, and my sheep know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father. And I lay down my life for the sheep. I have other sheep that are not of this sheep pen. I must bring them also. They too will listen to my voice, and there shall be one flock and one shepherd. The reason my father loves me is that I lay down my life only to take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and authority to take it up again. This command I received from my father. The Jews who heard these words were again divided. Many of them said, He is demon possessed and raving mad. Why listen to him? But others said, These are not the sayings of a man possessed by a demon? Can a demon open the eyes of the blind? Then came the festival of dedication at Jerusalem. It was winter. And Jesus was in the temple courts walking in Solomon's colonnade, and the Jews who were there gathered around him saying, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Messiah, tell us plainly. And Jesus answered, I did tell you, but you do not believe. The works I do in my Father's name testify about me. But you do not believe, because you are not my sheep. My sheep listen to my voice. I know them, and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all. No one can snatch them out of my Father's hand. I and the Father are one. And I'm going to jump in and uh pick up next week where we just left off because That's a pretty good breaking point. It's pretty close to the halfway point of the message and it was at the end of uh talking about a um It was it was a long passage of scripture being read and so it's about to go off into me talking about expounding on that passage. This seems a good place to break As far as that goes, the downside is we still have you know five ish minutes left in the show. So that's an awkward place to have to end for that reason. So let me just catch you up on a few things. First, what have I been reading? I always like to share Not that you're going to want to read along, but sometimes I might say something that will be of interest to you. As you know, if you listen to the show for any length of time, I am a not much of a reader of fiction, although I uh will occasionally dabble in reading some fiction, and when I do, it's usually Ted Decker. Uh Ted Decker is almost always marvelous. Every once in a while he's a he he puts out a disappointing book. But I will say that uh His recent works haven't disappointed. It's it's he was a little bit more up and down in his early writing career, uh at least in my opinion, than he has been. Anyway, Ted Decker Emmanuel's veins, uh check it out. Almost anything Ted Decker uh uh rights is uh is an enjoyable fun roller coaster ride at the very least. So what am I gonna do to fill the next one? Well In some recent shows you've heard me have to fill some time uh from some scheduling conflicts with special editions of the show. Sort of a special edition moment uh within this show as I continue with my spring cleaning. I gotta say I had a stack of stuff that was literally about three inches deep when I started. And it's down to maybe, I don't know, maybe an inch at this point. So we're making good progress. This is stuff that I've saved over the years for whatever reason, thinking it'll be talk frotter or who even knows. Uh I saved this. It was uh remember a few years ago. Back in I guess it was 2010, so it's a more than a little bit more than a few years ago, like five years ago. Uh there was a Super Bowl ad that caused a lot of controversy because uh Tim Tebow was featured in an ad by Focus on the Family. And all it was was saying, hey, you know, life is good. You know, if you're pregnant, you might want to think about keeping a baby. 'Cause look, here's this fine young man that, you know, could have uh almost was, I guess, uh considered to be aborted and uh hanging in there. And the the venom that came out, uh the the Those who said that, you know, focus on the family was anti-choice, anti-birth control, anti-sex education, anti-gay agenda And that's the kind of uh narrative that carries the day. What about the idea of them being uh not anti-choice, but pro-life? Not anti birth control, but you know, pro-family, not anti-sex education, but uh pro uh biblical counsel on sex education, not anti-gay agenda, but uh pro biblical values But anyway, I I guess we're gonna try to spin that into a topic that we never ended up addressing on the show. It's been addressed now. And so that's the end of that. What else did I say? Here's a note I have to myself. Vera Bagley. Oh, I remember Bagley Generations. We are one-body ministries. We had Vera and what was her friend's name? It's escaping me on the show a number of years ago. Very uh nice series of shows. We did three, four shows uh with Vera um Well back, golly gee, it's gotta be five, five years ago. I wonder if uh We Are One Body Ministries is is is still around. You know what you might want to do? Go online, Google it, and see if they still exist. And then email me, let me know, right? Alright, we got to see. Time for at least one more here. Um, what was this saved about? Oh, you ever see the movie Four the Bible Tells Me So? They did a special showing of for the Bible Tells Me show at the Weinberg Theater in downtown Frederick a number of years ago. Uh this might be even six years ago now, as I'm looking at the note here So the movie might be ten years old for all I know now, because the movie wasn't brand new when it came out when the Weinberg showed it. And it talks about um It purports to talk about the biblical view on homosexuality, but it is not a uh fair and balanced uh documentary styled um movie. But if if you'd like to kind of see how the other side if you're a biblical thinker and you want to see how the other side thinks about such things, you might want to check out that movie for the Bible tells me so. Anyway, well that'll do it for uh this edition of the Faith Debate Show. Thanks so much for listening. Thanks for indulging. We'll have the second half of the message uh and appeal Coming up next week on the Faith Debate broadcast by Putman Fleming and Heating, Help We Make You Smile. God bless.