Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. We're preaching with impact. It's like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putin Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find all sorts of interesting stuff, links to various uh religious traditions uh and other news items. You'll find the podcast for this show, and of course you will find the faith debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's the email address. Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post whatever you send me. There's not an original thought on that blog for the most part. You send me something, I copy and paste right into the blog, and then it's open for comments. It's free for all then at that point. So if you see something interesting, you don't have original content content either. Just email it to me and if it's interesting, yeah, if I agree with you that it's interesting, I'll post it on the blog. It's as simple as that. 18 times a day we do that Monday through Friday. It's 90 blog postings a week. You don't have to read all 90, but if you check in every day, I'm sure you'll find at least one thing that is interesting to you. On the Faith Debate Show today, a uh we're gonna f wrap up the the last half of what we heard last week, which was the first half, of a message based on 1 Peter 5 verses 1 through 4, the message was called An Appeal. It's a message I was uh invited to share at a local congregation uh last year, uh not too long ago. And um thought you might appreciate hearing uh it here. It's certainly better than having dead air on the right on the air right now. Well, maybe not I opened myself up for an easy joke there, right? Anyway, I hope you enjoy the uh the second half. Even more than you enjoy the first half if you heard last week, and if you missed last week's first half, it's not too late You can go online, wfmd. com, and find the Faith Debate Audio Archives and uh listen to the podcast of last week's show. That's always an option for you. All right? So without further ado, here is uh the last half of the message. The Son and the Father are one. Those who follow Jesus are also one in Christ. So we need to behave like those who are one in Christ, especially the elders. The sheep know my voice, says Jesus. So we need to call out to the sheep in the voice of Jesus. God's word. We need to speak to the flock God's word. We need to do this to lead them, not to drive them. It's in this way that we care for, watch over, protect the flock. And watching over the flock, it includes these responsibilities that Jesus mentions. The flock needs to be watched over, needs to be protected. The elders are overseers. They are guarding and protecting the flock. Protecting from what? Guarding against what The false teaching hired hands. Dangerous predatory wild animals like the wolf, Jesus had said. Like a lion, Peter will say, if you turn back to the primary passage we're focusing on today, 1 Peter chapter 5, scan ahead just a couple of sentences from where we were earlier, you'll find in First Peter 5 verse 8, this warning, your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion for someone to devour. The devil is prowling. The lies of the world, anti-Christian teaching, even dissension within the flock is looking to scatter for someone to devour. Scary stuff. Like our fellow elder Peter, who was following the good shepherd Jesus, elders in the church, those mature in the faith. Must be willing to lay down their lives for the well-being of the flock Why do this? Other than flat obedience, and there's something to be said for that. Why do this? What's the elders' motivation for this? Why do this dangerous work? That's point number three, today's message. Why do elders do this? Peter writes in the last half of verse 2, and in all of verse 3, that elders do this not because you must, but because you are willing, as God wants you to be. Not pursuing dishonest gain, but eager to serve, not lording it over those entrusted to you, but being examples to the flock. So there are three reasons that are given. Elders do this because they want to, because they are eager to serve, and because they've been entrusted to be examples. So let's spend a moment on each of the three. Elders care for and watch over God's flock because they want to, because God wants them to. But we don't always want to. Sure, or maybe we want to as a salve for our own fractured and fragile egos. We want to because we want a sense of success or self-worth that Will help us to compensate for nagging feelings of inadequacy. Someone says to you, so what sort of work do you do? And you say, Oh me. Little old me? I'm a seminary student or seminary professor. I'm involved in Christian ministry. I'm a missionary. A church planter, a theologian, a pastor. Or someone says to you, Do you attend church? And you say, Who, me? Oh yes, I attend church. I attend humbly, of course. I host a weekly Bible study in my home. I even lead it on occasion. I teach Sunday school. Yes, I do. I serve as a deacon. I'm an elder in my church. I offer public prayer for the congregation. I help to take up the tithes and the offerings. I sometimes am asked to read the scriptures during the worship service. I've been singing in the choir for years. My spouse and I were part of a mentoring program and we're involved in the youth activities helping with the youth group, especially on those days when they go out to help feed the poor and serve the soup at the soup kitchen. It all sounds very pious, doesn't it? Too often we serve in leadership roles in God's church so that we can sound humble or look pious, not just to others, but even to ourselves. We're willing. But are we willing as God wants us to be? Despite the fact that no one's forcing us. Are we doing it as God wants us to be? Peter writes that you care for and feed God's flock because you are willing, as God wants you to be. We might all need to examine our hearts on this one. Truly, none of us. We'll pass that examination with flying colors. We all fall short of maintaining a consistently proper willingness. But be not discouraged. Jesus was and is perfectly willing. And in Christ we are being sanctified. And conform to his image until at last in glory we will be where he wants us to be. Now, in addition to godly willingness, Peter says that the elders care for the flock in God-honoring ways because they are eager to do so. Are you eager? Or do you treat it as a kind of career enhancer or a hobby In the sense that it's something that you want to do to help make a name for yourself or just something to pass the time. There are more lucrative ways to gain money, usually, not always. We've seen plenty of church leaders who motivated on cash flow. Dishonor the reputation of Christ and his church in the process of making the money grab. If you are chasing after the fame and fortune, the perceived fame and fortune that can come with leading or belonging to a numerically huge church or A rapidly growing church or a church of fine reputation within the community. The prestige that can come from just the right assortment of degrees, maybe, from just the right assortment of Christian education institutions. The elevated social status and business benefits that can come from a successful run at serving in the local church and a myriad of leadership. roles like planning a big retreat or executing vacation Bible school, teaching Sunday school, volunteering with the kids at standing vigil at some Christian demonstration. Yearning to have our names uttered as we do all of this in the same breath with those of Billy Graham. Jace Broadhurst, Tim Tebow, Karen Butman, or anyone that you might hold in high esteem If we're chasing after popularity and publicity, we need to stop. We need to be like Jesus, who overturned the tables of the money changers, who Said to give the Caesars what is Caesar, to God, what is God's, who demonstrated the wisdom of getting away from the crowds on occasion Jesus didn't hire a PR firm. In fact, on many occasions he instructed people not to do PR for him Be leaders in the church not for personal gain, not for dishonest gain. Be leaders like Christ. Eager to serve, washing even the feet of those you lead In verse 3, Peter makes the point: there's no reason to be lording your eldership over others. There's just one Lord. We all serve under him. We're all under shepherds. We are called to emulate him and be examples to others. And what is the example that Jesus gives us? Well, in Philippians chapter 2, verse 6, we read, Who though he was in the form of God did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. That's the ESV translation. The NRSV says, who though he was in the form of God did not regard equality with God as something to be exploited The NIV renders Philippians 2, verse 6 through 8, this way: who being in very nature God did not consider equality God something to be used to his own advantage. Rather, he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness, and being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, even death, on a cross. As elders, leaders in the church, those mature in the faith, we need to be like Jesus and focus on serving his flock. The godly don't exploit their position of leadership for their own advantage. They humble themselves, they serve obediently, even if it means they must die. for doing so. Now as we near the end of our time with the end of uh Peter's passage, the question we all all might wonder is Is it worth it? Now Peter doesn't exactly pose this question. Instead, he lays out for us just what's at stake. He tells us just what it's worth and We're able to recognize from this its value. Peter writes in verse 4, and when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory that will never fade away. Crowns are a big deal today. They were an even bigger deal back in the first century. The crown image is powerful Powerful kings and queens wore crowns, was the most highly regarded bling of the day. Great victors such as champion athletes, they won crowns. The crown was the gold medal, the medal of honor, the World Cup, the Super Bowl trophy of the day. Christ, of course, was given a mocking crown, one of thorns. A victor's crown. It would have been made of beautiful flowers, a sort of head-sized wreath. It symbolized life and vitality and beauty. Christ's crown of thorns was meant to be a symbol of death and Pain and ugliness. It was a crown that had already faded from symbolizing anything good or powerful. Or so the Roman soldiers thought. The crown of glory, that's the crown we're after. That's the chief shepherd's eternal crown. It never fades, never loses its luster, never loses its glory. Imagine when Christ appears. Exchange for that suffering crown of thorns, he gives you his crown that never fades. Because Christ's glory never fades. A moment ago I read to you a portion of Philippians chapter two. I'm going to read it again, this time continuing with the verses that follow, what we read earlier. Philippians chapter two verses two through eleven say who being in very nature God did not consider equality with God something to be used to his own advantage Rather he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness. And being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross Therefore, God exalted him to the highest place and gave him a name that is above every name That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth. And every tongue acknowledged that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Goosebumps So is it worth it? Oh yes, it is. It's worth everything. And God's flock needs to be reminded of this by the shepherds and by you, because it's hard being saved. It's hard suffering. It's hard being stalked by predators on the prowl. And so the people of God need to be cared for and encouraged and instructed in the chief shepherd's voice. In the Word of God. And so I appeal to you as Peter has appealed to us. Be shepherds of God's flock As I briefly suggested earlier, this is not easy work. And we are not really up to the task. We fail at every turn to help protect our fellow sheep Fail to carry them to safety when necessary. Fail because we need protection and strong arms, lifting us to safety ourselves. Take heart. Ultimately, Jesus Christ is the true shepherd He carries us by his Spirit along with our brethren, even when we say we can't do it, because he's too heavy, even though he's my brother. There is not to be found in this a cop out. This is an encouragement. It's not up to you to be successful at this. You simply need to work at obeying what you've been tasked to do. Trusting that our Father has already guaranteed the success in His Son. And we share in that success through His Spirit You can work to do it. I must work to do it. We will do it. In Christ. Because we love God. And we love His herding, drifting flock. And God, in his eternal wisdom, has called us to be ministers of healing and direction to those who are hurt and adrift. Even while we recognize that we too are in so many ways hurt and adrift ourselves. in need of letting others be Christ's undershepherds to us, even as we are undershepherds to them. Let's pray. Almighty God in heaven. Creator of the universe and creator of us each individually, we praise you and thank you for the truth of your word and the encouragement we can draw from it. Help us to recognize that you told us through your servant Peter that our sufferings would not be strange things, that we should come to expect them. But that we can also expect the fulfillment of your promise at Christ's return. That we right now already share in a measure at least of the glory to come, but the fullness of it awaits It is so worth the struggles and the trials, but it is yet so hard. Help us through the difficulties. Encourage us, equip us, motivate us to help each other through the difficulties. The distractions of life that sometimes keep us from hearing your word proudly proclaimed, boldly proclaimed, sometimes keep us from proudly and boldly proclaiming in ourselves and living in ourselves. Help us today, tomorrow, the rest of this week, and for the rest of our walk with you, Lord, to be under-shepherds. as you would have us to be, and to allow to allow others into our lives, allow them to shepherd to us, to bind us together our unity in Christ. And it's in his name, your son, our Lord Jesus, Christ, by the power of your spirit that we pray. Amen And thus concludes the message, an appeal, from 1 Peter 5, verses 1 through 4. I hope that that was beneficial to you and at least a little bit interesting, and if you're Christian, convicting and encouraging at the same time. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, kind of a special edition. If you haven't heard the show before, this is not the norm. Normally it's a panel discussion show with a variety of voices uh uh interplaying with one another, bo bouncing ideas off of one another, challenging each other's worldviews and thoughts on on issues of faith, religion, theology, um and and all things connected to those things, which is most things in life, uh actually We've got a couple of minutes left in the show, so let me tell you what I've been reading lately. Ted Decker wrote a book called Bone Man's Daughters. And if uh you like fiction and creative writing and uh uh and and s a spiritual take on uh on how to understand the world in a very creative kind of a way, then Ted Decker might just be the guy for you. I was going through some notes recently as I I've shared on the show in in in recent months and trying to clean up and doing like an extended spring cleaning that's lasted months now. And trying to figure out well it probably lasted a year now. Trying to figure out, uh, you know, why am I saving this stuff? Here's something I saved that I have no idea why I saved it. You ever do that? Why did I save this? I have no idea. It is interesting to note, by the way, that it's what I saved here is is a note from John Schweitzer, who's typically on this show with me, that he's been trying to uh get Billy Graham on the show. Not that Billy Graham. But it's worth saying it just be able to say that though, right? We were trying to get Billy Graham on the show. Not that Billy Graham Uh with uh Chris Reiner, uh who's done some great work uh doing missions uh work over in India uh is referenced on this note as well. I haven't seen Chris in forever. I think she's moved up into Pennsylvania, maybe into Amish country if I'm not mistaken. I I'm not sure about that. But anyway, let's That gets rid of that. Ooh, I forgot to get a start on our uh on our theme music. Well we'll just have to fade out instead of hit the sting at the end, I guess. Uh, I mentioned this last week. The uh for what the Bible tells me so we ran out of time before I could get into uh with any gr great detail. There's a documentary that was done years ago. I forget the exact year that it came out, I think it was two thousand seven, so how many years ago, is that eight years ago? For the Bible tells me so. And um but here's a little blurb about the show. Can the love between two people ever be An abomination is the chasm separating homosexuals and Christianity too wide to cross. How can the Bible be used to justify hate? These are the questions at the heart of the documentary for the Bible tells me so. Anyway, if you're thinking of something even-handed and fair-minded and all that sort of stuff, think again. It is not. It is very one-sided and and and biased and And I was disappointed. I was expecting it actually to give at least a fair hearing uh for Christians, but it uh it it did not do so. So, you know, what are you gonna do? You can't have everything. If you had everything, where would you put it? As the uh famous uh or maybe not so famous anymore comedian Stephen Wright once said. So anyway, what else do I have here? Get rid of that first. Uh by the way, just because I critiqued that movie negatively and said, Oh, for the Bible tells me so isn't fair and all that sort of stuff does not mean that you shouldn't Um you shouldn't watch it. You should educate yourself on what other points of view are and uh you know, it'll it'll challenge your own view, refine it You know, there's nothing wrong with that. There's only good that comes from that. And by the way, as I was bumbling through that I was able to get my music requeued up on multitasking. Uh let's see. Oh, uh thank you. You've heard us make reference to the success of the website uh page, the Faith Debate blog page, and how uh uh it gets so much activity that uh you know I can't quite explain. Thank you for visiting the website. um WFMD. com keyword faith, by the way. Uh and that we've done well i with listeners on the in the ratings. Um can't get into too many specifics. I think we can get into some trouble talking about ratings specifically, but these are older This note here is older, but it it gives you an i idea. Our show, the Faith Debate, in our day part, our part of the day on Sunday mornings. The uh most listened to uh show among uh men in their uh you know forties and fifties, uh number two with those who are over the age of sixty five, number three with women who are uh in their thirties and forties. I mean those are pretty good numbers and uh you know number one with uh with with middle aged folks primarily and you know, thank you. You know, I'm right there with you. Anyway, thanks for listening. Check us out online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I thank you so much for uh putting up with me for another half hour. One hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now we will do it again. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio. Free talk, nine thirty WFMD