Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement just after these guys next to me. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debates Online, WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of interesting stuff including the Faith Debate blog and a link to podcasts of this show. The Faith Debate blog, well our blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Pretty much wherever you send me, I will post So be careful what you send me. Um eighteen postings a day, Monday through Friday, it's ninety a week. And even if you don't want to send me something, you should go check it out and see. There is some pretty cool stuff up there of late. So encourage you to pop in, see what people are saying. On the Faith Debate show today, we are going to do a critical examination of this show. Why does it exist and should it? Jonathan Sweitzer vote now is the Jonathan Sweisser is the s he's the one that encourages you to vote. He's a senior pastor at uh Crossroads Valley Church in Frederick, and we are joined this week by uh Now uh last couple of years, friend of the show, and he has his own show, Dr. Neela Chempong from Covenant Family Chapel in Frederick, and his show airs from nine thirty to ten o'clock on this very same radio station. Same bat station, just different bat time. That's right. Um Last week we were talking about uh um modern media and the proclamation of the gospel and pastors and people who are interested in things to do with Jesus Christ. making use of those things. And we talked specifically, uh most extensively anyway, about radio, a little bit on TV. We mentioned in passing Twitter, we mentioned in passing Facebook and that sort of thing. Uh and we're gonna s this week hopefully as a show unfolds, we're gonna talk a little bit about some of those newer technologies, not just the, you know, lung and the tooth of what is it now, ninety year old commercial radio industry or the uh what would it be the sixty year old uh television industry and you know but now the you know ten year old social media industry we're gonna talk about that as well. But before we do that yeah I would never let my ten year old free Something like that. I I uh hold them off a little bit longer. That probably says a lot about me. The longer you can keep 'em at hold them at bay, the better it's gonna be. I'm telling you. Eventually the day's gonna come, but that day can be tomorrow, doesn't it? Be today. Anyway, so we do this show called The Faith Debate. We've been doing it for almost ten years. Why? Uh Neil, you do a show, in addition to being on this show on a rare occasion, you do your own show, or I don't have to call it a show exactly, but uh a portion of his Sermon, he does I don't know, like an hour long message or something like that, or however long your message is. It's thirty minutes. Even well no on the air it's thirty minutes, but in actual live if I come to f See you on Sunday mornings, it won't be thirty minutes. It'll be forty five. Okay, so they take out the But now I'm bringing it down to thirty. Are ya? Because I'm just trying to keep up with Gotcha, okay. Anyway, so they see they take out the parts was talking bad about me and they put that on the air on Sunday mornings from nine thirty to ten o'clock. Uh it's all about you, Troy. Exactly. Always. Always all about me. So we're talking about me and this show and us and our shows and our our uh our attempts to impact the the culture around us for Christ by using uh modern means, means that were not available to the Apostle Paul. Right. Means that we're not available to Jesus Christ as He walked the earth two thousand years ago. You know, so we talked last week about whether we have a right to do that, and I think we answered that uh pretty well. If you didn't hear last week, listen to the podcast Uh but now there are critics who say, okay, you might have a right to do it, you have a legal right to do it, maybe even have a biblical right to do it. But I don't like that you do it anyway. Now these would be Christians or these would be well, let me ask you, non Christians. Have you had I have, I'm s I think you have too. Have you had people who have pushed back on this show? Not appreciating that we do this show. Yes, but but it's not that we're on the air, no. It's that they're not convinced that we should Uh either one be allowing people with whom we disagree, meaning that disagree with the gospel of Jesus Christ, to have airtime. So it is that we're on the air. If we were having these conversations in your living room, they wouldn't be pushing back. Right? The problem that it's public and it's out there on the airwaves, they don't like that. Well the people the the type of people that push back it with that particular argument. Uh I don't think that they would in a conversation with somebody with whom they disagreed, I don't think they would spend much time listening, even in their own You know, living room. Like they're opposed to the idea that that you would spend time drawing the other person to go. They don't want to listen and they don't want you to listen either. That's right. That's my sense at least. You know, they're they're they're right. Hands over the ears. That's right. And then there's other people that are concerned that that because it's controversial oriented, meaning that, you know, like like what's the benefit? Because you know, you're never going to convince, say, somebody that's a Sikh or somebody that's a Buddhist or somebody that is a uh you know, more on the liberal side of Christianity, you know, to to change their minds. So what's the benefit of that? So I did I I have had some pushback in that direction. And what and what have you said? I've said, you're right. We're not going through the air anymore. Thank you for finally speaking up. I'm free. Uh what I said to them is uh yeah, but the point is, is that There's nothing to fear. If the gospel is true, then it being held up in contrast to any other worldview or any other idea it's gonna stand on its own. And so our job is to draw them out to demonstrate Christlikeness and and the ability to have honest you know, genuine communication, you know, with other people in the context of then just letting the gospel be held up and let those people that are listening be confronted with an opportunity to say, okay, well, does that make sense or does that not make sense? Who who of the two that I'm listening to right now as they're presenting the argument seems to be uh presenting something that makes more sense. Amil, have you had pushback from your guest appearances on this show or are you doing your own program? I'm looking at it this way. I think that Jesus gives us a very good picture. Uh he always had conversations with the Pharisees and the scribes. He never shied away from them. Even though they did not agree with him in many cases. So like John said, um I I I pretty agree that Let's have them on the show because there might be somebody out there who is adhering to some of these concepts that they do carry, but then they can hear the opposite view. Because I am telling you that the world out there, they're going they're reading all kinds of things. And sometimes it w it is through shows of this nature that you can hear all the contrasting views. And anybody who really wants to Learn the truth. I think we constructively listen very carefully and follow what is right. And of course you'll remember when we first started doing the show, there was a um a local television show that was doing something similar, but they were unwilling to Are you purposely not naming it? Yes. Okay. I'll let you do that for the first time. that the tree of the knowledge of good and evil is the tree of debate, you know, of of knowledge. And you know the point is as soon as you st you you you start trying to grapple with what's right and what's wrong, you create death and you create negativity and and and uh this is this is a whole opera esque you know uh line of spirituality that that whatever you believe is good for you, whatever you believe is good for you, and let's not talk about how we disagree. You know, and if you're talking about how you disagree, then what you're doing is you're You're you're corrupting somehow you're you're you're poisoning the the well of spirituality, you know, by tr by somehow trying to say what's right and what's wrong. The only issue of right and wrong has to do with science. what science can prove and what science can't prove. But when it comes to spirituality, you know, if we if we partake of the tree of knowledge of good and evil, this is how they define it. somehow you are poisoning the well and creating uh death on the earth. To which of course we directly disagree and we, you know, with Thomas Jefferson, the class of ideas is the sound of freedom. You know, we we are of the opinion that there is spiritual truth to be d to be discovered and clarified as opposed to spiritual deception, which is which is uh negative and it could be cruel and have significantly negative consequences. By the way, a real quick aside and I'll let you do your your jump in, but uh I've been meaning to mention this and I keep forgetting you just reminded me. Okay For almost ten years now we've been saying that uh you know the clash of uh uh clash of ideas is sound of freedom and attributing it to Thomas Jefferson. Oh no. You know who really said it? You know I ha uh what I was taught that? I was taught that in college. Oh Lady Bird Johnson. Lady Bird Johnson. Yes. Did she take it from Jefferson? I've uh once I found out it was Lady Bird Johnson, I have spent Considerable I spent like an hour and a half one night trying to figure out trying to see if there's any any connection to Thomas Jefferson and every Attribution of that quote goes to Lady Virg Johnson. Oh no. Are we okay with that? So we've had that changes everything. We've had it wrong for ten years. Well that just goes to show that. Somebody shows us the truth will change. So there you have it. Lady Bird Johnson. Sound of freedom Uh so you were gonna say? Yes um I was actually going to use a story in life to illustrate what John Okay. Right. The I was supposed to be using stories today. The important thing is this. Many people think that everything else um is like Everything else is fine. If your idea is not mine, it's all good. What's true for you is fine, what's true for me is different, yeah. Uh I would invoke a life story, but let me start with the old testament story. Um I saved him when God when God was telling the story of Noah's Ark He mentions that make this arc still big, but then it has one door. And earlier on I was saying that something 450 feet wide by Seventy five by forty five. It's huge. Right. To have only one dog It wouldn't pass fire code in Frederick County, that's for sure. It's not going to. Right. So then we need to find out why would God make such a mistake, if it's actually a mistake. But actually he's telling about the concept of salvation and it comes through only one individual. Now so if I am looking at this God telling this story in the Old Testament then he comes into the New Testament And he's speaking about Jesus who is actually going to bring to salvation. And Jesus says, I am the way, the truth, the life. And no one comes to the Father except through me. And then there are others who are saying, Oh, um, you can do it through some other individual I I tend to ask a lot of questions here. Second story. In life, if you're going to cross a road, right? This is a story about a chicken? Not really. Sure, okay. This is a story about me and you. I'm actually trying to book a picture of the phone. He's not addressing why you cross the road. For example, you're gonna cross a road, right? And you you'll always wanna look to your right and to your left. Most people would do. If you're in a n your normal brain, so you're gonna do that. Now, so you look to your right, you look to your left, no car comes, you cross the road. Am I right? Mm-hmm. All right. So now if you look to your left and look to your right and there are cars coming, nobody crosses the road. Why? Because it is either you or the car. It can be both. Because it's a natural law. And in logic they call it the law of non-contradiction. Which simply means that it is either or all. It can be both. So it cannot be Jesus and somebody else. It has to be one. And the scripture says it is Christ. So that whole idea that people would go around so when we when you guys have this fake debate, what you're trying to do is to draw that knowledge is that people it can be both. It is one. It is Christ. It is what we're saying. It is what we're telling you about From the word of God. And I think it's important thing that we you guys keep this thing on the air. So that you continue to tell them about the fact that just the same way they don't cross the road. Here's that station management got one guy. And you guys have both you haven't said it emphatically, so I'm going to say it a little more clearly. All of the examples that we've given about you know Jesus and Paul and Mars Hill, I think that was last week's show. Those are examples in the public square. Yeah. Now they didn't use a megaphone, they didn't use a microphone, they didn't have big speakers and big antennas sending radio signals across because that hadn't been invented yet. But they went to Uh the public square and the radio, particularly talk radio, is I think the equivalent of Mars Hill or people gather to Exchange ideas and hear what they think the truth is and debate and that sort of thing. And you know, Jesus when he's r uh speaking to addressing the the Pharisees and Sadducees and and quite often rebuking them, he's doing that publicly. You know, so we're doing it publicly. So but I wonder if the concern well let me uh reset the show real quick and we'll get into a concern. I'm Froy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Jonathan Sweites are back again for more punishment. I mean more illumination. uh for the rest of us. Uh he's a senior pastor of Crosswiss Valley Church. And Dr. Neil Achempong from Covenant Family uh Chapel in Frederick is also on the show and you can listen to his show on Sunday mornings from nine thirty to ten. You call it a show. Is that appropriate? Should I call it a show program? Is that better? It's good. Show is fine. Okay. He's on from uh yeah, that's like the line from the Newsboy song. When is it show uh when is it show business and what w what what's that line? How's it go? You know it, you sing it all the time When is it ministry and when is it show? Yeah. I don't know. I don't know, but this one thing I know. Your love is better than life. No love is better than life. The newsboys do a much better rendition. So let me uh let me put out the concern that people might have, and they're too polite to say so. So they're gonna criticize us for all these other reasons, but what they really mean to say is you guys aren't qualified Right. Are they maybe concerned that we don't know what we're talking about? And that Jonathan, you're gonna say something really silly to make Jesus look bad. Or they know I'm gonna say something silly to make Jesus look bad. Or maybe they don't like the way Neil preaches and they think, oh, I don't know if I want that preaching on the air. Because we've had those conversations on this show about other people. Right? We're not the hugest fans in the world of Joel Osteen's preaching, for example, on this radio program. And he's got a huge audience. First of all, he's got like, I don't know, thirty thousand people live in front of him on Sunday morning and something like seven million people across the country every Sunday morning that are taking in his television uh program, his preaching, if you can call it that. Uh so maybe people have the same problem with us. How would we answer that? What gives us the right? We have the right legally are we qualified. Yeah, are we qu g what makes us think we're s we we we sh deserve to be on the radio talking about such things? I mean I think the answer to that is that we have about three thousand on average that listen on a on a uh weekly, you know, radio show. It's here in Frederick. Uh maybe, you know, the the question in the United States, right? The whole point of the experiment that we call the United States of America is that what qualifies you is that you are, you know, an adult in the society. And so your opinion matters as much as anybody else's opinion. And so if you go for it and people are listening and responding you know, then you're qualified. Now that doesn't answer the question as to whether or not we're qualified to represent, you know, the church, to represent the gospel well, you know, so then that would come down to again whether or not other believers say yes you're qualified. And there's various ways to, you know, figure that out. One is you get degrees from, you know, theological seminaries, two you get Um uh you get ordained by a group of churches, you know, three here locally, you know, that that the local pastors recognize you, recognize who you are and what you what your message is. And so there's different ways to certify the quality of your message. The Apostle Paul said, you know, that I never went down to Jerusalem to ask the original twelve disciples if my message was okay. God sent me through Jesus Christ and I just preached my message. However, when I went to Jerusalem, nobody had any problems with what I was teaching. Right. And so there's a little bit of that orientation. Okay. Who called us, you know, who gave us the the right to preach? Um, Jesus. Uh are we being faithful to that? It is true that the rest of the body of Christ plays a role. in uh certifying whether or not we're preaching what is you know the word of God or whether or not the word of God. Yeah, I'm gonna go all biblical on you. Good. Because I would agree with everything that you said, I would agree. Uh when we're talking about taking Neil's message and putting it on the air. So a lot of what you said relates to what gives him the right to deliver that message. And I think that, you know, I believe that, you know, uh being ordained uh and set apart for that kind of a ministry is important and to do that inside of a church context and be a leader in the church All those things are true. But I don't think you have to be a leader in the church. You don't have to be a preacher, uh, a minister of the word to come on a radio show and give the reason for the hope that lies within. And Christians are totally prepared to give a reason for the hope that lies within. So any Christian I think has a biblical grounding for going on the radio and sharing their uh the conviction of their belief. In fact, you could almost argue that they almost have to. If not on the radio, at least in the way they live their lives. Yes I'd agree with that. Um I knew you would. I would want to ask a question. Was the woman who Jesus met otherwise Woman of Samaria. Right. You mean to go bring them to meet him? Yeah. Right, like in that setting apparently what qualified her was her sinfulness if everybody knew about it. Right. Um is something that we have to look at it very carefully. And I agree with what John had said Christ has called us, we've been ordained, we have studied and so on and so forth. But we live in a society where people feel you can tell me what I need to do. You don't you're not the authority in my life. But After looking at this woman and looking at the disciples of Jesus, the Bible says the Pharisees looked at him and they said, these are unlearned men. But then looking at what they were doing, they said, hmm, they've been with Jesus. And so to me, I believe what qualifies us truly is because we sat at the feet of the Master. Spending time to study and praying and seeking his face and he's speaking to our hearts. Because sometimes there are some things you can argue it out of the books, but then there are some things you cannot argue them out of the books. I'll give you an example When I was growing up, um, back in my country, one of the difficulties we had was how do we reconcile the concept of God's sovereignty And he asked us to pray because if God is going to do whatever he wants to do, and he would do it anyway, and doesn't care about you, First thing is, why would he ask me to pray? Because he's not gonna answer it. He's gonna do whatever he wants, right? And for many years I never understood it. And I always had an issue with it. And I asked myself, okay, if I'm gonna pray, you're not gonna do it. So I never prayed with faith Until I kept studying the scriptures and I said, Lord, I do not understand this. I'm trying to illustrate how we get qualified. And so we may not be qualified on everything, but the very things we're talking about, we've been qualified on it For example, on this subject, God opened my eyes, and I understood that in the book of Genesis 120 says, when he says, Let us make money in our image. Right. And then he says let's give them dominion. And he uses the Hebrew word malaker, meaning let's give him the the the the sovereign power, the kingdom, the authority to make decisions, right, on earth And the Bible says anytime God speaks, he limits a certain aspect of his sovereignty. So God does not speak anyhow Right? So he's given man because man is spirit. And then he takes man and puts it in dirt. So we are called human Okay. And he puts all the authority in the hands of that man. And so on earth we exercise the authority. We are the only spirits who have been mandated to operate on earth. So if God is coming back to his own earth because he's Put the authority in our own hands. And remember when he speaks, his word becomes law because he is God. And so the Bible says his own word he gets subject to his own word. So God does not speak anyhow. So I understood that even though he's sovereign, he's asking us to pray because we are the only spirits on earth who's supposed to Have dominion to make things happen. So in prayer, we are simply saying we are agreeing with what you God wants to do So with all this description what I'm trying to drive at is that it took me a while to sit at the feet of the master, to study, to understand, to pray, to come to this place. So if I'm on the radio trying to teach you, I'm not just telling me a bunch of stories I read out of the book. even though I know what is in the book. But then it has taken me years to come to understand some things. So we get qualified through many mediums to come here. It's not all about uh just our ordination and so on and so forth because the disciples of Jesus were unlearned men but when they sat at the feet of the master to me is the bottom line I believe that they became qualified and Jesus says, I send you into the rest of the world. You know, definitely there's the the Bible is clear that there's a higher standard. Uh sorry about that. No, I just thought it was interesting. Out of all this you know, the books you choose from, sixty six you both ended up choosing different elements of Genesis. Uh Neil did it twice. And John did it once when you're talking about the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Yeah. And it that sparked a thought. Uh it's interesting. We now live in a world that has the knowledge of good and evil. And the way I sometimes think about it is until that moment, it was only the knowledge of good. And so part of the curse is, okay, you're still gonna have a knowledge of good because God's gonna continue to reveal reveal himself in creation and in his word and in his actions in history and in the person of Jesus Christ. So we're still going to have a knowledge of good available to us in in and for a Christian in a very intimate way. But part of the curse is in addition to that good you're not going to have knowledge of evil also And so if we were to retract from the public square, if we were to refuse to go on the radio and television and go on Facebook and do those sorts of things, which we'll talk more about in next week's show, uh if we refuse to do that, we're leaving a lost world with nothing but a knowledge of evil. And we're robbing them of an opportunity to have any sense of the knowledge of the good, because that's what we're here, right? We're advocating for. Hey, there's there is knowledge of good here, and that good is Jesus Christ. And I want you to have knowledge of him. And what that means for you. So if we were to retreat completely and and and give too much sway to the critics, what would we w why preach at all then? On the radio or otherwise? So Yeah, that's we we we cannot reach the wealth from the football. We gotta go beyond it. Yeah, and that gets into the whole question of, you know, creation itself. proclaims the glory of God, you know, so that men are without excuse. And so there there's there's enough good out there that even if we didn't preach, you know, as it were the stones themselves would cry out. Nevertheless, you know, there's certainly a uh um uh a call that God has chosen, you know, that there would be the preaching of the word. So um, you know, there's a lot I think to discuss along those lines if you wanted to. Yeah, and I'm gonna end with a story. Uh my apologies up front is not from the Old Testament. But it's a it's a cautionary word for us and others like us. Uh and and and just kind to not fall into the trap of a worldly view on things years ago, years ago, when uh they they had outhouses and wooden schoolhouses and when I was back in school. No, that wasn't that many years ago, but back when I was in school, I remember s uh I can't remember why the topic came up, but there ended up being this debate, believe it or not, I was involved in a debate, uh, in the classroom where one of the students was arguing with the teacher about the merits of Barry Manilo. And Barry Manilow, you know, very popular, one of the most gifted jingle writers uh in human history, probably. Uh, but not exactly the kind of music that's going to, you know, improve the nature of and the state of arts. uh for all o for all of uh time. And the teacher's argument to the student was, look at his record sales. And that was like his Of course of course he's talented, of course he's good, of course it's great music. Look at his record sales. As if that was sufficient. As if that really matters, as if that's the measure of good artistic quality or good value in community. So the fact that we have about four thousand people listening to this show every week. Right. I mean, which is pretty good by the way on a Sunday morning for f for a station like this. That's a pretty pretty good turnout. Right. Um doesn't really mean that we're necessarily doing good work or important work. We have to be careful because what if nobody was listening? We would s should still hopefully feel like we're doing good important work. Right? And if all of a sudden a million people start listening, does that mean that all of a sudden Our work is better. Our what we're doing is we're getting paid for it. Amen, brother. Amen. Anyway, I'm going to uh Talk about what uh I've been reading next week, we've run out of time. Thanks to our sponsor Putman Fleming and Heating, How we Make You Smile. John, Neil, thank you, and thanks for listening. God bless