Welcome to the Fake Debate on News Radio, 930 WFMD, or on your favorite streaming platform. They haven't found us on Sermon Audio or Odesty dot com yet I encourage you to find us there. All of the Faith Debate Shows uh make their way over to those two platforms eventually, usually pretty quickly. And so if you want to track along easily, just go to the Household of Faith in Christ channels for sermonaudio dot com or for Odyssey uh dot com. Uh whether and we also uh record our recording sessions as a live stream. We live stream record that as a video and those videos are posted there as well. The videos are typically not posted on WFMD. com. So you can get the audio there, because it's a radio station. But it's not a TV station, so you don't typically get the video there. Anyway, thanks for so uh tuning in again. We appreciate it so much Uh joined this week again by Imran Razby and Daniel Razby. Um past co-pastoring the church called the House the Church Meets at Imran's house. Getting all the words jumped up there. It's like a dyslexic moment or something that happened for a half a second. Um again I think I said it this week, but I'm not sure in case I didn't find them online at Concordby Love. org. So we've been talking in recent weeks about things related to the government and civil matters and things were Uh the civil magistrates and biblical instruction kind of cross-pollinate a little bit, talk about drugs and prisons and profiling. Last week I spent a lot of time talking about statues and whether they whether the government should erect these statues and that sort of thing. We're going to kind of stay in a in a similar vein here, but shift things up a little bit I think I'm going to title this episode, by the way, uh Ants Stepped On by Elephants. I think that's going to end up being the title uh of this show. I worked uh for a general manager years ago in another radio market who uh who used to it was one of his favorite playful phrases. He would say, you know, when when the elephants dance, it's the ants that get stepped on. And there's wisdom in that. So you have these big power brokers, these elephants elephants, right? These multi billionaires or these big people of influence who have like dirty pictures of people in compromise positions or something and they and they can leverage that to have their way with what happens in the world. And then there's the regular little guys like us, the ants, and we're getting stepped on. So are you a victim now? So here's well But it's not so well, at some level we're all victimized, right? I mean i if uh if you were following the law You are a victim of legalized theft on behalf of the government taking way more money than they should take from you. Right? There's no way they should I mean you think about you add in all the taxes, not just income tax, but sales tax, property tax, uh all the various fees that they have, and that's not just federal income tax, but state and a lot of places you have like county or local precinct taxes and all. The average American Well, the average middle class or upper middle class American is probably paying somewhere between fifty and sixty percent of their income and taxes. And then that gets taxed when they die Additional tax, the inheritance taxes and stuff. So it's crazy. So yeah, we are victims in that sense. But here's the question. Given that we're victims and there's nothing we can do about it, so let's not live our lives as victims. You just press forward, you do the best you can God is sovereign, he's in control, this is the system we have, make the best of it. I get it. However, there's the practical part of me that kicks in and is like, okay, there's one thing like just going along to get along, but should we be fighting to defend it? Should we be embracing The marketplace impact and it's and these overarching entities like we all want the government to do something to help the economy. Do we want the government controlling the economy? We all who are in business tend to have an appreciation for things like the Chamber of Commerce because they're pro-business. But are these entities really helping or are they doing more harm than good? Well tha that's that's like saying, I mean, should lobbyists exist? And I think there is a place for lobbying, especially in a governmental system where the government does have a lot of economic control I think you c you kinda have to be uh uh employee lobbyists to get things done sometimes. I think what you you I guess you're asking is should we get rid of that entirely? Should the government really not be involved in the economy at all. And then of course there's no reason for lobbyists um because they're not involved at all in the economy. And I would agree with that. I mean do you would the government's involved in in in the economy by tariffs Uh they can place tariffs on other countries who and that doesn't uh impact the economy. They can print money that really impacts the economy. And it you know, When you print money, you're gonna have inflation. You have more money than than things to buy, it's gonna cause uh things are gonna ca cost more. So those are things that the government does and they shouldn't do. But how do you stop it? Now tariffs with uh the relationship with other countries, that is part of the purpose of federal government is to have that relationship with other countries. So I don't know if you can get away from that, but uh controlling the businesses inside business. And I think we should be able uh to petition our government And if that's what we mean by lobbying, then I'm all for it. But what it's come to mean are these special interest groups spending spending lots of money to push through, force through To angle away to get it through things that are not beneficial to anybody in this country other than that very narrow special interest. Yeah, but but that's the whole idea of a lobbyist group would be look, it's not just one guy that's gonna be affected by this law. It's all these thousand farmers that we represent or a million farmers that we represent. They're all going to be affected by this, so please vote this away because you're gonna impact all these other people who have signed this petition and They're just uh have me come to represent them in in in uh to to say that. Right? So that's that's the concept. Now you're uh you're correct. In practice it doesn't end up being that way. But the concept I think is not a uh uh I don't I don't know if we want to outlaw or ban the concept of lobbying uh or special interest groups honestly. Um I'm in the financial industry, right? And the financial industry has some big lobbying arms, some of the insurance uh organizations and the investment uh groups, they have some very big uh lobbying gr uh um organizations that have been many times successful in canceling or getting rolled back some very onerous regulations, including over the last uh few years, uh from the Department of Labor and the uh you know other uh departments. And I think they're There's a lot of overreach by government that some of those business friendly or consumer friendly, even supposedly or allegedly so, groups can uh uh make a case for here's this is a problem, this is an unintended consequence of such and such a law that you're trying to pass, please don't do that. Or please pass this other law because we would appreciate some additional guidance in this area. And the fact that there is corruption. There's always going to be corruption. I don't know that you can make a system that's that's not corrupt. Uh and that was a whole idea of checks and balances in this country. That's why you have multiple different whovers that can be pulled. I think that's actually a good thing The more people that can argue about how things are voted uh it gets built, the the better. Yeah, and I don't want to get uh get taken away so far. Uh was his name? Lenny Thompson, was that his name? He was uh one of the muckity mucks in Feder uh Frederick County government like twenty years ago And I think one of his big things, one of the signature things that he stood against was against lobbying in Annapolis. He was all he was opposed if I remember correctly it's I think he was like a big anti lobbying guy if I'm not mistaken And a lot of what he said made a lot of sense to me, even though I think he was a Democrat. But a lot of what he said made some sense to me, but he took it like to a rather obtuse degree I That's not fair because I can't think of a specific example. I just remember my impression at times. Uh I kinda understand where you're coming from. I think you're going too far, but I I couldn't articulate this like twenty-five years ago probably now. Um But anyway, so I'm not saying get rid of it completely, but too often I see people who are on my side, whatever that's supposed to mean these days. They're on my side. They think like me And they're all about doesn't matter what the big business interests do, they will defend it. Doesn't matter what the big military industrial complex does, they'll defend it. Doesn't matter, you know. As long as it's not the government doing it. Right. Or if it the government ha is doing something that they support, then they'll make an exception. Like, uh you know, we have to suspend the free market principles in order to protect the free market. Here's a great here's a great example of that. Here's a great example of that. Hunter Biden. Hunter Biden was convicted on the gun charge. And I don't know if he was was he also convicted on the tax charge? Just the gun. Well ev but but say he even even t if it was taxes. But F forget that. The gun. So we all know Hunter Biden and the whole Biden family was super corrupted. They've been they they've been uh uh taking bribes from foreign officials for years and years and years. The Hunter was at the center of all this. There's all sorts of evidence of that. And what do they get him on? They get him on lying on a form to apply to buy a firearm saying that he was not under the influence of cocaine and was at the time, b due to some other statements he made in other documents at the time And so they convict him for lying on the federal government, which is a fun felony to lie when you're trying to buy a firearm. And all the Conservatives, a lot of them were like, Great, we finally got Hunter Biden on at least we got him s on something. I wish it was more, but at least we got him on something. We gotta get him on something. No, that is a terrible law. That should not exist. You should not have any restriction on buying a gun for any reason. At all. Right? And I think you have to be consistent on that. So just because the guy you don't like gets it, does not mean that we should all of a sudden t bend the principles for that. And uh you know, the whole whole way they got Al Capone, you know, oh, they found some tax uh thing to get him. You can get him on and I I say that uh kinda jokingly sometimes, if if if I'm in a government and I want to put you in jail, Troy, for anything, I can probably find some kind of tax law that you've broken and put you in jail for tax fraud. And I know you, I know you're an honest, upstanding citizen. I'm sure you uh intentionally pay all the taxes that you think you owe And that as far as being legal, great, but I'm sure because the tax code is so many tens of thousands of pages long I can probably find something you did wrong and therefore put you in jail. That's way too much power that we give the government So there's a lot of these things that really shouldn't exist and I agree with you. I think there's people that that just just because it happens to the other side, they're like, Oh okay, it's it's okay this once. No, it's not So I would uh ardently defend Hunter Biden against that gu uh gun charge and I would work to get him off. Yeah, I just want us to wise up. I think this is why I I I put this topic on the agenda All these big entities that are the elephants in our lives, they have so much sway, so much power, so much control, and if it's a government, it's a direct kind of a control But even the indirect control is pretty pervasive and powerful. And people who think uh along the lines of the person who is more likely to listen to a radio station like WFMD is going to think Fox News Channel can do no wrong. Uh I don't even watch Fox News. I haven't watched Fox News channel in it's coming up on five years. And that not a thing when I say don't watch it, not a single second of it. I do not watch it Because I cannot trust viral clips and stuff when they get passed around? I think I've accidentally seen literally I'm I'm gonna try to be as accurate as I can. Over the last five years I've probably accidentally stumbled into maybe seven or eight minutes of viral clips that I've seen. Wow. I do not watch, I don't trust them. They're elephants who pretend to be on my side and they're not. Recent example is back in September of twenty twenty four where uh Kamala Harris met with Alex uh uh Soros And uh two days later, uh, their uh business enterprise was approved by the FCC to take over all these radio stations and now they can control all the radio stations and they can start uh taking conservatives off the radio and that's what they're trying to do. And how many stories have you heard about uh people in Congress selling their stock the day before a bad report's coming out about that company. Right. So these elephants are looking out for themselves. And does it make any sense at all? I want farmers to make it, right? I want farmers to be able to provide good, healthy food that's organic and not laced with all sorts of weird chemicals and genetically modified in ways that don't go well with our b body chemistry. I want them to be able to do that They can't do that if the elephants are paying them to farm what the elephants want them to farm. And destroying or cops. Or not farm at all. Or farm and then destroy. Or I the elephants are making those decisions. And I'm I'm not uh I guess politically elephants are Republicans. That's not what I'm saying. Although this is the thing. This is the thing. The elephants are pretty much not elephants anymore politically. They're all rhinos. Right? The number of actual conservatives that have the R behind their name that are actually conservative, and if you want to add the biblically conservative on top of that, you're talking about single-digit percentages. Seriously Yep. They're not on your side. And until we wake up to the fact that these elephants we we all will shoot at the uh elephants that are not on our side. We'll properly recognize their bad guys We've got to recognize some of those other elephants we think are good. They're not good guys either. Until the ants realize, and you know what? That ant can move the rubber tree plant. If if he works in concert with all the other ants Right? 'Cause ants are really strong for their size and they work together. They can move that rotation plant. So how do you back that up from scripture? How do I back what up from scripture? That the elephants are bad and the ants are good? And what what and what w w or anything the ants should do about it or care about it or Well I think it goes back to uh the the the fatal flaw of the um people call the United States the American experiment. The Israeli experiment from way back when, the the the Nation of Israel experiment They weren't supposed to have a king, but they wanted an elephant. By golly, everybody else has an elephant. I want an elephant too. And God's prophet said, You don't want an elephant Trust me, they're gonna attack you like crazy, they're gonna send your men to the front to be killed in war. You don't want an elephant. No, please give That's where we are right now. We insist on having elephants in our life. And these elephants are busy, the people who are running these elephants, they're busy having sex parties with minors and all sorts of weird gross stuff. I mean that's in the news, right? I don't I don't know what the outcome of that is at this as as this airs, but all that P Diddy, that Sean Combs stuff, uh is na and then It sounds worse, doesn't it? It sounds way worse than Eastdy. It sounds worse than Epstein though, doesn't it? It's unimaginable evil. It really is. It's unmanageable. The stuff that I'm hearing and you I'm sure you're hearing it too, but oh that It can't be true, but it is. It's involved. Do you hear about all these hymns? Everybody all the elephants are involved. That's what I'm saying. But so let's not just blindly accept all what the elephants tell us to do or what to think or whatever. Let's let's the only elephant that should matter is the elephant. The preeminent elephant, God That's the only one that should matter. All these other sub elephants, we gotta realize they're they're they're sinful, they're selfish Anyway, I went on a tirade there. I don't know uh exactly what inspired that that that tirade, but uh You're tired of being stepped on. I I am, right? I'm tired of being stepped on So we have uh time to to address this one uh one last thing that was on our our our list and then we'll we'll call it a day. Um actually this is related somewhat, I guess, uh how I presented anyway is related. Being afraid of things. They're out of our control. Oh we love to do that as humans. Now I think someone could accuse me of you're being afraid of the elephants. No no no, I'm not being afraid of the elephants. I'm calling out the elephants for what they are. People to wake up and realize that they're not on your side. And the th and more of this might be in your control than you think because those elephants they have their fingers on the scales when it's over the economy and inflation and things and even the climate for that matter. We w uh uh we've talked about this in the pro program in the past about the conservative movement is uh uh not in one accord with the Christian uh belief system or will view. I mean there's so many high profile conservatives that are openly gay now and being employed by big institutions like the you know, the Blaze or the Daily Wire or some of these c very conservative uh institutions what you would consider is oh there's a this is more real or truthful news than Fox News or whatever. And then there's also a very, very large percentage of the pro life lobby that does not really want to pass any pro-life laws. They just want to talk about it. Just kinda like the NRA doesn't really want to pass a lot of pro gun laws. Uh the NRA in fact helped get the machine gun ban in place in nineteen eighty six. So uh Th a lot of these conservative groups really aren't there to to to uh help and I think that's that's what we need to wake up to is not we're not always equally yoked with these people and and we need to be standing up for Christ Not for just so some person who happens to vote the same way we do on certain issues. And a big part of the problem reason for that problem is that too many Christians aren't Christian. Yes. They certainly do. Yeah. Something like the first one, not the second one. So but I Uh uh but I don't want to you know we have like ten minutes left. I don't want us to just take ten minutes spurring on additional reasons for fear. I want us to take a a pastoral turn here. Yeah, we saw out of control fear with COVID, uh, you know, four or five years ago, and then there was concern about the potential monkeypox outbreak and it's always Something, w climate change and all the the low lying lands, like Florida's gonna be completely underwater in ten years and and uh What are some of the other things that there's always like the inflation of the dollar? Total collapse of the dollar. Right, exactly. Uh and some of that might have some basis in truth, right? It might be factual, but some of that's out of our control because the elephants are controlling most of it. So those of us who are the ants, we can't control it. Wha What do you suggest? What do you suggest navigate the fear? I think it's wise and more than that it's imperative. To have your eyes open and to take action to uh be prepared for eventualities that may or may not happen using the resources that God has given you. So I think if you're concerned about the dollar collapsing or th or some kind of world war breaking out and having uh a uh idea in in in in your mind of of where to get food and water and and and and things like that and uh uh and to be able to bless other believers during times of crisis, I think that's very important. But do you need to do it out of a spirit not of fear, but of faith that God has given you plenty, and in the years of plenty you're storing up, and then you have years of hardship. So being a good steward of what God's giving you is not more than just spending your money wisely, it's also looking and seeing what God is showing is and as plain as day what's coming and what could happen and then being prepared for it. So I think that's that's not a the problem uh a problem. But if you're allowing allowing fear to consume you, oh no, woe is me, it's gonna be all too terrible, I'm uh you know, and I'm guilty of this too. I mean every time God blesses me in in some w amazing way, whether it's you know, materially or spiritually or however w whatever it it is, like have some abundance and then the next week something that I don't like happens. Oh, it's so terrible. My life is ruined, this and that and and I you know, we have Uh we're human and that and that's it's very easy to get uh depressed and and downtrodden by things either that have happened Or more uh in a worse way, like you were mentioning, things that might happen and also may not, and uh the Bible says, Don't worry about tomorrow. Each day has enough trouble with its own But I want to be careful to say n don't not think about tomorrow at all, right? It does it also says, you know, don't build a house without counting the cost to build it and and and and all that. Make sure you you have logic and and and and and reason a a and uh in your the way you conduct yourself, but don't allow fear to consume you. God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and love, and of sound mind Right? And there's a there's a great clip and if you're on YouTube you can Google uh uh or you can put on YouTube uh Wiley Coyote and the Train and there's a whole a bunch of scenes but one of them is the the road the coyote sees the train coming and he's sitting in a little shack that's built on the train tracks and he sees the train coming and he looks out his window at the train And what does he do? Does he get out of the sack? No, he closes the shade. Right? And it's it's a hilarious quit, but it's it's exactly human nature. We we tend to do one extreme or the other Either we really freak out and we throw everything overboard and we do we we flounder and then we don't have any faith at all. Or we just blindly Shut our eyes because we don't want to hear about it. We don't want to think about it. I'd rather just go zone out and play on my uh scroll on TikTok or or or or or or go to the ballgame or whatever. That's not thinking about uh what I can do to be uh use for God's kingdom. So I I think either extreme is a problem and you need to have a balance there. And the big solution in my view is any time you have that Pray. Bend the knee. Spend time in prayer. Because I think these type of times are really when what God puts in place to get you to think about him more. and uh spend time with him and pray and read his word but pray. Uh I think we're called to pray a lot more than we do. We're called to fast and we don't fast and pray nearly enough these days. Um we're too wealthy of a country. We're too we have we're too safe of a country. We're we don't have enough fear and enough uh reliance on God. And I think uh fasting and prayer does help you rely on God more. And when the more you spend time Uh in prayer and fasting, the closer you will be to God, the the less these things will impact you. When we are overcome with fear it's usually because we've forgotten who God is. We've taken our eye off Jesus. We see it with uh the story of Peter getting out to walk on the water. And he's actually blocking on the water successfully while he's looking at Jesus. Then he starts paying attention to the trouble around him and he immediately stinks like a rock. So Uh if you're overwhelmed with anxiety and fear, you've got to put your eyes on Jesus. That's the only place where you're gonna find security and hope. Right. So and I I I was like, in those times. Being thankful. In context of you know the the fear and the mask. There's still people to this day wearing the masks ever since the COVID crisis. Crazy. And you know, I mean I I I used to get angry Agitated, maybe is a better word than angry. Now it's pity. I have such sorrow well up. You poor thing. And I know you're voting Democrat. Touch up profiling. I know you're but if you still wear a mask after after all these years With all this evidence it shows that it doesn't do anything for you. You you just ruled by fear. Yeah. You're and the fear was manufactured, particularly in that case, was manufactured by the elephants. In order to control a whole bunch of things. There was a some kind of meeting I remember that and one of the guys uh came in and he w had a mask on. He said, You know, pardon a mask, I think I have a cold and I don't want to get you guys sick. Oh that's okay. That was a different reason. He wasn't wearing a mask to protect himself, he was wearing a mask So he wouldn't spread his germs on other people that were there. To protect them from the patient, it's to protect the patient from the biggest. Right. uh breathing problems and and air pure impurities are really difficult for them and so they might need to wear a mask. But those are generally people that were wearing these things before. Exactly. Exactly. And there are not that many of them. No there's not no But uh there's unless there's more of them now. Maybe not so bad with the A another good passage to look to is i in uh uh Philippians four. Everybody knows Philippians 4 13 is cross-stitched on every pillow. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And people take that to mean the equivalent of I can move mountains and all this, which there are passages that talk about that. But I would urge you, go read the whole chapter of Philippians four. That's not what that passage is talking about. Paul just got done saying, I have had plenty, I have house had nothing. I have been beaten, I've had good health, I've been have terrible terrible health All these things, and I have learned in all things to be content. I know how to abound, and I know how to be abase. I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. And so what Paul is talking about is contentment. You should be content in the situation that God has for you, however wonderful and however terrible it is, and don't be overburdened by fear of what could happen. And also, be content in where God has for you. Have your eyes open. He may have given you the tools and the command to prepare for something. Whether it's the world ending or whether it's buying a house next week. You know, whatever it is, he he's giving you use the things that God has given you and be wise, but not overcome by fear. So be content in all things. You can do all things, but only through Christ who strengthens you. Well Daniel stole the last word this time from Imran. He got it the last couple of weeks, the end I got it this week. Thank you. The Razbies, find them online at conquered by love. org. Find the show online at WFMB. com. I'm Troy Skinner. Find me online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now, God bless.