Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City, the The heart of Gridlock County where Preach It with Impact is like plowing pavement, people continue to place their hopes in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate On Frederick's News Radio, 930 WPMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile, and BMC Insurance Encourage you to visit us online at WFMB. com keyword faith. You'll find links to podcasts and the Faith Debate blog. What pray tell makes it onto the Faith Debate blog? It's what you email me at Troy Skinnerclearchannel. com. Pretty much whatever you email me and I've had some people test me. Oh yeah. And I put it up there anyway. This is what my son did earlier today. We have no pride on the Faith Debate vlog. Why should we have no pride on the Faith to Mate show? Why should we have Friday Faith to Mate vlog? Jonathan Sweites are senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and uh Dr. Fahim Yunus is right now second guessing whether he should be on this show today. No, not at all. It's my pleasure. Thank you for having me. Uh Jonathan is senior pastor of Cross of Valley Chapel, and Fahim is representing the Ahmadiyya Muslim community and uh is uh a noteworthy blogger on the Huffington Post. It's the only thing worth reading on the Huffington Post website. Um Oh, though I will. All right, so we've we've been trying to solve all the problems of the world uh world peace, right? There's there's there's discord in the world. And we we we f we figured it out last week. We had the answer and then it flitted right out of our minds. We had it just like we had the thing that would last forever. The Twinkie and it went away. Yeah. Pieces just like that. May it come back. May the cream come back So we've been talking this is the fourth week now in a row. We've uh so see, there's hope. There is but in between shows, uh it was interesting to hear, and I hope you don't mind me sharing. Fahim was sharing uh his perspective that for people outside of America to really understand what it's like to live in America and the And the rules of engagement are different here apparently. So I could say something to Jonathan like, you know, you're you're big and ugly and your mother dressed you funny And we'll all laugh, ha ha ha. And other people are like, well, you can't say that. Right. But in this culture, we can say certain things, we can say political things, religious things. We can put a crucifix in a jar of urine and call it art in this country, as offensive as that is to so many people Um and people understand that well, America allows that right. You have that privilege to be offensive. In fact we even and for people around the world to to to even be able to begin to understand what that reality is, they have to experience themselves, be immersed in it. You said it would take like a decade. Who knows how long it will take? I think it's very different. So what is the hope of I mean seriously, what percentage of the world lives in America? I mean it's uh five percent five percent, right? Something like that. Well the w what of what's the hope that the other ninety-five percent will ever understand us and not hate us so much? Well, in fact, Alice Dare McIntyre argues that That the reason why the United States is going the direction of moral relativism uh and seems to be losing some of its foundations is precisely because it's brought together all of these people from different backgrounds and it turns out at the end of the day that that there is not an overriding perspective that somebody from a Muslim perspective and somebody from a Christian perspective can can just by learning the right language understand each other's perspective. But that the only way to really understand somebody else's perspective and their cultural background is to learn their language and then even then you're still an outsider. You can't quite appreciate you know, the essence of what they're talking about unless you're actually grew up and lived in that environment. And so this uh you know, it it doesn't even work in the United States. You know, where Muslims or Jews understand one another. We tried to, but it's produced this this this uh ed this intellectual environment Where we where nobody believes anything, let alone us trying to understand somebody from a t the other side of the world. Well, part of the problem we have is we're not always honest with each other. So I'm tr I'm trying to understand somebody, but they're not shooting straight with me. So I think I've understood them, but I've really misunderstood what they're what they really believe because they've misrepresented what they really believe. And so we're we're not shooting straight and so we're always trying to make our side look better than that. Like Jonathan, what do you think? And then he says, Oh, I really like that. Oh, Jonathan really likes that. But he hated it. But see, and I learned later on that he really hated it, and I was like, okay, no, wait a minute. And it's it's hard. I'm saying that's a nice tie you got on. I'm just saying. And good hairs. But sometimes you just have to believe. And you can understand. Look at your remote control you use every night. You don't understand precisely how it works, but you believe in it. Because you know you hit a certain button, a certain reaction will happen. When I first came to US I had a patient he had after surgery and he was still screaming with pain. I'd given him all the pain medications. I was first year intern. And at some stage as doctors you say, All right, you know what, I've done everything. Maybe this patient has a lower pain tolerance and I came to call room in my senior Resident looked at me, he said, and I told him, he said, So have you given him more pain medication? I said, Look, I can understand I've given him everything. He said in America. That's how his words were. He said, in America We believe first and then we understand. Maybe he was just talking about medicine. I said, what does it mean? He said, we don't distrust a patient. When the patient says he's in pain We give him more medication to make him comfortable. This guy just had surgery. And then you can try to figure it out later. But lo don't leave your patient in pain and agony all night. To me that was a deep lesson because now you know, when a when a African American tells me that N word hurts me, if I try to understand that I think I will never because I'll n I've not seen lynching, I have not seen slavery, I have not been in his shoes. So it's easier it's rather I'd rather believe his pain than try to figure it out. When a Jewish person comes to me and says, Don't mock Holocaust, I think I should believe his pain. rather than understanding. Similarly when a gay guy comes and says, Hey, you know, don't say that slur and I think that's where Islam somewhere should fit in, that The Prophet's sanctity is paramount to us as Muslims. It's a part of our faith. There's a hadith that says, and the Quran first of all says that he is the best example for you. And then the hadith says that your faith is not complete until you love him more than your mother, your father, your children, anybody else in the world. And that you're exactly right. And that is why I I I was saying last time that if I ever proposed such a bill, say to say, to moral America, I'm not really looking in into blasphemy laws here, but I would say the moral America should look at it and say, did Jesus Jesus peace be upon him? Did he go through worse than any of those groups that I just talked about? And if we make those exceptions for those groups, if we don't say the N-word, because we deeply know, we find it morally repugnant now as a society So shouldn't Jesus, peace be upon him, hemm have the same privilege? That's all my point is. You you see my point? That I think as a Christian nobody should have to You we should not have to understand that pain. We should simply believe it. That if it's hurtful like you know, but that's cultural, right? That's there's no law in the books that says I can't use the n-word. I know, but that's what I'm saying. That I'm not looking for laws. I'm saying the society go ahead and use it. What? The N word So if if somebody said Not my job. Right? So if somebody said that the unwritten law. So if so exactly, and that's a very strong law. And that's very American. It has taken me sixteen years to understand that. evolve in that understanding. But my point is that you didn't say that word because there was no law, but still you know that this is not the right thing. And if you had said that People wouldn't say Troy was right, he exercised his f freedom of expression. They'd say that was horrible, right? That's all. I think that's the nuance that when A movie such as that is made, all I'm looking for the moral America is to say that was horrible. Well th this is precisely why it's so exasperating for Christians at this stage of the ballgame because hate speech laws all of a sudden are coming on the books in heat speech laws if you speak out against uh homosexuals uh on college campuses, I mean you can get in all kinds of trouble if you if you if you speak out against it on a uh an elementary school campus, all kinds of trouble that you're gonna get in. And we Christians are of the opinion that those hate speech laws are being used by you know, those that are in favor of them to to chill a Christian perspective and to promote what we believe is immorality. And at the same time that that's happening From the Christian perspective, they're saying that that Muslims should not have to hear that the Prophet is being disrespected. And so it's all lumped into this thing together. And so in our minds, disrespecting disrespecting the prophet is equated with disrespecting a homosexual. And I just gotta tell you that because the because it's presented to us that way, I automatically think to myself, I'm gonna do it. I'm gonna I'm gonna do it. I'm not afraid. Right To talk neg negatively about Muhammad. Yeah. If that's the case. That's exact b you're you've a very good point. And I I I keep thinking in my mind And I try to think, what what would I say if I were a Christian? Who suffered more? Did Jesus, peace be upon him, suffered more? Or Jews or ho you know, Christians or African Americans who suffered more than the money. If you were a Christian? If I were a Christian, suffered more than anybody else. So I understand the belief. That's interesting. Believe and then understand. So when I understand that, then I say that Jesus, peace be upon him, should be he should get that privilege before any other group Then you see my logic there? Yeah. Then that crucifix in urine is extremely offensive to me. That's not freedom of expression because the logic breaks down. Because we we are saying he suffered more, yet people who suffered less than him are being treated with nicety. That's all you know, that's the logic which I'm going with. And so the reality is that the the um doctrine, the ideal of a civil right of free speech, is something that is pretty fluid through the last two hundred years You know, uh and there certainly were times where uh even in the Congress of the United States that when somebody said something slanderous about somebody else, they went outside and they had a the you know they they had a duel and they shot shot at each other about it You know? I mean there's there's certainly uh plenty of uh cases in the United States where over the last two hundred years certain things were Really, you know, the unwritten law was that you can't say that, the unwritten laws you can't say that. That's right. But now we're putting it into law for the first time. And again, I'm just very uncomfortable with any kind of hate speech laws 'cause uh the places where I've heard of in Europe and Canada where they use the hate speech laws It's Christians that are being put in jail because they're preaching uh against homosexuality and they're preaching certain things that that is resulting in Christians losing, you know, uh their churches, you know, being put in jail, you know, whatever's happening. And so it it appears to a Christian that those laws are designed to Chill Christian speech and allow everything else. Jonathan, if you're not going to be able to do that, you can't do that. For that matter, they even allow certain things to be taught about Islam in the schools that they would never allow you to teach about Christianity. I just at at this stage of the ballgame that's the case. And so the it it looks to us like they're promoting Islam. The abuse to the the abuse of hate speech laws or the what the Muslim world calls blasphemy or anti blasphemy laws. I'm a direct victim of that. In Pakistan, our community, the Ahmadiyya Muslim community, we've lost over two hundred people killed. Street justice, where they don't even make it to the court. And you know, Christian girls, twelve year old Christian girls, she has Down syndrome. And somebody said that she abused the prophet and she was she was on the death roll. Thank God they've forgiven her. But the abuse of blasphemy laws or hate laws Believe me, y you don't have to convince me. I've seen that so up close and personal and that's my fear. Once you make that law, then you know it's gonna be abused. But Th those who are advocating it, even if they don't win and get it placed on the books, it doesn't actually become a law. There's still the there's this cultural influence that takes place. I'm seeing it with uh uh a youth group that I'm involved with uh teaching And there are you know, middle school and high school age kids and they honestly want to know, is it okay to tell somebody 'cause you know, from a Christian point of view, if you're not a Christian, you're you're gonna spend eternity in hell Is it okay to tell a non-Christian that if they don't believe in Jesus they're going to hell? Or is that hate speech? Let the other person decide. You know? Well, I do you? You let the other per anybody who you tell that to who's not a Christian is gonna be offended. Right. For that matter I had kids that brought friends to our youth group. And when they got there, they tried to tell me that it was hate speech, you know, to to to preach that certain things were wrong. You know, whatsoever. Like like they actually came into the youth group and tried to like change the tone of the youth group. Because, you know, we live in America and you just can't be that way. And so it's it's pervasive. So it's not ju it's not just actual legal laws, but it's it's this cultural, this unspoken cultural law that's a good idea. And I'm I'm still uh I keep going back to that moral conscience of America, that cultural, the unwritten law. I think that's extremely powerful. Okay, so this goes back to the question that we dealt with. Real quick, by the way. Two weeks in a row. Yes Jonathan Sweites are senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and Dr. Fahim Yunus representing the Ahmadiyya Muslim community. Uh he you you're involved in teaching youth, I think. Yes, I I teach youth, I teach I just had a six week course at College of Notre Dame University. Uh I teach at community colleges about Islam, so I'm spending a lot of time teaching, meeting friends, seeing patients. Obeying my wife. Yeah. The um we'll see if I can remember it now. I remembered it until you asked me. I remembered it. And then I lost it. Yeah. No, I lost it now. We initially uh when we started this string of shows, we thought we might get into uh one of the articles that you posted in the Huffington Post talking about uh providing education in Afghanistan. Uh is that related to this? You're thinking that we could have a cultural influence by setting up some westernized instruction for For the youth in Afghanistan. when they're immersed in a culture that is otherw I mean the Taliban rule Afghanistan for crying out loud. Yeah aren't they gonna see that as an imperialistic uh extension of American You know, satanic culture. I agree with you, but I think the the again the detail there is that the fact is that fifteen fifty percent, half of the population of Afghanistan is under the age of fifteen. Sure. Now we can leave them in a vacuum like we did that ten, fifteen years ago and guess what happened? terrorism. And what I'm thinking and what I said in that piece was that it we our defense budget is over seven hundred billion dollars. If we were to spend one billion dollar and there's m lot of data on that, how that would go to change the educational outlook of Afghanistan, and what you do is you build small schools You bring the locals to come and protect them. There are plenty of people. We d don't need our s troops to go and guard them because yes, somebody will try to burn those schools. You let these kill children at least go through ten years of education so they can independently read and write. Secular schools. Because guess what? Saudi Arab is doing. They're opening madrasas there, the religious seminaries. That is the only inst uh the way uh if you don't do that, you leave an open ground for Saudis to infiltrate the whole country, have these fifteen year olds Only learn their version of Quran become jihadis and then come and hit us ten years later. And at the end of the day, the Taliban and the others there will simply burn them all down and and and use it as an example of the West again trying to wage jihad against Muslims. But there are there are organizations who've successfully done it. I know Greg Mortensen got some bad press, but he's had hundreds of schools, none of his schools have been burnt. If you do it right, if you have it through the grassroots. And then they have uh the So doing it right means that you have to look like you're not let empower the local people. You know there is always that tenure there's always a positive deviant in every society There's always a positive deviant. You find you know that has been identified in Afghanistan. There are people this girl Malala Yusuf Zai, by the way, who was shot by Taliban. Do you know why she was going to school? Because her father is the principal who's a Muslim Her father runs a girls school. So there are these men who passionately feel for the education of children and particularly girls. I think if we support them, we support the right people, and of course there is a risk, but then that's their risk We at least give them the support, the funding for it. Would you agree that the Taliban or groups like them in every country uh uses Their awareness of that kind of money being sent from the West to bring in, you know, those kinds of schools that they use that as a recruiting tool. They will if we don't. Of course. They're gonna recruit all of those fifteen years and that's my fear. No no no no no that's not what I'm saying. I'm saying that that it would be a propaganda thing that we are recruiting. We need to get rid of that. It's destroying our nation. Allah's never gonna bless us if we're walking away from the truth of the Quran. You're absolutely right. They're gonna try everything. And they'll use it. So you were just trying to manipulate. Well, you know, y that's why I say you let the locals lead it. Greg Mortensen When people from America have asked him to go volunteer there, he says, I don't want any American volunteers because I won't trust with these people. It has to be their volunteers, their fathers and uncles running the school, guarding it, cleaning it But all we need to do is help them with the buildings and curriculum. Those are the two things. We want to make sure that that curriculum teaches secular education. And as long as they have secular education, at least they'll be able to read and write. Right now they can't even read Quran that they're supposed to believe in. They're getting a d a filtered version from the mullah and when you do that to a thirteen year old who's lost one of his parents in the war who's hungry, who doesn't know where to go, and he's got bubbling hormones, boy, that's that's a setup. And I'm very scared of that. That I think the last thing is, I think it's a good idea. And the kid decided to not be an extremist Muslim, but instead decided to be secular, because you got a secular education. Is that better than being Ahmadian? As long see the uh my job is not to turn the world Ahmadiyya and the as long as he's peaceful and he's productive for the society. I think I'll let God judge. That's not my judgment whether it's better or not. To me, as long as he's productive, peaceful to the world, then my job is done. He will pick the best product And let's realize, you know, this takes us out of our comfort zone on the shelf, on the spiritual shelf. Right. There are a hundred products over there and every person will have to select their own product. Well you know the official religion of America is pragmatism, and I can't get past the the practical thinking on this. I just don't see how it could work. As an analogy, we talked uh a couple weeks back about uh Islamophobia. Imagine trying for uh the Ahmadiyya community trying to set up a school to make inroads and better educate people in the heart of Islamophobia land. Well, isn't it fair to say that the the the those who are in rulership in Afghanistan are westernophobes Right? I mean they are radically afraid of what the West represents, what it would do to their word. Western Europe it's it's it's not just America. Yeah, Western Europe. Right? When we built the Taliban. Right. We did that covert operation. Why can't we do another covert operation? We provide them pens this time. instead of a stringer missile. Well how do you know they're not already doing that? That'd be great. We can you know if this is a bad idea, bring out a better idea, but don't leave those fifteen year old millions of children in a vacuum because trust me, that is uh a dangerous recipe for world peace. I know I've heard those sermons, what they're gonna hear, that's scary. Anybody will be brainwashed if they heard that This is the they will be bringing it. We need to have this same strategy in the inner cities in America. We have entire generations of youth that graduate with diplomas that cannot read and write. Those that graduate. Some of them drop out, you know, and they don't even get the diploma. Okay, so I'm gonna go public. You gotta read Thomas Sowell's uh discussion on black uh his his book on black rednecks and w and uh white liberals and uh uh liberal elites. It's a fabulous book about uh about some of these kinds of issues. You have to read it. I highly recommend it. Thomas Sowell is an African-American guy. Now what does your going public have to do with anything? What does that mean? It means that I'm admitting that I read that book and that I'm in complete agreement with it. Wow. Okay. That's you see, that's the kind of position. But he took a very clear position. That's what I would want the Muslim leaders in America to do on issues. Come out public. Tell this is the book, this is the understanding, this is the ideology, a stand by it. And then let's see. You know, I think that's not happening. I would even go that far to say, you know, disclose your funding. Why not? You know, are you like we we we build as Ahmadis we build over fifty mosques in this country. We don't take mortgage, we consider that Islam asks us to stay live within our means. So we raise funds. Whatever we raise, that's what we build. If it's a small building, if it's a house converted to mosque, so be it. But I don't know how these other masks are being built. I don't know. And I'm not doubting them. All I'm saying is somebody has to come out say publicly where that money is coming from. We don't take a dime from anyone. So should the people that the government of France and Great Britain and Germany uh send secular schools like you're describing into the um Muslim enclaves in their cities that the police are even afraid to go into for fear of being stoned and hurt? Should they try to do the same thing there that you're recommending that we do in Afghanistan? Make schools. Make require do do some do somehow work with those populations to get their kids trained in Western liberal I wouldn't even go there. I would say just secular education. Why do we have to put our own liberal Western label on it? Well because all of a sudden I have no clue what you mean by secular education. Not really I thought I knew. No no because the the world the part of the world where I come from, they will just teach Quran and they'll call it education. That kid wouldn't know how to do algebra He wouldn't understand physics, he wouldn't know the elements, and he wouldn't know what it is. Right. But they don't teach it. But that's the see that's there's a word irony, my friend. You know that's the irony. Well and on a on a note of irony we're gonna wrap up the show. How's that sound? So I can do proper uh kudos and thanks to uh to our guests. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Railway Chapel. Golden handshake everybody. Yes, Dr. Fahim Yunus. Thank you very much. Representing the Amadea community. And again, check him out uh about every couple of weeks, it sounds like he's got a new uh blog posting on the Huffington Post. It's the only reason you should ever go to the Huffington Post. If I catch you going to the Huffington Post any other time, I will find you by a covert operation Spending a billion dollars. com. Oh yeah, okay, show them. Muslim American dot com and they have everything, not just the up edge but all my other work with Muslim youth and my Ahmadiyya. And the way that's now it's it's Muslim Erikan Erikin. That's right. com. MuslimArikan dot com. That's right. Right? Alright, so you can check that out I forgot about that, but I should have been promoting that instead of the Huffingtip Post. I don't know what's wrong with me. Anyway, what have I been reading? Real quickly, I've been reading uh Shepherd Leader, Achieving Effective Shepherding in Your Church by Timothy Whitmer Wanna thank our sponsor Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Que Make You Smile and BMC Insurance until next week. Thanks for listening. God bless