You know Last two weeks on this show, the Frederick Faith Debate, we've had Jonathan Schweitzer, my esteemed colleague. Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and uh Fahim Yunus who is uh becoming my uh he's already esteemed but becoming my Closer and closer colleague as well. Absolutely. Uh secret we're gonna exchange some bolts and handshakes later. Uh secretary of education at the uh for the uh Ahhamidian. Am I getting close? Muslim Community USA Uh and it occurs to me two chances now, this is chance three. Two chances now I've had to Make sure and then make sure you guys enjoyed your your Thanksgiving feast and the great liberties we have in this nation. I did not wish you a A happy Thanksgiving when I had the opportunity. So a much, much, much belated uh happy Thanksgiving and let me be the first to uh wish you a Merry Christmas. I don't I don't think Islam s recognizes Christmas at all Ramadan was too much. It's respectful for us because it's important for you. But the the birth of Christ is not a holiday per se for Islam? Okay. No. Okay. And similarly the words the Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, is not a holiday. Well you're in good you're in in in good company there because nowhere in the in the Bible can I find a celebration of Christ's birthday. So you're in you're in pretty good. What are you talking about? The shepherds did. Huh? We uh w when the when the angels showed up that was a celebration. But there's a lot of talking. Big of a big man. And throw some tinsel up on pine trees. They have pine trees in the Middle East? I don't think so. Shepherds and I guess it was probably two years later. So anyway. Okay. So Belated and uh uh and uh Ramadan and New Year and all those and Kwanzaa and uh festival. Usually uh every year Troy we'll get into a whole discussion about the uh paganization of uh Christian holidays right about this time in the world. Yeah, we're sorry, he's rubbing his hand. Um be since last week's show and uh before this show, um Apparently there's an issue with a a young man who has I I guess decided he doesn't want to be a Muslim anymore. Yeah, this is a story in Iran. Right. This is the story of Yusuf Nadir Khani who was a born Muslim in Iran. Yusuf Nadirhani. Right, Nadir Khani. At the age of nineteen he decided that he wanted to be a Christian. And now at the age of thirty two he decided that he wanted to be a pastor. and the Iranian authorities have come after him and he's right now on a death row under the crime quote unquote of apostasy. Yeah, but then they came back then they came back and said, Oh, he's not there for apostasy. He abused some children, so they they made up some But he was he was apostate uh thirteen years ago. Right, so it's the fact that he now wants to become a leader within a different movement that's really getting their attention. Is that what's going on? Right, see the I just use that story to make sure that these things are still happening. Of course, who knows all the details? And I don't know all the details, but the more important part here is if there is any country that does this in the name of Islam Nothing could be farther from the truth and to me this is just preposterous. It sounds like it's you know it's more about power and politics. I mean if they wanted to go after him for apostasy, they would have done it thirteen years ago. So now he's becoming he's rising through the ranks, he's a higher profile, he wants to lead a a church, and now they want to clamp down on that because of a power struggle or political influence or who know. So what does the the Quran or what does uh in in your uh view a I'm not meaning to say that in a in a derogatory way, but in fairness to those who would disagree with you, but in in your view, what does true Islam teach about what you should do with somebody who Uh turns their back on the men of the Islam Faith. Right. Quran mentions apostasy not once, not twice, but a number of times But it does not offer any punishment for apostasy. I mean A N Y capital uppercase. Any punishment. Nothing. Here are here's the data. Chapter three verse one forty five, God says, He who turns back on his heels shall not harm Allah a wit. Chapter 109 verse 6 Unto you your religion, unto me my religion. Chapter 18, verse 29, Whosoever will let let him believe, and whosoever will, let him disbelieve. And here's the most interesting one, chapter 4, 138, and I'll stop there because there's so many references I can give you. Those who believe, then disbelieve. Then again believe, then disbelieve, and thereafter go on increasing in disbelief, Allah will never forgive them nor guide them to any way of deliverance. Now the point is How can you believe, disbelieve, disbelieve, disbelieve if you are going to be killed the first time you disbelieve? So what are the Shiite it's Shiite leaders in Iran, right? What are the Shiite leaders Uh resting their case on the what they will say, their confusion really emerges between their confusion to distinguish between apostasy and treason. There are a handful of examples, maybe six, maybe ten, during the life of Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, of people who were apostates. And they were killed. However, the reason they were killed was not apostasy, was their treason. They went to the enemy side And they basically, you know, leaked the army secrets of a you know, just like think of this guy Al Laki, Anwar Al Laki who was killed by an air strike in Yemen the other day. He's not killed because, you know, he's a Muslim He's being killed because he's planning an at a an attack on our country. And he is putting our people in harm's way, whether it could be you or I. He doesn't care about that So again, this is what separates Ahmadians uh from the rest of uh the Islamic world is exactly separate church and state, whereas Sunnis and Shiites don't separate church and state. So you're able to distinguish between he's doing that for a political reason as opposed to the remote. It's exactly right, because it is absolutely the Shiites never make that distinction. And well but interestingly over the I would say that we are probably one of the first ones to start talking about it years ago, but now a lot more moderate Right, and you know, and and and I I know these subjects very up close and personal because you know we have been on the receiving end of this in Pakistan where they call us as apostates But you searched this term thirty years ago and you would be hard pressed to find any support. But the other day I think I was searching and now there are websites of Muslims against apostasy and there are hundreds of scholars who are saying the exact same thing. So I think this this movement is now gaining more steam and hopefully we will clarify this this problem from better. Would the more radical uh Shiite leaders in places like Iran think that you're apostate Absolutely, they will. Yeah, in fact they've killed Ahmadians. That's right. Ahmadians came to the United States uh seeking religious political asylum. Yeah, that is correct. So what would be the core tenants of their faith that you don't accept that they say, okay, that's a apostate. Because yeah. The the here is the confusion between Ahmadis and non-Ahmadis. The difference is they're waiting for the second coming. We say we have believed in someone So there's nothing new here. You know, you're waiting, you know, we're both standing on the airport wait waiting for say, you know, Mr. John Smith. Everybody knows, you know, there is somebody gave you a paper s saying his flight comes at this time, this is how it looks and we think we have John Smith and we've taken him home. You think we got the wrong guy. This is, you know, very over overly simplistic. Well, when your John Smith comes, call me out, come pick him up. Right? So why are you killing me for even if it's a mistake, it's an innocent mistake. We don't consider this a mistake, of course, because the purpose of John Smith, if he had to come and uh you know fix the highway system of the road we feel Mirzahullah Mahmad, the Messiah that we believe in, he's already fixed those broken roads within Islam. So we feel like there's a overwhelming evidence in support. But here is how the story gets twisted the clergy for their own political agenda they'll say, Hey, look at these Muslims. They have cre uh these these Ahmadi Muslims, they have created yet a new prophet after Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. And this now rouses this this generates a lot of negative emotion because people without thinking, they say let's go kill them because they're a different faith altogether. They cannot be a new prophet after Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. And we just keep saying, Hold on. What will happen to the second coming when your Jesus, peace be upon him, will come? Will he not be a prophet? And they don't want to engage in that conversation. So that's the that's why they very successfully by the way, call us apostates. Now the Shiites consider the Sunnis apostate and vice versa? This this goes on. You know, like there was a nice article in a Urdu newspaper the other day which said that Muslim countries are factories of creating apostates, but we have not created as many Muslims. as we have created apostates. So, you know, this is a political debate that goes on. But what's the basic difference between Sunni and Shiite? Basically about apostates? Uh no just just in general. Oh in general. Yeah. As far as doctrine. Right, right. So doctrine wise, when Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, passed away. Thirty-two years after his demise, there was a split within Muslims. There's a group leadership. But that was but that was a power struggle split. That wasn't a doctrinal split. It became a doctrinal start down the road, yeah. uh in charge then you're which one? So the Shiites believe that the leadership has children should be in charge that you're Sunni. So that's the major difference. But once you change leadership of course The leadership is going to then have an effect on the doctrine over fourteen hundred years. So there's been changes but that's the initial. Well I guess that's kind of my question. So fourteen hundred years later, what would be a key or are there any significantly different doctrinal positions? Like you believing that the second coming has happened and they don't that's pretty big. Right. Right. That's a pretty big distinctive. Right. Are there big distinctives like that between those two? You know what and I I would love for a Shiite or a Sunni to come and represent themselves here, so I wanna be very careful. I don't wanna because I don't want to label someone with something that they may disagree. But what I've heard from the outside your perspective is from what I've heard from others is that Shiites Right, this is why uh he's in hiding Mahmoud Adam Ahmadineijad is always saying that he's there. He's there and he wants him to come out and save the world. Sunnis don't believe that. Sunnis believe that Jesus, peace be upon his, is in the heavens He will descend in the latter days and then peace will be established on earth. So that's one key doctrinal defense. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer, by the way, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Fahid Yunus, Secretary of Education for the Ahmadian Muslim Community USA. What do you make of Christians like Jonathan and like me that think that, you know, the second coming hasn't come and when it does it inaugurates something completely other than what we understand as our present reality. Because you think that he's come, but not that much has really changed in the world, right? I mean the the uh There's still death and disease and you know, taxes that are too high and Frederick City being a police state and things like that. Um But when when uh Christmas pre millennial pre millennial pre trib? No, I'm I'm a millennial. I thought so. And so so you're of the opinion that um that A D seventy was a significant coming of Christ, aren't you? No, not not necessarily the coming of Christ, no. Oh. Okay, interesting. And so when Christ returns again, uh you're thinking that he's going to uh do all the things that revelations say that he's gonna do? All that's yet to be fulfilled? In its fullness, yes. Okay, okay, interesting. Okay, I just wanted to clarify where he was at. If anybody was listening, that's just a little shop talk to We live we we live in a world of instant gratification full of imagery with three D and four D movies and we we like sensational versions of everything However, when we look at history of mankind, there is no sensational stuff at all. You live at y even you go back two thousand years and you look at the time of Jesus, peace be upon him, for those first coming. Uh I don't find dramatic stuff. I find very humbling stuff. I want very human stuff. Sure, I understand. And we don't believe that. Right. We don't believe that. But you do believe that he healed people. Spiritually. And spiritual. So you don't think he walked on water? We don't think that And you don't think that he uh he fed the five thousand with five loaves and two fishes? That's what I'm saying. That we believe that all of those are very turned the water into the wine That's boy's most favorite. And this you know, this fascinates human mind and I respect that. I'm not gonna disagree with some, I'm not gonna force anybody, but I think you'll be hard pressed. So here is the way I look at it and you ask, you know, you'll be hard pressed what? You'll be hard pressed to find a precedence for that. I think human mind cannot fathom stuff which you're doing. This is where he's a Jeffersonian. No, this is this is this is how you're My point is, you know, we are we are becoming and you this now this is where I'm making a broader comment about the religious community. We are becoming irrelevant to the world precisely because some of the things we talk about people have they cannot connect with that at all And this is this is very true for Muslims. I don't think it could be more relevant the nature of our show because we believe that the that those things are profound. Profoundly relevant and then fact that the postmodern world is asking those questions more, not less. Well absolutely. But you know but spiritual spirituality has been a good thing. Well I I'm just I'm just telling you I had to throw that in just for the fun of it. I'm just telling you that spirituality in the You were serious though. It's true, I'm serious. But I knew that You know, I think I think in a way I am Christian. There were many Christians like me in the first century who did not believe in the divinity of Christ. Christ, but they believed in everything else. And I would claim that that that meant that they were anti-Christ, because in First John it says that if anyone does not believe that Christ has come in the flesh, that he died and was resurrected. I think that's a deep topic, but in my opinion. No, that I think the point really is So you're not arguing from from the direction of what what the Bible says. You're arguing from the direction of what I'm saying. uh anglo bible for perhaps a you think the new testament argues now I just want to clarify you're saying you think the New Testament argues that it was not important to believe that Christ died and rose from the from the night. I think what I'm saying is what I'm arguing instead I'm saying they were a large number. All I'm saying is there's a large number of people who were Christians like me in the first century. And I I'm I'm happy to support that. You gotta clarify that because I can't let that just go. Right. So here is my here is my uh they were a Christian like you right here's my Christian faith, my Jewish faith, my Hindu faith. As Muslims, we believe that all of these people Christian, Krishna, Buddha, Moses, Jesus, Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, Jacob, you name it, peace be upon all of them, and Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. They're all true righteous prophets. Okay, now God just to clarify, you're speaking as an Ahmadi Muslim or you're speaking for all Islam? Because I don't think fundamentalist um uh Muslims would agree that Buddha uh is one of those so even for the sake of discussion if that gives us more growth. So you can take Buddha and Krishna out, yes, that but if I take those two out we are talking of all Muslims. They all believe in all of these prophets of God. I understand. As true righteous prophets. We don't get to pick and choose. Like you know when I buy this phone I can say, you know what, I like the phone but I don't want to like I don't like the camera I take the whole package and, you know, then I'm stuck with paying for the whole package. Okay, but wouldn't you say that you agree that the New Testament is corrupted? I would not use that word, but I would say it's not the same that was revealed. Uh and do you think that that happened before Muhammad Cain or after Muhammad Cain, the corruption? It happened before. Because there is there is countless surahs that argue that um that there's no difference between the Bible and the Quran. Two verse one thirty six says, We believe in Allah, that which has been sent down to us, which has been sent to Ibrahim, Ishmael, Ishach, Yaqub. And the Alspot and which has been given to Musa and Esau and that which has been given to the prophets from the Lord. We make no distinction between any of them. And then in Surah 3 3 it says it is he who sent down to you the book with truth, confirming what came before, he sent down the Torah and the Ingeel. That's right. And so then he goes on to say that if you are in doubt concerning what we have revealed to you, ask those who are reading the book, meaning the Torah and the Injil, meaning the Injil is is their word for the gospel, the Torah is there is the word for the Old Testament.