Welcome to the Fake Debate. What are the strengths, weaknesses, and even potential dangers of the apostolic movement? How can self-styled apostles who might be interested in exerting control over other people We have a panel filled with friends today, friends of the Faith Debate Show and dear friends of mine, Pastor Neil Echempong leads the flock at Covenant Family Chapel in downtown Frederick, where I have been invited to speak a couple of times by the way. My wife Dina has actually uh shared uh brief testimonies there as well, so thank you for that. Uh be sure to remain uh tuned to WFMD right after our show, the Faith Debate Show wraps up today because You will hear on these same WFMD Airways at 9 30, Pastor Neil Chimbong and one of his uh recent sermon messages. And uh Our other panelists today. Following seven years as a pastor, he served in youth ministry for two years with Youth for Christ Campus Life. This is the author of Apost The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among Us, or The Kingdom Among You, Right? King It's not the Kingdom Among Us, The Kingdom Among You. So us or you I'm confused. No uh Among You. It is you. Okay. Kingdom Among You is a self taught theologian and scholar who serves many churches as a teacher with emphases on the Mosaic Tabernacle, the Book of Revelation, and the Kingdom of God. Barry Robert Starlipper is uh that author, and we're gonna kind of pick up there. We ended last week's show And we had some uh really deep stuff that so many people that are followers and fans of this show were were yearning for me to probably dive into splitting some hairs. And we're not gonna do a whole lot of hair splitting, but I do think it's gonna be important for us to define our terms. And that might just dec might help everybody determine where the hair splits are falling anyway So the last time we uh were together and Barry had a chance to speak for any length of time, he was bringing emphasis to emphasis to the idea that hey the church, in l in in large swaths of it anyway, has kind of lost its way on focusing on The message of Jesus who was sent by the Father from heaven, preaching the kingdom. We've got to preach the kingdom. And uh instead of having the kingdom, we ended up with the church. So I want to start with those two words. Let's define Kingdom. What do we mean by kingdom when we say that? He's preaching the kingdom. What does that mean? That one is probably gonna be at least for me harder to define because again, when I say that word to somebody, uh it varies as to what they think. I'm talking about. And I I think Jesus experienced the same problem. Um people not understanding the kingdom of God and exactly what that is. Um and yet, as Pastor Neo uh said in his um remarks ending our time together last week, uh I a matter of fact I I turned to you after you turned to Mike off and I said, you know, Pastor Neal could have written this book with me because he he has such a wonderful rendering uh talking about uh uh the quote uh from jesus himself in luke four forty three forty three uh about him being sent to preach the kingdom. And and in the furtherance of that same chapter he even said to the disciples, we have to go to this next village and preach the kingdom there. This is something I really emphasize in my book. Yes, the book is entitled The Apostle Jesus, but the subtitle, The Kingdom Among You, is actually more of the heart of what my book is about because that is what The sent one, which is what the word apostle means, came to teach and preach. And so flipping it clear back to the idea of what is apostolic, well, apostolic is teaching the teachings of the apostle who was sent. And what he taught was the kingdom. He didn't teach religion. He didn't come to formulate religion. He came to talk about his father's kingdom. Now, I know I'm taking a long time to get there, but to your direct question, when I say kingdom, when Jesus said kingdom, he was talking about, and I'm talking about, The eternal, ever-existent kingdom of God that has always been and will forever be. The domain, kingdom, it it ha it includes the domain of the king. That's what kingdom really means. The entire world as we know it, the cosmos, everything that the Creator has created. is all his and is his kingdom. Always has been, always will be. It's an eternal thing. And it's universal. It's universal, cuts across all uh religions. Um you you might find this surprising, but so far I've had Almost as many Muslims buy my book as Christians. Because some of them have understood my point that I make about the kingdom of God being universal has nothing to do with religion. Religion has to do with rules, regulations, doctrines, theologies. The kingdom of God doesn't have anything to do with any of that. It is universal. It is the domain of the king. And so I thought about um since last week I I I just thought that Pastor Neil here, that's why I said he could have written this book with me, was on such a great thought when he talked about the idea of worship. And that in a lot of the apostolic churches it's all about, you know, the the emotion of doing that. And he said Which I thought was so great when you said it. No, it's really about worship should be about worshiping the king, because that's what it is about. Let me give you uh just a quick statement of something. I don't want to get off here on a extra rabbit trail, but I think this is important to point out. Recently I have been in uh study and in search of what I call the ancient language, the Hebrew language. And I have made some great discoveries. I I've recently discovered that most of the book of Revelation, which is really misunderstood Most of the original of it was written in Hebrew. Another thing that people don't realize is that the Gospel of Matthew We think about the New Testament, we think, well, most of it was written either in Aramaic or in Greek or whatever. Not true. The book of Matthew was originally written in Hebrew. Here's why I'm bringing that up. The book of Matthew ha is one of the books that has what we call the Lord's Prayer in it, which I call the disciples' prayer, because the disciples said teach us how to pray, and that's when Jesus gave them what we call the Lord's Prayer. Well, a significant part of that prayer And I, by the way, I am as guilty as anyone to have misquoted this for years until I got a hold of the Hebrew Gospel of Matthew. Most of us believe that that prayer says May your kingdom come. May your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. But in the Hebrew, that's not what it says. It's not, pray, my kingdom come. The prayer in Hebrew says, quote, pray, may my kingdom be blessed. And the word in Hebrew for blessed is the same word that is used for knee, the knee. It's to kneel. That prayer says, May my kingdom be blessed. When you come into the prayer starts with our Father. When you come into the presence of the Father and the Creator. You need to pray to him, may your kingdom be blessed. And so you come, as Neil pointed out last week He said he was raised in a country that has kingdoms and you understand it when you come into the presence of the king, you kneel before him This this is the difference in the concept of the idea of the kingdom versus some of these religious thoughts that other people get caught up in. That prayer really says Come into the presence of the Father on bended knee, praying to him that his kingdom may be blessed. Or in other words, come and bless his kingdom. The kingdom is all about the king. And that's what Jesus came to talk about. He said that the Pharisees, the religious leaders of that day, who were all about religion. He said, Listen, I can only come here because my father sent me, and I can only speak the words that he gave me. I can only say what I've heard from the Father. And what they were doing, as religious as it appeared, he wasn't satisfied with. And that's why the Pharisees and the Sadducees and the religious cults of that day gave him such a fit. Because he came upsetting all of their apple carts about everything. And that's why most of what we call the Sermon on the Mount, which I think is also inappropriately titled, but whatever Uh he said over and over again, you have heard it said this, but here's what my father sent me to tell you. It's this He was always in contrast with the religious leaders of the day. Why? Because they were talking religion, he was preaching the kingdom. That's the uh voice of very Robert Starlipper, the author of The Apostle Jesus, the Kingdom Among You. Um And also on the show this week I'm um I'm debating whether uh I want to chime in too much because I'm not going to because I want to hear what uh Pastor Neal has to say. So the other voice you're about to hear is that of uh uh Dr. Neela Chimpong who's the pastor of Covenant Family Chapel in downtown Frederick. So uh respond in any way you you want to on the things that Barry was just talking about and in in the course of your response hopefully we'll touch upon um your idea of defining kingdom, but also maybe if there's anything you feel like you still want to clarify about your ideas about how to define worship. Okay. So there's a lot of words to be defined here. So Yeah, let's start with the uh the word kingdom. Uh if you would um slash that word into two, it's is king's domain or the domain of a king. And when the word domain could also be looked at as the word territory. Now, any time you talk about a kingdom You're talking about land, you're talking about rulership, you're talking about how far this kin's uh rule stretches Right. And um when we bring that application to God, the question we must ask is, does he have land? Now let me use ethnic things to explain spiritual things. We know from all these other kingdoms that existed, Great Britain and all these other uh Anglo Saxon uh Saxon kingdoms and so on you will clearly understand that they fought for lands because that is how kings show that they have power and rule. And most often when they conquer an area then they govern that area Once they govern that area, the next thing that really happens is that the king never actually s stays there He goes back to the original kingdom but then he sends a governor or some form of ambassador if we have to use democratic terms uh to go and live in that area. As long as his representative is on that land It means that that territory is under his rule. Now if he if the people there rebel, he has to recall that individual and there his hands are off. Now the scripture says the heaven is God's throne but the earth He made. Why? Because it is a spusto. It is the place of extension of his power as a king. And so primarily God did not conquer a land, but he made one. so that he can extend his heavenly rule to earth. This is what Christianity is all about. So when Jesus came and said, If I by the finger of God, Matthew 12, 28, cast out devils, then is the kingdom of God amongst you. Why? Because he said amongst you was the devil and his kingdom ruling and controlling. But once I am present and I begin to move the powers of darkness away, it is an indication that another kingdom is present. One that is more powerful than the one that did exist. So anytime we talk about a kingdom, in vague terms we say it's the domain of a king, but in application to our Christian work, It is in relation to our relationship to the King, recognizing God as King and then always allowing our lives to conform to him. So Jesus said in Matthew 633, he says, Seek first the kingdom of God. He said that ought to be your priority. And the righteousness of the king. Now that term righteousness in Matthew 6. 33 has nothing to do with sin, but it has to do with having a right standing with the king. For example, if you are in right standing with the laws of this nation, it means that you have not done anything to destroy those laws. So you are in right standing with authority. Right, so Jesus shows up on the scene, he moves into the River Jordan, John the Baptist is baptizing people, and Jesus said, John Baptize me. John said, No, I'm not doing that. And Jesus said, Suffray to fulfill all righteousness. What is Jesus saying? He said, John, you are the representative of that kingdom on earth at the moment. I'm about to come forth. In that kingdom you do not sidestep authorities set by the king. So I have to fall in line. And so The concept of kingdom is not properly understood by most people in the church. The average church member doesn't understand it. And if we did, we will not misinterpret a lot of things today. Now, if you go back to the book of Matthew 16, and when Jesus asks the question about who do men say that I am, he introduces the terminology ecclesia, the church Now, is it something different from the kingdom? No, it is not if you really understand the meaning of the word because what Jesus was saying was that The ones who have been called out, the ecclesia, the chosen ones, they are more or less in uh in uh our modern-day terminology, we would say the senators, basically, people who are there to enforce the laws of the king. Where are the laws of the king? It's in the Bible. We're going to live it and we're going to let the world rest of the world see. So as Christians And as people who are in the church, there ought not to be a difference between the kingdom and the church. Unfortunately there is today. There shouldn't be. But we have been called to enforce the laws of heaven, not as in military people or police officers enforcing the law. But we enforce it by actually living it So look at all the parables of Jesus. And the kingdom of God is like a mustard seed. And the kingdom of God is like a seed. And every time Jesus talked about, he kept talking about the kingdom. This ought to be the message. Unfortunately, we do not understand it. And so I believe there ought to be what I call going back to rediscovering that kingdom concept. For example Religion prepares us to go to heaven. But the kingdom concept, he says, I need you to possess the earth and bring my kingdom down here so that men will know this place where Satan has taken dominion receive my power and bring it in. Alright. So those are the basic issues that has to do with the kingdom, the church and so on. So any believer who says I am a child of the king means I have a relationship with the king, which we call salvation. And then I I live my life based on what the king says, not what I want to do. And if we fully understand kingdom concepts, honestly There are a lot of things we misinterpret in the word of God we will never misinterpret. So if you look at it, let me use the natural term. Any the kingdom of God, the original kingdom, the kingdom of heaven, is a country. Is a country. For example, my country, Ghana, was colonized by Great Britain. The Queen never stepped foot in Ghana But we sing the songs, we hold the union, Jack, we do everything they do. We r we drive on the same side. These are the impacts of kingdoms that even though the king may not be present But then there is an impact that takes place. This is why we are here. We are here on earth to bring the kingdom. The church is not ours to build. Jesus said, I'm going to do that. Yours is to take the kingdom wherever you are. So notice the discussion between Jesus and Nicodemus. He said they could tell you what unless you're born again, you cannot enter the kingdom of God. What is Jesus talking about? He says you can't be part of the kingdom I'm talking about. Until you are born again. Why? Because the only way you become a citizen of a country is through death. And Jesus is saying you cannot enter that kingdom until you have the second death Not your natural birth, because your natural birth makes you a Jew. But the second birth, which is truth, the Holy Spirit, makes you a citizen of the kingdom And those are the basic things that we don't understand. So we misinterpret born again, we misinterpret salvation. We think it's works and so on. Many things are misinterpreted. But if the church can go back to what Jesus brought and fully grasp and understand those things and if you fully understand kingdom, the Western world doesn't because for example America as a nation rose in rebellion to a kingdom. So to embrace the concepts of kingdom and most of the kingdoms of the of uh of that we know the way they did things uh make us always want to shun the concept of kingdoms but If God is the king, he has to have a kingdom. We Kremlin keep saying he's a king and then he doesn't have one. Believe it or not, we're gonna have to draw it to a close pretty soon. I'm gonna try to maybe use the time we have remaining in this week's show to set up uh the start of next week's uh show. Uh because I think we're gonna have to spend some time defining another word, uh and that is what we mean by by our usage of the word religion. Yes. um because I'm appreciating what both of you had to say on today's show, uh, but I'm not so sure that that what I'm appreciating leads me to say things the same way that you, Barry, are saying things on the show and in your book Um and so I'm I'm saying this uh as a thought starter so that next week we can hit the ground running. To me the idea of we should take bended knee in worship of God, that's a that is a um a religious action. it seems to me. And if the king is governing his area there are certain rules that his loyal subjects would subscribe to to demonstrate that they are loyal to the king. And I would argue that some would suggest that those sorts of activities are religious. When Jesus says, do this in remembrance of me, he is instituting some sort of a of a quote unquote religious practice, at least the way some people would define religious. So it might be a a uh question of of defining what we mean by religion. Yes. Well actually part of what you're saying is the other way around religion has identified or myth identified some of the very things you're talking about. Okay. Well I guess we'll we'll dive more deeply into that. uh next week's show, Cliffhanger. So again the book that we're uh primarily revolving our conversation around today is The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You, written by Barry Robert Starlipper. You can Find more information about Barry and his book at thinkkingdom. org. Uh also on the show, and you're gonna hear his voice uh again for the next half hour, Doctor Neil Champong, pastor at uh Covenant Family Chapel in downtown Frederick. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty. WFMD and you can find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find a listing of uh kind of a rundown of the shows that are about to uh come up pretty soon and a rundown of shows that have aired recently and then we're also gonna have links to all the podcasts podcast of this show should be up by about Tuesday morning. That's usually when they seem to hit. So give us about forty-eight hours and this podcast should be up in case you're missing the beginning of it and you want to hear it again. All right. Thanks so much for listening. Till uh one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from now. God bless.