Broadcasting for the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at wfmd. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to all sorts of interesting things, podcasts of this very show, news items, uh links to various religious traditions, and the new incarnation of the Faith Debate blog, which is really a video vlog now and I think you're watching evidence of it if you're online perhaps right now. Jonathan Sweitzer has his little flip video camera and is going crazy. I think this is his favorite toy since he was a little still little boy. Huh? It's your favorite toy, isn't it, Jonathan? Yeah, so he kept his microphone off there so I couldn't respond and tell you that it was my favorite toy and I'm going to be a famous director one day while you're still only on the radio. So uh that's Jonathan Swife, the He's Senior Pastor of Cross Australia Church. I am Troy Skinner, um your uh longtime and erstwhile and into the future host of the Faith Today program. And we're joined I don't even know it's gonna be weird for me to actually give your full name. I have known I have known Barry for more than a decade, probably about a dozen years, maybe more, maybe thirteen years. And I I I've I've never given him the three name thing before. So Barry Robert Styliper, who is the the author of uh The Apostle Jesus A new book, well new it's it's uh less than a year old, so it's still new, right? Yes. Do you have three names? Hm? Do you have three names? Yeah, but usually you don't go by them until you've like Killed someone, do you right? Sorry, uh very about that. I gather we're talking about John Wills. Lee Harvey, Oswald. Yeah, exactly. So Anyway, I I don't know what's in your past, but maybe we'll find out. Anyway, so uh Barry wrote this Barry um goodness gracious. It's probably within a year of he and I meeting, so this is probably twelve years ago. We were having lunch together and all of a sudden I find out out of the blue that, oh what I was an evangelist as a teenager, and I was like, what, what And so I've known about this part of his life for a while, but I never really knew the depth of his thinking on theological things until he mentioned that he had written a book and I said, Oh, cool, can I read it? Yeah. And now we're here to talk about it. The Apostle Jesus, the Kingdom Among you is the subtitle uh for the book. So so much of what we're gonna talk about is gonna center on our understanding of the word apostle and uh apostolic. And the reality is that is that we're probably starting from a place of having quite a bit in common in terms of salvation, in terms of the role of the church in the world, you know, some basic esc you know, uh end times, you know, ideas. But uh but it's gonna be some of the finer points of Christian theology that we're getting into here. And I think that well, we'll find out if we disagree or agree on how we define our terms, but we're gonna have to make sure we get that clarified, otherwise we'll be talking past each other. Right. So uh I'll start. In broad terms, and you guys can get us into the minutiae. In broad terms, usually the word apostle is used in two primary ways, the capital A apostle and the little A apostle. And those who make that distinction are usually saying that the capital Apostle is talking about the people from the first century A. D. or um Uh B C combat A B. What's it called though in Sector of Our Lord? Yeah, I know it's A B now, but what what do the the uh secular humanists like to call it now uh common era. Yeah, C E. Thank you. I don't know why I was drawing a blank on that. So anyway, uh so Paul was an apostle. Jonathan can't be an apostle, capital A in that understanding. Um and then there's a little A, which is just a messenger, one who's sent, that sort of a thing, and that could be anybody. Theoretically. So those are the two those are the broad, but there's a lot more there. So Jonathan, how you come from a you know uh I don't know if you come from, but you uh are now in a charismatic uh milieu. So how would your In fact we would uh tend to identify ourselves as charismatic fivefold um New Testament uh y you know, as as identifying terms meaning that and fivefold includes apostle. And fivefold includes apostle, both the idea of New Testament And the idea of fivefold is referring to a sense that, you know, some people are saying that we need to go back, you know, with to uh to Martin Luther and Calvin because we're reformed. where some people are saying, no, we need to go back to Augustine or we need to go back before Constantine, you know, to to f to find the pure church of Jesus Christ or the pure doctrine of of uh of the church. And so what has been the uh the primary goal, you know, the the driving um uh factor in the f the theology, the eschatology, the the ecclesiology, you know, all the all the allergies of of uh of Christianity for my group of churches has been what does the New Testament teach and uh why should we not follow in their footsteps? Why should we not return to to what is the clear teaching of the New Testament, which keeps in our mindset the Bible at the center of what we're doing and how we're doing it and keeps us in the place of of working diligently to understand uh as best that we can, you know, what what did the the uh New Testament authors mean by what they said and how they said it. So uh Ephesians f uh chapter four refers to These five gifts that uh Christ uh ascended on high and he led captives in his train and he gave gifts to men. And the giving of gifts there is the word Doma. uh which which is uh a unique kind of giving. It's not the same kind of gift as the charismata of First Corinthians twelve Uh it's not the same kind of gift as the as the Romans twelve gifts, but but there's a unique sense of what those gifts represent that are supposed to be given for the building up of the body To a perfect man to to the point where they can minister to themselves and build one another up in love. And so these five gifts for for the purpose of of building uh the body and you look at apostle as a kind of an office. And so we look at apostle as um No, because uh office would assume that that we're that organized. Right? I've known you too long. I know that's not true. Part of our emphasis on a New Testament approach uh honestly is to get past the denominational or an organizational approach back to what appears in the first century to be something that's a lot more organic uh and is led by the spirit where uh where there's not a whole lot of um bureaucracy uh but there's uh there's just the sense of God using people to spread the message that Christ has died and risen from the dead. and has anointed them to to perform certain roles. So there is a sense that there's a specific role that each of those five apostle, prophet, evangelist, pastor, teacher. And um many put the pastor-teacher together, you know, and I don't know that I have a big beef with that, but the point is that the five of those are the leadership gifts given by God. Not something that that man somehow decides, you know, this or that, but man could recognize that people are acting in those roles, but that ultimately it's a gift that got that Jesus gave to the church to build us up. to do the work in ministry. And so what we what we say is that, you know, we're not a perfect man yet and there would still be there there would still seem to be a need for the body to be trained and developed. uh to be the best that God intended for it to be. And so apostle is one of those guys. So we define apostle as one who is set that seems to play a unique role in terms of planting churches, in terms of of uh penetrating uh places that have not had churches, uh uh uh uh in terms of playing a role of of kind of a uh a leader of leaders developing leadership, uh somebody who um works uh you know when you look at the characteristics of of an apostle it includes miracles it includes patience and gentleness um and some sense of a direct you know, call from God. And so um I think all those things come into play. Uh and it's I guess limited by honestly whether or not the individual is Preaching the truth as Scripture defines it, uh, and that he is um acting with true Christlikeness. And so there's plenty of people that call themselves apostles, that like the name, and I think this is what what your book gets into is is a lot of ways, uh at least this is the way I was reading it, interpreting it and applying it, uh uh that there's a lot of people that use the term poorly and end up as a result uh abusing Authority. You repetitively referred to Jesus as Apostle Jesus. Yes. So when you're using when you're emphasizing apostle uh in a positive way as it talks about Jesus And you have a tendency to to to use apostolic and kind of a negative connotation an a an awful lot throughout the book. So how are you how are you using those terms and how is uh for your reader? Well, first of all, I I hope that it uh doesn't appear to be negative in the sense of the of the term apostolic Uh my concerns with regard to people who refer to themselves as apostolic. Yeah, yeah. Is as opposed to referring to themselves as apostles. Well the the two are related, uh but my distinction I I'm dealing with the idea of what it means to be apostolic, not what it means to be an apostle. And my contention in this book is that too many people want to refer to themselves as apostolic and yet they don't have the apostle, the sent one. at the center of what they're talking about. Yeah, right. So that is where the problem came in. So let me ask this question just to just to clarify. You would be okay with somebody I self-identifying as an apostle, provided they were doing it uh according to some of these qualifications that you're gonna that you're gonna clarify here. It's tough for me to even answer that, and here's here's why. Um I don't have a problem with someone wanting to call themselves an apostle. Sure. But I I really think that uh the term itself in that sense is erroneous because um we are all either sent ones via the sent one or can become sent ones Sure. I mean if you look at at Jesus' prayer in the garden in uh John seventeen, when he talks about that, you know, Father as you have sent me, I am sending them. Now most people want to connect that directly to the disciples, half of which were asleep that night. Right. as being who he was in reference to warriors. But if you look into John seventeen, uh he goes further and talks about that there are going to be others beyond them that even once they are sent, they will then be sending us. So so in that sense, we all uh should be apostles. I mean if you look at at the Greek word for apostle, basically it means sent one. Or the sent one. So Uh all of us are sent. We're all sent, then what is the what what is the point you're making when you're talking about whoever those people are that say we're apostolic? Because if I'm saying, hey, I'm a apostolic because I recognize that all believers are sent and we're apostolic in that sense, you wouldn't have a disagreement with that, probably. But you're so what are what are people usually meaning when they use the term apostolic that you're responding to? Yeah, there seems to be an abuse of the term that you're responding to. Uh there I I don't know if I want to call it an abuse. You know, one of one of the um challenges with this book from the very beginning has been that a lot of people have misunderstood some of the things I've said in it to where the the remarks I get the most often is once they uh read my book is boy you you really don't like the church. You're really almost anti church. It's amazing how a book is a part of a conversation. Right. A book is not an end in itself and and m those that have written books that I talked to about it seem to recognize this very thing that then you get feedback And then you think more about things, then you're like, okay, well either I'm I make another edition or you know I write you know a further book, you know, and there's this conversation going on between those that write, those that read, and those that write other books And it kinda sounds like some of that's been happening for you here. Well, it it has and and yet I I tried to make an effort uh toward the end of the book, I bring in a character by the name of Jerry, who basically argues with me. He's my nemesis. Um a lot of people I just call him Troy. Um Well very similar situation to what you're talking Um and a lot of people uh Of course in the book Jerry loses. In real life, Troy wins. Well that that's a distinction. I'm sure you two are gonna have to work out By the way really quickly, this is the Faith Debate on Freddy's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the one who always wins. Jonathan Sweisher, the one who never wins, the senior pastor of Cross O'S Valley Church Ah, you're a winner in my book. That's okay. And uh Barry Robert Starleiper, who is the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You, and that's what we're talking about. And we're d trying to uh uh grapple with defining our terms a little bit. And I do want probably n we're gonna have this panel together again next week. And I think that we're gonna want to spend some time next week talking about exactly what you just alluded to, which why do you dislike the church so much? Yeah. So looking at the specifics of that, but I'm not I say that tongue in cheek a little bit because I'm not sure that you're gonna own that, but uh I want you to respond to those who would critique your book in that way. But anyway, finish it. Make sure you come back again next week because that one's going to be a really good show. So finish like this one isn't? Well what are you saying? I was going to say Yeah. So go ahead. So well, just getting back to my character, Jerry, uh I I purposely um brought Jerry in as a character in this book. So that I could really argue with myself about you know, and all of it takes place um in a Starbucks and he and I have these discussions. And basically what Jerry's doing is that's a good thing. And a a lot of people that know me, my friends, a lot of them uh they've been trying to guess who Jerry is and it's uh it's been difficult trying to know I just picture name, you know So but but basically uh I I wanted to address it because I knew that some people would react in the very way that they have reacted, going, oh, so you're you're against the church. So in one of the first meetings that Jerry has with me at Starbucks, he brings that up. He the opening statement is, well Y it's obvious that you don't think very much of the church. You know, and I go, Jerry, why would you say something like that? Well, and he makes reference to some things I said in the book. And uh so I put that in there so I could at least soften the blow a little bit about what I was trying to say about the church. And let me just put it this way. And and if if this goes over into next week we'll get into this um yeah uh further, but But for me, there is a difference, a huge difference between the organized church, which is religion, right And church in the sense of what that word is in the Greek most places in the New Testament, which is ecclesia. The ecclesia, the called out ones. These uh are the people that are similar to the remnant that was referred to in the Old Testament. I want to jump in because we are getting a little bit ahead of ourselves because I'm just starting to think If I'm driving down the road on my way to to worship service today, okay. And I belong to a church that describes itself as an apostolic church. I'm still not sure what it is about me and my church that you Barry don't like. Okay. Well, first of all, let me Clarify to those people driving probably to an apostolic church this morning. Don't spill your coffee. I won't spill mine that I have here setting. Yes. Um I want to make clear that no, I I am not against uh being apostolic or even calling yourself that. What I am trying to get across is if you're going to call yourself that, let's define what you mean by that. Because The church at large, whether Protestant or Catholic, and and I mentioned that in in the very beginning of my book because I wanted right away to establish that if if people don't have any bearing on the idea of what apostolic means, uh This is maybe not the book for you. Matter of fact, the way I word it right in uh the beginning, some things you need to know. My opening paragraph says, quote, uh In case you unwittingly stumbled upon this book, you should know that this writing might not be for you. Thematically, this book addresses my concern with regard to those who believe they are apostolic. in theology and practice. So if the term apostolic is unfamiliar to you, many phrases and terms used in the text will make no sense to you whatsoever. The language and phraseology used are very familiar to those of apostolic theology for whom this book is written and intended, but will have little meaning to others So would it be safe to say Well and let me let me just finish this because then I go on to say having said that there is much contained here that is applicable to Christendom at large In particular, my concerns with regard to organized religion versus the teaching of Jesus about the kingdom. And those two paragraphs really quickly define this book. And so what what you're doing is you're you're putting forth a a call to to having a more biblical foundation and basis for everything that we do. That we that we be that we beware of organization claiming to be church and we get past that to what what is the heart of what Christ in Scripture intended to mean by the church, and in the same way that we get past some of our language about a po apostolic and get back to the mission that Christ gave us and uh the ways that leaders that are in and participating in that mission should uh should act in the midst of uh of of doing what Christ has called us to do. Something of a prophetic or you know it's a call to change. Not not by any means ignoring what you're saying, but I'll I want to go back to the title of this book and explain a couple of things real quick, if we have time to do that now The title of the book is The Apostle Jesus. Subtitle, The Kingdom Among You. I want to tell you how. both of these titles came about. Yeah, what does that mean? And it will help define, I think, some of the things that we're talking about here. Whenever I first started to write this book, I was involved in a church that would certainly have called themselves apostolic. They were involved in the fivefold ministry that you mentioned earlier and so forth. And um and I kept looking at things that were going on at in this church. So this goes back a lot of years. People were always asking me, well, how long did it take you to write this book? Well if you look at the time I started, particularly the first three chapters, to publish date, you know, it was written in that sense over ten years, and yet it wasn't because Most of this book was written over the last two years. But it started in this apostolic church I was in. And I kept looking at things. And you've got to understand, I've been around a long time. I I started preaching when I was fifteen and Now I'm as old as you can get. I'm Methuselah at this point. So anyway, um sixty years if you want to So a lot of things that were going on there bothered me, which is why the first chapter in this book is entitled I Am Bored Yeah. And the reason for that title is I kept seeing the same things repeated over and over again that I had seen and hence by the way the second chapter of Groundhog Day. And so at at this point I thought, you know, somebody needs to define what apostolic means. Because again If in this church they were calling themselves apostolic, and yet I saw very little of the apostle Jesus. in the center of what was going on. It was more revolving around these offices and all that sort of thing, which is, in my opinion Part of what I wrote this book about is not what the apostolic is really about. And I don't and and by the way, the term fivefold ministry that people use about Ephesians chapter four. Yeah I mean, first of all, that's not mentioned anywhere in Ephesians chapter four. It doesn't we called it fivefold ministry or somebody did somewhere along the line. So anyway The uh the the bottom line was I wanted to start defining some things and I wanted to put the apostle Jesus at the center of what should be going on. So you're writing that so that people that are in the apostolic movement would refocus themselves appropriately or so that they would stop saying that they're apostolic. Refocus themselves appropriately. That would that would be the better way. I'm not against it per se. I I I am just saying that that it is it is become that needed to be addressed. Yeah, it's become a a structure to itself. Right. That by the way, that is established and based on Ephesians chapter four. Right. Okay? And I don't think that's what Ephesians chapter four is about. Sure. Those so-called fivefold ministries. Yeah. Yeah. The the apostle, the prophet, the pastor, the teacher, the evangelist. They are all characteristics of Christ Right. Which is why the chapter in my book that I write on this subject is entitled The Five Wounds of the Cross. Because I see those five things, the fulfillment of the maturity of Christ, which is what Ephesians chapter 4 is really all about. Maturing the body. to a place to where they become the fullness of Christ. And that's what Ephesians talks about. But what has happened is the apostolic folks have taken that and they've set up a whole structure. And then it's a matter of, well, who's the apostle among us and who's the pro that's not what that chapter was about. So Troy, from where you stand, I feel like what um Robert is referring to here or Barry is referring to here um is something that um that I would say I've watched uh my father and those that I'm most closely associated with in the midst of what is called the Apostolic Movement. grapple with that there's a whole bunch of people that used it and turned it into something that it wasn't supposed to be and as a result all of them went back to scripture and started saying, Okay What went wrong and how is it that that these guys have been able to use this thing the wrong way and what do we need to do to appropriately reset it, you know, on a proper biblical foundation? What I hear you say Barry, is that at the heart of that, the the point of your whole book is to get it back centered in Jesus Christ as the Original apostle. Because again, in the front of my book, the scripture that my book is based on is Hebrews 3, 1. Fix your thoughts on Jesus, the apostle and high priest whom we confess. That's what this book is about. Getting our focus and our thoughts on the apostle. The apostle. Because that that's the difference. between other people who call themselves apostles and the apostle. There is only one anointed, anointed one, one Messiah, one Christos who came. Okay. And and and people You know, people say the word Messiah means anointed one. Yes it does, but with more emphasis. If you look at the Hebrew there, Messiah means not just anointed one Anointed, anointed one. It's a double. And we're going to end with a double. We'll hit a home run next week. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor Across the Valley Church. Thank you, my friend. The author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You, Barry Robert Starlipper. He is uh a a wealth of fascinating anecdotes and stories. We'll dig more deeply into those uh next week Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating, How can we make you smile? And it's easy. What have I been reading lately? The Apostle Jesus, the Kingdom Among You. Visit us online. Right here. WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week. God bless.