We deny that any contradiction exists within Scripture on the subject of divorce and remarriage, and we deny that it is sinful to separate or live apart from a promiscuous or abusive spouse. There's a rather dramatic start to the faith debate, huh? Yes, you got the right show. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for spending part of your day with us. Uh Imron Razvi and Daniel Razley back on the panel to uh continue to work our way through the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application Uh came out back in nineteen eighty-six and it's more relevant today than it was back then. We've been reading through it. I just read the denials for Article 7 on divorce and remarriage. We ended last week's show. with uh the affirmations from Article seven, but we didn't have a chance to talk about them yet. So today we're gonna start the show talking about divorce and remarriage. Uh um I encourage you to to uh find out more about what the RASVs do with their ministry at uh Concord Bike has to do with divorce and remarriage and mar saving marriages and those sorts of things and family dynamics, so it's right on topic. Conquered by love. org is their website, Conquered by Love Ministries. And I'm not sure if I mentioned uh my website, but in case I didn't, it's Household of FaithInChrist. com. So divorce, not good. We need to try to avoid it. We try to save the marriage. It shouldn't just be a default situation. Oh, you're not getting along anymore. Well then we could end it. We should try to to fight for it. And and the church should work to that end. That's a big part of the affirmations. Uh what are some of the other big themes? What's interesting is they do not mention remarriage and how that should be dealt with in the church. um surprise because they seem to have tackled every other topic while they didn't uh I mean they they'd say In the denial they mentioned uh uh that there's any contradiction, that we deny that any contradiction exists within Scripture on the subject of divorce and remarriage. I think that so they don't tell you what their position on it is. They're just saying whatever the Bible says it doesn't contradict. I think what happened is the group of people making this uh statement couldn't agree quite agree on whether remarriage is ever acceptable. And so maybe we can be some of them may have even remarried. Yeah, some of them may actually divorce And so they could they could only say in agreement that there is no contradiction in Scripture. And the the trouble is they're they're pointed to s passages in the Old Testament where Moses clearly lays out a lot of prescriptions for how remarriage should work if you're gonna do it. And then Jesus says, Well God didn't even really want you to do that. He wanted Adam and Eve to leave just the two of them, not even have multiple wives, even though these all these prescriptions were if you have this and if you have that So there's a there's God's best plan and then there's all these other things that sometimes happen that God's not saying like this is definitely you're gonna go to hell if you do this, but um if not what he wants from us. And and so I think there's part of that. But there's also many Christians that would believe, and I know some churches, many churches, that you would be disfellowshipped if you were remarried after having been divorced Um because they would consider that you are living in adultery currently. So Daniel, what you're saying is don't drown, but if you drown there's C PR I I I guess. But but and so that so I guess that's the that's the question though is is what what happens in the to remarry, 'cause there's two ways to read that passage, right? It says he that div marries a divorced women woman. Um commits adultery and if you divorce somebody that did not cheat on you then you're causing her to become an adulteress Mm. But then the flip side is, well then the that's because she was already adulteress if you divorced her for that. So um in any case adultery is the result of all this. And so are you open to living in adultery if you're remarried? So that that's that's the question I think a lot of i i i it is telling that even the consummate theologians No pun attended. That that drafted the statement don't have a clear answer on it. Um That's that's interesting to me. So I don't know what else to have to say about that other than that. Yeah, and it's interesting that they you know in the article title itself it says Article 7 divorce and remarriage. And then it really doesn't address it. It it mentions it one time, but doesn't say anything about it in mentioning it. They would have been better off at just Article Seven Divorce. Right. That would have made more sense. So Troy, let's get together and add a denim to this. Yeah, well I I will say this. It is something that local churches or the leadership teams tend to grapple with. Uh either they they're smart enough to get ahead of it, like okay, what's our policy on this gonna be? How are we gonna handle that? Well 'cause you're gonna deal with messy relationships. How how are we as a church going to try to handle this? Or you're forced to then come up with some sort of okay, this is how we understand it 'cause it is it is uh Uh I wanna say it's messy. Uh well it's just as prevalent inside the church as outside the church. And so most pastors are um Afraid to address it because they don't want to lose half the people. And also what's the solution, right? So you get a couple that comes to your church with four kids, and all of these four kids were born in this marriage, but they have each been married previously. If your solution, as the Mennonite church often is, is to make them separate separate forcibly. I don't know that that's Good for the kids. Right. Yeah. You could then argue, if you want to be devil's advocate, you could argue the same is true of a homosexual couple that comes in and gets married. I mean gets uh saved and now they got these two kids they adopted or whatever Um that I I think all Christians would agree that you they need to be separated, so you still have the same issue. Um there are some consequences. There are consequences. So I don't know. I'm not saying I agree with the Mennonite position on it, but they are consistent um with that Yeah, I it might seem like a cop out. Um I've and I've only in you know all all my time in church leadership only only had to address this the divorce question specific not Marriages on the custom of divorce deal with that more frequently than you care to have to deal with it. But those who are actually divorced and now there was like they want to get remarried or what does this mean? We've only had to deal with that one time. You know, and so that's It it's tough and then you're you want to be you wanna be sure you're right because it's there's so many ramifications. If there are kids involved and stuff, there's so many ramifications. You want to be so sure you're right. What is clear, there is a specific type of remarriage that's very explicitly condemned in Scripture. If you get divorced, marry somebody else, and then get divorced again, you may not go back to the first spouse. It does say that very unequivocally. I would say scripture is very clear on that. Um I don't know how often that scenario happens, but often enough for God to think it was necessary to put it in scripture. Right, right. Um and I think the point of that really is you can't just keep wife swapping. You can't go back and forth, right? That's that's the idea. You can't because now you're no better than somebody who's not married. You're just sleeping around at that point. That was the name of a t sh TV show, by the way. Again, it does say we affirm that God forgives repentant sinners So if somebody does divorce and comes to understand that there was sin and repents, it's not an unforgivable sin. Right. But the question is now are they allowed to get married again? And I think I make the distinction personally is is uh is was somebody already saved at the time, was was it a was it a uh a marriage of two saved individuals originally? And if they weren't, you know Now you're starting your new life. You are a new creature. So there's that aspect. But I just grabbed a pen and I circled the this article to remind myself maybe this would be a topic that would be good to do a series of shows with some practical real world examples of how we would try to navigate through scripture to address what some of those specific examples are. Because, you know, I having a whole bunch pop into my head now, we'll we'll just spend the next forever talking about it and that's not the purpose of what we're doing here. Let's talk about sexual deviations. Oh, okay. Hey. That's what I was looking forward to. If you weren't if you weren't awake yet, you are now. Article eight, sexual deviations. I don't know what that means. Let's find out We affirm that Scripture reveals God's standards for sexual relationships, deviation from which is sinful. We affirm that sexual intercourse is legitimate only in a heterosexual marriage relationship We affirm that God's grace in Christ can deliver men and women from bondage to deviant sexual practice, uh be they heterosexual or homosexual, and the church must assume responsibility for restoring such members to a life that honors God. That's very controversial these days, by the way. We affirm that God loves homosexuals as well as other sinners, and that homosexual temptations can be resisted in the power of Christ to the glory of his grace, just as other temptations can We affirm that Christians must ex must exercise a compassion, kindness, and forgiveness in the ministry of God's grace to those whose lives have been scarred by sexual deviations. We affirm that human fulfillment does not depend on satisfying sexual drives, hedonism, and related philosophies, encouraging promiscuous sexuality. uh are wrong and lead to ruin. There's one more affirmation. I'm going to pause after the affirmations. We affirm that pornography threatens the well-being of individuals, families, and entire societies, and that it is incumbent upon Christians to seek to check its production and distribution. Well, good luck. It's like the biggest industry on the internet. So photography is unfortunately. Yeah. That's um interesting uh you know that again they're not covering as much as In fairness, in nineteen eighty six I don't think this other stuff was on the radar. Yeah. I don't think it was on our radar fifteen years ago. Right? I mean at least in on my personal radar it wasn't something I was thinking a lot about fifteen years ago. Yep. It was at most a footnote or a joke and d about transsexuals or transvestites, right? And the language was different. When I was younger you didn't call them all these trans words, they were a cross dresser. Right. Right? But nobody when's the last time you heard somebody called a cross dr like that language doesn't exist anymore. So our whole perspective on these sorts of things is very so in fairness, these guys back in the nineteen eighties, they weren't thinking about that. But it does say, you know, the the the statement is still truthful. Um sexual intercourse is legitimate only in a heterosexual marriage relationship. And that's still true today. Yep, absolutely. generally defined. Now one thing I I I was a little bit hesitant on, we affirm that God loves homosexuals as well as other sinners, and that homosexual temptations can be resisted in the power of Christ in the glory of his grace. The the second part is is I agree with, but the first part, God loves homosexuals as well as other sinners. We hear this phrase a lot. Usually only the first half of the sentence we hear about. Oh God loves gay people too. God loves gay people too And they don't follow through with, and you can resist that temptation just like you can resist other temptations. However, is it do we want to say that it's true that God loves all homosexuals not not because they're homosexual, but does God love all the sinners? And 'cause that's now we get into the reform doctrine, right? God loved the world, right, but does d does he does he love specifically all individual people and all the sinners? Yeah, I think a better th uh thing would be God loves sinners, including homosexuals, not But yeah, I think that would be I wouldn't say that God doesn't love all people. Um God it does say God uh is not willing that any should perish, so he doesn't wish that anybody would perish. And God loved us while yet we were sinners. Right. And I think if this were written today. Whether that was sin of homosexuality or sin of murder or sin of adultery or any other type of sin. Right. So I I I don't all that to say I don't really disagree with it at but uh if these guys were to write this today, I think they'd be a little more careful. Because our the language because of all the things you just mentioned, there's like uh sixty plus different uh godwell gender supposedly and all it's it's very confusing. Uh and we've we've gotten very careful, I think a lot of people in the church have begun to see the need to be very careful of how how are we using the word homosexual? Are we using it as an identity? Or was he using it as a as a label for a particular kind of sin? And so the way they phrased it here, it's almost like it's an identity. So we could say, uh, we affirm that God loves homosexuals Blah blah blah blah blah. Could be we affirm that God loves murderers, God loves pedophiles, God loves like at some point, uh I think we get into the problem of people saying, well, I'm I'm a gay Christian. No, you're not. I'm a murder I'm a I'm a murdering Christian. No, you're not. You know, so we th the using these words in in a way that brings the identity forward can be problem and they they're right on the cusp of doing that in the way they've ordered. Oh God loves homosexuality. Uh you as in he created them gay, which is not what we want to say. We don't want to say that God created them this way that that that he created them to h to experience that type of pleasure. Um, no, I mean there are different people struggle with different temptations. Yeah, look if you're if you're a thief and you turn to Christ, you're a sinner 'cause you're a thief. And God, through his grace and mercy, is going to demonstr demonstrate love towards you and go around saying, God made me a thief, but I was able to overcome it. No, you say God made me a sinner. I mean no, God made me uh in the way you know the uh what do you mean by how you say it? I was a sinner, but God created me. God created me and I was a sinner because of original sin and because of my sin nature, I was a sinner And one of my sins was I was a thief and I've been delivered from all that. That's how you would really say it, right? Yeah. You wouldn't say I'm a thieving Christian. Right, exactly. Right, yeah. Yeah, that wouldn't be our identity anymore. Identity is in Christ. And so anyway that's Again, we're we're looking back. I I think if they were to rewrite this today they would ch change that a little bit. And at the time they were probably uh yelled at for saying there's a slight slippery c slippery slope. Well that slope was very slippery and we slipped very far back. Yeah, it was a c it was a slippery cliff. No, it doesn't say that. Um I don't think we did the uh the denials yet, so saying on the same theme. We deny that homosexual practice can ever please God. We deny that heredity, childhood conditioning, or other environmental influences can excuse deviant sexual behavior. We deny that the sexual molestation or exploitation of children in general and incestuous relationships in particular can never be justified We deny that it is hopeless to look for deliverance from homosexual practices or other forms of sexual deviancy. We deny that the Healing of sexual deviancy is aided by condemnation without compassion or by compassion without the application of scriptural truth in confident hope. So this we didn't talk about in the in the affirmations, but this is really controversial, uh you know, saying somebody d I I think it's actually against the law now in Canada. Mm-hmm. In California. In California's that right, okay. Here here they're saying you shouldn't just condemn it without compassion. Here is what they're saying. Don't condemn it without compassion have compassion. But you can condemn it. Shans should Um I agree. And also you can't have compassion without the application of spiritual truth, right? So you can't just say, Oh, I feel for you, you're a gay person, that's okay. Yeah, but the thing that's illegal in Canada and apparently in California is if if somebody's gay and they come to you at your church and uh you can't do therapy to try to help them overcome that sin. Right. Otherwise you're you're breaking their law, they'll put you in jail. Well maybe rephrase. You can do it and should do it. Oh after you will be put in jail for it. Yes, yes. According to their their um their their satanic legal code, you're not supposed to do it. So Uh all right, we're gonna what do you say about this recording session not being so controversial from earlier that you were saying something about that? I don't know. I guess I'm not a prophet. Article nine, uh this is a there's a lot of words on this page, boy. The state under God. I'll be curious to see how this holds up given what we now know over the last few years. and how they might have changed things and how they said things. Or and how horrible we were at living up to the standard if they got it right. We affirm that God established civil government as an instrument of his common grace to restrain sin, to maintain order, and to promote civil justice and general well being. What do we think? Well, I think it's clear in the Bible that he sometimes put people in power to punish Israel and they weren't designed for this purpose. But the overall establishment of civil government, the purpose of government is that I think Yeah, I I'm I get nervous about the general well being. Boy, you could drive a Mac truck through that opening. That's true. I think they wouldn't have said it that way now, no knowing how abusive the powers This is actually kind of a quote from uh our our co uh constitution, right? We can people uh establish justice and promote the general welfare. Right. That's a quote. There's the last phrase here is a quote from the preamble. Yeah, well you know our constitution um uh isn't as airtight as we would like it to be. Yeah. You know, it it's great and it's wonderful. I'm not disparaging it, but it's not as airtight as we would like it to be. And we don't even have one anymore. Who are we kidding? Yeah. It's not worth the paper it's written up. anymore. We affirm that God gives civil governments the right to use coercive force for the defense and encouragement of those who do good and for the just punishment of those who do evil. To use coer co coercive force for the encouragement of those who do good. Like how would you use coercive force For somebody who does good. That doesn't even make sense to me. Well well, uh, you can protect those people who are doing good is what from people who would do them evil. Oh, so you're defending them against the bad guys and this th therefore provides encouragement to those like, oh good, they're perfect protecting me. Is that what they mean? Okay, I guess I'm good at that. We affirm that it is proper and desirable that Christians take part in civil government and advocate the enactment of laws for the common good in accordance with God's moral law. Not all Christians would agree with that. I would agree, but not all Christians would agree with that. So I would say that if you do not agree with that, that doesn't mean you're not saved. Yeah. Right. If you don't agree then you can't be homosexual, then yeah, I'd I would say your salvation is questionable. If you don't think uh God has called you to vote. I I I maybe disagree with you, but that that doesn't that doesn't mean that you're not saved. So I do want to clarify there's a difference, big difference between this article and the one previous where you really need to kind of agree with Yeah, there's a lot of those in the in what's called the Pietist tradition that they don't think you should evolve. The uh not participating with government is not a sin to stay away from the participation of government. Uh uh what this is saying we affirm that we can and we should, but it's not a sin not to. Right. It is proper and desirable, but it doesn't say it's required. So anyway. So the next one I started to read, but then I I paused because we had more thoughts on the last one. It's the duty of Christian people to pray for civil authorities and to obey them, except when such obedience would involve the violation of God's moral law or neglect the God-ordained responsibilities of Christian witness. Yeah, I like that they add that phrase because some so many times, particularly in early 2020, we were hearing the argument of unless it's a direct violation of God's moral law, you must do what the government says. But this then adds that little phrase, or neglect the God ordained responsibilities of Christian witness. Right. Should a church have been closed for two be closed for COVID, right? Because there's no scripture verse you can point to saying that it's a sin to not meet for several weeks in church. Right, but if that is preventing you from witnessing, that is a big deal. We affirm that governments have a responsibility before God to assess Establish and enforce laws that accord with God's moral law as it pertains to human relations. We affirm that Christ's rule of the church through his word must not be confused with the power he grants to civil governments. Such confusion will compromise the purity of the gospel and will violate the conscience of individuals. And we affirm that when families or churches neglect their biblically out defined duties, thus jeopardizing the well-being of their members, the state may rightfully intervene. They're arguing against sacralism, so they don't want a blending of church and state here. They're saying that that's bad. I would agree. I don't think so. I think it's a good idea. I'm I'm for uh theonomy. No, that's different than sacralism though. Sacralism is the church is the state, the state is the church. Yeah, or maybe. Um it's oversimplify, but that's basically what it means. I do think theonomy is is the a a a good and valid biblical form of government. Yeah, well we might we might have to well if you want to, uh I guess for your uh point of view, because there are different ways that people define theonomy. There are different schools of thought. There there are there's a variety of people that would say I'm a theonymist and what they mean by that is something different than the other person who said they were a theonist. run by Christians and uh those should be the ones that are uh leaders in government and the government should be following the biblical form uh prescriptions for what the in the old testament the the government is commanded to do the civil government with uh respect to uh punishments and uh and crimes and and things like that. Um and it it should it should be all a uh godly and non-secular. But it's not. So we don't have that choice. The they're not Christians in power and giving this uh affirmation that the the b the state has the right to come and take my kids away because they feel that I'm not teaching them the social justice That's what they're using. And I think this w this statement is absolutely unacceptable in today's time. Yeah, I don't think that's what they meant there. I think they're saying w uh right, if you're uh uh if there's abuse, for example, then the state may intervene Um, but see jeopardizing the well being of their members, the state the the state can decide what is their well being. Right. It doesn't say life, it doesn't say that's the trouble is defining well being, right? So What they were trying to say is you got you got s uh someone molesting uh uh somebody or uh uh or beating them up and and and putting them in hospital or whatever in the state Sh can then go and intervene. Right? But what they expanded the definition of well-being well-being to being, oh, you're teaching your kids that there's two genders and therefore you're d endangering their well-being if you take the kids out. Either take that out or rephrase it because the problem this is this kind of uh what this opens I don't think this is what they're thinking necessarily, but it opens a door to thinking that we saw in 2020. Because the government was saying, look, if you open up for church, you're jeopardizing the well being of your of your members and we're gonna stop you from meeting. It's like the abortion laws that were crafted with, oh, the well being or the life of the mother. And then that was changed to well the life of the mother. And that includes their mental stability, right? And this is the same weakness with the very first affirmation, which is what I was concerned about, with the general well being Phrase. Right. And here we are again with this idea of the of a well-being of the that I don't think that's really the state's role. And I think they kinda miss it here a little bit. Because they feel that home schooling is against the well being of the person because they're not well rounded enough and that's what caused not to Right, yeah. You could like like I used the phrase before, you could drive a nap truck through it and that's and they will. Yes, they did. They have. One right after another. It's like a convoy. A never-ending convoy. We're gonna finish finish up the uh State Under God article, Article 9, with the denials on our our next show Uh boy, these are flying by. Imran Rasby, Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening to the Faith Debate today. Find us online at WFMD. com or you can find and connect with me on my social media, contact information, that sort of thing, at household of faith in Christ. com. And if you want to get in touch with the Razbies, uh that's a good place to do it, and it will connect to their ministry as well, Conquered by Love Ministries. Uh thank you so much for making us part of your day or week or whenever, because now in the podcast era, who knows when you're listening to this Or you know, there was some concern as to whether this was a little too heady and academic for some people. So if we've been a good sleep aid to you as you listen to us in podcasts, you're welcome. Until next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now, assuming it's not daylight savings time or all that sort of stuff. God bless