We deny that the state has the right to usurp authority of the other God given spheres of life, especially in the church and in the family. We deny that the kingdom of God can be established by the coercive power of civil governments. We deny that the state has the right to forbid voluntary prayer and other voluntary religious exercises at an appropriate time in the public school. We deny that the Uh that God's providential establishment of a particular government confers special blessing apart from the government's just and faithful execution of its duties Who deny that religious belief is an essential prerequisite to service in civil government or that its absence invalidates the legal authority of those who govern We deny the kingdom of God can be established by the powers of civil governments. We deny that the government has the right to prescribe specific prayers or forms of religious exercise for its Citizens. And that concludes the uh denials, the last half of Article 9 for the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application. These articles deal with the state under God. This is the faith debate. Uh we began talking about Article IX. We'll finish talking about it this week and then move on to Article Ten and henceforth. I'm Troy Skinner, joined again this week by Daniel Razvy, Imran Razvy. Pastor at Church in Thurmond also have a ministry called Conquered by Love. You can find them online at conqueredbylove. org. And you can find me in Connected The Show and my social media and all that stuff sort of stuff through Household of Faith in Christ dot com. That's Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So is there anything uh in the denials that I just read that made you say I deny a lot of the denials. You're denying the denials Yeah. That's like a double that's like a double negative. I don't know if that's a good idea. That was a requirement. In fact the Maryland Constitution and in that is one of the things that's try uh uh this session, um this past spring they're trying to and and this is gonna this is gonna date the recording of the show, but whatever. Um they're trying to remove and strike from the Constitution mentions of God. There is a um uh portion of the state constitution says, look, you cannot be disqualified as a juror or whatever, uh serving uh if because of your religious beliefs as long as you really do believe in God and that human beings are accountable to him. So It's a requirement. Many states m have have that in there and I think that's a good thing. How can you decide what what is just and right and true? if you do not believe in God. So I say religious belief is actually essential to service in in in civil government. Religious religious belief in one God, the Creator. Yeah. If you believe in Satan and and follow that religion, I think that's a just follow. So you so you you so you're saying they don't go far enough that it should be a prerequisite. Yeah, they're saying they deny it's a prerequisite. And I say I I I I affirm it's a prerequisite, so I'm saying the opposite. Boy, in in in today's world, I don't know how we would function. Because we would have no civil servants, right? We would have no law enforcement. Government should be about one thousandth as big as it is. So um you know, if you're gonna let Christians be in government then then you're gonna have a much smaller pool to pick from Uh uh obviously there's no practical way to make that happen right now. But I would say that yeah, i if you if you want to be a good judge you should be saved. I don't think they go so far as to say that um well Frederick County could pass some sort of ordinance or or rule for the county that says everybody has to be uh an adherent to you know the Bible and be a Christian. I don't think that that that this says that they couldn't do that. They had the freedom to do that, but they're saying if somebody else says, well, we're not going to make that requirement, that they would still be legitimate Uh in their civil authority. And that falls in line with Paul talking about, you know, in Romans thirteen to obey the government, which at the time was Nero, clearly not a Christian Um so yeah, uh for in that sense I agree with them. Right. Just because the the the king is not a Christian doesn't mean you can't you don't have to obey the the you know the king. But it's not just Christian. It's in a creator God. You know the the the rules and laws come from someplace. And if you have no belief in a creator god, then what is right or wrong? That's why uh you have the crazy uh lawlessness that you have today because there is not no stability, there's no black and white. Everything is whatever you feel. And that's why the laws have passed in such a crazy way because there is no right and wrong for these people. They don't have any stability. Even people that proclaim to be uh Catholics, like Nancy Pelosi. She has no basis for she has no belief in God. She believes in her and her power and only her power. And so she claims to be Catholic, but she does not have any a any uh walked as a Catholic. Even her own uh bishop s said you shouldn't get uh uh th the Lord's supper. Yeah, but I think the Pope disagrees, right? Did the guy get in trouble from the Pope? He might have. Yeah, and and the but the Pope is is again uh many people believe in Antichrist. He is saying many things that are against Christ and against the the word of God. But but kind of back to to this this uh thing here, I mean I think they don't they don't go far enough to link church and state. They fall victim to the same um Same issue that's plagued a lot of false understanding of separation of church and state. That was never part of the Constitution. It was in writings from the It was never a biblical concept. Um, you know, the last one that says we deny that the government has the right to prescribe specific prayers or form of religious forms of religious exercise for citizens. I don't deny that. I affirm that the government has the right to prescribe the Christian religion. But what if we live in Saudi Arabia? Does the government have the right to prescribe a non-Christian prayer? The government does not have the right to prescribe anything that is non-Christian. They have they have the duty to prescribe the Christian religion. Yeah, but again you're talking about a Christian government. This is not a Christian government. But what the what uh I'm just hung up on uh yeah, I it doesn't say Christian belief, it says religious belief. You gotta have a belief in a God Okay, you may be wrong. You may be Jewish, you may be Muslim, but you believe there's a creator of God, so you know that there is right and wrong. Right now the leadership has no idea what's right and wrong. And that's the that's the great fall of this country is they don't know what is right and wrong. And the only thing that only thing that differentiates us from savages is God that created right and wrong. Yeah, I don't know how we would enforce it. I don't know that's enforceable. I think we're too far gone. That's why I think price is coming back. I think uh we all should be, you know, ready and prepared and have our oil lamp full. Here's another one. We deny that the state has the right to forbid voluntary prayer and other voluntary logistics exercises at an appropriate time in the public school. Sure, I deny that the state has the right to have a public school. So there's there's a bit there. But um but sure, uh i i you know, yes, the state should not prohibit you from praying Certainly. Anywhere. D I don't know if you saw the news article a f a few months back, probably by the time this airs, about the lady uh standing outside the abortion clinic uh clinic in England standing still silent and they said, What are you doing? You're praying? For praying in her head, not moving her gun. Yeah, she was standing across the street. Like she wasn't even like next to it or anything. So it's going to a that's awful it's coming to a theater near you. Let's move on to uh Article ten here, law and justice, because this might touch on some of the same issues. I don't know. We affirm that the scriptures are the only infallible record of unchanging moral principles. basic to a sound jurisprudence and an adequate philosophy of human rights. We affirm that God has impressed his image on the hearts of all people so that they are morally accountable to him for their actions as individuals and as members of society. We affirm that God's revealed law, the moral nature of mankind, and human legislation serve to restrain the fallen political order from chaos and anarchy and to point humankind to the need for redemption in Jesus Christ. And we affirm that the gospel cannot be legislated and the law cannot save sinners. I'll save the denials because that's a that's quite a bit right there just in the uh four or five affirmations. Anything that needs to be touched on that hasn't already kind of maybe tangently been touched on previously because of similar topics? Again, with the first affirmation the scriptures are the only infallible record of unchanging moral principles. Well, if you deny the previous one where you don't have to be a religious in order to be in in leadership in the government then these two two don't match. Because if there's there's only one's place to get the um infallible record of unchanging moral principles, then how can you be in a leadership position in government if you don't have that And this last one, we affirm that the gospel cannot be legislated and the law cannot save sinners, this is often stated as uh you can't legislate morality. Oh, well, actually like all legislation in the Bible is based on morality, right? So what they're saying is that you can't force somebody to become a Christian. That's not possible because that's the work of the Holy Spirit. But you should it can and should have laws regarding morality and and and godly living that are uh from the civil government. So I would support that. Like all the states had black laws. I think they do a good job here. I think they're keeping a c a clear distinction between gospel and law. Right. So I I agree with the affirmation, but I'm saying that they're um in in disagreement with the previous denials. Yeah, there seems would seem to be a bit of an incoherence or maybe an inconsistency. Yeah, so I wonder how they would come back and rewrite those in a way that isn't just fantasy land. 'Cause that's the thing is how do you practically 'cause this is about biblical application, right? So how do we apply in the real world to these things? It's almost the very same thing as you don't have to ha uh believe in Christ to lead the church You know y y you can read the Bible and you can you know r read from the pulpit, be the pastor and uh be the leader of a church, but you don't actually have to be saved. That's not right. You can't. There are many many priests and pastors that are not saved and shouldn't be up there. Um so I I I don't know. I think I I I think they're uh trying to be Welcoming to people that don't believe and and no. Just no. Yeah, I I I don't I I don't have much to add 'cause I'm j I'm just stuck on I Theoretically I kind of agree. And but then the practical I was like I just don't know how you get there from here. We can't Need to put some flesh on those dead man's bones. Yep. So you wanna go through the denials? Yeah, the denials. We deny that legal positivism I'm not sure I even know what that means. Or any other humanistic philosophy of law is able to satisfy the need for absolute standards of law and justice We deny that any person or any society fulfills God's standards so as to justify himself, herself, or itself before the tribunal of God's absolute justice. They were Like what are your preferred pronouns in this section? We deny self and we deny that any political, economic, or social order is free from the deadly consequences of original sin or capable of offering a utopian solution or substitute for the perfect society which Christ alone will establish at his second coming. Yeah, I uh I agree with those and I think there are there's a bunch of Christians that believe we're already in the second coming and we're Or we're not the second we're actually in the millennium where we can fix the earth enough that Christ will come back. And I think that is and uh uh really against what the b Bible teaches. Yeah, and there are some people who think the second coming has already happened. There are those. Even more clearly heretical. Yeah, the full preterist position is uh is zany to say the least. Alright, let's uh in the interest of time, let's do Article 11. War. Ooh. What is it good for? Absolutely nothing. Say it again. Remember that song? Uh we affirm that God desires peace and righteousness among nations and condemns wars of aggression. We affirm that lawful states have the right and duty to defend their territories and citizens against aggression and oppression by other powers. including the provision for an adequate civil defense of the population. We affirm that in rightful defense of their territories and citizens, governments should only use just means of warfare We affirmed that warring states should strive by every means possible to minimize civilian casualties. That actually wasn't so bad, so I'm going to do the denials too. We d as far as the length of it, it wasn't so bad. We deny that the cause of Christ can be defended with earthly weapons. We deny that Christians are forbidden to use weapons in the defense of lawful states. We deny that The indiscriminate slaughter of civilians can be a moral form of warfare, and we deny that the circumstances of modern warfare destroy the right and duty of the civil government to defend its territories and citizens. Okay. Biggest defender there is the denial we deny that the indiscriminate slaughter of civilians can be a moral form of warfare. Sure it can. You know how I know it can be a moral form of warfare? Because God commanded it on more than one occasion. And God is moral God commanded to kill every man, woman, and child, all the civilians in Jericho. And the animals. And even all the animals. And that was certainly a moral and godly form of warfare. So it can be. Is it usually? No. Is it most of the time? No. I agree with that. But you cannot say it cannot be a moral form of warfare to kill civilians. Actually, yeah, I I think definitely it can be. In certain cases God commands it and I can I could even foresee cir uh circumstances which God hasn't explicitly commanded, but it actually is uh the moral thing to do in this in the situation. I mean what if you come across a w uh uh a w uh uh a coven of Wiccans that are sacrificing children. They're civilians they're not they're not actively in the military. Should you terminate them I think I would. So again Does that fall in the category of warfare? In the course of warfare, maybe you're taking over the city or whatever. Right. In the course of warfare you've come across that I think you you would uh uh you would be obligated to take out those even if they're not uh combatants. They're uh committing some heinous crimes. And I wonder how they would have defined this uh because uh nineteen eighty six wasn't as far away from the dropping of the bombs that ended World War Two as we are now. So I also agree, uh uh not sure I agree with that first statement. We affirm that God desires peace and righteousness among nations, that's true. and condemns wars of aggression. Um war is always aggression. And expanding territories is something that God has has blessed in many cases. In the spring when when kings go out to war But he didn't say that that wasn't a command of God though, it was no comment of this is what happens. Um, I don't know that God condemns wars of aggression. Taking over more territory. God has given territory to a lot of kings to say, Go and multiply and take over this land. So he has done that before. And so that that's certainly a war of aggression. Well, we did it specifically with you know the the Israelites taking over the promised land. Outside of that particular situation are there other times. But how are all nations created by taking over territory? And that's the thing. Lawful states have the right to and duty to defend their territories. Okay, well what makes it a lawful state? Um this state, whatever the state is, has aggressed and taken over from another state It's like it's that's why it's just so silly of the woke argument, Oh, we should give the land back to the Indians. Well excuse me, Native Americ or indigenous peoples, because you can't say Native American either now it's it's indigenous people, right? Well which indigenous people The one tribe that stole it from the other tribe was stole it from the other tribe. They all are aggressing. So I don't think it's it's fair to say that God condemns wars of aggression or all wars of aggression Um I I think war is uh sometimes what happens and there really isn't a lot of biblical teaching about all war is bad or anything like that. War is certainly sad and terrible and and and in in that sense, but I'm not opposed to a nation going and aggressing and taking over territory to bring peace to that area. You know? Um I'm an imperialist and a colonialist. Yeah. Uh so uh yes, uh we're definitely not um falling in the political correctness of today. Yeah, I'm not I guess this might be a little bit of a blind spot because I don't have any uh well-formulated thoughts one way or the other. The thing I'm thinking about is uh to me there's something exceptional about the ancient nation state of Israel. And so I think yeah, I think we want to be careful that they have a particular mission for a particular purpose in a particular part of the world at a particular time. Oh no no no not the last part. Yeah, at a particular part of time I would I I yeah well we that's I wouldn't go with you on the time. I'd say that's uh for all of Earth history and today and in the future. But that's yeah, I think I think that now we live in a time when uh all over the earth, all of the planet is i is is what's supposed to be in view as the promised land. But regardless, let's take that part off. To take those Israel Th those those things that happened uh you know, three thousand years ago and uh th in in a very specific context for for a very particular reason with very particular people and applied them more broadly Well I I'm not so sure I'm comfortable going. Well I'm not I'm not trying to apply it more broadly in the sense that like on the civilian thing, right? The point is there was and has has been multiple times where the slaughter of indiscriminately of civil civilians was a commandment of God. So you cannot say that it never is uh a a a a good thing or a moral thing to do. Clearly there have been times. Now there was there was a time with the people of Israel in the promised land for that reason. Several times during that. Because the evilness of the Amorites had finally reached their their cap, and so God as an instrument of judgment uses his people to go take care of the people that were squatters that shouldn't have been there because they were so evil. God did that. He didn't send the people to go do that. God did that. The the I don't know. I I I think yes, you're not gonna say, oh, because he did it this time it's always okay acceptable. I'm not saying that. But I I am saying that clearly there have been times that it was acceptable. I guess I've just kind of made some assumptions along the way, so I gotta think this through. But let me think we want to be careful of saying, oh that was just for Israel That was just for Israel. I think it could it could uh be rephrased in that as God commands, it could be that way, but unless you're sure that God commands it, then probably it's not a good idea. Yeah, and uh yeah. I I I I could live there. Yeah. But I'm saying th when they go further and say it's never moral, well then I I'll disagree with that one. That's that's all I'm saying. Um generally this this stuff is is correct You know, states have a right and duty to defend their territories against citizens and citizens against the greatest. And their their language should be. It does seem like they're they're they're saying that that was morally wrong what happened and we know for a fact that it was not Right. And so they weren't very careful there. So I'm yeah, I agree with that for sure. How we apply it today though, um in in today's environs, um Yeah, I I tend to lean in at at least lean in the direction of what they're saying, but it sounds like you're kind of at least maybe leaning in the opposite direction like uh Uh so that might be an interesting maybe I'll make a note about about that as a future topic. We're gonna we had this happen before where we had like fifty topics lined up and we did like one topic a show and tried to rapid fire and we might have to do that again as fast as we can. And the Israel thing, the time the time and place, by the way. Yeah, we we've talked about that a little bit recently with uh with a different set of understanding of uh who Israel is. That's true. Uh right. There's the reason I hold the view I do is um uh Israel isn't uh merely a an ethnic nation state any longer. Israel is the people of God and the three of us in this room are members of Israel. We're grafted in, we're part of that. And so our inheritance is is the entire cosmos. We're going to co rule with Christ. So that's that's where I'm coming from on that. Yeah shows that aired probably back in like December might have been the ones that addressed those issues. Uh let's see what's um Article twelve. Discrimination in human rights. We affirm that God who created man and women in his image Uh has granted to all human beings fundamental rights which are to be protected, sustained, and fostered on the national and spiritual levels. We affirm that all human beings are ultimately accountable to God for their use of these rights. We affirm that Christians must uphold and defend the rights of others while being willing to relinquish their own rights for the good of others. We affirm that Christians are admonished to follow the compassionate example of Jesus Helping to bear the burdens of those whose human rights have been diminished. We deny that any so-called human right, which violates the teaching of Scripture is legitimate We deny that any act is acceptable that would harm or diminish another person's natural or spiritual life by violating that person's human rights. And there are two more denials. We deny the age, uh that age, disability, economic disadvantage, race, religion, or sex. used as a basis for discrimination can ever justify denial of the exercise or enjoyment of human rights. And lastly, we deny that elitism or grasping for power are compatible with Christ's call to dedicate our rights to his service. Okay, that was a mouthful. Are we out of time? Uh no, we have we have we have a a couple minutes where we can chat about this one. So I I I I would love for them to have defined human right a little bit more um thoroughly because that's definitely a hot topic these days. Human right, human right. This is a human right. Yeah, basic income is a human right. Health is a human right. Health insurance is a human right. So aside from that, and and again you can't foresee that that becomes a really hot topic, I Don't know that I agree with the discrimination f uh statement. I think discrimination is a dirty word in our society. But discrimination is a godly and moral thing and you should be discriminating. Age, disability, economic disadvantage, race, religion, or sex used as a basis to discrimination can ever justify denial of the exercise or enjoyment of human rights? I wouldn't give a gun to a kid. Yeah. So age. Race, yes. Economic disadvantage, yes. I I'll I'll I'll give 'em that Age, no. A lot of things should be age based. Um maybe maturity based rather than age-based. Disability. Kids to be having alcohol. And disability, no. I mean I don't want somebody in a wheelchair serving the military uh i on the front lines, right? So there is there are times to discriminate. Sex, oh sure, women can't speak in church. That is discrimin I will discriminate in my church. Women is not allowed to preach in our church And I'm going to hold the line on that. And I think these same people that that signed the other statement saying women can't speak in church also signed this and They're just copying and pasting like Civil Rights Act type stuff. And I I don't I don't think it's agreed. On that point though, I don't know that they would argue that it's a human right for somebody to stand up and preach. Why not? Because and the base uh description says uh exercise of their enjoyment of human rights. They want to enjoy being able to teach. And the Bible says go into all the world and preach uh to all the nations. So why can't a woman do it So they don't define those. And also I would prefer to use ethnicity there. Enjoyment of human rights. Absolutely. Ethnicity is i is there because there's only one race. But enjoyment of human rights is Yeah, some gives a why oh hey you know, Troy, why can't you enjoy uh pissing against the wall and I can't? You know? Well because I'm male and you're female. It's it'cause a human right. So again Imran and Daniel Razby, uh thank you for being on the show again today. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. We're ending on a statue note. Uh find me online at householdfaith in Christ dot com. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from about now. God bless.