Broadcasting from Big Brothers. City right in the middle of Gridlock County within the socialist state of Maryland, just outside the nation's capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate Brought to us by BMC Insurance and Footman Plumbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile. Encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith brings you there. And I know you care, so I'm gonna tell you what I've been reading. I've been reading Christian ministry with an inquiry into its causes of inefficiency You ever read that one, Jonathan? No, uh the very title is inefficient. I'm just saying. Well old old books had these long titles. This is written by Charles Bridges like a long time ago. And so he inquired into what? Yeah, this is Christian Ministry with an inquiry into its causes of inefficiency. So how Christian Ministry is not This fish this book came highly recommended by a number of people, so I got I said I gotta read it And they're not wrong. I mean it has its reasons, but I didn't like it. But you've read it now. I've read it. And it was written when? Like sixteen hundred? Uh the printing press had been invented, I know that. So Gutenberg was already around. Yeah, he's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crosshoes Valley Chapel, and something else I've been reading. Oh actually have read now. Yes. Destiny Deferred on Loves Story. Says I don't have a soft side. Written by Don L. Wattson he has graced us with his presence again I'm glad to be with you guys. Very nice. And we did everything we could to scare away Celeste's wife last week, but she came back for some more because Donnell needs more pages. Tell Donald needs more pages. More pages, honey. She says it the same way every time. More pages, honey. Now you left the cat out of the bag in last week's show. You're working on a second book Well nod, I'm never gonna say well I'm actually just trying to promote this book here because I believe believe this is an important book. But you gotta do the sequel We'll we'll work on that. We'll see. We'll see. Movie in the works, by the way. We'll see. We'll see. Alright. I want Jonathan to play David. I could do it. I can pull it off. You you could play a black guy from like the inner city married to a uh a a redbone beautiful uh babe, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I I gotta tell you that I was trying to imagine The skin tone colors and I well I'm not sure that I quite got it. Indeed. Now we talked about this quite a bit, uh the story and then the the the novel that is this book last week, so if you missed that go to the WFMD. com keywordface and access the podcast and you can listen to that. We're not going to cover a lot of the same ground. But there's some of the themes we talked about we're going to be touching on. Yeah. But before we get into some of those themes, some little things that that uh that struck me and I wanted to Real quick, if it turns into something longer, fine. But just to satisfy my own curiosity, there was uh talk about uh in the book, one of the characters The fe the main female character is is tomorrow, right? Yes, correct fair. Um now h how would you say it? Tamara? Tomorrow, yeah, tomorrow. See I said Tamara first before then I cheated tomorrow figuring it can't be Tamara. You say Tamara, I say tomorrow. Um just not today. But the character, Tamara, calls her parents by her first name. Yes. And you never really unpack for the reader what's going on there and why. My sister just intuitively think that okay, they have kind of a distant relationship or Or is that considered to be a good thing? Because the main character, David, is actually impressed. Like th it's that's what struck me, 'cause I forget what the dad's name is, and let's say his name is Butch, I don't know. And she says, Hey Butch, good to see ya And David says, Wow, she called it Butch. They must be close. And I'm thinking must be close. Usually when people call their parents by their first name, that's not the first thing that comes to my mind is they're close. I think that why doesn't she call 'em dad? So what's up with that? Yeah. Well, with these particular characters, um I just use that from a example that I got from um a particular um Uh young lady that had uh addressed her parents by their first names, but they were close So um I just went with that. Okay. And they were. They were really working close. You call your mom by your first name, her first name, John? Never. No. Your dad Uh when every now and again in a public setting when I'm trying to use them or something or something. Yeah. Alright, you call out their name because dad means like nothing when there's a thousand people around you. Yeah. Gotcha. Okay. Um The mother of Tamara has a drinking problem. Yes. Mm-hmm. Um, was separated and then gets involved with an abusive boyfriend. Yes. Uh-huh. Um but you don't spend a lot of time there, but you touch on it. Did she kinda show the brokenness of the world and kind of her background, the lens through which she's seeing reality? Is that what that's Yeah, the reason why, um matter of fact, um I I deal with that in the in the second chapter of the book. you know, in in the first chapter I kinda set up the meeting. But I wanted to get right away to the character um uh both of the characters their issues because in the second chapter of the book is is i it's called Her Issues, His Issues. Uh or vice versa, his issues, her issues. Hold on, let me tell oh you don't even know. Let me tell you. His issues, her issues. That's correct. And I wanted to introduce that early in the book because I wanted to um let y I wanted to have the reader make a connection. uh with the the person of um who um who these characters were. So they can make a uh emotional com uh connection with the person uh with the characters. And I and I wanted to do that early. So as you go throughout uh reading the book, you kinda know where the characters at and you kinda know how they're feeling, what they've been through and and a lot of times I tell you, um And because I wanted the book to also be a book that was true to life. And a lot of times, you know, um a lot of issues that um we grown ups have, okay? Um, a lot of times they start from our childhood. And that's who, you know, and and they kind of s stick with us and uh they kind of form how we deal with uh certain situations. A well-known uh Christian uh minister back in the seventies, eighties, uh Bill Gothard put on uh basic youth conflict seminars and and they were like well known across the nation. Fabulous seminars. Uh and it that was his basic thesis was that adult uh conflicts are unresolved youth conflicts And youth conflicts, you know, are rooted in something to do with authority and abuse and and frustration and unforgiveness, you know, all that kind of stuff. And so, you know, he he had this you know, huge um plethora of books, you know, that he'd written. He was very prolific and and he he he put 'em, you know, with these fabulous illustrations and everything in 'em and You have these uh, you know, couple thousand people, you know, thirty thousand people at a time, you know, kinda talking through the basic youth conflicts kind of stuff. Yeah. And now the book is you said last week we talked about how li life's not fluffy. You know, it's it's gritty, it's messy, that the world is broken, and so somebody says, Oh, this is a a Christian book written from a Christian perspective. I guess it's gonna be Everybody's gonna have a hairbob and they're gonna be floating through life and singing songs and you know, uh in Shangri-La and but this is a book about uh sex and drugs and pornography and theft and uh Yeah. Um venereal disease and heroin being shot up, right? And and marijuana being smoked and um Yeah. I mean just also hanging out with bums. Yeah. I wanted to get to um real life issues, you know, um You know, uh Christians, um and you know, we uh we suffer some of the same um issues that secular uh you know uh the others suffer also, you know. So I don't want to get to the main issues. I just wanted to kinda like put it out there, you know, because um just 'cause we show up on s uh church on Sundays doesn't mean we're not dealing with a lot of um uh things that a lot of other people are dealing with. Well that's the thing probably. Uh I mean the the story and all that sort of stuff is great, but the th the the The part of the book that will stay with me, I'll probably forget some of the narrative over time, but the thing that will really if somebody were to ask me ten years from now, and they see this on my bookshelf, say, Oh Uh Donnelly, the guy from church. He wrote a book. I gotta say, yeah, you should do some podcasts on an old thing called the internet. Remember that when there used to be an internet years ago? Yeah Maybe because by then it'll something new. Uh and and they're gonna say, What's it about? So I can't remember, but I do know that you'll relate to it. Yeah. Because So many men struggle with pornography related issues or or uh you know diving into the world of prostitution or cheating on their their spouse. Women, uh, they're no saints either. Although I gotta say, you're you're much kinder to Tamara, the female lead in this book than you are to David in the book. David's like a scumbag. Yeah, but Tamara's almost a saint You know, I'm not sure what's going on there. Um the book deals with um it not only touches on addictions like sex, it also deals with marriage issues like um wellness and commitment and possessiveness, you know. Um and and you you will as you read the book, like you say, without giving it away, um, there are some issues that Tamara had that um that were there that um you know because one thing about a marriage um usually um it's just not one person you know it's there's two people that are married and um There's uh both have a a responsibility and an obligation to um to commit to the wellness of the marriage. But there are some issues Tamara had also. Um they may not be as what we say um uh you know, as out there as David's was, but there are some issues that uh can cause uh uh a s cause stress in the mind. try to control their lives. Mm-hmm. Wh which is why, you know, the the classic phrase is, you know, she's a witch, you know, 'cause she's trying to cast spells, she's trying to control everything in her life. You know, whereas the men, when they fall into sin, they tend to be irresponsible. And to segment their lives and think they can, you know, fool around over here and that it's not gonna affect this area of their life over here. And so in that sense, uh it I I feel like the book really fits, you know, a classic uh Not just the obvious in-your-face sins. If you were to go up to somebody on the street and say, name some bad sins, you know. Oh, having sex with a prostitute, that's a bad sin. There's those sort of kind of visible Yeah, everybody agrees there's sin things and and w and um we talk about them. Yeah. But those are the examples we'll use. Don't steal, don't cheat, you know, on your on your spouse, you know, those sort of things The things we don't talk about are the um the the the false front that we put up. And that's captured in the book too. David is pr approached by the church leadership to consider being a deacon, I believe, is correct. And uh he has a good sense to say, uh I don't think so. Uh but the reason he says that is because his life's a mess. But he's living this lie so well that people in church who should know him don't even know what's going on. Yeah. That he's you know, living a double life practically. And how many people in church are doing that? Yes. We don't even know because pe we're good at it, right? And I'll say how how many of us in this room are doing that an awful lot of the time. We're we're we're putting up particularly pressures on somebody like Jonathan who's a pastor. He's gotta have a particular look about him Something like Donnell, who's the director of outreach at Mosaic Church, has got to have a particular outward look about him. You know, Celeste, you've been involved in uh invisible uh outreach. I'm assisting. You're you're assisting you with the outreach and you've also been involved in church choirs in the past and so you're in a visible role. I'm doing this faith debate show thing, you know, it's no secret where I stand on things and so we have to be careful what we show. But sometimes we get so careful we end up lying to ourselves. Yeah. That's correct. And that gets captured. So does God work? We're going to tackle that question in just a second. Jonathan Sweites, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, the director of outreach at Mosaic Church, and his assistant director of outreach, Celeste. Uh Donnell and Celeste Watts. Destiny Deferred is the name of the book. Subtitle A Love Story. You have to say it just like that when you say it, right? Destiny Deferred, a Love Story. Uh you can find that. Uh just Google it. Destiny DeBird, Donnell Watts, and there you go. So all these things, if people are out there putting on a veneer lying about their lives, not being honest. You're Christian, church going people. I mean David, the story of David in this book is based on real happenings. Yeah. And even if it wasn't, we could find somebody and say, Yep, that that's David over there You know, going to church, being faithful in in their attendance and being involved has to be in leadership and living a horrendous life. So does God really work? And what does it mean to say that God works? That phrase bugs me, but I uh Jonathan wanted to dive into this last week. So when you when you hear God works, what do you mean by that? Or what do you say that? What do you Well Yeah I hear people say all the time, you know, that just doesn't work for me. You know, maybe that works for you, that just doesn't work for me. You know, I got I got other things that I'm that I'm dealing with and I g yeah, again I had the sense in the book, you know, that several times the character got to that place where he's just like, you know, it just doesn't work for me and he's telling other people, you know, he's telling his wife, you know, look, I I got other stuff that I need to be doing right now. And uh and so That's a very good question. What does it mean that God works for me? You know, what does it mean that, okay, God God's good for you, but he's not good for me. You know, that whole phraseology. And I think at the end of the day, it has to do with something that's going on inside your soul. that somewhere or other ends up being defined as peace, trust, um, uh the sense that uh that you're loved and that everything's gonna be okay. I mean uh somewhere along the line, you know, a a a sense of purpose in life. You know, all these things that that are somewhat psychological. And that was the other kind of kind of the dovetail thought that I had as I was reading through it. One, does God work? And two, you know, it seemed like it was necessary for the characters to dig into their heart as to whether or not they're really dealing with things that had happened in their life honestly. And that whole area seems to me like it it it deals to that question, does God work? Does God really help us in an internal way? Is there really a change that we can expect or is it just some You know, I like to look at it like God is at work. Because um, you know, uh there's a story told about I I believe Michelangelo and he was uh he was uh uh uh he was the sculpturing the the statue of David. And as he was chipping away at the marble, um someone asked him, they said, Um, you know, uh how do you n uh know how to make David out of this uh this big block of marble. And Michelangelo said, I chip away everything that doesn't look like David. And that's what I think God does in our life. He uses circumstances and uh and and some of the choice and the choices that we make to conform us to the image of his son. And sometimes we can go quietly or sometimes we can go with a little discomfort But God is at work in our lives all the time, I believe. Okay, so Troy, how about for you? When you finally came to the place where you said, God is it for me What was it that made the difference? I mean at that point you went from saying, okay, maybe God's for me, maybe God's not for me, to saying, God is it. I mean w what what's that shift? Yeah, well the th the thing I want to react to first is the th the phrase God works. Right. I mean yeah, I I grew up in Chicago. Chicago is known as the city that works. Well why is it the city that works? Because things get done. Why do things get done? Because it's a dirty city. It's not it's a clean city as far as the streets are clean compared to other major cities. But politic phrase made you think of the mafia. But politically it's a dirty city But because everybody's connected and they ca you know, like we and we were joking last week, you make a phone call and Donnell shows up to do the the the the guest spot on the show here, right? Yeah yeah. You're connected, you get the Rolodex. Things happen in Chicago because people owe each other favors You need something done? So when when I did that about Donnell, you m you thought of the mafia? How often do I cause you to think of the mafia? Most days. So yeah. Remember that time I didn't break your kneecaps? You owe me That's how that so but it works. Well is that what we mean by God works? threads and a big fancy house and my kids are well behaved. Is that what I mean by God works? What do we tell the people that are Christians that are up being persecuted or living in poverty still? You know what do we what do we mean by God works? Does it mean if I come up become a Christian and my Physical circumstances don't radically change as somehow God isn't at work and isn't working for me. And then the whole, okay, let's think about the internal Right, 'cause that's where you're going too about the you know the internal change, the sense of peace and joy and tranquility and trust in God and all those sorts of things. Well, is it merely a therapeutic approach? Is God a the master therapist out there You know, if i if if if I don't all of a sudden feel this yeah, in incredible rush of joy, uh, does that mean God's not working? It just I i I don't know. I feel like we're borrowing language from a from a pragmatic American culture that is about it's all about what works. You know? Um we I think pragmatism is the American religion, really. Um and so we're borrowing language from the American religion of pragmatism and saying, well if it works then it's good. And that's where we get into this problem of people say, Well, if it works for you, great. No, if it works for you, you can still be going to hell, that ain't working. You know, so I I don't like the language. See, this that's why I'm pushing back a little bit. It's it's not to say that God isn't at work, it's not to say that God doesn't transform lives, right? But I I don't I don't I'm just I'm really resistant to that language. Okay, so describe for me what happens when somebody moves from being separated from God due to their sin to no longer being separated from God. You like describe for me what happens there. There's a restoration of relationship. There's not a there's not a And is there any uh in the soul, right? Because I think what you're acting against is in the soul, right? Psychology, Suke, the soul. We used to do a word of the week. That would have been a word of the week right there. Suke. Uh is there is there a legitimate expectation that we will mentally get something that we didn't get previously, you know, the soul is the mind, the will and the emotions, that that our habits begin to change, that our emotions are different. I mean all those are wrapped up in at least how I define the soul. Uh and so even though it's a spiritual thing that has happened, not just a soul thing, but a spiritual thing, there are ramifications in the soul. Would you agree? Were there ramifications in your soul? Sure there's yeah, but I'm not sure. Right? And Jesus says, By your fruit you will know them. Right. Right? And so if we're not if we're not really live in it, if our faith doesn't produce the right kind of works, then we can say, I'm not sure that person really has faith. They claim to have faith, but I don't think it's really working for them You know, like like that's my that's my language. Faith without works is dead, the fruit of the spirit, you know. I I I've seen his life, I've seen the fruit of his life. But my sense is that this is the same thing. Blending definitions of the word works, though. You're talking about, you know, the uh the works of the spirit, you know, and the and doing good godly works and the idea of God works for me. Those are two different uses of the word, right? Are you Is it really? I mean isn't it true? I mean you of all people as a Calvinist would say God is the one that is doing all the work And so when I do works, it's because God is working through me to do works that He prepared in advance for me to do And so we la we we strive with all of our intensity to do what he prepared for us to do, laboring according to his will. See, that's why I'm putting that's why I'm pushing back. Yeah, it's your book that raises this discussion, so that's why you're here. God is working through us, true. Yes. And I am to do the works that God calls me to do. That is true. By his strength. Okay. Neither one of those two things is God works for me. Neither one of those is that. Well it is for me. When I say it that's what I mean. I don't know that that's what the culture hears. I don't think that they have your theological sensibility, so what they're hearing is some sort of psychobabble kind of thing. Like Dr. Phil works for me. Drink it a you know, drink it. I mean God works We're the ones that don't work. Right. Okay. So it's more of the you know, the the burden or the the the the the the problem is is us Isn't that God? So I mean whatever He does, he does it right. And so in order for God to work for it. It's almost like saying, Oh, that means he might not work for other people. He works for me. He's always he works. Right I mean he works for everybody. And if people say, I'm gonna drink a pint of uh Jack Daniels, that's what works for me. Well then my phrase algae pardon me for for going there. But I think it elicited exactly the response I was trying to elicit 'Cause people say it all the time, well God doesn't work for me. You know, that works for you, it doesn't work for me. And that's the point is that they have all these different meanings to it. and we have to unpack the meaning to that. And so ver just by by virtue of my saying it, you got frustrated because You're aware of what the me what what people tend to think of that when they mean it, or when they say it rather, what they mean by it when they say it. So I'm saying here that we gotta unpack it and that by unpacking it, this is the question that I have, does it require therapy. But I'm in favor of it precisely because good solid therapy therapy simply requires the individual to be honest with himself about what happened in their past and to let the light of the gospel genuinely shine on whatever abuse that happened in the past, whatever hardships happened in the past, whatever ways that they sinned and rationalized things and behavior patterns in the past. that that a good therapist, Christian therapist, isn't trying to just get somebody to to feel good about themselves, but is trying to help that individual to to let the light of the gospel shine fully on their soul and the issues of their soul so that they can say, huh? Yes. I have been hiding and I've been lying to myself and I've been trying to rationalize and and fake things. And so but the the the question that I wanted to get at was is it necessary for us to have therapy to do that. And why is it that therapy, you know, just recently, you know, a couple months ago, I think uh uh as people are hearing the show, uh there was a um you know a shooting up there in Connecticut. And all over the news everybody was saying we need more mental health focus. You know, and and again, this is what you're getting at. It's a psychobabble, you know, whatever. And the reality is I keep thinking to myself Well what's needed is prayer back in the schools. And if we had prayer back in the schools and y and you uh the character in the book even describes how when he was in the classes, the Bible classes when he first got saved, that he was growing and it was meaty and it was really helping him. But God didn't give him a car. Because God didn't give him a car, he didn't believe that God was real and that God was trustworthy. Right? And so his belief that and and that's the sense, well God doesn't work for me. He didn't give me a car. Well that was the point though. You uh w the character I was about to say you alright, the character in the book thought God didn't work Because God didn't give them a car. And how many people we had an atheist professor on the show who uh who had a uh a good friend that died at a very young age that she was praying for because God didn't heal her The lady said, Well obviously God doesn't work. Right. And so this is what we need to unpack. Yeah, this is a bigger issue than we can finish in the next fifty-eight seconds. So we're gonna maybe you guys come back and put this panel together for one more week. All right. Lovely wife that one more time. More pages, Donnell. More pages. Need more pages. She says it's a big thing. Need more pages, baby All right, uh Donnell Watts. Author of of Destiny Deferred, a love story. You can uh Google it, but it's from Cross um Cross Books. Available in fine bookstores everywhere. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This has been the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by BMC Insurance and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How could we make you smile? Again, visit us online, wfmd. com Keyword Faith. And if you email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, that's Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com Whatever you send me, pretty much, goes up on the Faith Made vlog because my vlog is your vlog. Can't get any lazier than that. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.