Engaging in uh Libya and Syria uh in different places, some people would argue it has been responsible for the rise of the Arabic Spring. Excuse me, or um, you know, the the rise of how do I say it th uh in Libya, Egypt, Syria, the the br the bringing down of political strongmen, which has opened up the space for uh Islamic extremists to move into positions of power ISIS, of course, being the the most significant of those. And then the way that he handled things with uh with the deal with Iran, again, I have a friend from Egypt who who But try as I might, I can't convince him that Obama is a Christian. He's absolutely convinced that Obama's a Muslim And uh without getting into the debate about whether Obama's a Muslim or a Christian, the point is that the way that he's gone about engaging with these different groups has been in a manner that that has felt, I think, to many people, and I think to m to me as well uh disingenuous and uh uh at best um um uh you know like like he won't bring in any Christian refugees from anywhere in the Middle East. Right? And so even though there's Christian refugees that are that are under severe persecution in Iran, Iraq you know, uh Syria, uh Libya, all of these different places, Egypt, he's not allowing Christians to come in, but he's embracing you know, hundreds of uh or thousands of of uh these refugees from Muslim countries. And so I think as a result of that, there's a sense in our nation that that Whatever it is that I personally believe about what should happen with immigration, the current leadership is not handling it in a way that I feel like I can trust what he's saying. And so therefore, even if even if I'm I'm pro immigration Uh because of the way Obama is handling things in the current administration, I find myself anti immigration. Let me uh there's so much there that I think our big challenge is gonna be how to uh filter out particular aspects of it to drill down on them a little bit. It's going to be hard because they're all interconnected, so that's going to be a challenge. But again, to reset, that's the voice of Jonathan Sweites, our senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I am Feroy Skinner. We're joined this week by Doctor uh Harpal Singh and his daughter Hannah Singh. She is a sophomore Harpal Mangit. A mangut. Hannah Manget. Singh's your middle name. Correct. See, Harpel man uh so it's uh Harpels uh sing mang mangate, that's correct. And Hannah Manget, that's correct. Yeah, and see because I'm seeing is for used for all guys and core is used for all guys. Oh see I didn't this didn't come out the last time we had you on it. Actually I think it did, but I have it. I'm remembering it. So what is it? It's Hannah Core Manget. Core? Yeah. How would you spell that? K-A-U-R. Okay. See that learn something new all the time. Nice. Alright, so anyway. So forget that. Rewind the tape. Start over. Okay. That's good. Anyway, so um I'm not sure how much of what we talk about is going to be a divide based on political understanding versus uh or is going to be a divide based on religious understanding. Jonathan and I being Christian on the Protestant uh uh end of of the Christian uh specter. Yeah. And uh and the Mangots being Sikhs. I'm not sure if that would mean that you'd be Culturally you'd have a different understanding because people look at John and they see some, you know, uh rugged, you know, uh northern European descent guy. Rugged, right? Sure. And and they look my boys would be proud of the proud and they look at you and they don't see that. They you know you're clearly not European. You know, it might be hard to say exactly but you're not European, Jonathan is. And so that right there is is is gonna be a distinctive. So I'm wondering if if the Is it just politics that drives this? Is it just our racial awareness? So let me ask a quick question. The way that I really described that, did you feel like it was being described politically? I think a lot of it was. Interesting. But I think politics is is woven in. Yeah, because I was doing so much with what Obama's doing. And I don't want to go down this rabbit trail, but uh you might n it might take you some time to persuade me that Barack Obama's a Christian. Yeah, well I'm not arguing that he's a Muslim, but I'm not so sure that he's a Christian. Well that has to do with definitions that we've talked about often on this show about what what a true Christian looks like and believes and clearly Obama uh by his own admission would be on it on the liberal end of that Right. He claims to be a Christian. Yes. And so if you want to take him at his word, you say yes. But then if you examine, you know, the fruit of his life and stuff, uh there's not a whole lot of evidence that he's not. He doesn't follow classical orthodoxy. And so I'm not so sure that he's really anything. Yeah. You know. But anyway. But all that being the case, uh it it breeds this sense, at least uh from where I stand, I think a lot of people that would even consider themselves Christian, that that uh that were not being told the truth about what's happening. And so then in the midst of that Uh it's one thing if we have people coming in, we know who's coming in and we're able to embrace them as they are. It's another thing if we're just not being told the truth. And so then There ends up being I I think a lot of uh myths there. From from your own personal, political or religious point of view, immigration. For it or against it. So you want to speak right into that microphone in order for it to hear it. Just switch it back and forth. Let's reflect back at what uh Jonathan said. I mean clearly the events in Iraq preceded our president becoming the president. So the question is you can't sort of uh say that he was responsible for it. I mean um it was a mess before he even was a senator. And if we look reflect back correctly, if I remember correctly, our former Vice President, uh who's long departed now, um, was a person was a secret secretary of defense at the time when Saddam Hussein was in power and he went in the nineteen seventies to Iraq. So you know we have a long engaged history in that country and we without a doubt. We have to acknowledge that we participated in some of the wrong decisions. So it is a mess. I agree with that and um yeah the question is now how do we solve the mess? Uh no question the strong man got taken out and a vacuum occurred and we see a a rise in um Extremism. I want to call it uh Islam, I'm gonna call it extremism. And the question is it more political or is it more uh for the uh power accumulation well for a better word. But for for that you really have to reflect back and see what Iraq was prior to independence and afterwards. It's never a a country per se, but a union of three different groupings. And now we're seeing those three different groupings falling apart and that's what we're s witnessing. Three different groupings being the Kurds, the uh Shia Muslims in the south, and the Sunni Muslims. I mean my own grandfather uh in World War One, won a medal uh in fighting in Basra against the Turks, Ottoman uh Turks. And it was this been going on for three generations. This is nothing new So the question is you have to acknowledge that and the question is I agree. Uh is it uh I mean ISIS is a new is a different phenomenon, but it's really the quest for power for different groupings. I mean we all abhor the way they've conducted themselves, there's no question about it But the question is, uh they're there and how do we combat them? So that response I think is dealing with the political realities on the ground in the Middle East which is a whole discussion that I think is is is worth s you know, our time uh and and uh energy and and thoughtfulness, you know, whatever little we bring to it. However, um I think what I was intending to respond to was the sense that there's an Islamophobia here in the United States. And and what are the roots of that Islamophobia here? in the United States. And um I I think it's very hard to separate that from from what uh is labeled as a culture war that I would argue at some level has uh a spiritual you know, significant spiritual overtones to it, which is if a Christian you know, the the the um coach out west that that uh with his football team would go out after the game to half field and he would pray. Right in now he's lost his job. He was a Christian, you know, that that had lost his job. But apparently a Buddhist guy was doing a similar kind of a thing and has not lost his job. But the Buddhist guy was going out doing Buddhist things when he did it. And so uh the the question of Islamophobia uh in our nation for Christians uh has a bigger context than just Islam Right. I personally have chosen to befriend uh a bunch of Muslims in Frederick, uh uh and played on soccer teams and and this sort of thing with them. Uh and uh I have uh in fact chosen a doctor who is a Sikh. Which I don't know is uh if you find that to be common, you know, or not, but uh it's just something that that is a part of, you know, my my other doctor is a Muslim Right, and so I'm just a guy that that has not personally lived in a place of of uh keeping my distance from those of of different religions or even Middle Eastern background. But In our nation, there's a sense in the Christian community that we're mocked in Hollywood, that we're mocked in the school system, we're mocked in colleges. And in being mocked in all those places. Last time we had you on the show, Hannah, you were talking about how at your school you were advocating for a better uh acceptance and appreciation for Sikhism because it's one of the top five uh most populous religions in the world. And yet Christianity in many places, I don't know what it's like in your particular uh public school, there's a sense that You can't bring your Bible to school that if you uh write a paper on uh you know the the uh article just came out about a woman who spoke about uh homosexuality and she was in a psychology major at college And she wrote in a way that that argued that homosexuality was inherently disordered and uh her teacher gave her an F And yet that's that's yes, that's her opinion, but she was, you know, bringing that into her paper, and yet there's a sense that if you bring your your Christian beliefs into the public square that you're gonna get mocked and and kicked out. Now you feel that at some level as a Sikh. The funny thing is that we feel that as Christians, and so maybe the point is we need to get together and push back against secularism. And maybe there'd be less Islamophobia if there wasn't a sense of secularism is used as a as a um something to beat Christians over the head with. but all other religions we're gonna encourage them, you know, while we're beating back Christianity. And so I don't know, have you s have you ever do you have Christian friends that have felt that sense of culture? Um, I mean I would like agree to disagree that I think that this applies to like not only Christianity, like I but just religions in general. But if you look at like Hollywood mocking Christianity, it's also that it's just with pop culture and westernized culture the m um like America is technically one of um you know, they say that it's more more religious country than other westernized countries. And I think that like just with our it's culture that religion doesn't fit into culture here. And that's why but I I wouldn't say that we would could fight against secularism because we live in a country where that's our choice and we're blessed to have that choice And I think Islamophobia, um I think I understand what you're saying, that of course it's just that um when any religion's suppressed, that's a violation of our human rights. But um I would say that it's It goes to different religions because like you know, like Christianity is we're a Protestant nation. Like we live in an um there's this whole Starbucks I don't know if you guys heard about it, a Starbucks doesn't have Christmas trees on their cups anymore. Many people were very very offended by it. But I kinda love that. I think that it's that um we're kind of we're the melting pot, right? And I think that Islamophobia is um something that right now is being terrorism pro I think Islamophobia Islamophobia promotes terrorism. Because I think that terrorism the goal of terrorism is to um bring terror to people and if we're living in a world where we're scared of anybody who has brown skin or is Muslim or who looks different from us, then that's giving in to what the terrorists want. And I think a couple of things I want to clarify. You said that we uh We l we're in a nation and we and we have a choice and it's our choice I was I wasn't sure what we were choosing. It's our choice what? Oh, we can choose to be secular, we can choose to be religious, whatever. Yeah. First Amendment. Right. Right? Right. Okay. Um I I don't wanna I don't want to get bogged down to the weeds on that. I do want to say I uh for years I would have subscribed to the exact same I would have said exactly what you said that we don't want to give in to the terrorists because then, you know, we're giving them what they want. They want to instill fear and we've given them what they want. But I've come to realize they don't want us to be fearful. They want us to be converted or dead. So you can be afraid of somebody who wants to kill you and you can be afraid of somebody who wants to force you to convert against your will to a religion that you don't believe in. and you're not giving in to them. You're rightfully fearful because these uh firmly committed Muslims to uh to uh old school orthodox historic Islam teachings, sure, which we now call extremists, right, that's what they believe. They don't want you to be a Sikh, they want you to be a Muslim. And if you won't be a Muslim, they will conquer you. And they want Jonathan not to be a Christian pastor. They want him to be an Imam. And if he won't convert They don't want they don't want Jonathan to uh be afraid unless the fear causes him to do what they want. So I I think that we've So by the way, I want to call you on something, ask you to define something for sure. Because you want to introduce the term as is Islamophobia. What do you mean by that? What do I mean by it? Yeah, how are you defining is Islamophobia? 'Cause I might be okay with you using it if we're defining it a certain way, but I think too many people that have thoughtful intellectual understandings of Islam get lumped in with being Islamophobes for merely calling the the teachings of the religion what the teachings of the religion are. Yeah, and so uh uh uh she was the one that that used the term. So I don't know if we want to let her define it first and then rework off of that define. And that's what caught my attention. I didn't I didn't catch her using it first. So I think I was understanding Hannah as defining Islamophobia as um as those people that ascribe to Islam uh that it is inherently terrorist in its teaching and its orientation and so people in the na in in the United States that speak against Islam as being um uh uh as being uh incompatible with liberal democratic ideals at its root, meaning that the Quran itself teaches things that that would make it not possible for Muslims to be a true Muslim and live in a liberal democracy. Is that a fair Hannah? Is that a fair representation of the Mr. Yeah I mean I was just the simple definition of Americans fearing Muslims speak to the altar. Basically what you said is a much more Well how are you Sure Is that how you're using it too? Uh yeah, that's that's how I use it. That that I I feel that the term Islamophobia is a term that is a broad brush stroke that doesn't appreciate that that Islam itself has a significant problem in the year two thousand and beyond in the late nineteen hundreds into the two thousands that of the world religions, um the top world religions, that they have a higher percentage of violent people in their midst. than uh than they seem to be willing to admit and that when other people identify that that's the case We're all called Islamophobes. So I think in general I end up being called an Islamophobe and I I think I'm the farthest thing from it. Right. Well, I mean I would disagree because Well what you what you said about um of the top major religions about um Islamic people having the highest number of extremists or you know, violent people Um, like if you look at the United States, just like the mass shootings, like mass shootings since like nineteen eighty two, I was reading about it. Um, majority of the shooters have been white Christian males. And if though if that's, you know, violence and if you know, those are still white supremacists or just Christian supremacists if you look at it, th I don't think they're an accurate representation of Christianity. But I think those numbers are still spiked, but it's just how the media presents them to us. If we're that's a part that's the point I would like. That's a distinction that I think is important. What we might label in our society as a a white Christian male, if you drill down and and really explore the details, you might find out that they weren't Christian at all. You know, like in England, everybody's Church of England. You know, if you're born in England, you're Church of England. I mean that's just the way it is, you know, and but they're not really adherents of it So the question would be, somebody who's if Jonathan goes and gets a machete and starts hacking people up uh at the at the local Walmart, are we gonna say, oh, a white Christian male went and did that? Maybe, because he's a Christian, he's a male, he's white But was he doing it in accordance with the teachings of his faith? And he was not. And furthermore, was he following claiming to do it because he's a Christian? Right? And I'm saying that there are more people that are claiming to kill in in the name is of Islam than there are I don't I I don't ever hear of Sikhs killing in the name of Sikhism. And the and that they're killing because they're Sikhs and they want to uh show the world that that the the glory of uh I don't know the the term that is used for God, but the glory of God according to Sikh theology that that they're killing for him. I'd never hear of Jews doing that. I uh I've I've heard of uh a Christian guy down in Africa that does that, that everybody in the Christian world that I know of uh all agree that he is not anywhere close to being a Christian. He doesn't he he doesn't look like, he doesn't taste like. But these guys that are white Christian males in the United States uh it's very possible that they're a Christian in the background, but outside of this plain parenthood guy that was clearly um mentally uh profoundly unstable. I don't know of any of those killers that killed in the name of Jesus Christ. And there's a s in this big distinction. way of saying it. People who are Christians are Christ followers. They're following after the example and the teachings and the person of Jesus Christ. Yeah. Well of Islam, the Muslims are Muhammad followers. Yeah. They want to live a life like Muhammad did. Right. Right, right. And what kind of life did Muhammad lead? One would argue he led a life an awful lot like what we see from what we label as the extremists today. Yeah. So are the people that are the extremists are they the the most accurate followers of what Islam teaches And that's the point is that he's not said I'm seeing you shake your hand while he went to the cross and died. I want to disagree with you. The reason I'm disagreeing with you is very simple. If we look historically Uh I'm gonna uh speak into that Mike if you can. If we look historically, uh I'm gonna quote from my own face. I mean we had uh Our last guru had t had four kids. The last two kids were bricked alive by Islam. In the name of Islam Islam was done. But there were people in Islam at that time who said this is not Islamic, this is incorrect. How can you work alive kids? Yeah. Likewise, if you look uh in e in every face there's a spectrum Uh you were talking about um discovery and science. Uh in the uh you know the gold in their golden era when they had uh empire ex extending across the north Africa and parts of the Middle East. There are a lot of advances in science which we take for granted uh today, which which came from that era So there is a whole spectrum of learning and willingness for technology uh as much as we have here in today. Sure. And the whole point we feel like we've spoken in a way that we're we're not Admitting that there have been uh beneficial advances in the middle of the year. Extremism everywhere. Uh in every faith. Right, but the the point it and to Jonathan's point, the advances are kind of uh a non sequitur because there were great advances coming out of Nazi Germany too, but we wouldn't then hold up Nazism as as this great paragon of of human advancement really. So I I know I I d I don't know that that helps support your cause. But the thing what I'm hearing, and this is gonna be provocative, but what I'm hearing is you're saying that Muhammad himself was a bad Muslim. I don't know. I'm not a Muslim. I can't comment on that. But what I can say is I think you could have put the judgment uh I keep the book open and get people of that faith to uh express what their viewpoint is in terms of ISIS. I certainly know friends of mine who t uh who are Islamic are not anywhere near ISIS. They're actually diametrically opposed to ISIS. But the whole point is uh what number is in what group I don't know. I I can't comment. But I think the thing you also must realize If you look at the recruits ISIS is bringing up, they are disaffected Islamic people growing up outside Islam. how much of the roots are from their own social circumstances in um France, Germany, uh and the UK and the misunderstanding of the faith because I grew up outside And I can tell you they were never this fanatical when I grew up with these guys, uh, in London. But now we're seeing a total different polarization And I can't explain that. Uh this uh uh extremism is And you're saying the extremism is coming from the fact that they're disaffected and that they're poor and that they're not being Enfranchised, is that is that what you're saying? I think that's what you see in Europe. If you look here, this is the land of incredible opportunity. If you brought a work hard in the States, the sky's the limit. But in Europe it's not the case. So we don't see that degree in the US. But if you look uh in Europe, it's a very uh regimented society. It's very difficult for mobility. That's why a lot of the Europeans m moved over here. And that's uh y you're seeing the net result of the disaffection uh being reflected and they're easily targeted and recruited by these. Okay, so so this is I think a very uh common argument and I think that you say it in a very intelligent way. You present it clearly that that in Europe in particular, Germany, France, that there's a disaffection uh and there's a there's a disenfranchisement that that is has left them, you know, in a tough spot. The problem that I see with that is that the Christian um populations in China and in North Korea and in uh the Middle East You don't find those disaffected populations that are profoundly economically oppressed and even living under severe I mean they're losing their heads. uh depending on how they handle themselves in these mos Muslim countries or communist countries. You don't see the same acting out from those that are uh Christians that are claiming to be in the name of Christ. And and in fact what you see is them appealing to the West that we will that that we will come in and stand with them, that they would have religious freedom, but you don't find them taking up arms or blowing up themselves up or other people up because they're so disaffected. That that unique Psychosis is not something that you're finding from oppressed Christian groups. And we're gonna have to pick up and f where we're leaving off now with next week's show and and uh And because this is an awkward place to end. We're getting into the meat of some stuff, but we're out of time. Until they give us more time. Suspense. Which isn't gonna happen because Uh Dr. Harfell Mangut and his daughter Hannah Mangut. Uh not to be confused with sing or or core I was confused earlier. Yes. Clearly Jonathan wasn't, so good for you. What have I been reading lately? Uh emotional uh emotionally healthy spirituality by Peter S uh Ska. I would say the first two thirds of the book helpful. The last third kind of lost me a little bit, so there's my reading review for you. Thanks our sponsor, Putman Plumbing Heating. Help we make you smile. Till next week. God bless.