Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Frederick's News Radio, 930 WF I'm Troy Skinner with Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Varon Kareshe, an agnostic theist, who currently attends a Unitarian Universalist Church but grew up a Muslim. A couple of different kinds of Muslim, but we covered that in the first show. So if you missed that, go to WFMD. com Keyword Faith, access the audio vault, and listen to the podcast from two weeks ago. And then I encourage you to in a couple of days do that again and listen to today's show again. It's a great show to run to. 'Cause most of us run, you know, maybe three, four miles if you go running five miles, it's about a half hour of running. There you go. Depending on how fast you run. So download it on your iPod. And it will keep you going. And what we're talking about is the kind of thing that might keep you running. We've been we've been talking about hell uh and whether or not God would let you go there if there is such a thing. By the way, what am I reading? I mentioned Ted Decker. I mentioned Ted Decker and Aaron Healy. Yeah. They co-wrote a couple of books together. Not sure how that works exactly. I think that uh one person does all the work and Ted Decker puts his name on it. But anyway Uh Ted Decker and Aaron Healing wrote a couple of books together and I and I read those and I enjoyed them. They were the only two books co-written that Decker Decker wrote with someone that I enjoyed. Most all the other ones that he co-wrote with somebody I didn't enjoy Ismark. Right, you said that. Wow, I really like these two. So Aaron Healy also wrote a book called Never Let You Go. So maybe that's why Decker did it with a couple of different people to find one that was really dynamic and then. I recommend Never Let You Go if you're into Never Let You Go. Spiritualized Fiction. Just like hell. And it's never let you go softer and more accessible. It's definitely can tell it's written by a woman. You can definitely tell. So, you know, women sometimes don't like Ted Decker. I think you'd like uh Aaron Healy. Not you, Jonathan, although you might like Aaron Healy too. I don't know. Uh I don't know if you read fiction. Uh Do you? Uh occasionally. Like me that means that that's his way of being polite. It's like, yeah, the last time I read fiction was nineteen seventy-three, before I was born. That's what he's saying there. Yeah, go ahead. So we're talking about hell. Right? You said that word on the air. Hell, I know. Daddy. Well, it's in the Bible. Okay. So We haven't defined our concepts and it might be important. Uh-huh. So, Farron, when you think of hell What is it you're thinking about? And Jonathan, when he's done, you know, what do you think about when what does concept the concept of hell mean to you? You want me to go first? Sure. Okay. Um well there's d there's been different depictions of it given to me, but um Obviously I think about e eternal misery and torture and suffering and darkness and wailing and and gnashing of teeth and all of those types of things.