Yeah, I'm just gonna be a fine. Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. It's brought to us by Putman, Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Oh, we're saying one of those boxing sound effects. Ding ding ding, round three between Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Brian Lee. Senior pastor, can I call you senior pastor? Sure. Senior, junior, brother, yeah. Soul pastor, founder, and pastor, church lander. Founder? I didn't know that. Really? Okay. Jonathan founded his church too. We have two founding fathers here of local church congregations. Uh Christ Reformed Church. I remembered it this time. Didn't even look at my notes. I remember the name of your church. Very good. That's right. I might have been born yesterday and I just proved it again. Um what we're talking about is whether or not God favors nations today, if nations can claim to be godly, Christ honoring We haven't really defined that exactly. Do does a does a nation have to honor Christ to be considered a a godly nation and avoid God's judgment? I'm not real sure about that. Maybe we'll get into that. That's right. We haven't hit that and that's an important distinction 'cause I'm not claiming That we're a Christian nation. I know that there are people out there that do claim that, but that's not my claim. Now we agree on something. Now a couple of things and uh maybe I there's things uh that are going to uh I'm gonna demonstrate my my idiocy here But Jonathan, you've used in the last couple of shows some examples of, you know, there's this bad nation here, this bad nation there, you know, uh Soviet Russia, uh Nazi Germany, uh the French Revolution, all these sorts of things. So I was thinking, okay, are there if we wanted to play in that same sandbox, yeah, could we find other examples that would disprove the point? And uh maybe I'm wrong, but I'm I'm trying to think how god honoring is Canada? And yet they have peace, they haven't been invaded lately, they haven't any natural disasters that I know of, they haven't had terrorist attacks. But I don't know that they're particularly god honoring. Uh Gandhi's India w certainly wasn't honoring the the the Christian God anyway. Sure. Gandhi wasn't a Christian, he was a leader of that movement. I have answers to these. Right. So I mean and there are you know, I don't know, Switzerland maybe is not considered to be uh uh a a godly nation, but doesn't seem to have any real you know, real strife or problems. Uh the pilgrims Very godly people. They came over to the the the new continent and almost all of them died their first year here. So did they somehow earn God's disfavor in this new land of opportunity uh and then get and write that ship and survive the next year. I just I I'm not trying to disprove your point, but I'm trying to see if the logic is consistent And I'm not sure that it is. So what would your response be to that? Uh a couple of things. First of all, uh we're clearly giving the impression in Canaan That God was waiting for a moment when the sin of the Canaanites would be filled up. And it wasn't in Abraham's time, Isaac's time, Jacob's time, but that their sin would be filled up. Uh both the northern ten tribes of Israel and Judah went for many, many years where uh where they had smaller uh punishments from the Lord, but not the larger punishment. And they were waiting for i it it were were given the impression that God is waiting for their sin to be filled up. Same thing like I was saying last week with uh with Europe, uh with Russia, with uh various places, that that there seems to be the sense that um that God waits for their sin to be filled up. And if that's the case then then there would be a history of wickedness, wicked w wickedness, and then some kind of a day of the Lord where where the wicked is destroyed, i. e. Germany, and in in the aftermath of that is the few meek that are left that get to inherit the land in and continue to move the the nation forward. Right? And so um and the standard appears to me for the Old Testament to ha to to be more of a Uh I don't know if I would go so far as to say a noaiic standard, because I honestly haven't worked super diligently to define this, but I feel like I can do uh a half decent job defending what I have tended to think about this, okay? Uh the sense is is when does the nation become a beast versus when is the nation God fearing? And uh in in the sense of uh choosing to have law and order in restraining evil And when that when that nation quits restraining evil, which uh which is its um God-given, according to Romans 13, responsibility that the government would restrain evil and instead becomes uh an open participant in promoting evil. Interestingly enough, you know, Canada has moved the direction of homosexual marriage. Uh and uh and not letting Christians preach against that And they just started doing that in our generation. Same thing with over Dutch Holland, where they just started doing that in our generation. Uh, you know, and so there's nations like Cuba, you know, that that kicked God out of the country and didn't do so well. You know, there's nations like uh But how was God in the country before Cuba kicked them out? Uh well my you've said that a few times. You said it with France. Uh my understanding is that with you, you could say, God, I don't want you anymore And if you chose to do that, then God would withdraw. He would no longer live with you. Right? And so when a government of a nation says, We don't want God here anymore When a govern in of a nation says says that God is not supreme, but something else is is supreme. We see this in in uh Zimbabwe. So how did America how has America said that God is supreme? The government of America? Well, f it's one of its founding documents, I understand it's not the Constitution, uh, from the very beginning has been the Declaration of Independence. that has carried a significant amount of sway. It's not a Christian document, but it's a document that claims So we're not talking about the bar of Christianity here. We're talking about the bar of some sort of theism. Uh y um yeah. Uh I I think I'm more comfortable with that. I think that fits. Again I So Plato would be all right, or Aristotle who had a prime mover. Well yeah, and they got killed didn't they by by by Greece. Well everyone's gotten killed eventually. We've all died. I mean death is the major judgment here. I mean I I think your your real problem here, and again, you asked me last week to describe what I meant when I said Israel. Yeah. I'm getting used to this debate thing. It's kind of fun. When I talked about Israel operating on the typological level and how that impacts how the Old Testament talks about other nations as well, that was exactly the point with Canaan for you you mentioned Canaan fulfilling their wickedness and God's wrath. Now it's interesting when the New Testament talks in the very same way about the God's day of righteous judgment, for instance, uh Paul writing to the Romans in chapter uh two You have no excuse, O man, every one of you who judges, for in passing judgment on another, you condemn yourself because you judge, practice the same things. He goes through how they have turned away from God. And then he says, uh, he will render to each one According to his works, to whom is patience and well-doing. But for those who are self-seeking and do not obey the truth, but obey own righteousness, there will be wrath and fury, there will be tribulation glory and honor. And he says that um a Jew is one inwardly, and he says, uh God is building up uh storing up wrath on verse five, but because of your hard and impenitent heart, you are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. God judges everyone, every knee shall bow, every tongue confess. But the New Testament, and here's one example of many, takes that Old Testament typological nation where Israel as the people of God is compared and contrasted to other nations. And particularly to Canaan, which is occupying unrightfully uh the land of promise. And and the New Testament takes that language and Paul nowhere applies it to nations. Paul is now talking about individuals, and in this same book he will talk about Jew and Gentile, and he will talk about how the Gentiles, it's all nations, the men of all nations, all ethnicities are incorporated into the promises of God. And he says, the true Israel are all of those who believe, all of those who have faith in Christ. And I believe that there will be many Jews, Paul among them, a son of Benjamin. who will be Christians, and that's Paul's vision, that the true Israel will be the remnant of Israel that believes in its Messiah. And when and where they will be revealed, where that faith will come about, we don't know. He doesn't tell us in particular. But what he does tell us is he takes that judgment of wrath, and it's for those men, whether they be Jews, Gentiles, any man or woman on earth, it's for those men who are outside of Christ. So to say that America was at some point faithful and is now less faithful or would be less faithful next year if it embraced at a at a federal national level gay marriage, for instance. i i is is very, very problematic because the f the framers of the Declaration of Independence, though they could refer to a theistic concept that there was a God who created and who would judge or punish men That religion for them was entirely about morality, civic morality, and making people behave themselves. There was no sense of the biblical concept of redemption, of a revealed religion of sinners being redeemed by Christ. And that's why, as I mentioned at the close of of last week's show George Washington could write twenty thousand pages and the word Christ appears once in a speech that wasn't written in his hand probably by one of his own quote unquote speech writers that he didn't even review or edit. Um so uh across the board the key framers of those documents were not Christians Uh they didn't believe in the deity of Jesus Christ. They didn't believe in the Trinity. Uh so to talk about uh that founding generation, at least at the level of its leadership and of the elites in the colonies as um in any way Christian paragons. And I would say on the Day of Judgment, uh John Adams, uh George Washington, Ben Franklin, those those men, uh at least according to their public statements where they said John Adams said, for instance, that religion which is about grace and faith is the most antichristical thing. He called a religion based on grace and faith a religion of the Antichrist. John Adams, who's arguably often described as the most faithful of the framers, those people will be just as much liable to the judgment of God as anyone else. See now I'm not di I'm not in disagreement with that. But in what sense then is America being faithful? You have some standard of faithfulness and it's imaginary. It's not in the scriptures. The standard of faithfulness that I see consistently uh in Babylon, Assyria, uh um uh Moab, Edom. uh has to do with how they treat one another and how they treat other nations. It has to do with uh with what I'm gonna call beastliness. Every nation but Israel, according to the Old Testament prophets, was condemned. Every nation that had a false God. All of the idolaters were condemned. To differentiate among them is absurd. And I'm saying you're wrong. Y you may say that. And the reason I'm saying you're wrong is because the scripture clarifies to us how cruel Moab and Edom were when they when they violated basic principles of humanity toward the nation of Israel. Of course it's true that that they're talking in the context of Israel because Israel is the only nation that has revelation in it, the only nation where there's light. He's not gonna uh he's not gonna be dealing with with nations that are that are far away. that that that are not within that that realm of light. And once Christ came then then the light has moving out to the whole world. And so we're able to walk in the revelation that God judges nations uh uh s uh in the same way that he judged nations in the old testament on the basis of their beastliness or their humanity. And so if uh I'll prophesy to you. If Europe kicks God out and continues to do so, we're going to see her lose any and all prosperity and fall into significant bondage and lack of freedom. And if that happens, it will it will be because they they took away the freedoms for people to worship God. I mean surely you jest surely you jest because um I mean I'm not making light of of your claim to to prophesy. I don't agree with it, but surely you jest because Europe couldn't have been more judged, more condemned than she was by the First World War. the Second World War, the horrors that were visited upon her, the six million Jews. So what are you talking about if I I I mean Well I would I would say yes. She was and she will be again. So h did she restore herself? to faithfulness post-World War II by the foundation of the UN or the EU perhaps? No, and in fact there's many times in the Old Testament that it takes time for the sin of a people to be filled up. She didn't restore herself, but to the extent that she was open to the gospel, there was the opportunity for her to respond. And to the extent that she refuses to respond, then she loses her uh the her blessing. She loses the the the uh the blessing of the Lord. Um Uh this would be a helpful point at which I could define providence, uh a traditional definition of providence. I'm a Calvinist, that's why my church is called the Reformed Church, but this is a broad definition. A lot of people have have held this view of providence. Which is the view, and I believe, that God upholds by his hand all creatures on heaven and earth, all nations, and they rise and fall because of his will. All things come not by chance, but by God's fatherly hand. Do you agree with that? I I make major qualifications. I would not call myself a Calvinist in any question. No, I'm not asking you to buy into Calvinism, but pr the doctrine of God's providence is it is is broad, broadly held by many Christians outside of the Reformed tradition. Um, but God I would say it's implicit in creation, that God creates and then sustains and maintains. And I think the biblical view is that all things come to us by hand. Um and so I would say sickness and health. So take time to define that. Yeah, yeah, no, no. You can go ahead and define a response. But so you don't have to sign on to this, but I would just say my view of Providence is that all things come to us by God's hand. Now the difficulty comes outside of the scriptures where we have biblical warrant, and again I don't believe in ongoing prophecy, so I can't say when God is providently judging or cursing you or me. Uh John Calvin used to say, you know, people would say, well what a horrible you're just a stoic. You just think half got everything happens by God's hand. You have no role in this. And Calvin said Now there's a big difference between Christian theism and Stoicism, because Christian theism says there is a personal God, and I know that when I am I'm struggling with disease or when my wife dies as she did at a young age And I'm crushed by the circumstances of life. Those are providential circumstances, and I know that there is a loving God who is perhaps chastising me. perhaps strengthening me through times of trial, but I know that there is a loving God and that he won't, because of an explicit promise of Scripture, He will not crush me beyond beyond that which my faith is able to stand. And when good things are happening, I can be thankful because I know they come to me from God's hand. Now I would say That that's true, and that's how I understand Providence. But when I look out at the nations, I cannot say because I do not know that this bountiful year, this difficult year, this war is a result of that sin or that sin or some degree of faithfulness or unfaithfulness. All I can say And this is what we are given to proclaim, is that this present age is lost in darkness insofar as it has wandered away from Christ in faith. And this is why I think your view has real problematic ramifications for the church and the ministry of the gospel. As a preacher of the gospel, I am commanded to go to all the nations and proclaim them all under the judgment and wrath of God until they turn to Christ in faith. And so I go to Americans. I go to Americans who are in power, who are not in power, the great and the small, with that same exact message. What would it mean for me to think Haiti's less faithful, America's more faithful, Robespierre is somewhere in the middle. What would that mean? I don't know. The New Testament gives me no because the New Testament says everyone, everyone on earth is storing up wrath for the day of judgment So what happened typologically in the Old Testament, Canaan had their day of judgment when Israel appeared as the hand of God to judge them, as a type, to teach us about the real day of judgment. So that's why nations are considered relevant because in the Old Testament the people of God were a nation, but we're not anymore. And so that's why the other nations no longer are judged by those criteria. That's Dr. Brian Lee, pastor, senior pastor at Christ Reformed Church, Jonathan Schweitzer, also on the panel again this week, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, and I'm sure John now has a response. Yeah. Um let's talk about Providence. Yeah. Uh it's clear to me that your understanding of um Provence and uh your um your belief in uh Calvin's teachings are the Bible's teachings. Sure. I understand that you Calvinists believe that Calvinoni taught you. When uh Jesus says that these birds and these flowers are clothed by the heavenly father with garments so beautiful that we have nothing to worry about. I have a pretty good basis for for holding that view of providence. Uh and so what I was trying to say uh is that when um when you go to define what you believe about the nations Um I think it is uh it is very much tied to your belief and uh in how God goes about sovereignly working things out. And um uh and I'm of the opinion that God grants to man a choice And that in that choice, that I was uh that that all humanity was so am I, that all humanity was predestined in Christ, all humanity. was predestined to be in Christ, and that when we believed we were included with Christ. And so from before the creation of the world we were chosen in Christ. So anybody that rejects Christ rejects his salvation. I'm not talking about predestination or salvation. I'm talking about God's providential care of all human history. I understand. So If you'll be patient, I'll walk you into what I'm what I'm thinking on this. I realize it's frustrating because you and I are in severely different places. Uh and it'll probably be more frustrating as I move along. Uh so what I'm saying is that when A Christian in a nation uh walks in uh the purposes of God and submits himself to the purpose of God and begins to pray for for for God to move. I'm of the opinion that just like if the miracles of Christ had been done in Beth Seda, uh they I mean had been done in Sodom instead of Beth Seda, that Sodom would have been would have repented. I'm of the opinion that that the influence of a Christian preaching in that nation makes huge impact on that nation and the people of the nation, that the kingdom of God is like yeast. and that a little bit makes the whole loaf rise. And so if you have a larger amount of yeast in a particular nation, it has a bigger influence than the nation that has a s that that has less yeast. Russia had a lot l lot less, right? And so uh you could say that the bread fell in the midst of being cooked, uh in so instead of it it uh uh adequately puffing out the way it's supposed to, the the way the East is supposed to, it flattened out because they they they did not have people that responded to the gospel But there's an interesting theory, but what's your biblical basis for that view that when when the a certain number of people or preachers are in a nation that it rises? What's your view of that? What's the biblical basis? Uh Uh Israel and No no no but Israel was called into a relationship with God at Mount Sinai. Yeah. So so this is where I'm saying that that your Calvinism believes that Israel uh in Israel's chosenness meant that God himself was was uh working all those things out and that there wasn't a give and take Where we're told that God repented of the evil that he was going to do against the nation. Like it says in Jeremiah, go down to the potter's house. And a nation is like uh when I have my hands on the clay on the potter's wheel and if the clay gets marred in the potter's hand what does he do? He he puts the clay back and instead of making what he was gonna make he makes something else instead uh a vessel for uh for destruction where he was going to make a vessel for noble purposes, it changes in his hand. And but if he tells a nation that I'm gonna destroy you and they repent then he will repent, is the word used, of the evil he was going to do against that nation and instead will bless them. He gives us the formula very clearly and very directly and then Paul applies that in Romans chapter 9 and he says look you Jews That are upset that I'm rejecting you right now. You didn't seem so up so upset when I was rejecting Egypt way back when But I'm the potter and you are the clay and you can't say to the potter that uh how I'm supposed to make you. And he gave us the basis upon which they were were rejected. He said, When the Word of God came to them, God preached, faith comes by hearing, hearing by the Word of God. The Word of God comes by somebody preaching, and he sent preachers, but what they did not do was combine the word of God with faith, and they instead sought to establish their own righteousness. And so instead of them walking into the kingdom of God and walking in the blessing that God desired for them, the loaf fell. Right? Well this is th this is a uh God responding to how we responded to him. God set it up that certain uh that that if a nation responds and does what is right they'll walk in a measure of blessing. If they don't respond, they walk in less blessing. If they go totally beastly, like uh like we saw that Edom did, like we saw several nations that attacked Israel because God raised up certain nations to judge Israel, right? And when they judge them It would have been fine, but those nations in in doing what God had called them to do, they instead got very violent and cruel in the way that they treated Israel. And so we're told that God's reason for judging them and for co and and for taking their right to be a nation away is because they were so cruel. God raised them up to judge, and if they would have just done what God told them to do, they would have been fine. But instead they chose to be cruel and uh in and and mean in everything that they did and the result is that they ended up losing their right to exist. Right? We see this in the Old Testament. We get to the New Testament. Yes, it's true that Paul says that we should submit to different nations, but it doesn't change the fact that some nations are beastly and that other nations are are not gonna be so beastly. The question is uh is uh you know how much is that, you know, beastly or not beastly? It has to do with cruelty, it has to do with with Things like lying, cheating, stealing, and and the extent to which that is there. And we see it in the prophecies in the Old Testament. I could go through the different ones, but I don't want to, you know, just sit here and and take up all the time. The point is is that When we're dealing with the providence of God with people and with nations, we're given the impression that God responds to our choices. I I certainly agree that God responds to our choices in history. We see that all the time. Uh I don't know why you'd think I wouldn't think that, but The uh the view of uh that's I mean again just really interesting when you read the New Testament you have no word for the nations in in and when Christ sends his apostles out. And and I would again just to explain further what I mean by tithe, because we're t coming at a different Different. Add it. Because of of time. This is going to be one of those times when uh the podcasts come in handy. So what you wanna do is you want to listen to this week's show and next week's show and the podcast back to back. Otherwise it's got this dangling participle here at the end of the Faith Debate Show. So uh we'll pick up we'll give uh Dr. Lee the first word next week so that it that gap bridge will sound good in a podcast setting. We're all for the podcast. And if you're not for the podcast, just Freeze your mind for the next one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours, and you'll be fine on the back end of this. Uh Dr. Brian Lee is senior pastor at Christ Reformed Church. Jonathan Sweitzer is senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. host of the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? By the way, what have I been reading? On Being a Pastor, Understanding Our Calling and Work by Derek Priman, Alistair Beg, and I gotta say I like Alistair Begg's preaching better than I like his writing, but that's just me. Anyway, till next week, thanks for listening. God bless.