Is it ever appropriate to wear clothing with slogans that others could find offensive? This is what we aim to find out today on the Faith Debate. Uh I am I think trying to whisper over my voice and with the music is I'm not sure you heard it, but a whispered yes came from the corner there. uh Daniel Rasby. Daniel's uh with a church, a house church in Thurmont, Maryland, and uh he and his family have an organization called Conquered by Love. You can find uh their website conquerbylove. org. Stephen Jurger's on the panel again. He's with a congregation in Southern Pennsylvania not too far away from Gettysburg called the Shabbat Gathering. And I am Troy Skinner. Uh I am the pastor of a church called Household of Faith in Christ. You can find uh all sorts of information about me, including my contact information and information about this show at household of faith in Christ dot com. Yes, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Of course I guess I should give the radio station a plug at WFMD. com. But you know, whatever Actually if you go to householdfaith in Christ dot com, it links to WSMD. com. So it's not like I'm trying to steal anything from from them in n nor would I ever w uh want to. So um yeah, is it ever right? for somebody to wear clothing that has something on it that others find offensive. Um and you said you said Yes, it is uh uh sometimes appropriate or something because the gospel itself can be offensive. You can wear a shirt that says the words of John three sixteen on it, for God so loved the world. that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever uh believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. Now I just quoted most of that in NIV, and so that would really offend the King James only people But besides that, it's gonna offend certainly anybody who's unsaved or or many people who are unsaved are just offended by the mere words on your shirt. And you can't say to me that God's word um is something that's that is bad to be saying or broadcasting or teaching about. And so for that reason, just because you can find even if it's the only example Then the answer to the question is yes, it sometimes is appropriate to wear something on your b body or on your clothes that somebody else might find offensive. Now and the Oh go ahead, Stephen. I was just gonna say you don't have to wear it. You can just carry a Bible with you and you can be accused of hate speech. You can have a Bible in your hand and be accused of uh getting into somebody's space and making them feel uncomfortable Um Jesus said if they hated me, they're gonna hate you. And the gospel can be very offensive. Um, but at the same time It's the message of truth. No, but obviously, yeah. Uh particularly if you're sharing the gospel because the Bible tells us that the gospel is is is offensive. So y you can't ever proclaim or placard or share in some way the gospel uh without potentially offending somebody. Um but in our and so I'm gonna get to what triggered this as a topic idea in a second, but in our cultural milieu, um there are a lot of things that people get triggered by Um I noticed you saw the story not too long ago. Apparently in Florida, they've they've got a new license plate, I guess, that they're gonna let people put on their cars. It's got the old uh snakes with the don't tread on me uh language underneath it. A lot of people are offended by that. If you wore a t-shirt with that on it, they you know, they might think poorly of you, be offended by it. Uh the Um the old General Lee from the uh Dukes of Hazard uh show back in was it the eighties I think that was on to early eighties maybe. Uh it it it was a reddish orange car that had the uh the stars and bars, the uh the Confederate um you know blue cross with the stars in it. Which is not a racist flag, by the way. So but some people would argue and they would they're mad at you now for saying it's not. Well look at nobody ever said this show was wasn't gonna be offensive. So look at the the the stars and bars. You know, twenty, thirty years ago, uh it was starting to become really offensive. And now the American flag is following the same offense. We have some friends that had uh some adult children over and they basically saw an American flag and they went, Oh, that just makes me so uncomfortable. That's hate. That's hate. And But what what is the Christian supposed to do? I mean the Paul says as much as is possible, as much as it lies within you, live at peace with all men. Right? So we're not we're supposed to to some extent go out of our way to to be nice and and nice is a bad bad word, but meaning peaceful and not not intending to cause other people t either to stumble or to be offended or, you know, um unhappy with us for you know To to r to a reasonable extent. And but that is a Christian principle to live by. Well no yes yes absolutely you don't want to be. I know that you hate bananas So every time I media ban I'm going to do it right in front of your face and you know, lift the banana in front of you a and and and chew it slowly, maybe with my mouth open to really try to show you look I mean. Isn't that something you did as an older brother to your siblings? I wonder. Right. So is there anything wrong with eating the banana? No, I'll get great potassium. Um but doing it right in your face just b even because I know you don't like it, well that's now that's uh I think In some ways sinful actually. And and some other things that, you know, will trigger people, right? Not a racist hat by the way. Also, wearing a wearing some sort of uh you know a sweatshirt or t-shirt or something that's got uh you know a slogan on it, let's go Brandon, and people will say, Oh, you shouldn't say that as offensive. Few months ago, but that particular phrase that because that phrase is supposed supposed to be a translation of a cursed word that um most Christians would consider they should not say publicly then you probably shouldn't say that phrase either. Yeah. I disagree though, 'cause e euphemisms uh are used in the Bible. Uh I mean, you know, I I I don't think it's sinful to use a euphemism Well, let's let's keep the same standard because everything that you guys mentioned seems to be on the right conservative uh way of looking at things. But if you look at the woke left, the BOM and Black Lives you know, all that stuff They wear that with tremendous pride and they even get into your face and boy if you say anything then the double standard comes down and then you really get uh saying you're a racist, you're all these kind of things. Right. And so the question should be we should whether it's coming from the left or the right 'cause I use some political ones, so you're right. uh you are correct uh in in uh in in offering like the b lm because there are a lot of t-shirts that say b lm on or signs in people's stores or whatever. Uh the we m we we should uh uh it looks like my uh hold on one second Alright, we're we're still actually good. The battery's holding on but it's getting low. So we the if the uh if you're doing this on video, uh if you're uh paying attention to us on the video and it cuts out in the middle it's because the battery died. So nothing I can do about that. But on the radio it should not affect us. We're not battery operated here at the radio station, as far as I know. Unless they didn't pay their electric bill, but I don't have any any inside knowledge on that. Uh but we should be asking if if we are troubled, if we see somebody you know, wearing a a MAGA hat or a BLM hat or something and it's like, what what's the reason? Why are they wearing that? Are we have we lost the ability to like have dialogue with people and say, hey, why are you wearing that hat? I think I think politics has gotten so um polarized that the very hate that seems to spew from one person's view to another Let's say some candidates that are coming up that would be some candidate would be really good for uh America in the community or what the state they are in and another candidate um is, you know, a real loser but because they hate the idea of the candidate A, let's say they're gonna go the other way, even if it is harmful, hurtful, and very um uh bad for the country or bad for the community. It's just That polarization um is something wrong because you know, twenty, thirty years ago, liberal minded was you're supposed to go and have an open mind and have a conversation But now it's turned into very closed-minded unless you absolutely agree with me in every point possible and come to the right pronouns and everything else, uh you are really in trouble with Yeah. If we're going to try to, you know, tiptoe around and and not cause offense, then we we actually rob ourselves of opportunities to speak truth as well. So if if let's say yeah you're a hardcore conservative thinker who's really offended by the uh the organization Black Lives Matter and all the the nonsense they're involved with, you see somebody wearing the BLM shirt or hat that we mentioned, and you go up to them and say, Hey Why am I asking why you're wearing that hat? Oh, because the because black lives matter, because there's all this dis discrepancy or the you know, uh between uh the the wealth of the blacks and the whites or disparity and the uh you know, the the police, the brutality and all that sort of stuff. You say, well it's interesting you say that, but you know, I I agree. Anybody that any time there's a uh an incidence of uh police brutality, I'm gonna be against that, so I'm with you on that But do you understand what the whole BLM movement, like who the funders are, who the originators of that organization are, how they're they they are into like witch doctor satanic uh worship rituals and and the money's not going where you think it is, money that goes to them is actually funding their mansions and you could you could have a chance to give them a education or Yeah, on the other side, somebody's gonna say, Why are you wearing that um uh let's go Brandon shirt? And you're gonna say, Well, because, you know, the president's screwing everything up and you say, Well, you know, he's done some good things for Mars. I would disagree that he's done any good things from my perspective, but you can have a dialogue, but we we rob ourselves. My wife was uh she I don't know if she I won't use any names. My wife had a a social occa uh occasion with a friend of hers and uh And uh involved a meal, and so my wife prayed as is her habit. And uh, you know, she uh invoked the name of Jesus Christ in her prayer as is her habit. And the friend, um, I'm not so sure she's a friend anymore, I don't know, was very offended. And she said, I knew when you started to pray that you were going to say Jesus, I knew and I'm thinking to myself, don't do it, don't do it And then you did it anyway. And don't you realize that I know that's your God, but it's not my God, it's not everybody's God. How dare you? So but it gave them an opportunity at least to have a dialogue about who Jesus is and why Christians pray uh in the name of Jesus and there's a reason why we do that. So if she had decided to play it safe and not cause offense, first of all she would have been dishonoring God. But she also wouldn't have had that that dialogue opportunity. So I think we should I don't know, take the chance to be offensive on occasion. Everybody's nodding in agreement. So here's what Okay, so here's what triggered the uh the topic actually. A couple months back, I can't remember exactly when it was, but we were recording a uh uh some episodes of the Faith Debate, and I was at uh at the time wearing a shirt And I want to tell the story behind the shirt. There's a song back in the uh early part of the nineteen seventies, I think, by Steve Miller band called The Joker. And it's a song that I think he wrote to either his wife or his girlfriend, I think it was his wife at the time or whatever. It was a very playful kind of a song and it's kind of a uh interesting rock and roll love song to the woman in his life kind of thing and one of the lines in the song is really love your peaches, want to shake your tree. And we at my house have a peach tree. And it gives us actually a pretty bountiful crop every year And some of the peaches are kinda hard to reach at the upper parts of the uh of the branches and so you actually shake the tree to to have the peaches fall and you gather them up and you make smoothies and pie and Jam, preserves, all that sort of stuff. And anyway, so we have the peach tree, and in the context of of of that peach tree, and remembering this song from my childhood, uh playfully, I said to my wife Said, really love your peaches, wanna shake your tree and she knew what I was saying. There was a double entendre obviously involved. She thought that was clever and and and cute and flirtatious whatever, and so she ended up uh that next year for my birthday or Christmas or something, uh she got me a shirt that had that slogan on it, uh Really Love Your Peaches, Wanna Shake Your Tree. And so I don't wear it everywhere. Um but I wear it in places where I feel like okay people uh where people are less likely to to take it the wrong way or be offended by it. And so wearing it to a a faith debate recording didn't strike me as being problematic, but somebody on the panel who's not here today to defend himself um said to me, you know, are you really sure that shirt's appropriate And I said, Well why? I mean, what kind of ideas do you think that that's putting in people's minds? And I said, Well, it was a gift from my wife. It's in the context of our marriage. It's a double entendre with the song from the seventies and And uh and a tree in our backyard. I mean so I will say this for the record, knowing that somebody who's in our crew that usually records a faith debate uh doesn't appreciate that shirt, I'm not gonna wear that shirt around that person anymore. Because you have a choice and it's not a not a big deal to you. Right. But it doesn't mean I'm not going to still wear the shirt in other contexts because it doesn't trouble me in the same way. So that guy hmm, that's the kind of thing we should probably talk about on a speech debate. But in that in that kind of sense though I think the argument made with that particular shirt, because I was there in that conversation, um, was that i if you're I i if you have some words on a shirt that are a double entendre that are um written in such a way as to evoke thoughts that could be lustful thoughts. Whether the intent is for your own spouse, that's one thing, but that's one thing that's private between spouses necess that you know, to say those things or to talk about or to wear those things. But in out in public, if you're just if you're wearing something with a connotation, uh maybe a sexual connotation, then that it that might be um sending the wrong message because we have a culture of um promiscuity. And you know, so that that is that that's I think the I think the argument w where where he was coming from with that. Yeah. Oh what if it wasn't peaches and it was figs? Or apples. Probably wouldn't have the same connotation, would it? But what is that what is I really love your figs, want to taste your fruit. Really love your apples, want to drink your juice. There's there's certainly a lot of a lot of things that can be taken. I mean there there's there's language along those lines in scripture. That's why I think Oh the oh the Song of Salman is is is very explicit. Okay. Um very, very Explicit. So if I had a Bible verse that was pretty explicit, if you know what's really being said there, should I can I not have a shirt that has that scripture verse on it? Well what are you trying to advertise? What are you trying to promote? If you're walking out and there's some individuals that know exactly what that's talking about and it might send a message that uh You might not be wanting to communicate. Or you but I but it is the message I want to communicate. Okay. Sex is not dirty. No, it's not. Sex outside of marriage is sinful, but sex inside of marriage is beautiful And I'm a married man wearing a shirt given to me by my wife. It reinforces the idea that, you know what, my wife and I hate to be shocking. Cover the kid's ears, but we get intimate. Right. And it's good. We're supposed to And so I don't want I don't want people to feel like the to be a Christian is the apprude, but but to be a Christian is the asexual. We talked about last couple of weeks ago. about context. Context really matters. So a word by itself has no meaning without context and a word with only partial context is going to have one meaning. See, if you know the story behind this particular shirt, it has a whole extra set of context that it does not have just by wearing the shirt. Unless you're gonna explain that whole story to everybody you meet. Well that's on the back side. The only thing that they're gonna be thinking is the song, if they know the song or what it what they can probably guess the certain means, but they have no context. So if you just walk out in public Somebody might think that you are one of the average promiscuous uh promiscuous people in in this country if they don't know you, if you're just walking down the street. I mean what do billboards do? They're supposed to communicate something fast, quick, gets the message, and your attention. But I'm not wearing that out in general public. Like I said, I you know I wear I'm not I don't keep it in my closet, but I wore it in the context in a room full of other Christian men who know that I'm married, know that I'm a Christian, and so the context there is, oh Okay, there's probably a double meaning to the I'm because uh the person who brought this up who's not here to defend himself wasn't familiar with the song. Uh so he wasn't sure what what the context was, is but I'm guessing there might be another meaning there And the meaning was, yeah, it's a g you know, it was a gift from my wife and yeah, it has kind of a double meaning. And inside the context of marriage, I think it's fine. Actually there's another person who was in the room at the time who's not here either Um, you know, he jumped in and answered the question and said, Well yeah, I mean it's um I'm I'm assuming it has to do with his wife. Right. And so I would ass so in that con I'm a s so I don't know. I'm M my daughter, uh, when she was younger used to have problems with uh public dis displays of affection, you know, between her uh her mother and her father. You know, if we would give each other a kiss or something, uh she'd say, Ew you know you know, in public The public needs to see happily married couples who are willing to give each other, you know, a a a kiss in public on a k not I'm not calling some sort of deeply romantic Kind of, you know, but being affectionate towards another, being physically affectionate towards another uh to a certain point, and seeing what a healthy dynamic looks like, we need more of that, not less of that. Right. And so like I said, I'm not going to uh the local grocery store wearing that shirt. That's what um what's it there's a Bible passage about that, right, where um uh Benelech looks out the window and sees Isaac and Rebecca. doing something. So he's like, oh, you guys are actually married. He's not she's not your sister. Remember? Right. Right. It doesn't say exactly what they were doing. I I imagine it wasn't Complete intimacy if it's right outside the king's window. But it th i there was enough going on that that clearly they were married and and so he could s so he was saying, Well, okay, well that makes Now I understand you're not just brother and For the uninitiated, here's here's some Bible verses for ya. As the apple tree among the trees of the woods, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste. That's in the Bible The fig tree putteth forth her f green figs, and the vines with the tender grape give a good smell. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away. That's in the Bible. I'll give you one more I would cause thee to drink of spiced wine and of the juice of my pomegranate. His left hand should be under my head, and his right hand should embrace me. I wonder, what's the pomegranate? See, I think it's okay. I think sensuality is okay In the confines within which God is placed. This is a passage about a husband and wife talking to each other. So this is within the context of a marriage. It is in the Bible A lot of people skip over it because they're embarrassed to read this in front of kids. And that's my point. But I don't do that in in my house. We read through the whole Bible. Every day we read the next chapter and we don't skip any. We go front to back and we start over. Um and you know, as questions come up we answer them, but certainly the world has a lot of more training on the subject in the wrong areas than that we need to be counteracting. And I want to put a pastoral hat on for just a second. Um we have too many people. It seems like it's mostly women, but it can be men too. But in my experience is that mostly women they have a hard time with their marital uh sex life, their their marital relations Uh because their whole life they were told, you know, that sex was bad, you know, that sort of physical intimacy is dirty somehow. And they have a hard time uh abandoning themselves and being vulnerable with their husband because they feel icky. But we don't want our young people to grow up feeling like marriage is uh uh that um sex is icky. We want them to understand that sex inside of marriage is one of the most beautiful things that God has given us It's sex outside of marriage that is far more than just icky. It's scientifically dangerous uh and emotionally dangerous, but it's also spiritually sinful and disobedient. And so but we have to put things in their lanes in the right categories. And so if we go too far and this is why, you know, we have a real problem in our culture Uh we talk about this a lot off the air and even on the show sometimes because uh culturally it feels like the uh the wacko um uh postmodernists are w winning the day and this this this this neo Marxist kind of liberal Lulu stuff by censusness is off the chain. I mean it i it's people are trying to one uh one up each other. They're trying to outdo. Oh, you think that was gross and i and irreverent? Let me let me show you gross and irreverent. Oh yeah It's like it's totally out of control, and so our tendency is to be on guard against that, and we should be. But we don't want to replace licentiousness with legalism. And I'm always nervous about people on our side of the issue trying to c over correct a pendulum and have it swing from the from the far left uh to the to the far right or even off center to the right, even if it's not far right. I'm always on guard against that. So that's where that's where my pastoral heart is. I'm not saying I get it exactly right, but that's where I Well I think also it's important that You know, Paul addresses and says in his epistle, I think I think it's in Hebrews, is it the marriage bed is undefiled and it's it's something before God that's Very important, uh, because it's about procreation. It's about children and family and passing on the inheritance and the name. and being able to uh move on because of the inheritance that we have. And it's also about c closeness and oneness and intimacy. I mean because marriage is a picture of Christ and his church. And so we are We are united to Christ and we are in Christ. We're in a sense we you know we're one with Christ, uh if we're true believers, and so that physical intimacy between the husband and wife is a is a kind of a practical uh picture of that kind of a oneness and union as well. It's I mean it's a it's a beautiful uh intertwined kind of a meaning. Uh that it's not just procreation, it's about enjoyment. Wi wives should enjoy their husbands, husbands should enjoy their wives. Uh it's okay to flirt with your wife, it's okay to flirt with your husband, you know, um a and not to do things in a way that would come across as grotesque or inappropriate uh out in culture Uh but again I don't know that uh a t-shirt that has kind of a double entendre meaning to it is is grotesque. Others might agree with uh might disagree with me, and so we would have to kind of hash that out, which is what we've been trying to do uh on today's show Anyway, well we've only got about a minute left, so I'm going to uh uh put a wrap on this. Appreciate you guys so much. Daniel Razby, you can learn more about uh uh the organization that he and his family are involved with, Conquered by Love. They have a website, conquered by love. org. Stephen Jurger, he's got a church in Southern PA. So if you're looking for a church and you live in PA, you might want to uh reach out to me and I can try to put you in stuff with uh Stephen. Their church is called the Shabbat Gathering. I'm Troy Skinner. My church is Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.