Once again broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City, where they're always watching. In the heart of Cridlock County, where you can never get anywhere on time. We're preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by BMC Insurance and Putman Funding and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts, news items, the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me Troiskinner at clearchannel. com if you're one of the fortunate ones. Monday through Friday you'll be one of the nine emails selected to be posted on the Faith Debate blog. Uh and if you don't email me, just go online to fmd. com Keywordface and see what other people are emailing me You'll be fascinated, I'm sure. And actually every once in a while I'll get an email from Dr. Fahim Yunus who uh blogs regularly for the Huffington Post and he'll send me an update saying, Hey, you might want to check out this article And whenever he does, I link to that on the Faith Debate page. So you can keep up with that. And Jonathan Sweitzer is senior pastor of Cross Israel Chapel and he's on Some newfangled technology. What's it called? Twitter. Twitter, is that what it is? At Schweitzer Jonathan. Yeah, at Schweitzer Jonathan. S-W-I-T-Z-E-O. The video. See, I was gonna check it out until you suddenly have to look at you. That's right. You lost me. If you wondered what uh that voice looks like. You lost me. So what have I been reading? I think this is gonna the uh a f uh fitting topic actually for w w how we're gonna approach the the the entree into today's show. Classical Pastoral Care. Oh, here we go. By Thomas C. Odin, subtitle Becoming a Minister. Nice. Yeah, so good one. Yeah, last week we got fiery. Yeah. So if you want to hear some fiery fireworks, you know, check out the podcast at wdcom. com. Um We got fiery because we're passionate. That's right. Right? Because Jonathan believes passionately that his view of politics, his view of how the world works, his view of of Christ and Christianity is of utmost importance and he wants to get those points across. And Fahim feels, you know, passionately about uh uh about the the so how do I want to say this? About the way that the West views Islam, the way that he is treating the truth in this world. In in defending you know the the the the view of Islam as a Muslim Islam that has been hijacked by the extremists. So And we g got going in it last week, right? Yeah. Now there's some debate over whether or not it got hijacked by the extremists or not, right? There's gonna be debate over that. two weeks, whether the extremists were uh whether you're trying to hijack it from them or if they hijacked it from you, I'm not thinking we're not gonna get all that. But it occurs to me with all this passion With all of this uh um misunderstanding, Jonathan knows quite a bit more about the Quran we found out last week than I do, and the and the and the hadith and all that sort of thing, and way more than I do. Sure. But Even so, Jonathan doesn't know nearly as much about that as Fahim does. And Fahim pr knows tons about the Bible, maybe more than I do, but probably not as much as a Christian. Compared to the Slicer does, right? So So there's gonna be some misunderstandings and mischaracteration mischaracterizations. Um people can say mean things, do d things that they wouldn't have said if they knew better or they would have said differently if if they knew how to say it better. And yet we've got these people in power, whether it be religious leaders, political leaders, or whatever, that will use that against us. And we saw that play out not too long ago, right before the election. Right. There was this cartoonish, goofy, fifteen minute long or whatever it was video that you could watch online, might be able to still watch it online. I don't know. That's uh you know, making fun of uh the Prophet Muhammad and uh of of uh the beliefs that that many Muslims hold and I mean it it's it's pretty disgusting and it's campy. It's it's not very good. I don't And yet the President of the United States uses that to drive a wedge, uses that as a tool of appeasement for the Middle East, as though that would appease anybody It he th they're playing us. Aren't they playing us? Aren't they creating an environment where it's hard for Jonathan Schweitzer and Fahim Yunus to get along? Aren't isn't that what aren't we being played? Aren't the elephants dancing and stepping on our sands? Yeah, I think the real issue there, first of all, for a Muslim, is to make sure that everyone understands that There is absolute complete freedom of expression for people. Nobody should ever be threatened for their life, let alone harmed or killed. for expressing their view. If you ask me, I think that's a disgusting view. I would say I would pick up my pen against it. I would try to dilute that bad speech with more of good speech, like you said in your email. I really love that. Yeah But I think there's absolutely no defense anybody who says such a person should be killed, and there are millions in fact in the Muslim world who will say that uh I think they need to read their book again. So that's the most important fundamental point that I wanna make. That it it bothers me to my core when I see people raising the flag of Islam. and using my faith to legitimize threats and uh oppression and, you know, al almost death threats and attacks on those who disagree with you on a point of view. I the real question that I ask the Muslim friends that you have to really think why are they doing this? You know why is it actually happening? And that's where they get out of their comfort zone and some of those don't like that kind of conversation. Yeah, when I sent you the email in in the context we were basically having a little conversation back and forth about uh those that video and um I argued that on a scale of one to ten um of things that are wrong, right? So everything on this scale is wrong. If if it's a one, it's wrong. If it's a ten, it's wrong. The whole scale is wrong. But that on that scale The ten is it's wrong and it's violently, like really atrociously wrong. If it's a five It's like mid-level. It's like it's you know, it's it's uh it's a social faux pas, you know, and it's rude. Uh but it's not e illegal and a one would be, you know, I don't know Your hair is offensive today. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Okay, sure. All right. That was a nice one. Um so I won't mention your hair today about that. Uh because it's just a one. Right. And so my point was was that if you kill somebody For what they say? That's a ten. No question about it. But in the West, saying something bad about somebody Almost always is never more than a five. There's a few situations like call yelling fire in a Crowded movie theater. But that anything that is a is is a characterization or a drawing about the Prophet Muhammad or or a movie You know, and that we Christians made our peace with that scale. That everything five and below, even though it's rude, even though it's deeply offensive and angering to us. You know, just today uh uh Kid Rock came out uh calling Obama or just a couple of days ago, you know, calling Obama our Lord and Savior. And then somebody put out a a uh a picture of Obama uh standing in front of the the uh presidential seal with his arms out and wearing a crown of thorns. Right? Now if that had been done and Obama somehow, you know, they put a turban on him to make him look like Muhammad right, then the Muslim world millions would have been up up in arms, you know, ready to kill somebody of them. People would have died as a result of that. And so my argument was that if Islam wants to be a part of the liberal democratic world, they have to make their peace that everything five and under on that scale they cannot resolve violence. Muslims don't want to be part of a Western democracy. They don't want that. You would agree that, right? the s the number of free speech in zero to ten. I agree with you in principle. No number should there's a no number. You you could say things that are offensive at the n from ten instead of ten it's a hundred still doesn't give anybody the right to harm that person, in my opinion. But I would say that, you know, there are Jewish people who are my friends who would who would be hurt at a at a scale of ten if you marked Holocaust And I think rightly so. I wouldn't do that. I have friends who are homosexuals, but if he said uh gay slur that they would consider that a ten. Now in Germany that would be illegal Right. But here in the United States there are no laws. There's no laws against it. You're right. But all I'm saying is I I would agree with that. But I think what Josh was saying with his scale though was a ten is is deserving of Like an execution. Honestly, I think a serial killer, for example? No, but he's not saying something. He's killing people, right? In the in terms of speech, here is my point. And you know, my my understanding is not my opinion. You know, it was just about the life of the prophet. And that's The prophet who I believe in and I feel when people look at me in a mall I wanna be the ambassador of that prophet. And honestly I don't wanna skirt the issue in the past two episodes There were moments where I think I was a horrible ambassador and I'm very sorry for that. And me too. And that's not the right approach. But the Prophet was going me, I have nothing to apologize for Except for your humility in the in the moment of truth. And a Bedouin came and he started abusing the Prophet to his face. I'm talking about Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, fourteen hundred years ago. Today the Muslims they are all up in arms when something wrong is said. And the Prophet started smiling at that man. And then the companion of the Prophet, he's standing there and he's you know, his blood is boiling and the other guy keeps upping the ante, so to say. And a time comes where this companion cannot take it anymore and he obstructs and he started saying cuss words to this man. And the Prophet shows a visible displeasure on his face and walks away. So the companion runs after him and says, Oh Prophet of God, I was you get this in the harases in the hadith. He says that, Oh Prophet of God, I was simply trying to defend you. Why are you annoyed or unhappy with me? The Prophet said, Because I can see what you were not seeing. When this man was hurling all these slurs at me, I could see the angels of God around there who were responding to him. You were not seeing that. But the moment you started, the angel said we have no job left now, then this guy is even, so we can simply leave. So I think that's the essence. That's the kind of ambassador I want to be for that Prophet and I would want the Muslim world to be that you know what if somebody said offensive said something offensive I should in fact that's the day for me to go donate blood. That's the day for me to go clean a highway. That's the day for me to do something so good to the world that I really show what my prophet stood for. When we start killing, I think then be fall for that trap. But it's not so mu if I understand it correctly, it's not so much that the radical Muslims forget that teaching. It's that they would hold that that teaching has been abrogated, correct? That some f uh some later teaching supersedes the earlier teaching and that later in Prophet Muhammad's life that he was more militant and he was The hadith doesn't work that way so much as the Quran. Of course they will have their their own understanding and that is why the Muslim world need a reformer, needs a revival. That's why the Muslim world needs leadership and that is where the Ahmadiyya Muslim community comes in. That 110 years ago this community was founded. And we have been through all those times. We were around, we had universal leadership when Salman Rashti wrote his book And our Khalifa, the Supreme Leader that we have, he gave a sermon about it. He said the same thing. He said it's disgusting. If people knew how much it pains us. They would never do it again. But we would show them our pain by a rational discourse, not by picking up the sword. And that's when he said that force can bend people's heads but it cannot, you know, bend their minds. It's interesting our perspectives, right? Because Fahim is hoping for reformed Islam and Jonathan and I are hoping for a uh for a an entire Islam that would come to Christ. Right Yeah, you've got y y it's uh it's funny, uh can I hear th the same argument in Christian circles about the ch the church reforming and that sort of thing. And I'm like, that's like an that's an inside game. That's it that's that's like you that's a Islam's problem. The bigger problem is you guys need to Accept Jesus as your Lord and Savior and and and not uh uh and not have Prophet Muhammad be the the the the pinnacle of that. And that's a good conversation. You know, again that's the beauty of a free society. But I think in the marketplace of ideas today, what is really selling are actions more than any words. And as Ahmadiyya Muslim community, we honestly believe in that second coming of the Messiah, the second coming of the Christ. And therefore you see that Christ like touch. Many people have given courses where people will look at me and they say, When did you convert from Christianity? Because when you talk of love in Islam, when you talk of compassion, you almost sound like a Christian. And I tell them, you know, and we've had this conversation before. Yeah, yeah. Uh but you know I think as long as we have that love and compassion. Well, there are a lot of more there are there's another s a stylistic similarity too. You know, uh evangelical Christians anyway believe that we should, you know, proselytize, should evangelize the world, introduce them to Christ, and the Ahmadiyya community is probably uh at the forefront of being evangelistic in Islam, right? The other arms of Islam aren't really evangelist. We strongly believe They don't come on this show and do what you're trying to do. We strongly believe in communicate And convey, not convert. My job is not to convert people. That's God's job. You know, God can change hearts. That's a minority view in Islam though, right? And we are doing that with all the peaceful w works like I've probably said this before that we commemorated the Ahmadiyya Muslim community. We commemorated the tenth anniversary of nine eleven by raising ten thousand units of blood This year, the eleventh year, we raise eleven thousand units of blood right here in America. We're not making headlines, but that's not the idea. The idea is to make sure that we do something good. that is accepted to our God first, number one. Then it's accepted to us, our own children, that we feel like we are doing what we believe in. And once you do those two two things, we we rest the case. So Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is about to talk here. I cut him off there rudely, which I enjoyed immensely. Uh and Dr. Fahim Yunus uh representing the Ambadia Muslim community and he is a blogger on Huffington Post. You should check that out. I don't know how often you you uh post on there. How often do you do you write an article that posts? An average of a couple of times a month. Okay. So every ten, fourteen days. Okay. So I don't catch all of them. I don't send all of them. I'm very sensitive to your inboxes. I hate when people keep sending stuff every other day. So I try to be very selective and not choke your inbox. And this is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. So Jonathan, you were gonna say. Have you forgotten? Sorry if I did that to you. That we seem to that we seem to to uh struggle around is is at what point um like like what what can we expect? This is maybe even a sociological question. You know, um when the video comes out and Yeah, there's this fire across the Muslim world. Although in fairness the video didn't cause the fire across the m the Muslim world. Well, not in Benghazi, but there were plenty of other places that it did. The video came out months before the fire across the Muslim world happened. If if there was Yeah but it's when it got into the news so that people knew that it was out of And then whose fault is that if not the President of the United States. Sure. Sure. But nevertheless, once it got out that that there was this video that was mocking the prophet, you know, that's when the when there was uh frustration at it. And so the the the question that I have You know, like like say say we were the parents of the world, right? And all the people of the earth are our children. We're trying to teach our children uh how to that's a lot of college tuition, by the way. A lot of diapers to change. Let the cat out of the bag that time. What would we expect from our kids? What would what would we say is the point at which one of our children we would say Yes, you can trust this other child who up until now has been treating you in an inappropriate way. Like like at what point At what point would we say would we say, okay, now we've seen that that there's been a change. So little Johnny I want you from here on out to treat little David with with respect and with love So it's a sociological question and to start trusting him again. Because he's shown that we can. Uh Johnny, you need to just forgive and you need to move on. Now if you keep holding on to this we know that it's just you being just stubborn and and unkind. Like like what You know, uh I I completely agree with your analogy. The only difference unfortunate, that's an unfortunate difference. If if these were children it w it would be very easy to forgive them. These are not children. They have kill free choice. And they kill by free choice. Sure. So I think what we have to do and what we are doing already. is develop a deeper understanding of these subgroups. Yeah. That not all Muslims are like that. Yeah, so kind of divide and conquer as it were, you know, let's I would say let's just partner around. And I say Ahmadi Muslims and and in all fairness there are others as well. I don't like to say that to defend all the militant people I just don't want to sound like we are the only ones exclusive who get it. Same thing in the Christian world, you know. Never mind. So if there is a so let's say if there is a Muslim who believes in separation of church and state, first of all. Yeah. Who believes in democracy, who believes in religious freedom, who believes in the rights for all minorities, who believe in equal rights for women, who believes in loyalty to the country where you live. If there is a person like that, then I I find that person to be my partner. I don't care if you Worship a God on Uranus. You know, that doesn't bother me because I can partner with you. But that's all I need. Jeremia Wright, you know, had a reputation for saying things like God damn America and you know and and very racist uh uh commentary for a radical Christian view of uh black liberation theology, right? Right. Which would be a very radicalized And so as a result, we all said to ourselves, is that what Obama thinks? And so he he distanced himself. And you know, in Jeremiah's right rights words, he threw he got, you know, he threw Jeremiah right under the bus. Um, if I have a neighbor that goes to a mosque It has a reputation for promoting Sharia law and calling America the great Satan, um, and these kinds of things. Uh how do I differentiate that person from from the diet that they have on a weekly basis with their peers and those that they consider their fellow mosque goers. Very difficult. You're absolutely right. And that's why I always promote that Any issue, when there is a issue that hits the news, I think Muslim leaders from all denominations, from at least the major denomination in America, should be required. That you come out and tell me where do you stand on this issue? Like the Gaza issue right last week. Sure. Uh when I wrote that piece in Washington Post, people were like, you should rather you know, you should have avoided this issue Narahmadiz. The other Muslim said we don't talk and I'm like, why don't you talk about this? This is very relevant right here. You know my Jewish friends are looking at me thinking this guy who's walking around in these hallways, what do he really Does he really believe that I should be killed? So I came out and write the wrote that piece that no the there is no such thing as a holy jihad where you fire rockets at innocent people. You cannot deny Israel's sovereignty. Yes, if you want to talk about your jihad, talk about the plight. Talk about how You go hungry when there is a four day naval bro blockade on you. Talk about that it takes you four hours to get to work because there is a wall in between. To me that's the struggle that the world will be compassionate and you know You will get somewhere with that. That is the jihad you should talk about rather than shooting rockets. You know, I ended up in a different place on that whole thing because I have some very close friends that are Christians. that live in Bethlehem and live in the West. Exactly, not to ignore the law exactly Christian Christian Palestinians. And uh and they're of the opinion that Israel is the uh is the aggressor unified Palestinian. And when all that went down, you know, the Palestinian Christians needed to hear from me and they wanted to know whether or not I would be public about my belief that Israel is an aggressor and isn't handling it appropriately. You know, while at the same time I believe that the the Palestinians and the Hamas and Hezbollah doesn't handle it right either. Right. You know, and and so my answer is always, you know, until Until everybody comes to Christ, we're not going to have peace in the land, because Jesus is the king that should be sitting on the throne of David and you know, he's the one that that the land belongs to. Anyway, so that's that's w how I end up answering it. But the point is is that in those situations people should come out and we gotta we gotta expose them we gotta have the courage to stand up and be able to call them out We need to send them a certified mail letter saying, please come to this show at this time because we want to know. The country wants to know where do you stand. Yeah, and when that happens, I feel like it advances Absolutely. I think it exposes the dark greater understanding that's exactly what's needed. Just come out and s tell us and you know that's okay, you don't have to pander to one group. If you disagree, make a point. Make a rational point. That's the beauty about a free society. People c opinions can be shifted. So there's another question that I'll ask, but I think we're run up on the end of the show here. Yeah, we've we've got about sixty or s ninety seconds over. Should the West, as a liberal democracy, the liberal democracy that it is, should it choose to reject All movies that that are satire against and mock any religious faith 'cause there's a number of them out there about Christianity. In fact Just about every Hollywood movie that comes out mocks Christianity at some level or other. Should we outlaw that? In an idealistic world, I think religious founders should have an exception. But I'm not I'm never going to say an exception just for my profit. Right, right, right. So so an idealistic world, yeah, I hear that. So you're saying that that even the best liberal democracy should not allow people to speak in a in a No what I'm saying is when when I see the statue of Jesus in urine and somebody calls that art that's offensive to me. And I think Jesus, peace be upon him, deserves more respect than our worldly sensitivities. That's all I'm saying. Okay. So in that in that sense I I think again liberal democracy in general But that's a consensus. But we no, but we should talk about it and if you can build consensus good. If we cannot, then reject it. It shouldn't be forced upon us. You know, if the grass if there's a groundswell for that Yes, otherwise moral America is strong enough. I don't propose that we should have laws. I think moral America is the real courage where we Choose not to do certain things. I'm nervous because I mean I'm morally offensive. What's gonna happen? I don't know. But you don't smell, so you're not offended anyway. That's nice, you know. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer. Smelling and lovely itself tonight. That's right. Uh senior pastor across Israeli Chapel, Dr. Fahim Yunus, uh representing the Ahmadiyya Muslim community and uh the blogosphere of the Huffington Post I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And BMC Insurance, our newest sponsor. Check them out. Thanks so much for listening until next week. God bless.