Well I guess we should get the show started. The music's playing. The orchestra has struck up uh the notes and we're gonna get going more broadcasting. From the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. Why isn't that? This is the Product Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And BMG Insurance. Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. You can find links to uh podcasts and news items and the Faith Debate blog. And by the way, the Faith Debate blog, not really my blog, because my blog is your blog. You email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and as long as it's not grossly offensive, I will post it. Might be an apple pie recipe, might be the How Barack Obama is the Antichrist. What and I'll on all subject matter in between, it can posted up there nine blog update postings uh per day Monday through Friday. So what is that? 45 a week. And I've got one uh YouTube video going up a week and you can follow it on Twitter at jonathan. sweitzer No, at Jonathan Schweitzer. At Jonathan Schweitzer. No, no, no, sorry. At Sweitzer Jonathan. At Sweit or Jonathan. By the way that is Jonathan Schweitzer or maybe it's Weitzer Jonathan, I'm not sure. Oh and by the way, every now and again I speed past one of those cameras around town because I care about purpose and I wanna I wanna help them out. I'm just saying, I do. Big brothers. Pretty consistently, unfortunately. Anyway, so Jonathan Schweitzer is now on Twitter and he can't remember how you get access to that, but And he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And speaking of blogs and all this nude media sort of stuff, a a very high profile blogger on the Huffington Post uh website, he he blogs about all things Islam. Is that is that right? Hold on, is your microphone on? I didn't hear you. Say that again. That is correct. Oh, okay, it's on. There it is. Fahim Yunus. Doctor. Fahim Yunus. Thank you very much for having me on. I got this ache. Wait, leg raise my arm like this you get a fixture. We need a new shoulder for you. That's right, man Make the make the insurance company pay for it. Replace the whole thing. Obama Kidd will take care of it. All right. We're playing nice right now because we're about to get into some pretty heady stuff and we're gonna end this show as enemies, I'm sure. So um Uh but American enemies. That's the point. In America and this will play into everything that we're talking about. In America, when we're when when you have a cultural enemy, all you do is work to vote him out of office. Your only weapon is a pen or your tongue. And that's the gist of it. That's as far as it goes. And that's the way it should be And that's right. And you're talking to a type of Muslim whose motto is love for all, hatred for none. So I think making an en any enemy out of me is gonna be pretty hard for you. Well uh w we're up to the task, let's tell you. Bring it on. Well what happened a few months ago there was a a blog, an ar you call it what do you call do you call it a blog? An article? That was an article. That was an article. Yeah. Um that was talking about whether or not uh all the Islamophobes out there are Republican. Or if there are any Democrats, all Islamophobes are Republican. I think he said not all Republicans are Islamophobes. Right, but all Islamophobes are not. So I think that that requires A definition of Islamophobe from you. The Islamophobe definition is pretty simple. It's an irrational fear of one point five billion people living on this earth. Irrational fear. That's exactly right. Okay, so so the whole community, the whole community, one point five billion. It's an irrational fear of me who was being asked thirty seconds ago to fix a shoulder pain. Uh but right now all of a sudden you're afraid of me because I'm a m I'm a Muslim. I'm not afraid of you. Nobody said that they are afraid of you. But Islamophobia were smiling at one another. Right, but Islamophobia will put me in that category. Islamophobe So So if I have a um nuanced um uh fear of Islamists who uh are seeking around the world to impose Shadiya law by uh the sword, uh so much so that I Immediately when I saw the Arab Spring going, I anticipated that it was going to turn into a Muslim winter. And in fact, it's turning out to be the case that Benghazi was uh was attacked by um Ansar Al Shariah, is that the correct idea. Very well keep going, yep. Uh who uh who was re respon who who was an offshoot at some level of Al Qaeda, not Al Qaeda, but somehow, you know, in the same category. Uh and then also, of course, mercy uh uh in Egypt the the new president of Egypt has just made a declaration making himself practically the new pharaoh and is leading what everybody didn't want to happen there, but he's basically leading Egypt into Sharia Law as extensively as possible. And so if I have a nuanced discussion like that, like you know me, I know you, I know you're a Hmadian Muslim, which means that you're kind of in my mindset a Jeffersonian, you know, you you don't uh uh ascribe to many of the harsher parts of uh of the Quran. Nevertheless, you do believe that Sharia law, you know, is is something that is good. So first of all, complete your thought. You were saying if I have that nuanced argument, you're not going to be able to do that. But but but if I have that nuanced, you know we've even talked to other Muslims on this show that are not Ahmadiyya and but are more um uh mainstream Muslim and they have assured us on this show that their desires to see see Sharia law you know, uh set up here in the United States. And in fact, he argued down at Johns Hopkins University in a debate there uh on campus with another Jewish guy, uh Jewish rabbi, myself and him, debating various topics. He argued that Sharia law is the best. Let me stop you right there. You've raised some three beautiful questions. First of all, if you have that nuanced argument, not even nuanced, you can have a very direct argument about Sharia law, about Morsi, about what's happening in the Muslim world, that doesn't make you an Islamophobe. In fact that makes you my friend. That's precisely what we as Ahmadi Muslims have been saying for over a century. That absolutely will not make you an a you know what makes a side. He called me his friend. I'm telling you, you know I'll kick you. I'll call you my family. But here is what Islamophobe actually is. Okay. Islamophobe is a presidential candidate by the name of Rick Santorum who says, and I quote, What must we do to win against Islam? We must educate, engage, evangelize, and eradicate. When he uses the word eradicate, this is a guy who's running for the president of this country, and what happens a month later? A few people in Wisconsin who are Sikhs who happen to look like Muslims get shot. That's the consequence of that kind of pretend to be a good idea. uh not having a full grasp of the different kinds of Muslims. No sir. The point is you're running for the president of this country. Okay, but wait for a talk uh let me let me finish that. But I think he's talking about radical Islam though is what he throws But to use the word eradicate, he wants to eradic Islam. He's saying Islam. Yes, but you that to me is Islamophobia. But in fairness, um g again, he he probably doesn't know all about Isla I don't know, you know you're probably the only person in this room right now that knows all about Isla. So Rick Santorm, he's meaning to communicate about what Americans think about when they think of Islam is planes flying into buildings, which is radical Islam. And he's saying those people need to be Okay, let me give you an eradicate. Let me answer two opinions that you wrote in the beginning. politician in I want to say Denmark and uh as a result of of putting that out when Theo Van Gogh was murdered He has since that time until this very day been under twenty-four hour guard by the the the you know the armed forces of Denmark and In the midst of all that, they have to move him from location to location. He has been a prisoner, a political prisoner in his own country ever since he put out a movie that simply argues that extreme Islam is is to be eradicated, that it must be resisted. You could say anything, a Muslim who threatens someone's life. Yeah for exercising the freedom of expression to me is a shame for the religion of Islam. I cannot agree that there is a world of difference between using the s the pen as your weapon and using a sword as your weapon. You you know, a sword can bend heads, but not minds Okay, because you know you will not you will never win your argument with a sword. So let me answer three questions you've raised. Okay, three. Number one, I've said it over and over again, I've written about it, and that is why I make this one and a half hour drive to come here because I enjoy having this real conversation with you because I don't think a lot of Muslims are doing this kind of conversation. We in the Muslim world need to clean our own house. We cannot Allow people to threaten, let alone kill, that's too far. We cannot threaten someone just because they exercise the right of free speech. Number one Number two, you talked about Sharia Allah. I've written about it very clearly in Islam in you read the whole six thousand plus verses in the Holy Quran. There's not one single verse that you can show me that says that Sharia is the only way or this is the way you should implement law. Islam in fact clearly says that when you go, right, but it's not just because we're not going to be able to do that. Let me finish the point with the other. Let me finish my point in the that Islam clearly says that there should be leaders who you can trust. So we as Ahmadi Muslims have been espousing for separation of church and state. for mosque and state we have been clearly saying our leader Mirza Masura Over a hundred years and just last year in Germany, maybe two years ago, he said to a German audience, he said the best thing about you Western countries, because you know we are immigrants, we are new Americans Uh and we are very thankful for that. He said that one of the best things about these countries is that you've separated religion and church. And the third thing about that scholar who in Hopkins or whichever place is espousing for Sharia Law Honestly he's cutting the same branch that he's sitting on. You know, this is the country that gave him that kind of freedom of expression to say such a thing. If he's but you would agree that he's here The guy that wants to impose Shia Law is is not here to be a recipient of the benefits of freedom in the United States and of liberal Western democracy. He's here to change what is here into a Muslim state. His desire, his goal is to see his own design. Dar al Islam Exactly. Established around the face of the earth. And that is why I think America needs to hear the message of Ahmadiyya Muslim community that is united in two hundred countries, that has one unified leader, which is speaking about against this kind of rhetoric. Who's the unified leader? Mirza Masruda Ahmad, he lives in London and he is the unified leader of this community. That's the largest analogy, but to some degree. He's clearly said I'm not interested in any political control. I am here as your spiritual guide. And that is the spiritual guidance that keeps us all united in two hundred countries. That's why my message is loud and clear. Jonathan Sweites, a senior pastor of Cross Israeli Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Dr. Pahim Yunus, who is a member of the Ahmadiyya Muslim community, a medical doctor as well, and a very prolific blogger on the Huffington Post website. And it's wonderful that the Ahmadiyya community is is unified and is from my perspective it's wonderful that it's moderate and that it's it's uh proactive in trying to get the message out and to have it be explained what it is you stand for and it seems like uh the Ahmadiyya views fit relatively snugly in a Western world view. But with Islam as well, by the way. But but that's not true for the vast majority of Islam. I mean the Ayatollah No, it's not it's not about percentage, first of all. I think the way you look at it is Ahmadiyya to me is the largest organized Muslim group around the world. When our leader speaks in London, people in Marshall Island follow that. Ahmadiz in Australia will follow that. There is no other unit. Taliban and and Afghanistan. They're worried about the Aly Tola in in Iran. They're worried about the radical uh you know Sharia law mentality conquer the world by the sword kind of guys. And that's But are we right to be fearful of of that ideology? I am fearful of that ideology just as much as you are. So are you an Islamophobe like me? No, that's why I keep repeating. Here is another example of somophobe. You know, I I I've I'm very that's very important to make that distinction. I think here is our attorney general general, John Ashcroft, two thousand and three Islam is a religion in which God requires you to send your son to die for him. And Christianity is a faith in which God sends his son to die for you. Okay. That's funny. But you know what? He says Islam is a faith. I have two sons. Is he ascribing that I gave my wife gave birth to those two sons and my God is asking them to die? That is downright offensive as an American. for the y people of the United States of the West to to take uh situations that they have observed that are not uncommon that that if we're running the percentages are probably uh ninety percent eighty percent uh of of all of their interactions, uh, you know, through the news and through wherever else where they where they run into Islam, is it wrong for such people to develop as a result a perspective based on the on facts that are actual facts that that these people are uh uh seem to have a tendency toward violence What is your response to the violently imposing I will answer that? I will a I will not shrink from answering that question, but hey, this is not a guy on the street. This is Attorney General who makes this court. What is your response? Well would that be fair if he said the same thing about Jews or Mormons or Christians or Hindus? Jews and Mormons and Christians are not And any I mean, maybe five or ten percent of Jews and Christians around the world are like violently dangerous. Okay, but that's the world of difference between Five percent in like eighty to ninety. You haven't answered my question. Let me repeat the term. I'm saying no, that is not Islamophobe if he is simply admitting his experience. I will let the listeners decide that. But let me repeat it one more. in a vacuum as if I'm somehow separated from reality. So Islam is interacting with you and as a result of interacting with you and Zaki Kowser and all the other Ahmadiyya Muslims, I come away and I say to myself, wow Maybe there's hope. I interact with the other guy that we had on the show at the very beginning who lied to us on the air opening. You told me that. And I come away thinking to myself, we can't trust these guys. very defensive about losing a point. To me these are conversations to make us a happy country, to build bridges of peace. And I think right now For you to say this is not Islamophobic is almost like you're looking at it at it as a debate, my friend. Once again, let me repeat without interest. soul of where I live, even if I lose this point to all the people listening right now, I could care less. I'm telling you that I honestly think that people have a right to develop uh um a a system and a worldview, a perspective on what's happening based on their interactions with other people. If there's a certain kind of person that I run into and every other time that I've interacted with with a person like that, they've robbed me. Or, you know, women for that matter. How many times have women been treated uh by men in a sexualized manner, and as a result, they've developed a legitimate, reasonable anger and hatred towards men? The same thing is true in this kind of a situation that when people are consistently abusive. Right? Yeah, I I hear what you're saying. I think I hear what you're both saying. And and and it it so often comes down to semantics and and how we want to nuance how we say things. Uh I agree with uh what I what in my mind I'm translating the word choice that Jonathan's making 'cause I think it's it's understandable for people to respond that way. For people who are attorney generals. Well whoever. But my point is that. No no no no not whoever. But for John to say that, that that really bothers me because to me I think you're not really looking at the point. For the listeners, give me thirty seconds of uninterrupted time. I'm just gonna repeat this court. We'll give you thirty seconds. Islam is a religion in which God requires you to send your son to die for him. Islam is a religion. That's all 1. 5 billion Muslims, in which God sends your son to die for him, and Christianity is a faith in which God sends his son to die for you When the Attorney General of United States of America makes this statement in post nine eleven America where Muslims are getting shot, where Sikhs are getting shot Both of you are saying this is not Islamophobic and I will leave it at that. I will just trust the American people out there to d judge this point, but that is what I would call Islamophobe. And I don't have to debate that any further. Because the fact of the matter is is that what happened to my thirty seconds? Oh, I'm sorry. I was DD. I I promised it, didn't I? You're up. I want to finish the thought and what I was saying, what Jonathan is trying to do, I think, is to say how it's understandable that people would have that view who are not theologians. The Attorney General is an expert in law, might be an expert in politics, but is not an expert in things of God and things of religion. And so he's going based on what mainstream media is feeding us, what pop culture's feeding us, the the accidental occurrences that we run into uh in our lives. He's not studying the deeper issues. He doesn't understand that there there are three major movements in Islam and and several important minor movements in Islam in the Yahudiyya community would be one of those, in my opinion. Uh as far as population in in Patroy that's like saying uh a guy in the world that's like saying a guy who cuts meat in a supermarket you know, if he just brought his sword next to or his his knife next to my neck, then it's okay. You know, if he is not yeah, let me explain what that what that means. Okay. If he is not a theologian He needs to understand his words are like a knife. He needs to keep those words to the meat in the supermarket. When he brings those words into my faith, it's extremely hurtful. You know, he brought the power of his language in an area that he had no clue about, according to you. And I think that is Islamophobic. I think if a person died as a result of that kind of speech that this this person should have been held accountable. And I'll actually I'll even grant you that point as far as at least for the sake of argument, I'll grant you that point. Because imagine if If the Attorney General was going to say that, you know, looking at Westboro Baptists out of uh out of uh Kansas and the nonsense that they do and and use their example as the example for all Christianity, we'd be like, You're an idiot, you don't know what Christianity is about. Why don't you talk about something you know? And I can see how that would be hurtful and a problem, but that happens all the time. So part of our job, those who are not the one getting shot in God in this country Not yes. The Muslims who are working on yu y on convenience stores and the Hindus and the Bangladeshis and the Sikhs who happen to just look like me. You know, I my heart goes out to those people who are here not even as not that shooting Muslims is okay. But you know what? It's it's a reality. And to use speech like this, because see, when a leader wears a flag lapel pin the followers, the populist starts hanging fl flags outside their their houses. That's what leadership does to people. It has a following. So when the Attorney General will make such a comment, when the presidential candidate will make such a comment it's gonna have impact on hundred million people who are voting for those things. Amen. And so we have Ahmadineijad, we have uh Abbas, we used to have who is the guy with the with the uh Black spotted uh Kafia thing. Yasser Arafat. Yasser Arafat, we had uh how many of these guys that are the leaders of Muslim countries The leaders of Muslim countries that have repeatedly and um and clearly called For the total destruction of the United States, the Great Satan, for the total destruction of of Israel. And I would call that wrong and I'll I wouldn't argue that point. Okay. I would say that's absolutely that's shameful for me as a Muslim that somebody who calls himself a Muslim would make that kind of comment. To me that's shameful. Okay. Nevertheless, if it's shameful, and again, we here in the West We look at that and we see that. And furthermore, as Christians, if we're paying attention, we have newsletters that come to us all the time about how Christians in Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq ever since ever since we gave Iraq the vote The church has been persecuted and Christians have died in huge numbers. I have to do that. And we have nothing about that in the news here in the West. Just go to my I have my sources for this, right? But there's no other sources. And my point is simply that That from from where we sit, except for you, and maybe a few others, all we see is violence. And we can't be expected to develop a better perspective on people if all we ever see is violence. The question and you know what? You have to prove it to us. I've that's why I'm here. That's why I'm here sixty, seventy miles away. At the end of my day, because I enjoy this conversation. I feel I owe this to my country. I I feel I owe this to my children who were born here. I feel like this is my burden that people in Frederick, people in this country should know that there are moderate voices out there. But but the point here is seven stories in You don't even have several weeks. has said that over the same thing. But what I'm asking you to help us with is how we can trust that your small percentage of the Muslim community can be expected to set the tone of how we look at the Muslim world. This is very interesting. Very interesting. I want to do it. I do. I want to believe it. There are two th first of all, I don't think I've said it over and over again, this is a m a a mistake if you consider us a small community, because when you really look at it I think this is the largest more organized more organized uh community. But here's the interesting thing. Let's go to the life of Jesus, peace be upon him. Yeah. It's one person who ended up changing the world. So for a Christian to say how can a small community change our own history and you know this is my history too. So therefore I believe that it's the truth that wins. It's not the quantity. The quantities majorities are chained into minorities. Sure. It's in the end one person in the history of mankind who's always ended up changing the world. So for a Christian, for a Muslim, both of our histories have proven that. So therefore I think those are the people that ended up dying. But I'm gonna jump into the world we're running out of. As long as we change it for the good, I think it's worth it But you guys are kind of agreeing if you believe it if you can believe it or not. We have a golden shake hand. That's right. Golden handshake. Here we go. Because I think Jonathan what Jonathan is saying is we are living in a world in which the perception of Islam needs to be changed. That's right. And you're saying one man can make a difference. That's exactly right. But you're agreeing with him that the perception needs to be changed. That's why I'm here. And I'm saying in addition to that that that perception can only be changed if there is a broad based change in the community. But I can tell you that you they if you're if you're speaking for the whole community If you only are able to change a small percentage and there's still 70, 80 percent that don't think like you, then unfortunately I have to Assume you're not speaking for that 80%. What I'm saying is Well what I'm saying is the show's gotta end sometime and this that time is now. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you to Dr. Fahim Yunus For being on the show. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Israeli Chapel, thank you. Thank you to our sponsors, uh BMC Insurance and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading? I know you care. David M. Still's Reaching and Teaching, A Call to Great Commission Obedience. I would give it a B plus. I would recommend, but not a hearty recommend. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile?