Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of the first. of Gridlock County where preachy with impact is like ploughing pavement because people they continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith debate. Sponsored by Putman Republican Heating, how can we make you smile? Encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. You can get there other ways, but the easiest way is just put faith in the keyword field and take you right to the page. There you'll find all sorts of interesting and not so interesting stuff. The least interesting thing on the page is my picture. Uh But what do you think makes that that page most visited? The fact that you put everything up there or that there's a few things that are interesting? Yeah, I have no idea. Cross this Valley Church and we're joined this week by Michael O'Halloran who is a member at uh Fourth Presbyterian in Bethesda. And uh yeah, Jonathan there was mentioning the about the page being the most visited. Out of all the pages on the website, other than the local news page and the homepage. The Faith Today page is the most visited page on the website. I think it speaks to the fact that we live in a place where preaching with impact is like flying pavement. I think there's a yearning and a need for the kinds of things we talk about But also, yeah, we h you know, I mentioned a couple weeks ago we had something on the on the uh uh on the page it was talking about how to best separate the yolk from the whites of the eggs. So s maybe people are coming for that. I have no idea why they're going. But I'm gonna go there for that. I Supposed to eat egg whites and supposedly healthier. Why are you here? Why are you here? To glorify God and enjoy him forever. Yeah. Anyway. A few people will answer yes to that. I'm telling you. Uh we uh in between uh uh last week's show and this week's show, we we had a conversation that was different than what we'd been talking about in the previous uh two or three weeks. We've been talking about church government issues, Presbyterianism versus an ap uh apostolic leadership model and talking about uh charismatic uh versus non-charismatic in a general sense. And then uh Kind of the root of this show going way, way, way, way, way, way back uh almost ten years, uh Jonathan and I uh were having conversations about the classic Calvinist versus Armidian debate and Uh that was we didn't know it at the time, but that became formative for what would become the Frederick Faith debate. So it came up again and so we're gonna we're gonna Let's take the next twenty minutes or so and kind of you know just hash some of that out a little bit. And we'll see if we can add some different nuances and maybe cut to some chases a little quicker than we have in the past because we've covered this ground so often uh on the show. Although we haven't covered it in it's probably been a couple of years since we've we've talked about it. So we can we can cover it again. Um I'm trying to remember how we got into it in between our shows, but I think Michael says you asked the question What would stop me? All right, I asked Jonathan wh why why you know i i if you weren't a pastor and you were looking for a church, would you pick a church would you be comfortable picking a church like Fourth Presbyterian? And if not, what would keep you from being comfortable being a member in that church? And he gave a few different answers and and one of them that uh got uh uh Michael's ears to perk up was the he said the total depravity question And I said tulip. I said, you know, the I'm uh I I started with total depravity because it's the first one. Right. And then Michael says, Well you believe in total depravity, don't you? And Jonathan said, Well no actually no and then went on to explain his reasons why and and it and ex Explaining his understanding of total depravity. And that's where I want to start now. Okay. Uh well, I'm going to start now by asking you in like sixty seconds, eighty seconds to explain um your understanding of what total depravity means uh and that not so much why your post My understanding of what Scripture says about it, my understanding of what Calvinists teach about it. Both of them. Yeah. So my understanding is that Scripture teaches that way down at the end of as as man falls away from God uh and societies fall away from God that they fall into ingratitude, they fall into idolatry, they fall into sexual immorality, perverse sexuality, and then they fall to this level in Romans 128, where they are uh depraved in every sense and in the list of ugly characteristics about humanity in that passage, uh in that particular verse is like one of the most extensive anywhere in Scripture. Right? And so the places where you find the word depraved in scripture is there. And so this idea of total depravity, w when I say to myself, total depravity, well let me go find that in scripture, you know, unfortunately the scriptural definition for for totally depraved for people that are in that uh kind of a situation is not something that applies to all of humanity but but applies to you you know uh Paul kind of lays it out that there's different levels that different people are at and all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, but there are certain people at in Paul's time and in our time today that wanted to prove that they weren't so bad. You know, specifically the Jewish people in Romans chapter three when Paul looks at 'em and he goes through all these passages, that there's no one writes it's not even the one. Their tongues are open, graves, you know, their tongues practice the seat, poison of vipers on their lips. He goes through this whole passage not to prove that all humanity is like that, but to prove to the Jews that look you guys have been just as wicked and evil as anybody anywhere else has been. That all have sinned, not that all are totally depraved. But all have sinned and fall short of the year. So let me start with areas where I think we're all going to agree. There are there have been uh periods of time that have had uh have had more evil evidenced uh throughout history than at other times. Yeah, we have been there have been worse days than others. There have been certain individuals that are worse. than others and have more heinous uh crimes and sins uh than others. I disagree. There have been groups of peace. You disagree that some people are are miscribing. I would say that from the beginning, since Adam and Eve were banished from the garden, it's been depraved. Right, but I'm s I'm talking about we would agree that uh would you say that Hitler Hitler is more demo reprehensible than you are? Is is had more I wouldn't. Okay, well we'll we'll go we'll get there in a second. Rejection of the gospel. Um if you're we'll get there in a second. I want to start and and there are certain cultures or uh government entities or or groups of people that uh might behave more badly than other groups of people Uh I I I think for the most part we're gonna ag what Hitler did, uh, killing millions of people and or being the leader of a movement that killed millions of people in Central Europe uh is worse than um Uh what Gandhi did with his life. Okay. We're going to agree with that. So we so we have some agreement there. I think where the disagreement comes is I think respectfully Let me put it this way. When you sin, John, uh let me phrase the you would acknowledge that you are a sinner. Yeah. Right? Does that mean that you are sinful in your thoughts? Not that all of your thoughts are sinful, but you are sinful in your thoughts. Yes. So you have a sinful mind. Yes. Do you have uh covetous ideas? Do you have have you allowed yourself to have idols in your life where your heart is misplaced and your affections are not on on God or on something that's other than God? So you would say that you have a sinful heart. Uh do you believe that the scripture teaches that uh we uh that there's a there's a sin in our flesh, in our very bodies, that we're wrestling against? Yes. So that is my understanding of when the well-studied, well-schooled Calvinist is who knows what they're talking about, is talking about quote unquote total depravity. They're saying that We are sinful in our mind, in our heart, in our affections, in our body, in our spirit. We are every aspect of who we are is clouded by, is infected by sin. Our total being and essence is one of a sinner. So and I think you agree with that. Therefore, after that, you saw the difference. But you would agree with that total. So in that sense, you would agree with total depravity and it's pure definition. I can't choose God. That when the gospel came to me, I didn't have the ability to choose him. And that in fact, previous to Christ, I didn't have the ability to do anything good. And I'm not of the opinion that I didn't have the ability to do to do anything. Define good. What do you mean by good? I mean I I I I agree with what you're saying. Could you do could you do anything to please God? I think so. Really? I do. But just for the record, I want to say that the disagreement is not a good idea. well studied Calvinists would define it, you don't disagree with total depravity. You're disagreeing with the implication that is given to a Calvinist would say there's a necessary implication that you would reject as a necessary implication of that. So is it one of the other parts of tulip that you're saying that I'm representing or it's what all of them? Because when they say total depravity, they're saying that I can't do anything good. No, that's how it used to come into craft. No, they're saying that we are they were responding uh the whole tulip um um tulip each letter stands for uh the five points that distinct That are distinctive to Calvinism versus Armenianism. This goes back four hundred and fifty years. This this uh this argument. And I think Tulip was probably a century or two after Calvin Calvin said it, but his his disciple. I don't think ever actually uh used tulip, but it the generation that followed uh Calvin Arminius uh comes on the scene and then Arminius had some disagreements with the the followers of Calvin and I think it was like within a generation of that that these two different competing schools of thought had some headbang runs. And the Calvinists said, no, the Arminians are wrong and uh and they were responding against Arminianism. So it wasn't definitive of Calvinism. It was uh it was supposed to be defining Arminianism and it turned into the opposite. But the the tulip part the tea part of tulip, the total depravity part, was was There were some people at the time, 450 years ago, who were saying that our minds weren't sinful. So we could rationally choose God. Our hearts were sinful, but our minds weren't. And the Calvinists were saying, no, all of our being is is all our total being, our total essence, our total personhood. is infected by sin. And so they were responding to that specific theological point. Now they go on to there's one that's interesting there because that that particular point even though I believe that my mind is is sinful I am of the opinion that that logic can lead me in the direction of Christ Right? Is that what you're arguing? That that that I can that I can through logic that I can say, you know what, there's gotta be a God. God, I want you. And and I'm saying that the I'm still not saved. I'm still destined for hell until the gospel comes and I say confess the name of Jesus Christ and come into salvation, but I am of the opinion that that somebody with the rational mind or for that matter um You know, even their heart. You know, that in their heart, I don't know what's the difference between heart and mind at that point, but they could say, you know, there's gotta be something more than this, you know, I d gotta I need you know, rescued from this depression that I'm in. I don't know if if that would be an example of somebody's heart being bad, but they're still, you know, looking uh to God for help. So I'm of the opinion that that's not something that is that is that is s solely based on God's decision from before the creation of the world with the caveat that God created all of us and that I can do nothing outside of his grace. um uh the definition of that about obviously gets very complicated. Yeah, I think w what it comes down to is who's choosing who, right? That's what you're 'Cause I I think we're Michael, you're gonna agree, right? Christianity is not an illogical belief system. No. Uh it it certainly f it passes muster uh all three of us would agree that it passes muster on the rational uh rationality test, but can you get to saving faith in Jesus Christ through mere rational thinking? I are you saying I are you going so far as to say you think somebody can think themselves themselves to to salvation? 'Cause then I there would be a a difference at least between you and I, and I'm assuming between you and Michael. What I'm saying is that I think that that God is very logical and that creation itself proclaims the glory of God. Therefore no man is without exc has has excuse for it. So a person looking at creation could logically say to himself, There must be a God. God I I I I want you. Yeah. Well that's Romans chapter one. Right. But Romans chapter one goes on to say that they don't, and so they have no excuse. So logic itself doesn't save all these people. Right. But when a person right I'm not saying that that saves him. I'm saying it call it it leads him to call out and say, God, I want you and then God comes. Well, that's the point, is that the passage that says that in scripture is referring to a specific moment in history and is not referring to all of mankind. But how is the where is that? It's in Romans. It's right there in Romans chapter three. And then it uh it's referring back to um there's no one who seeks God all turned away. It refers back to Psalm chapter fourteen. And this is David, who is given to hyperbole. I'm okay with that in his uh passages. And yet clearly in David's time there were many that were seeking God. Him He himself was seeking God and was finding God. Right? And so he says the Lord looks down from heaven on the sons of men to see if there are any uh who understand any who seek God, all turned aside, they together become corrupt. There's no one who does good, not even one, right? Really? There was no one that does good in David's time? There were plenty that did good in David's time. Right? But he's recognizing in the midst of that that But like he takes I think he takes New Testament license being the apostle is what he says. What then? Are we Jews any better off? No, because I think he I think we were on agreement one and two he basically says, Okay, all the Gentile world is sinful. They have they are they are not godly. Right. They have not followed after God, they have not seeked after God, nor have they wanted that. happy in their sinfulness. They've been enjoying their sin and and very happy. He says, What then? Uh are we Jews any better off? No, not at all, for we have already charged So the apostle is taking what David said at his time and he's he's saying The way I read it is both Jews and Greeks are under sin as a written. No one is righteous, no not one. He's applying this this Old Testament passage to everybody, to all of humanity, both Jews and No, see that's where I disagree. He's arguing that that the Gentiles need salvation and they're under sin. That's what he's arguing, that they're under sin. And he's arguing that the Jews have just as much of a tendency to be under sinned as the Gentiles has ever ha ha has ever had. I don't know if I uh said that correctly. And so then he's coming down to saying that nobody's going to be declared righteous by observing the law. Because the Jews themselves weren't righteous by observing the law. But why? But that righteousness has to do with coming to God by faith. And so my point is that He's not arguing that everybody is totally depraved and incapable of turning to God. What he's arguing is that sin has separated all us all of us from God and that all of us are Therefore under sin. He's not saying that that we're incapable of coming to God. Uh what he's saying is that is that we are not I mean that the Jews were just as likely to be sinful as the Gentiles ever were, that the Jews tendency to say that somehow the law puts us in a different category uh is just not the case. There are plenty of Jews in in each of those situations. He he doesn't, by the way, refer to Jehoshaphat. He doesn't refer to Josiah. He doesn't refer to Elisha or Elijah. He doesn't refer to any of these other guys. He's referring to certain people that lived at a certain time that are clear examples of sinfulness. And he's saying, look, you Jews are no better than Gentiles. Sin is a problem for all of us. And wouldn't you say that everybody other than Christ is a clear example of sinfulness? I'll put myself in that probably all other than Christ would be clear examples of that. I mean aga y you you kind of used it again, the total depravity thing it I I'm I'm gonna uh be a stickler on this because I think this will be helpful in our discussion. I I think that you're agreeing the Bible does speak to the sinfulness of the whole person. And so in that sense, the Bible does say that we're totally depraved. We are depraved in our totality. All of our being is sinful, is depraved, is falling short of the glory of God. But the implication, the next step, the the uh the you in tulip, the unconditional election, that's where you're really having your issue is with the you. And because the the Calvinist is going to say there's nothing the person is doing to be elect. It's unconditional in anything they do. God chooses them. And you're saying, no, but I I'm choosing him. And that's really where I think the argument uh that you're having is. It's not the fact that it's not the C, it's the U. Um except that their implication is that the T means that I can't do the U. Well they're all all the five points, the uh the the total depravity, the umcondition the unconditional election, the limited atonement, the irresistible grace, and the perseverance of the saints. are all tied together. Yeah. Right. So if some people c walk around and say, I'm a three point Calvinist, a four point Calvinist, y we you talk about the importance of logic. Uh I don't think you can really get away with that. Yeah, I agree with that. proceeds tulip for lack of a better and I really don't like using it, but for the for the sake of this discussion I will and because I understand why it needs to be done. But I think what precedes that is the w w what is that? That is how God is working to fulfill the covenant that was made before man was created between the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit. That that that and Jesus is the mediator. The Son is the mediator of that covenant. And and and with that is God is calling his people to himself, unconditional to me, that have nothing to do with me. It has to do with him. I mean, do I election doesn't save me. Faith saves me. So let's be clear on that. Election doesn't save me. Faith saves me. I come to Christ by faith. The just shall live by faith. So that is what saves me. But what why? Because God has made a covenant with the Son and the Holy Spirit to redeem a people for himself. And that's where you get into the the the argument you're having, Jonathan, is if if uh if we're saved by faith And faith is a gift from God. We don't generate faith on our own. We don't have some logic. We don't do a mathematical equation and arrive at uh all this added together equals faith, so therefore I'm saved. It's The faith itself that saves us comes from God. And I think what's important is And that's what the Calvinists are trying to def is they're trying to defend that, the work of God, the supremacy of Christ, you know, God Uh God is the prime mover. God is the only one who could be the mover to saving. And and I think this is an issue that I've hit with you many times that I feel like oftentimes these theological constructs were created in a reaction to where where the world has gotten off from plum, right? Crisis of the plum line they've gotten off from plum. And and that's where the emphasis in tulip uh I feel like is off plum because it's trying to re to respond to something that's in the world and instead of just letting Christ be Christ It it has to create this thing that that it's attempting to set up. I think what you react against mostly is actually what I what I react against too is is is a hyper Calvinist view. And I think that's what you're reacting against. I'm not of the opinion that it's unconditional election. I'm of the opinion that anybody out there can can hear the gospel and respond. That that it's not decided from before the creation of the world. But that it is that that's what do you do with Ephesians then? Yeah, it's Oh, Ephesians. No, I've we've talked about this plenty of times. You know what I do with Ephesians. Okay, the real real quick. Can I can I describe it for you? Hold on one second. Just one second, real quick. I I'd like to get back to just real briefly about about the law. And because Paul in Romans, you know, really I I I think he's hammering that the Gentiles are lawbreakers. I think he's hammering home that Jews were lawbreakers. And I think you know, uh broadly speaking and I and I think Those that are listening to us s Sunday morning probably if they've gotten up and had their cup of coffee they probably realize that they're a lawbreaker. Whether if they wanted to see if they're totally depraved or not. And I just can't not read the scripture. But now the righteousness of God has been manifest apart from the law. trying to keep this you know this the Mosaic law of you know do's and don'ts, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. for all who believe, for there is no distinction for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by the grace of God. I just think I mean just stepping back from the debate of that and just thinking that We are justified. I am declared legally righteous. Paul goes on to talk in five where he says we've been we've been justified by faith. We have peace with God. That war there, whether you think you're depot totally depraved or partly partially depraved, that war through Christ in his redeeming work and him fulfilling the law is that that it's it's been taken care of. And now I have relationship with God. And it's just amazing. And as I look at that, I think there's the only way I can have that relationship is through Christ. And I personally think that that was something that he did for me and that apart from him moving through the Holy Spirit and quickening, making me alive. to recognize that. I couldn't see that. Except you can't show me any place in Scripture where the Holy Spirit is interacting with an unbeliever. I've studied it out and studied it out. There is no place in Scripture where we're told that the that that part of God is what's interacting with an unbeliever. It just doesn't show up. I do believe that the Father draws But I'm of the uh of the opinion that God is willing that none should perish, but all come to a saving knowledge. And I'm of the opinion are called And I'm of the opinion that many are called and few are chosen And if many are called, then that means that God's desire is that all be saved and that God has made a way that all could be saved, but that only a few are chosen. It's a both and so covenant, in fact The fact that you guys are covenant theologians like drives me up the wall. Because covenant is something that two people enter into Right? Well. And so so there's a joint covenant. That's the nature of of the covenant. But covenant theology is that those two people are both God. He fulfills the human responsibility of Jesus Christ. So he fulfills both ends of the covenant relationship. It's God par God's part through faith. That's ours. God in his Abra Abrahamic covenant he has with Abraham, it's all I will do this It's it's the you know it's except that Abraham believed God and it was credited to him as righteousness. There's a role, there's a there's a joining together that Abraham makes faith that is that is the the step of faith And yes, faith is a gift from God, but the point is that how does the faith come to us? It comes by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. But there's plenty of people that were preached the Word of God but did not choose faith When when Paul goes into that whole thing in Romans 9 through 11, he very clearly argues that everybody heard the word of God, but some did not combine the Word of God with faith and I mean instead they tried to establish their own rights. because the hyper-Calvinists forget about that we uh that there is a human free agency and there is a human responsibility that is somehow mysteriously involved in this. And that's the part that I think you're reacting against So I'm agreeing with you that we have a responsibility, we have a response, we have a role to play. Man, but listen to what he says. So we're we're actually in agreement on that. might continue, not because of works, but because of him who called. She was told, the older will serve the younger. It is written, Jacob I have loved. But Esau, I am hated. Yeah. And we're going to end with the word of God being right on the show, because that's we we are I've already kind of cheated here and extended the show a little bit. So I can't go we can't go any longer. We're done. You're totally depraved. We're done coming out. Yeah, uh Michael O'Halloran from uh Fourth Presbyterian in Bethesda, Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossfits Valley Church. I'm Froy Skinner. This has been the Protestant Faith Debate on Product's News Radio 930, WFMD. Putman Plumbing Heegan is our sponsor. How could we make you smile? What have I been reading? One more Ted Decker book, Blink of an Eye. Originally came out as Blink. I never read that version of it, but Blink of an Eye Eh, it's not my favorite subject book. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless.