Nestled on the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How if we make you smile, you can visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find the Faith Debate blog and access the podcasts of shows like this one And by the way, my blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, whatever you send me, as long as it's not like X-rays or something. I will just copy and paste and post it right on there. Nine fresh blog postings every single day, Monday through Friday at Forty five blog postings a week. And uh speaking of this newfangle technology, although I guess blogs are old technology, uh Twitter Sphere is the newer technology and Jonathan Swipes is all about that. Your uh people can tweet you or follow you or whatever it is they do. Uh at where? At Schweitzer Jonathan. S-W-I-P-Z-E-R-J-O-N-A-T-H-A-N. They had to do add Schweitzer Jonathan because somebody already had at Jonathan Schweitzer. Yeah. Yeah, believe it or not. I think there actually might be another guy with Jonathan Schweitzer here in Frederick. How do they figure that one out? We should have him on the show something. Swear twice her. Hopefully he doesn't look like I do. God save him from such a And Dr. Brian Lee, who is the senior pastor at Christ Reformed Church, uh and he's also well he's not, but I guess his church is involved. Yeah, yeah. Reformed D. C. at Reformed D. DC. So there's two D's in there together. Reformed E D D C with no spaces or anything. At Reformed D C. Now I don't want to to get too far because we Last week we teased how we're gonna bridge these shows together in the podcast, but uh so I I gotta ask, if somebody were to follow either one of you, like what kind of stuff would I Is it worth my time Yeah, I think it's worth our time. I I I write some political columns, uh faith in politics, and I usually post those to Twitter, my sermons, uh events. We do special events, we've done a speaker series at our church in the last number of years, uh Christianity and Politics, What is Preaching? We did one on Calvin on the 500th anniversary of his birth, which was uh 2009. So uh so yeah, we we promote and we have a a monthly Pub Night um discussion group. We do a lot of different things. So that's it's largely informational, sometimes some commentary. And what what do you what do I get from you, John? Uh you're mostly getting a little you know, inspirational thoughts. Uh I put videos out there about once a week. And uh and so it'll have the link to the video on YouTube, um and you know, those kinds of things. So I'm not doing a blog, I'm just doing, you know, little Kittens. Kittens playing with yarn? Yeah, they're more than whimsical, yeah, yeah. But nevertheless, yeah. Sounds like you're getting in touch with your feminine side on that stuff. Oh really? So that's what it sounds like. Okay. Out of context That's just horrible right there. I don't think you'll be posting that to your uh to your blog. I think that's outside the bounds of your blog. You can't post this week's show to your own blog. Podcast fail. All right, so pretend that the last you know three or four minutes didn't just happen. Uh last uh so you're listening now in an uh in an un uh interrupted stream from last week's show if you're listening to the podcast right now. So Jonathan just had made an interesting point there, uh Dr. Lee. How would you like to respond? Uh can you can you refer refer about the last week? If I'm keeping track, I mean it's happy new year, right? It's the new year. I'm a little I I'm unclear on what a lot happens to be. Generally speaking, we're talking about whether or not God still blesses nations, uh, if if we could even call nations godly or not. We've been arguing over argument. That that sounds so negative, but uh in in the uh high conversing. Yeah, conversing in a in a strong and and strident yet respectful way. Um Uh about whether or not if there is going to be such a thing, if we're going to identify some such a thing as a godly nation, by what standard of measure do we say, okay, this one counts, this one doesn't? You know, what kicks somebody out, what kick somebody in. So that's been part of the discussion. Jonathan has been making the point that in the Old Testament there are lots of examples where it seems that the scripture says that this was an ungodly nation and God brought down wrath on them. Um and if they repented and stopped being so cruel to people that he relented and they were allowed to continue to exist as a nation And he doesn't see that there's any reason to think that that's changed now that we have the New Testament. Dr. Lee has said, no, no, no, there's a change and he he's pointed to Romans chapter thirteen a few different times uh to make that point. We've talked about Revelation a few times. Well let me go to another text uh to try to explain because uh crucial to what we disagree about here is is how we read the Old Testament and how we read the prophets. Yeah, definitely. John keeps going back to the prophets, and I would just say, you know, in the New Testament we don't have this, and he says, well, that's an argument from silence. But I would say that the prophets address the nations. For instance, Nineveh. Uh Jonah sent to Nineveh Nineveh runs away. Israel is unfaithful in evangelizing the nations as they were called to be a light to the nations Uh the story of Nineveh and the faithfulness of the the city-state of Nineveh is an issue because of the faithfulness or unfaithfulness of Israel. The the prophets only talk about the nations because of Israel's special calling as a nation. Now in the book of Galatians, Paul very very clearly says, Why did God provide the law to the people of in Israel? And and and this is clearly for for Paul, he says you have to understand The covenant, we're all children of Abraham by faith. The promise to Abraham is by faith. But then the law came, the time of Moses, 430 years later, he says, it doesn't get rid of that faith promise. But from Moses to Christ, as he says in Romans 5, from Moses to Christ, we have this Israel nation state that plays a typological role. What do I mean by that? Paul says Why the law? Well, Israel taught us a lesson. It was uh they were uh the law was driving Israel as a pedagogue to Christ, a as a tutor with a stick is the Greek word he's using there, driving a student to get to class on time. So the whole point of Israel is to teach us how sinful we are. So Israel's fail on a failure on a national level is to teach sinners and the people of God in the New Testament, how much they fail. So we see the shift in language in the Old Testament from the prophets addressing Israel and their kings and the nations and their kings and their relative gods, to in the New Testament, Paul talking about Jew and Gentile. And the point of Jew and Gentile is that Jew and Gentile alike are condemned under the law. It's not national. So we have a complete and total absence of national language in the New Testament. I know you mentioned Thessalonians. I think that's quite a stretch. Um the book of Revelation is the only place where you could say there's some national referent with Babylon. And I would say even there, again The author of the revelations, John the Apostle, is using prophetic idiom, but relating it to the church and the church's faithfulness or unfaithfulness. So that's why we have this transition. Because Israel is no longer the people of God. There's no longer a role for a geopolitical Israel, whatever you think of ethnic Israel, uh Jerusalem, uh You know, I I would um again, we may disagree on this, but I don't think we're waiting for the rebuilding of a New Testament in Jerusalem. uh the rebuilding of a new temple so Jesus can return to that rebuilt temple. I don't buy into that eschatological model. I don't think it's clear in the pages of the New Testament in any way. shape or form. What I believe into is this simple pattern where from the day of Christ's ascension he was coming back at any time because all of prophecy had been fulfilled. And all men alike are under sin, Jew and Gentile. So that that contrast between Israel and the nations that is important to the prophets in the New Testament is transferred. And this is why, again, I teased a little bit last week that this is so important. What do we as Christians who are said to bear witness, and as Christian ministers, who are said to preach the gospel, to call men to faithfulness? On every page of the New Testament, we see that calling of men to faithfulness. I have no idea what it would mean to call a nation to faithfulness, or to more or less faithfulness, because the New Testament doesn't talk that way anymore. And you say, well that's an argument for silence, but I've given you two or three or four references where where Israel's special role as a nation state has ended. So it's not an argument from silence. But the but the fact that the positive proclamation of the New Testament is now addressing men as sinners who are storing up wrath, not nations. And so to to go out preaching in any way, teaching, saying anything about nations now, we have to go beyond the purview of what Christ, the message Christ has given us as preachers, to go take. to all the nations. Yes, I can use the language of nations, by which it means to every corner of the globe to call sinners to faithfulness. One of the things that and this might be related, so if if if it's Totally out of left field based on the response you want to give. I don't want to box you in. But um uh it's occurred to me, uh and it just occurred to me now, and I'm surprised it didn't occur to me earlier. Jonathan, you said a few times in the string of shows how, you know, in the Old Testament here's what was going on, and so, you know, now we're gonna look at the New Testament in light of that and see where it's been changed. It sounds like you might be saying that we are to understand the New Testament based upon the Old Testament, but an awful lot of Christian pastors would say that we're to understand the Old Testament based upon the New Testament. So if, for the sake of argument, if Dr. Lee's uh uh argument, the way he set it up, is the New Test is the New Testament model, where we're talking about ethnicities and and and uh people uh histories as opposed to geopolitical nation states uh and and that's how the New Testament looks at things, would it be fair to say, okay, if that's true, that we should project that idea into the Old Testament and say, okay, now how do we understand what the Old Testament is saying when they're talking about these geopolitical nation states? The New Testament doesn't seem to do that So w how do we understand the Old Testament in light of that? Is that is that a fair question? Am I understanding your position on that accurately when I when it seems like you're kind of are interpreting the New Testament based on the Old Testament Yeah, um I think that's a very good question. Uh and I think it's an important one. Uh it's definitely the case that we need to view uh the Old Testament through the eyes of Christ. And I think it's also true that uh that the fullness of of what Christ represented is best understood. in the context of the Old Testament. I think that uh the first century Jewish uh believers uh as Christ opened up the scriptures, say on the road to Oma Emmaus to them, so that they could see all the prophecies and see uh how all that was fulfilled in Christ was very important. I think I think that we have lost uh a measure, uh a significant measure even of of the meaning of what Christ represented to the first century uh apostles. Uh unfortunate, you know, w There's been many uh generations between now and then. Uh and so I would say, yes, it's true that we view everything through Christ. Uh and so so My argument there is that's really un let's go back and read the Old Testament and let's not too quickly uh uh put things aside that just because we don't now understand how they find their fulfillment in Christ, that don't yet have their fulfillment, you know, that aren't yet to have their fulfillment in Christ. Uh now uh you're we're we're talking about the the typology of the Old Testament and uh uh Dr. Lee you're talking about how um how the Old Testament Israel uh was a type of what Christ was going to do with the church, uh, and that it was helping us to understand how we as the church should be and how how we should respond to Christ. uh here in the New Testament. And so uh it was it it was there to teach us uh lessons that we needed to know. Um now I'm not Uh I would say that that's true. Uh I also believe that uh Israel uh and the promises to Israel are yet to be fulfilled in them uh as a people. And I'm I'm not gonna go into that to in great depth here, but I'm gonna say this. that I think the principle in the New Testament is exactly the same as the Old Testament. If the church represents the people of God now, which I think we all agree that it does then that's precisely the ba uh uh precisely one of the basis upon which God is judging the nations If you have a nation that is rejecting the church and openly uh uh seeking to persecute the church Uh you you had asked a couple of shows ago about India. I mean, does anybody uh think that there is a more idolatrous nation on the face of the planet? and their persecution of Christians in India. I have several friends in in uh uh that are doing missions work in India and the the extent of persecution that they face for their faith is significant. Uh this pattern uh fits uh whether it's the Catholic Church that is persecuting the true believers and that in their effort to impose a uh prostituted religion, whether it's uh Russia, China, Pol Pot, uh whether it's for that matter you were asking about Canada for the first time is now not allowing Christians to preach. what they believe about homosexuality. And what I'm saying is that God's basis is still the promise to Abraham. Whoever blesses you I will bless, and whoever curses you I will curse. And to this point in history The Church of Jesus Christ has not been under a curse by the powers that be in the United States. There's been freedom. Uh Mexico uh has major persecution on the church. If you're gonna stand up and and uh and preach against uh what uh the uh mafia or whatever the powers that be are down there, man, they hang you, you know, from from the uh street lights. And it's significant. So I'm saying uh that I see a major continuity between the Old and New Testament. And I looked up several passages dealing with Babylon. uh tire, Sidon, uh dealing with Moab, and in each of these places, uh, we're we're given a clear impression of what it is about these nations that God is choosing to judge. At the end of seventy years the Lord will deal with Tyre. She'll return to her hire as a prostitute. And ply her trade with all kingdoms on the face of the earth. Can you get the reference, please? Yes, Isaiah 23, verse 17. Isaiah 14, verse 4. says, How the oppressor has come to an end, how his fury has ended. The Lord has broken the rod of the wicked, the scepter of the rulers, which in anger struck down peoples with unceasing blows, and in fury subdued nations. uh with relentless aggression. Later on in that same passage it says that you are covered with the slain, with those who pierced by the sword. We're talking about a lever level of violence that extended to their refusal to allow the Church of Jesus Christ, whether it whether it was um uh Hitler or Stalin or um uh uh France at the time of the Glorious Revolution, that was not the case in the United States. And I'm saying that that standard is a biblical standard that if you bless the people of God you'll be blessed and if you curse the people of God then you'll be cursed. So another Old Testament standard, Israel is praised uh for instance when they uh when during the conquest for destroying all the Canaanites. And they can't take any of the loot, any of the bounty, they're to destroy it all. It's a holy war. Yeah, yeah. That's a great example. I feel like I feel like so that principle's still in force. Yeah, I feel like that that so Christians should go around destroying infidels. I would I I would like a chance to answer that, but You can go ahead and make your point stronger if you'd like to. Yeah, I'd like I'd like to finish the point. Okay. So you said again there's there's a parallel here. Um Israel is praised for that. This is a way in which Israel is not like the Church of Jesus Christ. Israel is given the sword not just to punish evildoers, people who break the law, say murderers, as is mentioned in Noah's time. But Israel is given the sword to strike down unbelievers. And I would say that that's the context in which all of those prophetic passages need to be read. Um so go go ahead. State and the people of God and the nations. to the New Testament and I want you to explain that side of the continuity. Before he does that, reset for us, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. The last person speaking was Dr. Brian Lee, Senior Pastor of Christ Reformed Church, and now about to speak again. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Okay. There are two places in Scripture that I know of that God very directly judges a group of people whose sin has come up before them. And he annihilates them, men, women, and children, Sodom and Gomorrah and the Canaanites. I see no other place in Scripture where anybody's given authority to do that except for Christ himself, and that he will overcome them with the sword, and that he will judge the nations and that he will cast them into hell. Right? So the principle Is that those who bless, did Abraham kill anybody? No. Did Isaac? Did Jacob? Nobody did until Moses and the Israelites, when the sin of the Canaanites were clearly told had come to its fullness. That's what I'm talking about, the sin of the Canaanites. So why was Israel told never again after that are we told that they can have uh that they can have an imperialistic takeover nation. In fact, it's very clear that Israel was given very clear boundaries And so once they took over this land of the people, the only one in history that that's ever given to until Christ, and Christ is the one that will do that, uh, whenever he chooses to do so. When when they did that, they were given boundaries and they weren't supposed to stay in eternal war with all the nations and be like Napoleon in Empire trying to conquer the world, but instead they were to be a light to the nations and only fill up their own boundaries, which David did and Solomon did, and then they traded with nations that weren't necessarily the people of God. And there was great peace. He gave them peace with their enemies. And so the pattern is that if you bless the people of God you'll be blessed. If you curse them, you'll be cursed. But we don't have boundaries in the New Testament, right? No borders. Uh any nation that chooses to curse the people of God. You've helped me with this to come down. I mean I I I feel like You know, all these passages that I was just reading about Moab and and Babylon and that sort of thing, uh it it fills up the meaning of this. If a nation is unwilling to treat the people of God with respect, then that nation will come under judgment. It happened uh in with all these nations that I've listed and and it happened in history. I'm just saying that it did happen that way. That they came under severe judgment such that God gave authority, it would appear, in history to the United States or other nations to make war on those nations and to overcome them. Wait, so God gives authority to the United States to make war internationally? Uh it's it's clear to me that God used the United States to uh to bring Hitler down And that Hitler represented And nuclear bombs on Hiroshima and Nagasaki of the judgment of God on the Japanese people. This is very good because every group that God ever raises up to judge Anywhere in scripture is judged for how cruel they are and how they limit themselves to just do what God did. And did we go too far with Nagasaki and Hiroshima? I don't know. I uh possibly, possibly not. I'm saying I'm not sure that I know. Okay? But I am saying that that God gave authority to the United States to do that and it and it happens Uh it happened with with Queen Victoria. The Victorian era. She was, by all intents and purposes, very open to the gospel and to letting the gospel be preached. And the during her reign, the sun would not set on the on the British Empire. But after her reign, many of her children ended up being vile and wicked and self centered and they began to persecute one another. And what happened World War One happened within years after Victoria's reign. And what I'm saying is that this that there's a consistent standard And the standard is how you treat the people of God reflects directly on whether or not you you here. The passage is in um Uh it's in Thessalonians. It says this, that concerning the day of the Lord, don't let anyone deceive you. That day will not come until the rebellion occurs. The man of lawlessness is revealed. In all these nations, a man of lawlessness was revealed. And it says about these people that they refused to acknowledge the truth, and God himself raised up A great deception to lead them astray because they were not lovers of the truth. It happened in in uh in uh France, it happened in in uh Germany, it happened in Russia, it's happened in in many nations around the world where a man of lawlessness rises up, people don't love the truth, they they have given themselves permission to persecute with the government, the church of Jesus Christ, and the end result is that God chooses to judge. I'd like to go back to Luke twenty-four that you mentioned in passing there because You know, when Jesus is talking about all the Old Testament scriptures and how we should read them, uh he says, Oh foolish ones and slow of heart to believe, all that the prophets have spoken. All that prophets is that what you're saying? Um Go ahead. That's all right. Well, uh you can judge yourself. I mean you're you're you're judging all these nations, you're judging Prince Albert, you know. I like you, I don't care what anybody says. Oh foolish ones and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Was it not necessary that the Christ should suffer these things and enter into his glory? And beginning with Moses and all the prophets, by the way, what you've been reading from prophetic literature, Moab, Edom, he interpreted to them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. And later in the same text thus it is written that the Christ should suffer on the third day rise from the dead, and that repentance and forgiveness of sins should be proclaimed in his name to all nations, beginning from Jerusalem. You are witnesses of these things, and behold, I am sending the promise of my Father upon you. Stay in the city until you are clothed with power from on high. They were a type of Christ. Israel was called to be faithful to the law of God. Okay. And they failed. And Christ says here, every jot and tittle in the Old Testament was about me and my suffering and glory. His point is that the that the message of Isaiah fifty three, the stripes that Israel suffered at the hands of the nation, was about the cross. Now if we go to the nations preaching the stripes that nations suffer and Germany You know, the U. S. in its own time, England has suffered great stripes and depredations, not to mention uh plenty of people in Japan who had no part of the Emperor's dealings when when the fire of Nagasaki fell on them. If we as New Testament witnesses to the cross and the suffering and glory of Christ, if we go out and talk about the suffering and glory of nations, we're taking a different message. We are claiming, exactly as you've claimed on on these programs, to be prophets. And I and I have a much humbler view of truth towards Scripture and to the role of a preacher. No, I said I have a humbler view. Okay, okay. Um I'm plenty of arrogant in plenty of spots, but but I have a I have a I have a humbler view. describes a view in that the preacher of the gospel is given a commission to preach a particular message. And when I talk like Paul does and says, all men Jew and Gentile, all mouths are stopped by the law. You're condemned. The purpose of the law is to reveal our sin to us. In other words, the law that Israel lived under, that national law, is to reveal their sin to us. That's a message I take with great confidence to everyone everywhere. Now, you you may be a hundred percent confident, eighty percent confident, twenty percent confident. That the British Empire was judged for faithlessness. I I don't know how confident you are. 100%? I'd say I'm pretty confident, yeah. Okay. Everything I say on behalf of Christ in my ministerial office, I I try to be a hundred percent confident. So I don't take guesses about God's dealings in history. I know that God will deal at the end of history in a particular way. I'm a hundred percent confident about that. Sure. But I don't talk about things that I'm less than a hundred percent confident because if I do talk about those things and I'm only a half percent unsure, I'm putting a half percent of my words in God's mouth. And I'm a hundred percent confident that Dr. League is the final word this week. Woo I tried it right He's got the code. Uh Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Cross Israelite Chapel. Thank you again, my friend, for being on the show. Good to be here. Uh co-founder of the Faith Debate Show and Frederick 48. Uh Dr. Brian Lee, the founder of Christ Reformed Church. Doing everything I can to ensure I don't get invited back. No, no, no, no, no. If you're good at what you do and you're doing good, we will invite you back. And by the way, the fact that we're having this uh conversation means the Mayan calendar was wrong. Woohoo! Merry Belated Christmas, uh Happy New Year, Happy Epiphany, and all those sorts of things. Uh wish you all the best. What have I been reading? It's interesting. You mentioned uh Nineveh and Jonah Under the Predictable Plant uh by Eugene Peterson, he uses uh Jonah as as a uh uh as an extended metaphor for his entire book. And if you haven't read it, if you're a fan of uh Jonah, you might want to read that. Uh Under the unpredictable fan of whales. Fan of wet well, there's no whales in that, just a giant big fish. Oh. Anyway, thanks for listening. God bless.