Broadcasting for the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, don't you know it? Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Pay attention. You want to know why? It's because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. Like Reese's peanut butter cups. Yeah, don't place your hope in Reese's peanut butter cups. There is no satisfaction there. There's some satisfaction. Okay, for like a blink of an eye. But that's it Don't continue to place your hope in the Reese's Peanut Butter Cup. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, how could we make you smile? You can check us out online, wfmd. com, keyword faith. We're also on Facebook and we got some videos posted up there. Jonathan's our videographer, or should I call him cinematographer You like that title better? Yes, yes. Call me whatever's gonna get me paid a little bit more uh this time around. Oh. I don't know a word for that. Anyway, on the show again This week for the fourth uh go round now, the the the man gets uh Dr. Harpel and his daughter Henna, and we've been talking about Sikhism and Christianity and all things geopolitical and historical and it we've been all over the map. Um with some th loose theme. It's just right that things go sociopolitical because at the heart of anything that is religious or spiritual is how we live our lives and how power is used in those kinds of things. And so it's just not surprising to me that that happens on a regular basis. Yeah. As a Christian though it gets frustrating for me because, you know, Christ says that his kingdom's not of this world. And we get too wrapped up in this world then I I wonder if we've lost our focus as as believers in Christ. We have. So we ended voting for Trump. Sorry, don't go there. I'm on record I think it was about three years ago, maybe four years ago we made a guest down we and Donald Trump somehow came up was talking about leadership. Yeah. Remember we did a series of shows on leadership? Yeah, yeah. And um and somehow Donald Trump's name came up. Uh oh. And if we could find the audio somewhere, I'm on record calling Donald Trump a clown. And the guest you're like one of the first ever. And then the guest said, Oh no, no, no, no, no. He's not a clown. And I said, No, no, he's a clown. So I'm on record saying it twice. Yeah, yeah, and backing it up, doubling down on it. That's right. Just like Trump would do. Yeah. So anyway, we ended last week's show talking about uh Some racism issues, Black Lives Matter, and what a Christian and Sikh response to that should be. Have you had any additional thoughts on that or s or before we move on? Uh what about the Black Lives Matter? Yeah. Well I think it's gonna kinda weave into what uh we're thinking to move into today, so I'm just gonna wait and get in. Well let's weave right in. We're we wanted to talk of uh the the we decided we we did some show prep There's an idea. Huh? Yeah, well but we've done that many times. It's never worked before. I know. That's why we don't do it most of the time, because it's like, why do we waste our time preparing preparing for something we never talked about? Uh but I don't know his idea was your idea or Hannah's idea to talk about safe spaces? It's gotta be Hannah. Oh, I don't know about that. Uh my dad texted me saying we were talking about safe spaces. Oh so it was Dad's idea. Oh Dad, oh you you throw it under the bus and or you were li uh exalted, I'm not sure which. We'll know at the end of the segment. If it's a good segment you were honored. If it's a bad segment, you just threw it under the bus. So All right, so safe spaces. Good or bad as a Christian. Uh uh it's all in how you set up your safe space. and uh the the principles by which you uh maintain your safe space. And if you do it wrong, then it will be bad for society and it will pamper and it will create uh uh people that that think they can just get away with whatever and cry and whine. And if you do it right, then it'll create an environment for some people to heal and for people that disagree to have quality discussions. I feel like We have endeavored to make the faith debate a safe space where we respect one another, but we disagree, and in the context of respect in disagreement there's a healthy environment. Gonna ask the doctor w uh 'cause he's smarter than the rest of us. Yes. Um did you know the word doctrine comes from the word for doctor That makes sense. I hadn't thought about it before, but I've recently preached on the idea because the guys that are the elite teachers, the doctors are the ones that create doctrine. Huh? Anyway, so Wow. So give me some doctrine, Doc. How I'm uh Uh in my health. So so so that we're working off the same framework. Define for us what we when we say safe space, what are we talking about? I would agree with Jonathan. I think the parameters that paramet parameters are very important. because you want to have mutual respect for a a honest, you know, discussion with integrity. If you don't have those parameters you will breed extreme extremism Yeah. I mean and and that is by definition what's happened in some other parts of the globe. When they had they've had this safe space to breathe their type of uh vehement horror. Mm. Uh so I mean if you were to go back to our uh prior discussions on ISIS, ISIS essentially had the safe space to do what they want in the territory and which is not good because there's no framework on mutual respect. It was just us and that's it. But mutual respect is key in any safe space um c concept because that'll allow progress, for a better word. Yeah, I would argue that the Puritans in their in their uh at at some point in the northeastern United States, uh their safe space had taken on an unhealthy uh element to it where they weren't able to s have people challenge uh how they were handling things. Th this there's the whole thing that we're I was talking about last week. But that's why I'm asking the question. So what do we mean by safe space then? So because that's what you say their safe space took on this kind of this evil element to it. That's no longer a safe space. Safe space. So we can't call it a safe space anymore. On our college campuses right now is a place where people who this is my sense, so tell me what you guys think. Is a place where people who feel like their cultural or religious identity is under attack in that somehow the language that is being used by the rest of society has rubbed them so raw that they need a place where they can be uh protected from the language of of white privilege, the language of Christian uh imperialism, uh the the the the language of uh racism and that sort of thing. And so it's uh it I think the way that they intend it is a place where they could be Uh be able to kind of be free from that so that they can catch their breath and kind of uh uh be accepted for who they are in their own identity. Is that right? Is that what the college campuses mean by that? Um, I I haven't I would just say this is my own understanding of it, is that a safe space safe space is um I feel like the way you described it makes it seem kind of temporary, you know, that it's like once they've um felt protected or once they've intend that temporary. Yeah. So I think it's more of a permanent sense that a safe space is somewhere a college campus where there is a mutual respect where a student feels that the administration is not only protecting them but the administration respects their beliefs. and respects that if they have different beliefs from other students that's all right. But that as the my dad was mentioning earlier, that there's a mutual respect and that should be a permanent environment of the college rather than just a temporary place for you know, um someone who's feels that they've been attacked to recover. It should be some a place where nobody should ever be attacked. See my concern with all of this is trusting those that are going to enforce the parameters of the safeness of the space 'Cause otherwise it's just political correctness run amok. And if Jonathan says something that I don't agree with and it makes me feel unsettled and insecure and unsafe, then I'm gonna go run to you know, the the the leader of the college and they're gonna say, Jonathan, now you be quiet And now all of a sudden Jonathan's not safe. So who's gonna decide see this is my channel this is why I said why why I pitched it as temporary. Because the people that the safe spaces right now on college campuses are designed to protect If it continues that way, that they're protected from basically all of my ideas. are the ideas that at least the way that it's being presented by both sides of the media is what they're being protected from is the white privilege Judeo-Christian, the white Anglo Saxon Protestant perspective that is oppressing them and causing them to feel uh disrespected and and unprotected. And what that means is that I would not, like Troy was saying, be allowed to participate in a discussion without being told that I am the oppressor, that my language is rude and harsh and and unsafe. And and if that's the case, then than it being anything more than a temporary place where they can get healed and come to a sense of their identity but it becomes this long term thing, then that means that it's become a fascist way to shut down the voice of people like me And if that's the case, then that safe space is the most terrifying thing for me and my children I could imagine. Um, I mean I would say that it's not meant to shut anybody down or to terrify anybody. I would agree that with the fact that it's not something that you can necessarily enforce. Of course we have the freedom of speech in this country, but there's also no such thing as bullying, you know, like if the administration has a responsibility to be fair to all of its students and if you find um, you know, the dean of a school, or if you find that the language in their emails, you know, if we're talking about, you know, Missouri or um other colleges where this uh that have been in the muse recently Um if you find that their administration is kind of reflecting the idea that it's okay that bigotry is okay, that it's okay to have prejudice aga prejudice against um, you know, a certain religion or ethnicity, um, that's not all right. That's not a safe space and the safe space I feel like is mostly with administration and that I agree with the fact that it's not you can't enforce it and of course there's the fear of the majority becoming the minority that will soon be oppressed. But um I don't I it's hard to answer. I don't feel like you say you can't enforce it. 'Cause i in in my sense, like if I was gonna create a safe space for Uh let me use my wife. Every now and again we get in disagreements because she doesn't realize that I'm right. And in those moments, uh we have to set up a safe space where she feels like she can share what she thinks without me um judging it or um or shooting it down but letting her get her thought out so that she can really, you know, s say what she thinks Right? And then oftentimes she needs to allow me to do the same thing. We get everything out on the table and it becomes this moment. Again, it's a temporary safe space where because there's a lot of emotion and whatever it is that we're talking about that that we want to up our game and uh and use our greatest skill at communicating in that point So that she feels respected, I feel respected, that we can talk through things and then come to a place where we can both ask ourselves, okay, are are both of us really dealing with the truth? Are we not? Are we somehow living in in some kind of a uh deception or you know something like that? Do we you know, how how is it that we need to change? And so it's an environment that leads to the question of how do we need to change to be better, to be to improve. Um and so that's a that's a healthy safe space to me. Hmm. Yeah, a safe space where you're not allowed to say what's really on your mind because it might offend somebody doesn't feel safe to me. I want to ask a question to you. uh personal Hannah, not a question about, you know, your y your philosophy or ideas, but you personally, individually. In a couple of years I imagine you'll be going to college somewhere. Yeah. Uh is it going to be important to you to feel like you personally will need to have a safe space at your college or university? Um, I guess that goes back to the definition of safe space. It's important to me that I I will feel respected and equal to my peers and that I feel like if I were to be harassed for my beliefs that I would be able to speak up. Um, I think the idea of a safe space, like going back to what you said, I definitely agree with your example of your wife. um that it's important to that people can voice their opinions and if y their opinions offend someone Okay, that's one thing, but there's a point to where it becomes harassment or where it becomes bullying and that's where administration really needs to step in because when I said it wasn't enforceable I meant more of the it's a cultural change that has to happen for the environment to be a safe space as such. So it's not like, you know, like one program. Like a dean can't monitor every, you know, conversation or every discussion on campus, but it's the environment that they have to create with their students and they have to make a conscious effort of the thing. I was curious to see how you would answer because I mean you are uh a minority religion. Uh you are a minority uh ethnic group, you are a majority minority as a female. Uh yes, so you've lots of reasons to feel like you're put upon and you really need a safe place to be safe, you have a safe space. But how so if somebody comes up to you not knowing, uh an administrator sends out an email to all the students including you and says, Merry Christmas, have you not been harassed because you don't celebrate Christmas? No, I don't think that's for us, and I'm not sure. But some are arguing that those sorts of common niceties or common usage of language, you know, if if somebody were to say, uh Um you use the pronoun he when referring to humanity. You as a woman would have a right to feel Uh depressed. Degraded. So is that is is is that crossing so who decides where the lines are? That's it's so so I have two thoughts. One is that if I want to be prepared to deal with the world at large and the dangers that are out there in the world, right? Uh then I would like m my uh s the soldiers of my nation to not be prepared in a safe environment But to be put through the most dangerous environment that I can put them through. A SEAL training, you know, the training for the Rangers. where they are dealing with live ammunition and they are dealing with cold and they are dealing with with deprivation and and and everything that will prepare them to be mentally tough for the most difficult of situations. But at the same time In my neighborhood, if there's some kid bullying my son, you know, uh usually what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna pull my son aside and I'm gonna say, okay, son, this is what I want you to do. Right. But there's a point at which I'm like, you know what? It's beyond what he's able to handle and something that that I as a parent, a part of this community, need to speak with his parent and we gotta deal with this thing. Right? Meaning that that that I want a safe environment that's that's there for long enough that my son can get a sense of who he is and and rise into it and then I want every opportunity possible to put my son into very difficult situations that threaten them, that leave them difficult. In fact, my dad used to do that to me. My dad, uh, when I got to a certain age, he stopped telling me what Christianity believed and he started asking me the questions that atheists and that secularists and that Muslims and other people would question so that my dad was no longer, if you will, a safe space. meaning he was the one that was challenging me all the time to push me and that is what strengthened my sense of who I who I am and so s to me a safe space there's a safe space that is a temporary thing for maybe some African Americans that that have lived in a place where they just couldn't find their identity. I want them to find their identity. Maybe if that's the case for a Sikh that that comes from another nation to come into the sense of their identity. But then I want them to be challenged at every level. And I want them to be in a scenario where where you gotta go head to head with the Christians You know, where in and we go head to head with the uh uh with the the black Muslims or, you know, whoever the different groups are, in particular here in the United States. and ask ourselves what's the best way to run a society so that iron sharpens iron and we don't just kinda fall into this complacent You know, nothingness. Here's my concern, uh, and I'm gonna use a uh I don't know if it's the same with with uh Sikhism, because I don't know what your religious practice is like, what it looks like for a f like a a Christian Sunday morning Uh you can visit most churches and you will have this experience, unfortunately, and most of them. By the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. And the mangoths, Harpel and Hannah, are here as well. So if you go to church on Sunday, how many Christians, Jonathan, treat the worship time, you know, the Sunday gathering time as a safe space? And by that I mean they put on their plastic little good Christian face and they s they use the word blessed a lot. Bless you. Oh, it's so what's a blessing to see you. I love you so much, or you're wonderful, and it's all How's life doing you? How's your how's your husband? Oh, you know, things are good and it's all very fake and plastic and safe. Right. And it's a problem. It's a problem. There's no real growth. Nobody's challenging one another. Don't nobody feel free to be authentic and say, you know what? You want to know about my husband? He's a jerk. That's what I would think about my husband. You don't hear that on Sunday morning at church. Right. So It's not healthy in a church. I'm wondering how healthy it is in society. Now, is it similar? Do Sikhs walk around and pretend that everything's good when it's not? I mean I think that's uh harsh general like you I don't think you can make that generalization and be fair. Um I've of course people Oh, I can't about Christians. Well, I I don't feel like I can about to see. But I mean I I understand that the point that you're making and I agree that we can't, you know, baby everyone and say that everyone's always gonna love each other and everything's always gonna be okay But at the same time I don't think it hurts to encourage you you know, um, this accepting accepting environment, you know, at at a on a college campus. I think it's important to have it, but I also agree that we can't um baby people and we can't limit freedom of speech. So let's introduce a radical, you know, Christian uh uh quasi, you know, a purported Christian movement. uh organization uh into and inject this to see. Uh should the people it on college campuses be protected from and made to feel safe from people like Westboro Baptists? Or should the Westboro Baptist student on college feel like they are made to be safe from anybody who wants to criticize or critique their view on religion in the world? Yeah, I just want to make a point. Hannah, your dad has thrown you out amongst the wolves here tonight. Right? He has brought you in from what I've heard He's encouraged you to step into some environments that are not so unsafe I mean he he's watching to make sure that you're not gonna get wiped out. But he's kinda hoping that you're gonna get challenged, that that you're gonna get pushed and that you'll come home afterwards and say, Dad, I psh I didn't know how to answer that. or dad, he was saying that one thing and he clearly was wrong and but I I I couldn't quite, you know, say what I needed to say. What should I have said there, right? And and and I think that's the point. The West for about this guy is I don't think there is an ability to think outside of their box. You know, in and for the record, by the way, Westboro Baptist Church in Kansas, and for those who don't know, they're the ones that protest at military funerals with hateful signs that are uh homophobic and and and And apparently they were in in Montgomery County at your school. What did they do when they do there? Um so basically it was I saw we were at our rival football game when we all find found out they re um their press release said Um so Churchill, the school that I go to, we're um nationally ranked, you know, or Blue Ribbon School. It's a wonderful school and um in Westboro Baptist believes that we are wasting our God given talent by having a gay student alliance and by um supporting um the gay students at our school and also um they also included our the Jewish students. We have a large Jewish population at our school and they feel that we're wasting our God given talent. that um by supporting those there shouldn't be any Jews in your school? I mean if that's what I guess that's what Westboro believes. Yeah. Yeah. Um homosexual. Westboro Baptist calls himself a Baptist, but Any Christian Baptist organization disowns them, doesn't accept them and embrace them as one of their own, would say that they are an anti Christ establishment probably. They are not Christian, they are not speaking for Christian. So I think you know that. Yeah, I but for anybody listening to the show and isn't familiar with what the they are not representative. They are not true authentic Christ followers. They have too much hate in their I'm pretty public about my uh approach to homosexuality. Right? From the pulpit, you know, just in public in general, and I'm of the opinion that homosexuality is considered an abomination by the Lord. Now, I share that in the same breath that I say that I deserve hell myself. And then if it wasn't for the grace of God and his forgiveness, that that I too would uh would uh I am nothing but an a an abomination, you know, before the Lord. Uh nevertheless uh I include homosexual activity, not uh uh the orientation in and of itself as a as a sin That is something that the Bible encourages us to ref uh it teaches and commands us to refrain from. But those who embrace it in that environment, somebody who belongs to Westboro Baptist Church would feel oppressed. They would feel harassed, bullied for not accepting the gays, not accepting the Jews among them. The fact confused They would go to the school and say, You can't have gays on staff. It can't you can't make me take a a required class taught by a gay professor. That's harassing me because I disagree with gayness, with homosexuality. And so I need a safe place. You have to fire all your gay people to make me feel safe. Yeah. I'm using some because none of us would agree with the Russian Baptist viewpoint in this room. Using that extreme, they're saying that we should go so far as to kill as as maybe to kill off gay people. the the leadership of the schools or our government for that matter to make the decisions of how to keep us safe. I'd rather have a face-to-face d dialogue with the Westboro people and say I think you're an idiot and here's why. Or I think you're scripturally off the body. It was really interesting though when they came to our school. Um they had this uh protest during eighth period, so while we were still in classes. And there was a massive, you know, students like we were all on Facebook on different social medias planning an anti protest. We were saying we're not letting them victimize any students at our school. I love that. So um we had students from all over Montgomery County come, but um everyone ran out from eighth period at the end 'cause our administration had given us notice saying that you are not allowed to skip class for this protest. We you will not be excused, you know, that you must Oh so uh a good protest breaks a few rules, huh? So actually people were pretty rebellion is a good thing. They were our we had an amazing response that we had, you know, our school was decked out in like rainbow color like balloons and you know like things like that and just to show support. Um and we had like hundreds of students in an anti protest and there are only two people from Westboro who are protesting. And it was Well it's not a very big group. Yeah. It's like a family basically. It is they're all they're all gonna grow up at some point and you know, so they're gonna get smaller. There's like ten guys. Yeah. Or or w well the woman who was really leading it uh it has been like defrocked by them or something. I actually I did this program with the Anti Defamation League and they honored at the Kennedy Center two um members of the Westboro Baptist Church who left the church. Huh. And have it was that was another I have actually interacted with Westboro a lot this year. Yeah, well, you know, we're gonna have to end on a Westboro note. That wasn't my intention. But uh uh by the way I just noticed Uh Hannah's wearing a shirt that says I solemnly swear that I'm up to no good. I gotta get me one of them. Uh huh. Ball over by her dad. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Hos Light Church. Thank you, my friend. Yes. Thank you to the manga, uh Harpel and Hannah. Thank you so much. It's been a pleasure, as it has been the last two times you uh did a cycle of shows with us as well. We've done now I think twelve shows together, all of us uh combined. Uh thanks for our sponsor, Putmont Fleming Heating. How can we Make you smile. Uh Becoming a Judean Shepherd by Doug Greenwald is something else I've uh read uh lately. Just a small little pamphlet. You can read that in like one sitting. Yeah. Anyway. Thanks so much. Online, WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week, God bless. T