Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City. in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement, and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick face-to-base sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile Cruise holidays and BMC insurance. Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keywordfaith. You can find links, podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog My blog is your blog, so email me Troiskinner at clearchannel. com. That's Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I'll post whatever you send me after I remove the curse words and all the things that uh little eyes shouldn't see. Forty-five blog updates go up each week, nine per day, each weekday. Encourage you to pop in, see what people are saying, if even if you don't want to email me yourself. Uh on the Faith Debate today, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, with Good friend, back with us uh again this week, and Dr. Stacato Powell with New Church Believers dot org. And he's going to take up a point of view that uh you're going to agree with Probably in large measure. Denominations are a problem in the church today. Out now Jonathan doesn't have his feelings hurt by that because his church would be a non-denominational church Yes, we left denominations proudly, self-righteously, many years ago. Now non-denominationalism uh might that might be the largest denomination in America today. I'm not sure. I understand that there was a denomination right here in Frederick where people called themselves the Church of God because they didn't want to be denominations anymore and after a number of years they decided that they wanted to hang out with each other more. And they ended up becoming the denomination, Church of God. So you can't escape it, maybe. So it seems a bit of a times, yes. Well, uh Doctor Powell, uh you have Started a uh an organization. People can visit online and see what the organization is all about because I think the organization is named after the website name. Is that is it as simple as that? New Believers? New Church Believers. And I don't like to even refer to it as an organization because I don't want to fall into the same uh issue. How do you organize the non organization? A movement? A movement. A movement. A movement is and um facilitating a movement. of people of faith and belief who no longer ascribe slavishly to denominations. Because I think we're living in a post denominational era where people are no longer as bent on denominational loyalty as they are being transformed and impacted by the Word of God. Now were you once upon a time in a denomination yourself? I still am. Still are. I am I am uh Shocker member of Wait a second, how can you still be in a denomination if you're post denominational? I pastor yeah a denominational church that I grew up in all of my life, but I still believe without a shadow of a doubt and I've been called to task because of my belief that we are living in a post denominational era. People no longer. The people of my church, they could not even identify themselves as a member of a particular denomination. Sure. And so just for posterity's sake, which denomination then are you from? Ah Episcopal Zion. Is that different from African Meth African Methodist Episcopal different because of the Z. We they started in Philadelphia. We started in New York City. We both came out of the old Methodist Episcopal Church prior to the Civil War. Okay. Uh and been thriving ever since, but even those denominations are seeing themselves diminished because people are falling away. Uh going to where they feel that they are being positively impacted. Now can I put a boundary on this? Like I I know a guy out in I think it's Arizona who's on the radio all the time and he's pushing the idea that we are actually post church. Right? So we don't we don't need that. Meaning people don't want church anymore either. They just want to be believers in whatever they want. They don't they don't want to even have to belong to a living room and church colour. Bible studies, that sort of thing. Exactly. And no no matter what label you place on it, we're on the same team and we're fighting the same war, if you will. We're not wrestling against flesh and blood, but powers and principalities. The same adversarial forces attacked all of us And so you could almost argue then that you're like calling for a return to the pre reformation unity. Absolutely. Yeah. Uh pre-reformation pre Constantine even. Sure. Uh when Constantine declared Rome to be the Holy Roman Empire, I think then we started to see a control mechanism put in place and now we don't have the same kind of fire in our bellies, if you will, to go out and be who God has called us to be initially. I mean I'm in agreement with you on this. Uh I've been raising this issue uh recently. We had a guy on the show. We were talking about whether or not there was a uh uh a anti-Jewishness that entered the church uh back around the time of Constantine and and we went back and forth about that, just kind of grappling with the history of what happened because that's when all the councils you know, the uh started to uh propagate and and claim uh authority in the body of Christ. And so uh are you anti any of those councils? Like like would you ascribe to say the Nicene Creed or No, I'm not anti anything. I'm not anti-council. I'm not anti- uh denomination. I would like to refer to myself as pro. believer. And sometimes I think we try to set up these fictitious uh antagonistic kind of boundaries and we fall into the hands into the rim of those that divide and conquer as opposed to being pro and for wanting to do what it is that we have been initially called to do. If you read the gospels, for example Mark 16, Jesus says emphatically that these signs shall follow. people who choose to believe. We will be able to speak with new tongues, to cast out devils in the name of Jesus, to take up serpents. If we should drink anything poisonous, it will not harm us and we can lay hands on the sick and they shall recover. And I'm proud to declare, godly, hum humbly proud to declare, that I've seen God work those miracles of healing in people's lives, all because they dared to believe. Okay, so a couple more boundary things, just because um uh I think it's helpful to to kind of define what we're saying and what we're not saying. Right, so so that people can be at rest. Because if people don't know how far something goes, you know, I I and this is true about me, I can I can tend to be like, okay, uh, you know, I'm gonna keep my distance until I know how far something's gonna go. Uh Two things. One, um, I know many Buddhists and even many belie uh uh Christians, people that call themselves Christians pastors that have come on this show. that believe that m Muhammad and Buddha are just as good a way to get to God as Jesus Christ is. And uh people that believe that way, there's kind of a universalism you know, to their belief system and uh it it certainly sets you in a certain part of the body of Christ. Would you say that Christ is the only way to the Father? Would you say that there's There's many roads to God and that Jesus is one of those. No, I'm unapologetically solo Cristo. I believe that Jesus is the way. Mm. Not one way, but the way. Okay. And and that's based on my experience, based on my study of scripture. I have at one point been a member of the uh Interdenominational Councils, the National Interdenominational Council headed by Welton Gaddy in Washington, D. C. I've worked for ecumenical bodies. Um, so it's not that I'm unfamiliar with or anti, but I just believe based on my own experience that Jesus Christ is the way Sure, and I'm not going to go down some of the roads of how uh those that believe in many roads to God have invaded many councils and that kind of thing. Uh though I'm sure that that would be an interesting discussion in and of itself. But the other thing that I feel like would help to put a boundary on this, do you guys Bring snakes into your into your sanctuary and poison with you just to prove your your power? No. We don't tempt the Lord our God. We don't have to do that. But what we do do is if a person is sick and want to be prayed for. Yeah. We have no hesitation in taking oil and anointing them with oil, laying on hands and praying with them. Like it says in James. Absolutely. We don't pray loud, long prayers, but simply anoint them with oil, lay hands on them. And the testimonies of healing that I've heard as a result has astonished and amazed me. You familiar with John G. Lake at all? I'm not. Uh he's a guy from uh Africa that had a uh a reputation for significant healings and he set up uh uh what they call healing rooms and people that train you know, to minister in healing rooms. And uh I believe that there's a church right here in Frederick that has now set up a ministry like that, somebody that uh that I know and respect actually. who um uh have set up and they already have it have documented apparently a lady that was ninety percent deaf in one ear that because she didn't have an eardrum who can now hear fully in that ear? Uh and it was just recently that I heard about this. So I I don't know the person. I haven't personally verified it, but I uh I have respect for the people that uh have been engaged in that. And so Uh so your point is not to go out and tempt the tempt the the Lord, but to but to recognize or or uh walk in the authority that Christ gave to his church to Take authority over demonic powers, over sickness, and over uh over things that destroy and to bring life instead of to bring death. Yes, I don't think we have to prove anything. I think we just simply walk in that which has already been set forth in Scripture, that all things are possible if we only believe. And if necessary we say, Lord, I believe, but help my unbelief. I've witnessed it. I've seen it. I don't know the uh lady that had hearing restored but I've known of people who had been diagnosed with cancer and doctors said, no, this is it and I've watched them be healed. I've seen people who We thought were outta here and now they're back. Sure. I knew uh just recently a lady who was in hospice and who's now out of hospice after having been there for a week or two. Now that's not to say that they won't die because I know that we will die ultimately. You know, we're born with a death sentence on us. But I do know that if God decides in his sovereignty to elongate our lives, he can also do that. And if we believe Now Wallace, for example, uh lives with a lady who's been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer. Wallace is sitting here in the in the uh in the studio with us. Wallace is a student at Howard University, graduate of the Duke Divinity School. and uh one of his mother's classmates has been diagnosed with pancreatic cancer and I met her a year ago interestingly and uh after meeting her and finding out her diagnosis I invited her to come to my church and anointed her with all and pray for her. Now she is still in the process of treatments. I don't tell people, stop your treatments and all of that. But Just believing that God can and God will heal. And I've seen evidence of it. I've heard testimonies about it. I don't think we have to go out and prove anything, but simply extend to people an opportunity to believe. So what's the relationship between power you know, the supernatural power of God in post-denominational. Like is is there a relationship between those? I mean is it is it that That because we're walking away from denominations we can walk in the power of God? Or is that just kind of like it happens that you're both of those at the same time and they're not necessarily connected? I don't think they're necessarily connected. even within denominations uh that power can be manifested and experienced. I think what has happened through the institutionalization of the church that somehow we have lost our organic feel and power. Okay. The organizational structure has in many ways put um limitations to use your word boundaries on what people are open to and willing to experience. And what's happening now and what I still believe and maintain is the post-denominational era is people are so preoccupied with the maintenance of the institution that they have lost sight of the mission and ministry of what this is all about. So the relationship between those uh, if there is one, is that we need to get past all of the much ado about nothing, all the all the politics of church and denomination and in and all the splitting hairs theologically and getting angry at each other and and uh going off in a huff. We need to get past all that and get back to the heart of what the gospel is all about. And the heart of what the gospel is all about, you're saying, is the preaching of the gospel followed by the the uh um I wanna I wanna use a different word. Anyways, the signs of the kingdom. That's the word I was looking for. Signs of the kingdom, the manif the manifestation of what God can and will do. Uh recently I was on a plane to um Nashville. headed to Austin, Texas and and I sat down and it was on Sunday and so I pulled out the Bible and I was reading, you know, as I pulled along. And then a couple came along and sat next to me. And this couple were members of the Four Square Church in uh Nashville, Tennessee. Okay And we struck up a conversation. I discovered that the wi wife's mother was dying of cancer. And I said to her, You know God can heal her. And as a result of it, I've been praying for her mother and I said to her that she should also anoint her mother with oil because she's a strong believer, her and her husband, and watch what God does. We also had in common that we were both parents. And there's some commonalities to the whole parenting process. Our children don't always respond to our teachings as we desire. However, we're instructed by Scripture to train them up. with the promise that when they grow old they will not depart. We're also given the promise that as believers, not only will God save us, but our entire household. We also give them the promise based on David's word having been young, now old, and never seen the righteous forsaken. I think that no matter what we see in our children, we have to hold on to the promises of God, knowing that God is not like a mortal that he would tell a lie. And even though we may not see it and understand it, we have to believe that God is going to do exactly what He says. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 W Open. But yes, I'm still here. I'm still here, even though the uh the the questionnaire has been Jonathan Sweitzer of late. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer is the one chuckling there. He's senior pastor of Cross Roswell Chapel. We're joined this week by uh the I guess this this the tip of the spear for the movement that is the New Church Believers um um movement. He's the leader of the movement, that is the movement. You can find out what they're all about at newchurchbelievers. org. He is Dr. Staccato Powell. In fairness, you have any questions you want to ask John? Well I know that you planted a church. Yeah. And church planning is not an easy thing. Sure. Uh and based on your success in having done so and you said come out of denominations, what prompted you? Well that's the thing is that I'm second generation. Post-denominational. So my dad is the one that stepped away from a group of churches known as the General Association of Regular Baptist Churches. There's probably some here in Frederick, so I don't want to speak negatively about them, but f from my dad's perspective there is limitations on what they believed that uh that as he studied scripture and as he read uh uh people that talk about scripture, he felt that um that particular group of churches uh denomination uh limited what the bible said uh God intended for his people and for the church to look like, including First Corinthians twelve and and fourteen and and the the free ni the the free manifestation of the gifts, you know, coming out of Acts two and the baptism of the Holy Spirit Uh that was one of the many things uh including structures of the church that are set up uh uh hierarchily hierarchically instead of set up organically uh with apostles, prophets, fans, pastors, teachers. And uh and yet oftentimes in what is the charismatic or the the non-denominational world, there are people that are very light uh biblically, meaning they they just kind of want to, you know, uh boil everything down to its smallest uh nut that everybody can agree on and then and then go out from there, which unfortunately I believe leads to a church that has has a small backbone, has a has you know holds what they believe uh not with the kind of um clarity and depth that is necessary to stand in the face of the onslaughts of of the world. And so uh for me I'm second generation sometimes sometimes I find myself yearning for a little bit more structure uh and for a little bit more uh clarity on things because You know, like I'm sure that you're finding, you know, you're still in a denomination. So you're you're preaching post-denominationalism in a denomination. I'm second generation post-denomination, not in any any kind of denomination. And uh I wonder what the next generation after you would feel like, whether or not there's some structure that is valuable in that I mean at the end of the day, my experience is that people that are beyond denominations have to find ways to connect with one a one another again. And I don't think it's And once they begin to reconnect with one another, that networking ends up developing into groups of people that really like one another, really honor one another, really feel like the Spirit of God is binding them together and even even uh leading them to to to expand internationally or you know and go on missions different places together and once they do that then a little bit more organization and structure forms because they're you know they're trying to do it but then the the the disciples raised up after them find themselves, okay, well, these guys are doing stuff together. We want to do something too, you know, is there any avenue free for us to move out in the things God's calling us to? And and so in the context of that Um I wonder, again, what are the limits to no structure or post denominationalism? You might not be saying that post-denomination means no structure, but I'm just saying that I've experienced some of that and I I wonder if there's a need. For it more than those that are stuck in the structures of the old feel stuck and feel like they can't get away, but those that have been out of it Realize okay, well some structure is helpful, you know, how do we find a balance between those? Well I don't think it's really an either or situation. And what you just expressed in terms of being second generation, your father of being the first generation, I think what we are beginning to see at least that's the vision that I have in my spirit is that this is happening and will happen is not if it's going to happen, but when and who are the people who will facilitate the process. The fact that you're sitting there and I'm sitting here, I don't think that this is accidental, but providential, a move of God, that people of similar spirits are now beginning to coalesce. I think even in the beginning, at the initial church, in God's original intent, when Jesus corraled the twelve And sent them out. And then the seventy sending them out. That in and of itself speaks to the need for coalescing and coming together. Thank Paul's missionary journeys uh establishing churches across the known world at that time in Asia and Asia Minor those places also is another indication of people of similar spirits coming together. I uh was just in Uganda recently. And one of the things that was just so uh emboldening for me is I'm there teaching groups of people who all identify with some denomination but felt the need to come together and hear this word on what faith in God and believing in God can and will do. Meeting all kind of interesting people of various and sundry backgrounds and uh racial, ethnic b but they all share the fact that they we believe. You know, I've been on uh mission trips in, you know, Zimbabwe and South Africa and uh over in uh to Palestine and uh Albania various places and uh in my experience denominations are way less important everywhere else around the world than they are here in the United States or in Europe for that matter. Uh that that third world countries and of course, you know, the church uh uh even numerically is majority in the south and more towards the east of the world any longer. It's no longer, you know, the the Western European, you know, we we don't hold sway as being the the the largest portion of the body of Christ. And that being the case There does seem to be a sense that these that that people are just getting hold of the Word of God, getting hold of of what it means to walk in the fullness of the kingdom of God and manifesting the fullness of the kingdom of God and just going out and doing it. Like in um uh China in particular Uh they've gone from a million to some seventy million or more over the last thirty years and in doing that uh it's not a denomination over there because they're not allowed to be a denomination. They're just doing it. And eventually, you know, maybe they'll they'll get the freedom to not have to be uh a hidden churches and persecuted churches anymore. And when they do, maybe they'll become a denomination. But Uh it's definitely the case that that denominations seemed to play a role at certain places in history for certain reasons, but that they calcified And and became something that was unnecessary and became something that was a barrier to to the the growth of the kingdom of God as opposed to something that was still full of life and vitality. There is so much more for us to talk about, so it's a good thing we're going to bring this panel together again for next week's show. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by Dr. Staccato Powell. with New Believers or New Church Believers. You can find out what he and his movement are all about at newchurchbelievers. org. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Um have you read much um I know Johnson I think has read a little bit. Have you ever read uh the novelist Ted Decker? I have not Have you ever uh uh he's written a book also, I think it's uh I can't remember the name of the uh of the non he's written one book that's not a novel. You would enjoy his perspective uh on the whole the supernatural being available to the church today and that sort of thing and um I'm thinking of it because I recently finished reading uh one of Ted Decker's books uh from his Martyr Song series called Heaven's Wager Which is not necessarily my favorite Ted Decker book, but uh um but I think that you and Ted are kindred spirits in some level. I don't know if he's post denominational or not, but as far as the power of the of the Spirit of God at at at work and available to the church today. He definitely will be on board with you for that. I want to thank our sponsors, Footman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile, uh BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. Thank you so much for listening, I'm Troy Skinner on WFMD.