The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WF. And on the FM at 99. 9 HD2, online all around the world, so I'm told, at uh www. wfmd. com. Uh we really appreciate you spending part of your Sunday morning with us. Uh each and every week, hopefully. Or maybe it's just this one time. Well, welcome to the show if this is your first time. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of a local house church called Household of Faith in Christ. We have a website, Household of Faithinchrist. com, if you'd like to check us out and Connect with all of our social media and blogs and videos and even the faith debate and stuff. It's all uh either archived directly there or linked from there to all the places where it's archived. And I'm joined by our regular esteemed panel now. These guys are also pastors of of local house churches. We've got the Razvis, Imran, and Daniel. They're with a house church that's I think they uh kinda informally go by the church that meets at Enron's uh Enron's house, uh up in the like the Thermont area. And um on the south end of the county, uh there's the Forcy Church. Uh David Forcey is the pastor there. And I've known these gentlemen uh on and off for a number of years. I've come to trust them and respect them wildly and uh hopefully as you listen to the show you will will share my esteem for them. So We got a whole bunch of things we were talking about before we actually got started here in in today's show that we might end up bringing in, but I want to actually introduce what the planned topic was because I feel like it might interweave and connect with some of the things we talked about. So today's topic has to do with statues. Should they be canceled? Should they have even ever been erected? What's the Bible say? So cancel culture of you know those on the conservative side call them like the woke mob And they're tearing down statues of Christop Christopher Columbus or Thomas Jefferson or that sort of thing and people who on the political right get outraged. And so I wanted to to frame this, uh we can talk about the woke stuff, because that connects a part of what we were talking about earlier And cancel culture. We're talking about that a little bit too and how that even a show like ours is at risk because we're truth tellers here and the truth tends to get canceled. So we do have those concerns on occasion, but you know, we tell the truth and let the chips fall where they may. So should it what if these were s I'm gonna ask it this way and then get the pastoral uh input. If these were statues of some sort of like satanically influenced political leader, like a statue of Adolf Hitler. Would we be upset if somebody tore that down? And secondly, I don't care if it's like you know, who's the best person you can think of, uh, in our American context, you know, um Benett Donald. Benedict Darnold? Benedict Arnold's exactly think of It's actually funny you mentioned Benedict Arnold there we we I was traveling up with my family in uh New England and they have a statue in uh uh is it uh Vermont I think? Oh Ben McDonald's leg A statue of his leg. A statue of his leg because he lost his leg in the uh in the war fighting for the the the c uh the American little too macabre. No no no no but there's a reason, right? He lost his leg in the war fighting for the Americans And then later he turned traitor. And so they wanted to remember when he was not a traitor. And the only part of him that they were sure was not a traitor was the lady had lost. So anyway. So do you understand kinda what I'm asking here? Is is there biblical sanction for tearing down these things? And let's even go back in time before when these things were erected, was was it biblically appropriate to put them up. So there's there's a couple things that come to mind uh biblically. One is um you know monument it it's God instructs Israel to set up monuments at certain times. You know there's that there there are things that uh So so I I I sort of maybe I I sort of think of statues in that sense, right? Like the point of a statue is so that you remember uh a person, you know, or or and maybe Yeah, or you know, and maybe the events surrounding Um that, you know, so I I think there can be um and so that you know, and you might set up memorials to remember both good things that happened and also uh bad things that happened. It's good to remember history in its in its fullness. Um but I you know I I think I think probably these you know the statue should represent that but you know again all all characters are uh There's there's no uh there's no good character that didn't have any bad you know, attributes of some kind or another. Other than the people in this room, of course. So y you know, so the so the point of of setting up a a memorial, you know, is really to remember something very specific. Right. You know, not necessarily everything about that person. And that that's why it really depends on the context of what what the intent is with the statue, right? And and you know, when the Bible talks about it, the Bible s the God plays out the scenario. He says Put this monument up to remember so that generations from now when your kids walk by and they see that and they say, Daddy, what's that about? You can tell him and you're gonna tell him this and then he tells him what to tell them, right? Um a lot th there we see that with the Passover when you do the Passover, which is not a monument, but that's an example of time God says, okay. But there was another one, I guess the monument was the stones in the Jordan, right? Put twelve stones on top of each other so that your children will ask you and then you can tell them what happened. There's other passages that says don't make a graven image. I think that's talking about when you worship it. So certainly people can fall in love with and worship the statues. and have them as their gods and that will be the time to tear them down. So there are commandments to tear down those types of statues. And I do understand I mean it's it's clear anybody who's read the Bible knows that there are monuments and there are, you know, God sanctioned uh uh uh ordained even, you know, monuments. But I'm going off the top of my head, so I'm I maybe I have a blind spot, and if I do you guys will fill in the blank. Can you think of any instance Anywhere in Scripture where someone erected a monument that was a statue of a person, where it went well. Because we talk about the monuments that we're piling up the stones or this place itself is a monument. We're gonna change the name to give it a name so we every time we come by this place we remember it. So there are monuments. I so I don't know that we have We we have any reason to discount the importance of a monument. The temple itself, as it was built, was a bit of a monument. Um but I can't think of a time when there was a statue of a person Where it ended up being blessed, being a good thing. Well there aren't there aren't many instances, um, you know, I mean, of I I uh it's especially you know never works out well when someone builds a statue of themselves. Right. Those are those are the the main examples that I think. You know, and uh But that's the different thing on that somebody d later m dedicating a statue to the memory of that person, but again to is it to the person or is it to to s certain accomplishments or events that happened, right? Yeah you have the example of the statue of the uh flag at Iwo Jima, right? There's like six people or seven people in that image and we probably know who all those people are. But I bet you're saying none of you guys know their names and uh you couldn't be faulted for not knowing their names because that's not even the point. The point of is to remember the victory in that battle Not the specific men who whiffed that flag at the you know, Okay, so with that in mind, and I do wanna there's so many things going through my head, but I'm I'm c try to exercise some discipline. So yeah, there they're those are statu that's a statue that has people in it and we but we don't know what people are. But what about you go to the MLK uh down in DC and they've got like the it's carved out of marble or granite or whatever it is, though the the big image of Martin Luther King Jr. Um we know who he is and it kind of looks sort of like, yeah, we should honor and respect and maybe even revere this individual that's got this way larger than life statue basically carved out of the stone. Is that is that biblically appropriate? And I'm not trying to pick on MLK. Any of the Well Lincoln. I mean Yeah, Lincoln. Exactly. Lincoln sitting on the big throne, yeah. On uh there's an R. Jefferson? There's an argument I've heard made that some of those statues particularly the Lincoln and the Jefferson Memorials are uh very Romanesque, very much like a temple. Um and you actually are feeling like you're worshiping when you go there in um and and so that is M that maybe more too extreme. So context I think does matter. Like compare that with the Washington Monument, which is just a big giant white stick. Or the Vietnam. Yes. But the Washington Monument is the wall with a bunch of names on it. That's World War Two Memorial. I don't think It is. I mean the Washington Mountain is very much like Nebuchadnezzar's image of gold, which was actually very much like an obelisk. It was so many ho so many times taller than it was wide, right? And it was just a s stick. That one was just a stick also. And it says it you know, here's here's what what you should uh bow down to and worship this. So I don't think it needs to be shaped like a person for it to become an idol, and that's always a danger whenever you have any m monument but Um, I think you can walk by and see the m the m memoyo and the plaque and say this is what you're supposed to remember when you see this. What does this remind you of? Okay, this is a person. Okay, he looks like a a dude. W what did this dude do? And then read the plaque and say, Oh, okay, we're remembering that he fought in this battle or he di uh in started this had this scientific discovery or whatever. And that's what we're remembering. We see a picture. Oh, that's cool. He looked like that. Well here's another thing. And and I if we could I want to get some uh some comments on Mike from Imran. Uh if possible. So you don't have to react to my comment here in a second, but whatever your thoughts you have so far, I'd like you to jump in. But I do want to say this first. Okay, I I asked the question or put forward the observation that I can't think of anything in the Bible where there's a statue of a person. Well you change that, I can't now And you just triggered this, Daniel, so thank you. I can't now think of a time where it's God honoring to have any sort of a memorial that's not directing our focus to God. in the Bible. So even though the Washington Monument is just a big white stick, uh, it's drawing attention to George Washington It's not drawing attention to God. I mean some would argue there's there's Bible verses on it and stuff like that, right? But that's not the main takeaway when you look at the Washington uh monument. So is is that a biblical thing for us to have done? So on that note, really literally anything that creates a sense of all or worship that is not towards God is unbiblical. Um in the Lincoln Memorial there's a Plenty of statements and that uh Lincoln himself said that God allowed me this this or God did this or b uh under God's mercy we had this. So there were several instances that he's pointing to God. Um in the Washington Monument. As you said, there's some Bible verses on there and things like that. And his testimony really was godly. I mean he was uh The Indians w uh were known to say that he was the one that cannot be killed because they shot at him and they had he had hi holes through his robe but none no injuries on several occasions So I think all these memorials are important because if we don't have them, we tend to forget. Even a memorial statues of slaves. I I would love to see that. Not because I revere slaves or want slaves or th you know, I think slavery was good, but that actually is right in your face This is what slavery was and this country had that and we should take a minute and think about that and and really be able to have that conversation with our children. Because if we can't, and that's what's happening with this cancel culture, you can't have conversations about anything. Because if you have a conversation even about something that was in the past that you may disagree with or you don't like, it's it's not acceptable anymore So I think everything we should do should have memorial, but it should be focused on God and how or the godly outcome would be. So even with slavery, if we can turn that and say, Hey, this was not a godly thing, how the slaves were treated, this was not You know, we say this country was built on on godly principles, but with this slavery that negates a lot of it. So how do we fix that? How do we go forward? If we don't know the past, we can't really go forward. And what the cancel culture is doing is eliminating the past and changing it completely. I mean I wasn't uh i I think even Obama said that the uh um the Indians from India uh helped build this country. I don't remember people Hindus coming f uh and building this country But that I remember that statement. It's like what is he talking about? You know, so you can change and make up history when there is nothing to remind you of the true history. So then uh that gives us a great opportunity to segue and pivot into something that Daniel at the b toward the beginning of this show when he said yes So let me one of the uh applications of that yes was there are times when it's appropriate to tear down. Uh so what would be some examples where it's appropriate to take that down. Would Saddam Hussein's uh statue toppling in Iraq be an example or or if I wanted to channel my inner uh HW Bush, uh uh I say Saddam Who's Susan? Uh is that an example? Or if there was a st statue of uh of Hitler up that we could tear that down, or there's all sorts of iconic stuff. Up about Lenin and Stalin and Russia, should those be torn down or context is still important, right? So also the Bible there are actually commands to tear down statues and monuments, and that's when they're being worshipped as an idol. That's the example of a time to tear down. Um all all through the the the Kings and Chronicles you have examples of you know a godly king coming up and tearing down the statues and the high places and the altars and all the different things. Um But those are all worship places. Yeah, these these are the places of worship. These are places spiritual significance and things. So yes, I think it makes sense to tear down a statue to Krishna or to uh Buddha or whatever. Yeah, ta tear those down. Those are what people are worshiping. I think something worth considering is to um i is is that everyone will worship something. And so in the absence of God that that gets replaced. Um and I do think that um that America does tend to have a problem with with worshiping itself, sort of in a in a general way, American society. Um uh you know, there's a lot of a lot of pride. Are you referencing the selfie society that we have today? Uh are you talking about like the jingoistic nationalist tendency that a lot of people have? Is that what you mean? Yeah, I I think uh I think there are many um Americans who call themselves Christian but are uh American first and they uh worship probably their their freedom, you know, that that they have or the uh forgotten country, but they actually In practice it's a flip, right? It's country's on top and God is saying. Correct, yeah. Yeah, so you would say that about a lot of patriots A lot of the Patriots these days are really nationalists. They w they they're after this country to be and they say that we want to go back to our godly roots and things. But that word they use Christian. It doesn't mean what they think it means. Yeah taking it uh We're gonna want we fortunately we have a little bit of time. So we're gonna want to because we uh given the radio station that we're on, you know, the last two minutes of this show has some blood pressure rising. Right? Because this is a lot of uh what passes for conservative content is on this radio station. A lot of uh people that would identify as Patriots and They're being very proud of America. So I think it's going to be important for us to help go we want people to be proud of where they live and their culture and their heritage and uh think the best and root the best for what we're all about. So we're not dismissing that. But this is I think a real good pastoral moment for us as a group to help that contingent. Anybody who's thinks that way that's listening right now to understand how do I navigate that because I do count myself a Christian, I do count myself a patriot. What's the godly way to clarify none of us are globalists, right? So usually the the when when we are And when somebody says, Oh well, I'm not a nationalist, what they mean is that they're a globalist. We're we're actually and I think David your point is not that you should go be a globalist instead of being a patriot. But you should have your priority on God because we're not even of this world at at all. Right? That should be the focus. Yeah, yeah, for sure. Um I I think that a a right good um appropriate love for one's country can only come out of a right understanding of of who God is, who he's made us to be, how he is. uh instructed us to love our neighbor, uh love our our families Right, and so um it so my my concern is that uh that without a without a right understanding of uh of God uh and you know who he is, who he's made us to be as as humans bearing his image um that that we will uh th very easily drift into um uh yeah, drift into um idolatry of of country and uh and then we will not uh be appropriately um or even I I mean we won't be doing the best things for our country if uh you know, if we're forgetting about um you know how uh uh i if we're misaligning our priorities we're gonna We're we're actually gonna start start messing it up. I wonder if this might be helpful uh to you know, the listener and this show I mean as much as it strokes her ego to be on the radio and stuff and there's you know, there's probably something to that, although I've been on the radio for so many years now that uh it i it doesn't quite do that for me the way it once did. But there's still something about that. But this This show, if it's doing its job, and I think we're pretty good at doing our job on this show, it's with the listener in mind, we're trying to help people understand what the Bible does and doesn't say, how to apply that, not apply that to your life and situations. And so with that in mind Again, knowing who is most likely to listen to a radio station like this, they're going to hear Uh us talk about the cancel culture and tearing down the statues and they're going, Yeah, right on, give it to those lefties, you know, those jerks who hate America and they're gonna be all there with us. But they also they're putting it in a weird way, they're putting nationalism, if you will, they're putting country the secular government ahead of God. And that's why they're out of alignment. That's why there's such a danger to the fruitfulness of our future as a country. They're they're putting they're putting so much emphasis on, well, we need to have uh judges who will make decisions based on what we want to see from our leftist perspective. uh and we want to elect leftists into office so they'll enact our leftist policies and and uh w and we want the the institutions to employ only leftist people because then they're gonna have influence on the country and t transform our culture into something that's very left oriented. So they have it's a form of nationalism also. They just have a different vision. And so if you c if you can agree with that, listener, if you can agree with yeah that's a problem The polar opposite or the mirror image, the negative image, like using a film term, of that is also a problem. So when we think that the answer is activism, like if only America would stamp out abortion, all our problems would be solved. Now we should stamp out abortion. But our mission primarily is honoring God. Now thought of that flowing from that would be stamping out abortion, but what all we care about is the activism. Or we need to transform Hollywood or these sorts of those sort you know, lash out against Disney. I'm not saying that those are wrong. I'm saying when they're out of priority We're making the same we, because um everybody in this room would identify as somewhere on the quote-unquote right spectrum of of life. We would articulate that and define it a little bit differently among ourselves probably. But those who think like us, we gotta be careful. We don't make the same mistakes in the reverse that the left is making. Does that make sense to you? Yeah, and I d I hear Uh I mean if I understand you correctly, also you're you're not saying that uh politically that means that, you know, everybody should move to the center. But but what you're saying in I you know first of all I don't like that term because the Overton window keeps shifting and so what passes for the center is increasingly left. But rather our our our center as individuals should be God first And then right and then right politics will come from that. Right, but that's not centered. The problem the problem with that is it's very much a foundation. And center is something that's shifting is based on what people want. One of the things that the left has really figured out, and they figured out this out many, many years ago is that they cannot change this country and the foundations it was built on and the biblical foundations that it was built on uh through legislation. So they had to use appointees. They appointed people to as judges, they appointed people to positions, and they made regulations and changes that in effect became like law or had the purpose of law, but were not being passed through Congress. And so the whole purpose of the Constitution where the Congress passes laws, Congress shall shall be the one that passes laws, is no longer in effect. And so we've had a lot of changes, a lot of shift to the left. not from actual laws that have been passed, but from regulations and from appointees or and from judges ruling a certain way because they couldn't get it passed through law. And the Conservatives uh they just never figure that out. They always wanted to stick with let's try to pass the law, let's try to pass the law. No, the the left doesn't care about passing the law. They just want to put some things in place and make people m you know make decisions based on whatever they want. And that's different Yeah, and that's going to be our final word of wisdom on this week's show. Thank you so much for listening to the faith debate today. Um if you don't know who Jesus is, let me tell you, he's the guy that rescues you from your guilt, because you've got a guilt problem whether you know it or not You are fearfully and wonderfully made. God has a great plan for you and all that is true, but absent of Christ, you're not going to fulfill that and you don't have the strength to do it. But in Christ by the indwelling of his spirit, you do have the ability to live the life that God intends for you, and ultimately in glorification, you will have everything and then some you can ever imagine. Thank you to Imran, Daniel, David, I'm Troy. Follow us online at householdfaith in Christ. com and WFMD. com. Until next week. God bless.