Broadcasting on the west side of Big Brother City. The heart of Craig Lock County, where preachy with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate sponsored by BMC Insurance and Putman Fleming and Heating, how can we make you smile? Face debate is online. I got my guy smiley voice going on right now. How would you like to visit us online? You and a friend can go online right now to WFMD. com, where there you will find the WFMD Well, I'm gonna stop doing that now. Uh just type in keyword faith and uh you'll find links to all sorts of interesting stuff, including podcasts of the old faith debate shows. We've been doing the show for over eight years now, believe it or not. Shh, don't tell anybody or they'll kick us off the air. Uh Jonathan Sweisser is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week again by Dr. Brian Lee, who is the senior pastor and the establisher, the church planter of, although it's not an office uh Christ Reformed Church in DC. And I didn't know this. I learned this uh last week from you. You've planted uh you've been involved in planting a whole bunch of churches. I I serve on a committee with some other uh ministers, pastors and elders in our uh denomination. The Church Planning Committee and the Eastern Part of the U. S. So we are looking, always looking for reformed believers who want to start churches in the Eastern So you guys have kindred spirits. Jonathan's whole family has been very involved in planting churches, from his grandfather and his father and himself and You're associated with a lot of people that are planting churches. So you guys are kindred spirits. And I mean I don't know about you, Jonathan, but I would just view that as essential to the work of the church period. Uh I I think the view that the church is some static thing that isn't constantly engaged in mission and evangelism is uh a sort of a flawed view that's more of a production of of static American culture than than a recognition of of the call of the New Testament. And that's why, you know, I I in this sense I I think the New Testament context is our context. We are called we are all sent uh to do this activity. So when Paul you you you mentioned last week that when Paul spoke at the end of his life in Timothy and Titus, he he told Timothy and Titus to appoint elders and deacons uh in in the congregations that that they were to go to. Right? Does Paul anywhere I don't think he does. Does he anywhere tell people to go to the ends of the earth to preach the gospel? Um I again I don't get that geographic sense. I think it's assumed that it that's that's the sending work of Christ. It's assumed that like Paul was sent to Spain. But does Paul say, you know what, and make sure you raise up in those congregations people that are going to go up to uh you know to Great Britain, you know, and up to Germany, because man, they they need the gospel up there. Like like we don't see any of that. What we see is that God raises up unique people at unique times like Saint Patrick, you know, and and the the stories of of what happened in his life, how much of it is legend, how much of it is real. But in the context of a brand new culture, going head to head with the powers that be the the the druids of the of the uh uh of the Irish Highlands You know, in that context, he establishes something new. And the reality is that the Irish Catholic Church always had a unique character character to it. even from the rest of the Catholic Church, so much so that that some of the major debates happened between those from Ireland and those from But I think I'm finally beginning to track with your guys' arguments. It's tak I'm slow, it's taking me a long time. But I think I finally after two and a quarter shows here be Uh Saint Patrick, we want to call him Saint Patrick, uh he didn't establish something new, he established something old in a new place. And that's all Paul did as well. And I think that that is uh Brian's concern is this talk about establishing something new. Well Peter, first Peter, uh Peter, we can all agree as apostle. Um the the spokesperson for the apostles um says, as each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's very grace. Whoever speaks as one who speaks oracles of God as one who speaks that which has been uh revealed to him from God, uh the word that God has been given, whoever serves as one by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. Paul, I would beg to differ, was building something new. Peter earlier in that same epistle says, It has been revealed to us Something that the saints of old, the prophets, long to look into. The mystery of Jesus Christ has been revealed to us. The gospel is something in that sense, which was Paul says promised beforehand, but wasn't actually proclaimed and preached until Christ was here. So the revelation, the foundation that is laid by Peter and Paul and John and the other apostolic writers, I would include in that Luke, who is in a companion of of Yeah, of Paul's in all likelihood. The other sort of uh new Mark who writes probably a gospel according to the preaching of Peter Um the the apostolic authors of the New Testament are recording in writing something new. It is the fulfillment of the Old Testament scriptures. And so Peter is saying, you are stewards now of the oracles that you have received. And this is why Paul can say to Timothy, preach the gospel of glory of God that was entrusted to me. And I taught it to you, Timothy. Preach as you were taught the right form of teaching. In Titus, another one of those examples we were just talking about, he says to the elders, he must, the elder must hold firm to the trustworthy word as taught. As it has been taught, so that he may also be able to give instruction and sound doctrine. So he will go teach. But what is he teaching? He's holding fast to a standard that he has been taught by Paul, by an apostle. And so this this is my question to you. Paul and the original twelve, I'll put that qualifier in there so I don't get accused of using your language again. Paul and the original twelve were they received that the original twelve did they receive that revelation while Christ was here or after Christ left? Christ in uh as a sort of as eyewitnesses, John begins his epistle by saying, We have seen that which we have seen and heard and touched, we have dwelt with. As eyewitnesses, they revealed teaching directly from Christ, but they received an apostolic uh gifting of the Holy Spirit So so you didn't quite answer my question. You're we you're digging into it because it's a question I've never asked before. So the the question Clarify Well, when did they receive that revelation? But I I would say did they receive it while they were with Christ? Did they receive it at the time of Pentecost? Or did they receive it when they were in the upper room, or was it something that they received after Pentecost in an ongoing way? I would say that they held uh the ability to teach uh by a combination of those th b by those things. And what I mean when I say it's official, they are granted with that. They had to have AV experience, so that's one element of it. They had to have the commission. So like an ambassador to to Great Britain, he speaks on behalf of the United States because he has a commission. That's why his words carry authority. We see that in Galatia, Paul speaks with a certain authority, and he ties it not to his person, but what he's teaching. So it's it's the experience of seeing Christ firsthand with your eyes. It's the commissioning, and it's the doctrine taught, which is that the possession of the office holder uh but not uniquely of the person. So the Spirit continues to gift them to fulfill that office. Called as a pastor, you or I, my understanding of our pastoral calling would be that when our calling was recognized by the church and they laid hands on us Um and unless we prove ourselves unworthy of that calling and are are defrocked, um that that we have uh the Holy Spirit provides us with with what's necessary to fulfill that office till the day we die. So you're saying that there was an ongoing revelation that's my aspect of three, at least. Sure. Sure. I appreciate you going through all those others. Uh I already agreed. The authority comes from the actual commissioning by Christ, just like an ambassador. Okay, so the question that I'm trying to get at, I'm telling you I I agree with all those others. I'm trying to zero in on the revelation. the the ongoing revelation. Because what we're told is that in the Old Testament the prophets prophesied as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit, you know, and that you know, that's how the word of God that that we teach came down to us, right? And so um are you saying that that there is there is no ministry of the Holy Spirit that is um doing the same kind of work that the prophets did in the Old Testament. Because I I read the prophets and there's a whole gang of those guys traveling around at all times. And and every now and again one of them pops out, you know, and and we don't even get the name of 'em. In most cases we don't even get the name of the guy. You know, a son of the prophets came to Hezekiah and said this. You know, and and and one one of one man of the prophets came and said this. You know, uh a large portion of the time we don't we don't even know. But in every single situation, there's no new revelation. With those prophets. There is some in Isaiah, Jeremiah, some of the written prophets, but the guys that were considered prophets, the the the body of prophets in the Old Testament, for whom uh uh Elisha fed them all from a sack uh a hundred of them from a sack of grain and five loaves one time, you know, and and there's a whole bunch of stories like this. You know, uh Obadiah during Ha Ahab's reign. um hid a hundred of these guys. We don't know their names. We don't all we know is that they they they hung out with one another and they were they seemed to be like prophesying at all times. You know, when uh when Strall gets close to them, he strips off his clothes and he starts prophesying. And what I'm saying is that did all those guys hold an office? Or did just Isaiah and Jeremiah and the other guys hold an office? Or is it maybe that the point is that there's an ongoing work of the Holy Spirit Where you and I don't even really get what the Word of God says. Peter couldn't hardly understand what Paul said until that moment When the Holy Spirit comes along and we're able to communicate it as you're in the pulpit, you know, where where there's a sense that, you know what, I'm just getting this at a whole new level. You know, there's a sense of dynamic of something that it's not just something that I've studied and I know it up here, but man, it's something that that is really has meaning in my life and and there's a whole different dynamic to it. What I'm saying is that is that In terms of revelation, there's definitely key moments. Moses gave us, you know, a ton of revelation. He already held a unique um office. Jeremiah, Hosea, Joel, Amos, I mean, uh, well, a bunch of them don't give us any new revelation. They just are from their study of of the Torah, from their spending time in prayer, they're coming forth and they're saying, look, this is what's true now, and God says that this is what's going to happen because that's what his word has always said. And and there's not a lot of unique revelation except like in Micah, you know, out of Bethlehem will come one who will be ruler of the ages. Well, that was already true. You know, Mike is just repeating something that was already true, but in repeating something that was already true, it took on a whole new meaning. A meaning that nobody anticipated until Christ came. And then they're like, wow. Wow, Micah said that. You know, and and the same thing is true for for um Malachi, you know, and and uh s some of the the the distinct prophets that that they were prophesying stuff that was already in Scripture. But they were just saying it again, they were saying it under an anointing of the Holy Spirit. And and it turned out that there was more meaning uh in it than anybody ever thought. And so what I'm saying is that when when the original twelve and Paul are speaking. I mean, what he's writing about in Ephesians, he's just he's really just regurgitating Isaiah, Jeremiah, the Old Testament, but doing it in a context that makes sense. Galatians, the same thing. You know, that that there's a new covenant now. The old covenant is gone. The old covenant was there, but but we failed, and now there's a new covenant. So that we would be free. You know, and it's written on our hearts, it's for freedom that Christ has set us free. So my point is that the revelation that even the apostles bring is a revelation of Christ being the fulfillment But how much of that was just them regurgitating stuff that they got? Like when Paul was knocked off his high horse on his way to Damascus Things fell into place and he got it and almost immediately starts preaching, even though he goes goes off into Arabia for a period of time You know, but all he's doing when he's going to Arabia is just saying, Oh man, all this stuff that I taught. Turns out Christ is the puzzle piece that ties all that together. And then he comes and he preaches. From Isaiah, Jeremiah, from from the Old Testament, from Psalms, everywhere that he goes. And so my point is is what is it that Revelation is? It's a return to what God originally said And ruminating on it, meditating on it in the Holy Spirit alive. To what God originally said. Are you talking about scripture, right? Scripture has a specific status for you, canon. Yeah. Written revelation. Yeah. The revelation of Christ was was merely the capstone. So the apostles, the twelve apostles, a recorded scripture, written canon. They added to the canon. Right? They added the canon and and the the twelve in particular established the New Testament church as among the Jews And Paul built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone. So what I'm asking is what is the foundation of the apostles and prophets? The New Testament. Right, right. And so what is the New Testament? The New Testament is seeing Christ as the fulfillment of the Old Testament. And so it took it descriptively to set with the Jews. And then Paul, because they all said, You're an apostle to the Jews, I'm apostle to the Gentiles, right? There's a unique uh group of people. Right? We never hear Peter saying, I'm an apostle to the Gentiles. Even though he held the uh the position of apostle, he never says, I'm an apostle to the Gentiles. And Paul wanted to go to Spain, so I guess he was he was apostle apostle to the Gentiles and then you know and and and that would include and and he says he says I'm I'm I'm an apostle to you in Corinthians, but I'm not an apostle to others. I mean it sounds to me like again the role Where does he say that? Um I don't recall Paul saying I'm not an apostle. But to your point, do I have a place for the Holy Spirit and this is key? Uh to my understanding of the Holy Spirit and God's word and how he speaks to the church, the Holy Spirit does not speak to the church apart from his word. Now, so what you were apart from his his inscripturated word. Yeah, except that we don't even understand his word unless the Holy Spirit brings it alive in us. We can't even get it. Not because the word isn't intelligible, but because we're sinners. Exactly. Yes. Well and that and that's true about all of life. God has to rip the blinders off. And Paul had to pray that the eyes of your heart would be enlightened, that you could see the length and the breadth, meaning that the eyes of your heart, my heart, are not yet enlightened to that extent. There's still more that we don't get yet. And every day that I study the Word of God, I'm praying, Lord, open my eyes a little bit more. And when I get it, things that previously were just things that I kind of understood up here, they break through to a different place where I understand it and it And it breathes life into me in ways that that it brings joy and it brings peace and it brings um uh you know, motivation to ministry that that simply is at a greater level than there than it was previously. And my point is that that ongoing role of the Holy Spirit revealing to us what is already right in front of us. is something that I don't think ended with the Apostles and Paul. I think is still happening and especially in those cultures that have been blinded by sin for generations and are finally hearing the message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Those people, it takes some time and they need somebody to help them to lay that foundation. Otherwise they're going to lay a wrong foundation You know, culture is blinded by sin for generations sounds like America to me. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dr. Brian Lee. All right, Dr. Brian Lee, Senior Pastor at uh at uh Christ Reformed Church in D. C. I'm Troy Senior. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Now I'm trying to follow the the thread of the connection of the different terms. Uh Jonathan, you were talking about uh the Old Testament prophets and the long litany. You named most of the books of the Old Testament, I think. I've been living in them recently, so anyway, but what's going on? But you're making the connection uh it seemed to me that you're making a connection between that and what apostles do in the New Testament. Yeah. But in a list of the fivefold ministry, you've got apostles and prophets, meaning there seems like there'd be a distinction there. In fact, aren't we told that Moses was uh was an apostle? Uh in the Old Testament, I'm not remembering where it was that it says that, that Moses In the Old Testament he's called an apostle. In the New Testament, he's called an apostle. uh uh of you know in the old testament. My point is is that there's an establishing role that also has a prophetic element to it Right? But then there's prophets that don't have it have an establishing role. Elijah, you know, Elisha. Those guys didn't establish things. What what their job was to speak the word of God in such a way that it broke down the the things that have been established by false doctrine and by by idols and and uh kings that have walked away from the purposes of God. And and prophesy that there's going to be a re-establishing of what is righteous before God, but they don't do any of that establishing. Well they they establish certainly in the sense that they contribute to the canon. Yeah. Not everything they said, and not everything that an apostle said is canonical either. It's what the apostles wrote, what the twelve apostles wrote down that was foundational for New Testament canon. Uh the the Reformation uh Reformed Christians have a category. for what Jonathan's talking about here. It's called illumination. We understand the Word of God, the written word of God, only insofar as the Spirit illumines it to our hearts. That's not new revelation. That's us understanding what has been recorded for us canonically. And so a a key distinction here is canon and we have a lot of loose terms going around, but When I talk about laying a foundation and what I'm referring to and and the concern of the Reformation was the Roman church was adding new dogmas, new things that had to be believed in order to be saved, and they said, No, scripture is sufficient. The so-called apostles at the time of the Reformation were claiming new dogmas as well. The Anabaptists in Munster were claiming free love. Everyone could have sex with everyone because the body didn't matter. What mattered was the soul. So all the Anabaptists were saying that? No. I'm just saying that they were Anabaptists. They overtook the city of Munster. They were political anarchists So they drove the civil magistrate out of town, they overtook the city, and they claimed to be new apostles, and they proclaimed a new teaching that n there's not one man or one wife. Um there since w there won't be given in marriage and glory, they said we're now in the age of the spirit. We can all have free love with everyone else. It's sort of like nineteen sixties, you know, it's pretty cool man. I mean I didn't live through the sixties, so I don't know. But Um the reformers very explicitly said the Roman Catholic Church is wrong. They can't add new dogmas, new doctrines that must be believed to be saved to what to what the scriptures say. And they said those who claim to be apostles and prophets Latter-day apostles and prophets today are also wrong because they claim this power of revelation within. Luther said famously uh of one of these Munster rites, he says he's He seems to believe that he's swallowed the Holy Spirit, feathers and all. You know, he says, No, the Holy Spirit is our possession as it has been revealed, as the Word has been revealed to us in Scriptures. It is not that the Reformers believed in sort of this dead, spiritless Christianity. They believed the power of God's spirit was in and through the reading and teaching of God's Word, because that's where the gospel was. The gospel is the power to salvation. So this question, the question of sola scriptura, of who are apostles, who are prophets, is a question of Christian comfort. Because if someone can come along and say, I'm a I'm an apostle, in the sense in the sense of I have a new revelation from God, well those people can lead you astray in a powerful way. And we need to, um and I would say, you know, when when Paul teaches Timothy and Titus to establish people as elders, as overseers, as pastors and teachers He says, according to what you have been taught, they are held to a standard. A preacher is held to a standard. An apostle creates the standard. It's the contrast between people writing the Constitution. The New Testament versus the courts, which then enforce and apply. Okay, I think I'm gonna make a distinction that you agree with. The apostles didn't create the foundations. The apostles laid Christ. Paul, when he went to Corinthian, Corinth, he said, I resolved to know nothing amongst you except Christ and him crucified. And and you know that that your your um the foundation would be would be r rested on God's power not on man's wisdom. Right? And so so it's not a good thing. Yeah he was a servant of Christ when he wrote the words for the Romans. So he's not creating a foundation. Well he's creating the canon though. He is he is he's just passing on what was entrusted to him. Something Christ in the gospel, but not the first time. And it laid a foundation. Interestingly enough, the Greek world has has had a huge influence on the rest of the world. So I don't doubt sovereignty. This is where that breaks down. That foundation is good for all times and all places. The New Testament is sufficient. You are implying that the New Testament is not sufficient. for China or Botswana. I'm implying that that the teaching that we have from Peter and the teaching that we have from Paul Points us to Christ. The canonical teaching. Yes, the canonical teaching. Yes. The scriptures. Yes, and I'm of the opinion that nobody else is creating canon anywhere. And actually I'm gonna I'm gonna say something in a minute that's probably gonna frustrate you because uh as I'm thinking more deeply about this now I'm realizing that there's a distinction that um probably leans in the direction of where you already are, but that I've been arguing somewhat otherwise. I'm of the opinion that the only positions that are in the body of Christ, that there is no pastor position, that there's only an elder and deacon position that that is an appointed position. But that there is that that there is a role that the apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, uh evangelists You know, pastor teachers play that is is not a governmental role in the body of Christ, but that is just as important to what's happening in the body of Christ today as it ever was. And that the original founding apostles, right? I qualified it again. The original founding apostles, the twelve and Paul. that again that they that they play a role. Even Paul doesn't appeal to position. He appeals to relationship. You know, and and and he says when I come I'm gonna you know I'm gonna speak to you but he doesn't He doesn't say that I have some some position that I'm going to say this to. He says, look, I was a father to you. You know, he's he's not appealing to, look, I'm I'm the guy. You have to listen to what I say. Paul an apostle sent Called by Jesus Christ. No, he recognizes it, but he speaks from the place of the truth about Christ. And and you talked about where where does our authority come from? And I I agree that a c uh an important part of our authority is the ordination, you know, in the context of the body of Christ, but Luther lost that. He lost the ordination of the body of Christ. He lost the authority of the Roman Communion. And in doing so, brought a disunity into the body of Christ. that we have not healed from yet and that could arguably be accused of being part of the reason why Why uh the world in our generation so rejects the gospel of Jesus Christ because there's so much disunity in the body of Christ. My point is is that is that there had been disunity from the age of the apostles. There's the Eastern and the Western church. There were the Montanists, there were the Donatists, there were the So you're the one that brought up the the context of unity in the body of Christ. And I think that that's a that that's a really big key to understanding what apostles are all about. Whether we want to or not, we're gonna have to unify it under the idea that the show is wrapping. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dr. Brian Lee, senior pastor at Christ Reformed Church in DC. You can follow Jonathan, I think it's at Sweitzer Jonathan, right? That's right. And they can follow you, it's at Christ Reform. At Reform D. C. At Reformed DC And you can't follow me, please, it'll spook me out. But you can visit visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith, thanks to our sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating and uh BMC Insurance. What have I been reading? What have I been reading? Something about the thing. We could do a whole show about this. The Holy Quran. As translated by Abdullah Yusuf Ali. Yes, so do you find that easy reading? Uh we'll talk about that, uh Bradha. Uh stayed by the bell. Uh till next week, God bless.