Good morning Vietnam. Morning, Vietnam. Oh well. We're talking about war and stuff. I'll figure out you a good way to open the Faith Debate show this morning. Good morning, Vietnam! Remember that Robin Williams movie from like the was that the eighties, nineties? I don't know. Sorry. You don't know the movie? I apologize. You guys don't know that movie? Oh man. I know who Robin Williams was. You know there are certain we were barely alive then. There are certain days when I feel older than others. This is one of the days I feel older Holy schmolly, how do you not know Good Morning Vietnam? I've heard that before. I've heard the phrase, but I I don't know. He plays a DJ who's broadcasting to the troops in Vietnam and he opens his morning show with Good Morning Vietnam, but it's a war time kind of a movie. Yeah. So what's it called? Good morning Vietnam. How'd they come up with a title? Um Yeah. So we're gonna try to make a second millimeter of progress on this week's edition of the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You just heard uh Daniel Razi talking about the millimeters. And uh the uh he's with um the church meets at Imran's house and you can find them online at concordbylove. org. And David Forcey is a pastor in the area as well of a house church that uh that meets um the the different member families host on uh on a rotisserie league system. So Southern Frederick County. Southern Frederick County, basically that's what you're going with now? From the Greater Potomac region or whatever you were saying at one time. So anyway Um yeah, last week we we were talking about Israel a little bit and we it was my fault we got off to a very sloppy start so we didn't get off to a uh a good start out of the gate. And uh we tried to corral the discussion and get it more focused on just war theory and uh did not have to re relitigate any of that. Wouldn't take long if we did because we didn't cover that much ground. But the three of us on the panel this week are all of the opinion that war is sometimes justified. The question is, like, under what circumstances would it be justified and what would circumstances tell us that automatically that's not justified. And how can it be waged In a justified manner. Are uh is are all are all methods of victory of achieving victory, are they all justified? And I would say no, they're not all Justified. Um I just thought of a great example probably of of the civilian thing. Uh probably a map uh a uh The civilian thing being whether or not it's okay to kill civilians. where there were many people that came to Truman and said, uh, well, we're uh if you drop this bomb a hundred thousand innocent people, which uh by the Weststanders innocent people. in Japan they wouldn't have considered themselves innocent. If if they if somebody were to convince them that if somebody who were to convince the people of Japan at that time that the emperor was in the wrong, they would they would feel like, well we're all to blame for that then and so we should all die. That's how the Japanese would have spell it that way. The West doesn't see that. They see them as they're non combatants, they're women and children, therefore they're innocent. Um so Truman was told, well you're gonna have a hundred thousand innocent people die or a million Americans die and probably as many more a million Japanese soldiers die. in in a long drawn out invasion. So we got two million probably or a hundred thousand for certain that are probably not uh combatants and zero Americans. And he said, Well I'll take that. And at the same time you w uh by the same token we get to also prove to Russia that we're still uh powerful um because they they were fighting with with uh Stalin at that time. um i uh and the negotiating table trying to divide up Germany. And so there was a lot of other stuff but the specific argument about whether civilians is so is that justified just because a hundred thousand non combatants uh I mean that's a lot of people And you don't know for a fact that we would have had millions dead in i in in in an invasion of Japan. You know. I mean, on the current trajectory I think it was a a fair play because not only would I I mean they they probably saved uh un untold many more times Japanese lives. Even more innocent civilians potentially. Oh yeah, for sure. For sure. Fight to the last man, fight to the last person mentality of the of the Japanese. Now there is a certain attractiveness to that pragmatically speaking, right? If you can save using your two million one hundred thousand thing, if you can save one point nine million lives, then okay, let's do that. But you know a hundred thousand people died. Right. You know, it's and explaining even their loved ones who didn't die that You know, it it was an okay. And those of you who are history bus, you don't have to call in and tell me it was actually 123,964. I know it was it w it was it was over a hundred thousand, but it wasn't millions Right. Right. So that was just a point. Yeah, good case, because we would get people hung up on that sort of minute. But anyway. Um It's like saying, yeah, you know, for the for the good of the many this this one must die. Sure. Right? Well Okay, God orchest said Jesus and yeah and and God orchestrated things in such a way that with Jesus that worked out really well for us Christians, right? Um But he had un unrighteous motives, the high priest had unrighteous motives in saying that. So well it is righteous to say. Pragmatism is never like a good way to make decisions. And by the way, the Jesus example, uh we we can't forget theologically his life wasn't taken from him, it was offered up. He gave himself up. So we have to keep that in mind as well So he said I can just call down twelve legions of angels so any time and save myself if I want to. I I like that last week in in the show, David was was talking about the body, was making a correlation between like he he he's responsible for what his body does, good or bad. And he was saying that like a a a country, a nation state is is a whole bunch of people that represent a political body. And so i if if you use that example then I mean, it's okay to punch somebody in the stomach when you're in a fight with them, right? So killing the civilians is punching them in the stomach, they're not the combatants, that's they're not the fists that are flying. Right So that gets to the point where there isn't a I mean there's this but it's a just hopefully ending the conflict before, you know, one of the the two people fighting dies, right? Like how do I end this most quickly so that But I guess another al analogy would be then is it okay to then capture the person, tie them up and then cut them piece by piece, you know, and torture them having already subdued them and that would be s that would be the what? I'm j I'm saying that would that would be a good example of that would be the more extreme example of okay these are really not combatants, they've already surrendered, they're not You know, now are you just gonna kill every man, woman and child in there? Right? 'Cause that has happened. And you know, that happened uh honestly to to some parts of Germany when the Allies Finally broke through the lines. There was a lot of raping going on, there was a lot of uh killing going on, a lot of civilians died in Germany. Germany had already surrendered. Right. And that is not has not just happened October seventh. It did not just happen in n uh end of Nazi Germany. It's happened all throughout history. When a country takes over another one generally after there's surrender, yeah. Basically there's plenty of more peop plenty of people that rape and pillage and plunder and basically totally destroy the area. Yeah. Bad actors. Is that always uh unjustified though? Because God did command similar things to be not the raping, but he did command every every man, woman, and child to be uh killed, and he also made provisions for future wars that presumably would be just saying if you go to war and then you take captives now you're gonna take all these women and children captive and make them your servants now. Okay And that's w that's one of the reasons everybody uh jumps to. And one of the reasons why and and and I don't know if this could be a mistake uh saying this, but one of the reasons why last week I said uh for this discussion, let's take ancient Israel off the table. because there's so many theological um um commitments, thoughts, whatever that are packed into that that are s totally separate conversations because I don't I don't disagree with the history. I don't disagree with the God command aspect. I don't disagree with any of the stuff in the Old Testament. But as far as the purposes in that, the lessons that are to be learned from that, I don't agree with you on on your on the the multiple And I think you've got it so far and separate shows. Well I realize that, but uh the the problem is I don't know that you can separate it because if you're if we're trying to decide when and how I don't know I I don't know that you can avoid separating it So that's what I'm saying. That's a totally separate series of shows. But but um if we're gonna discuss how and why certain types of wars or parts of wars will be justified or unjustified, biblically speaking There's no way to really do that adequately w while throwing out half the Bible. Um and so I disagree. I totally disagree. So I so I don't that's that's what I'm saying, but I d I don't think I don't think it's possible for for me to have that kind of a conversation um with W with uh without the bigger. So what you're saying is your you would base your theory of just or unjust war on the entire Bible and not just the New Testament, yes. Well, and you would base it on Likewise, but I think all three of us would be there. Yeah. I would include all of the parts uh of the Bible in as examples and that doesn't mean all But say we don't disagree on that. It's how to apply what those examples mean for us. That's where the difference is gonna be. Right. Okay. But that that's still gonna come up in the in the in the discussion though. As far as to determine whether somebody go back to a question that David brought up last week when he uh I think I don't know if he was just thinking out loud or if he was being playful or if he was thinking, hey, this is a d uh an avenue of discussion we should take when he said so basically a war is justified if God commands it. Like if and if God doesn't command the war then it's unjustified. And that's and that's kind of that would be the example if I wanted to be, you know, uh committed to the same kinds of arguments that you put forward about, you know, is Israel and God commanded it Okay. Did God command uh Russia to invade Ukraine? Did God command the United States to uh well the colonies to rebel against England? Did did God command uh the United States to wipe out uh all the the uh Indian nations across uh North America? Like we w I would argue no, we don't have any record of him commanding that. So that would say that all war is completely unjustified except for the war that took place in ancient Israel. But I'm not an Anabaptist. Why not? No. All uh it it doesn't follow that because this war was justified, therefore all other wars are unjustified unless unless the various circumstances that started this one uh exactly happen again. That that that's not a logical uh argument. That there is another kind of war that is still justified, and some of the principles that we learned by viewing these other wars, knowing that they were justified There may be some similarities between those wars and some other wars which might happen in the future, whether or not all of the circumstances are there, namely God commanding it go do this now. Yeah, so even if we're gonna do that, it's not there. Then we're gonna have to say, you know, basic principles are yeah, well, we can only go to war if we are uh wiping out an extremely wicked people. Or we can only go to war if we are I would go I would say taking land, right, for I would I would say that promise to us. I I wouldn't I wouldn't even go that far. I would say that you one of the reasons you could go to war is to wipe out any a awakened people. Okay Not you could only go to war to do that 'cause th the it's not a limiting uh principle. It just says this type specifically was godly, so The Anabaptists would say, you have to have all of those circumstances and the and and not just Anabaptist, I mean you're not Anabaptist, you but you you subscribe to the same thing. In order for uh it to match and be a uh an analogous conflict today. And I don't think so. I think d certain principles of why some of these wars were justified and why God commanded to do certain things that sh we should draw on those same principles when we're deciding these current conflicts of what what we whether we think they're justified. So I I know you're trying to get us away from the topic of ancient Israel. I I just don't know how I can in my mind separate those things from this whole c discussion. Well maybe helpful f for me, the what's going on, the picture that we're given in the Old Testament uh of the the life experience of ancient Israel is pointing forward to what's gonna happen in the Escoton at the end of time. So God wipes out the evil and places his people in the promised land. That's the Old Testament. Guess what? God wipes out the evil people and places his people in the forever promised land in glory. So one is anticipating the other and that's the lesson that's to be drawn from that. So God can kill whoever he wants because he created. He's the he's the potter and the potter can do whatever he wants with the pot that he made. So if God's gonna wipe people out through supernatural occurrences at the end of the age, okay, God can do that. If God wants to wipe out uh those evil evil Canaanites uh using uh the the the uh the adult men of his chosen people as his instruments, okay, God can do that. So that's where to me I can see a a a a a delineation there that we that doesn't automatically make the ancient Israel experience something that's automatically applied across the board. Isn't similar to the uh uh theony kind of discussions we had. Right? Like how far do we take the examples that were given about ancient Israel and apply them now? And my view on the guess the same as it is with just war theory, which is There are principles that will be drawn, but we can't be too exacting because we're not ancient Israel. So we can't take the ancient ancient Israel rules and apply them to us, but we can take principles and lessons that are learned from that. And I don't know that our leaders would want to even take the that example because they don't want to be held to that kind of standard. Okay, what happened with Aiken? uh Achan, one guy did a bad thing and stole a little piece of of jewelry or whatever and a gold nugget, uh robe or there was like three things, right? He stole. And because of that, Israel lost the next battle And like thirty or something of their people died, which was a lot, 'cause compared to zero in all the battles combined, you know, thirty people was a lot of deaths, right? That one guy caused th not only the battle would be lost, the whole army demoralized and all that. Imagine if that was the case. The US military, one member of the military commits some heinous act and therefore we start losing all of our wars in in the the Middle East and Europe and Asia and stuff. I don't think our Western leaders want to have that kind of level of responsibility, but uh you're you were kind of um David, you were kinda hinting at hinting at they really should. I mean we the country is responsible for the the actions of It's people towards others. And and so that is that is a very, very high standard. It's kind of a federal headship argument, right? Like the the leaders And that's kind of what happened with the American Revolution and other revolutions too is like w we're not with the leaders anymore. We're gonna we're gonna have our own new set of leaders. That's that would be a separate that would be a difference by the way. I th there weren't a bunch of random skirmishes well there were a a a few, but it wasn't meeting up to it wasn't largely just this disorganized everybody's vigilante justice trying to throw off the king. It's they've they've created their own government, if you will, their own set of leaders who drafted their own documents, their own petition to and and um They they were cognizant of the fact that it's important to try to s to identify the lanes and stay in them. They weren't just off scattershot dual. Well and I mean yeah, and it was all uh they were they were British sanct sanctioned governments. Because i i it would be very com you know, it would be like you know, today like uh you know the the president says, All right, you know, like these are my these are my pet states and all the other states are gonna serve them and all the other states say No, I don't think so. You're not acting as a protector of us and the other thing. Well I I'm I'm I'm just saying i as an example. Like say is where people who aren't citizens are allowed to vote in their elections? Like that kind of ex example? Oh, that doesn't exist in this country, Troy. The federal government isn't protecting us anymore, so we're not going to listen to them. And that's all the colonies did. That's what happened in the Civil War and they lost the argument, but It was founded I think on on the same principle like okay we just don't want to be part of this this part of it anymore but we still have the rest of the government. And the Civil War raises uh I was gonna I was looking for an after you've pivot to this and that you brought a civil war and that's a perfect example. So it's not about slavery, by the way. Yeah. Well I will say that it wasn't solely about slavery. I think it was in part about slavery. But yeah, uh making it as simple as that, and it might not even have been primarily about slavery. I think just like today Back then there were a lot of different political things to play at the same time. But North versus South, the blue versus the gray, was a lot of Christian versus Christian. Yeah. So in many battles in fact people found literal brothers like their actual brother, not just cause like brother on the other side of the battle. So that's the difference with ancient Israel too, by the way. But in some in the wars we have now, uh if if we got drafted into the military and we had to go fight against England again, I mean, we would probably be shooting at some Professentially anyway, professing Christians anyway. Professing at least and perhaps in fact. Right? So you have to current Ukraine to the current Ukrainian Russian war There are many Russian soldiers that I would say are probably saved. Um I don't know how many, may not be very many, the thousands or hundreds, but there's certainly some. And I'm sure there are people in Ukraine that are also saved. So there are actual Christians shooting at each other. um in in Ukraine. Russia. Or there were when this was being recorded anyway. Just a as so you you guys remember we record these shows several months ahead, so a lot of the geopolitical things that we're talking about are gonna be kinda dated. But we're intending these uh principles to be timeless because God is timeless. Except for the discussion about ancient Israel. Well it'd be more data It'll be more dated in a few months than it is now. So I th I Sometimes when things get really complicated, complex, there's all this gray area, you can't figure out what's what, sometimes it's good to just try to make it hyper simple. So a way to find out a dangerous we said that last week. Murder is a sin. So under what circumstances would engaging in a war be an unjustified killing? Be would be the kind of killing that we would say is murderous? And 'cause to be clear, the Bible does not say that all killing is sinful, only that murder is sinful. Right. Right, 'cause there are that's why there are plenty of times to kill somebody and Mm most notably being when the government does so in if in response to a crime. And it doesn't say anything specifically about I can't uh in certain circumstances kill a Christian. Let's say David loses his mind someday and you know what for whatever reason he invades my home and my life and and and my family's life is in jeopardy. I'm like, you know what? I don't know what's going on with you right now, but I gotta put you down. Right? Or die, right? Those are the two options. And then you find out like, oh, he was a Christian brother. Like, well that really stinks But it wasn't a murder. Right? You can kill someone and not have it be a murder, but you can't kill anybody, Christian or not, uh, if it's a murder. And many of the people in the Civil War They may personally not have chosen to go shoot other people on the other side, but they were commanded to do so by the government and they could do that or they could desert and be caught and killed as well Um and I don't know that the Bible calls us to do that necessarily. Th again, there are plenty of pacifist Christians who would disagree with us and we don't really have representation from a true pacifist in this room, so we're trying to kind of make their arguments for them But they would say no, I you should just desert then um or uh or willingly be killed instead of uh firing any uh any shots. But I I don't know that Romans thirteen quite uh goes with that. I think I think and and like you said, uh David the the example of John the Baptist of what his his command uh was to the soldiers. Um so I I don't know. I mean There were certainly principles and and people there were also many Christians who were actually desiring to fight on both sides because they believed their their cause was just and righteous. Uh, in the Civil War especially. Um, you know, uh we can make an argument of how many people in the North actually believed they were fighting to free slaves. Certainly by the end of the war some of them did. Um you know, after the Emancipation Proclamation it became uh more overtly about slaves. Um and many people in the South were would have other uh uh Christian reasons uh that they would use and you can decide if they're justified or not, but they would they would say that, you know, the uh there was interference by the by the North on uh a lot of different levels that were n not justified. So I I I don't know, but d but your feelings about whether a war is just does not make it just because God i is does not change. So either it's just or it's not, right? But uh uh but let's let's pull it back even further, make it more simple. You know, University of Alabama plays the University of Georgia in the football match. And fans of both sides pray to God for their team's victory. Now what does God do? That's a kinda silly question, but you know people do that and you've probably met people who pray for their team to win. I I I if I'm gonna pray during a football game, I'll pray for people not to get injured. That's I think something that both guys can kind of agree on. And I think I think it's kinda silly to pray for your team to win a football game. Um But you know, uh I I I don't really know where I'm going with that except that I that that that feels like a a a good analogy just without the bloodshed it in that football game there neither side is particularly justified or not justified. It's a game, right? They're not actually killing people. But any time somebody dies in a war it's it's it's some form of a homicide, right? A person has died as a homicide. The question is, is it a justified homicide or is it a murder? And I guess that's what it comes for me I that's what it's beginning to boil down to with with war. Was the killing a justified killing? So if if the Chinese Red Army uh invades Maryland tomorrow And uh all the good old boys with their rifles and their shotguns and stuff, uh, rally and they start uh taking shots at the Chinese army and they they kill a few of the the Chinese uh soldiers Well, they're defending their homeland, they're defending their families, they're defending their heritage, they're right, so but the Chinese who came over here unprovoked to start shooting at the Marylanders, well, they're murdering people. So they're entering so maybe it's like two there can be one war and one side or multiple versions of sides. are fighting an unjust war, and the other side is fighting a just war. This gets to the question you asked uh at the very, very beginning of this discussion last week too, right? Whether it's a defensive war or an offensive war. But Daniel made the point about it being uh there's all sorts of battles of conquest and taking over uh more territory and yeah, and and also they say like in defense of who? Right? Like like is it am I am I just to uh defend, you know, uh my my neighbor's daughter from his her abusive father? Right? Like is that just like that's not my house, that's not my fight, he's not attacking me. Right? Is do I put myself in the middle of that? Like is that the right thing to do? Is that the right thing for nations to do? And and um we're gonna stay on this general topic but begin to pivot into something a little more on the personal side. That's a good transitional kind of way to end this show in next week's episode. So that was David Forcey with the good finishing thought. A lots of uh good thoughts in the midst middle of it all is Daniel Razi, I'm Troy Skinner. You can find us online at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ We will continue this conversation next week, 167 and a half hours from, let me check, yep, right about now. God bless.