This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all for KUA where Faith Community. leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. Now I'm just getting longed up. There's a story. of a lovely lady, a little girl, who is abducted, taken to a shack in the woods, and killed. That's for a beginning of a show for ya. Her father, Mac Devastated obviously. He has a few questions for God. He doesn't really go to God with these questions because he's always struggled to find closeness with the Heavenly Father due to abuse that he suffered as a kid at the hands of his earthly father. And then an invitation arrives in the mail for Mac to meet Papa in the woods at the shack. The place of his deepest hurts and depressing pain. That's the setup for a book titled The Shack. And with us on the show again for round three of what we hope to be a four-part uh series, William Paul Young, the author of the Shack, joining us over the telephone. It's been a grand experiment and it hasn't gone without its hiccups, but so far We've survived it. I'm not so sure that Paul is surviving it quite as well, but we appreciate him hanging in there with us. He's been a trooper. Um it's been working well enough. Okay, well glad to hear that Uh we touched about uh on this what I'm gonna bring up here in a second at the very beginning of the first show, but not everybody hears every moment of every show. So just as kind of a chance to re to to to reset a little bit. Um The Shack uh is lauded by those who are big fans of it for the way that it meets people where they are. You know, it's it's salve for bleeding blisters. You know, every turn of the page brings a warm hug to a hurting reader somewhere. Uh the shack is a shoulder to cry on, a bending ear that listens, a quiet friend who's there for you. And it seems like, based on our uh two shows of talking with you now, that that this might have been your main aim in writing it. Is that was that a fair characterization? Uh no. I didn't have I didn't have any such intentions. I I was I was writing it for my kids as a Christmas present. And uh and saying, look, you know, I I'm a missionary kid, preacher's kid, firstborn son of a of a pioneer missionary and then a pastor and um and I grew up, I went to Bible school and attended seminary and and um It took me a long time to deal with the damage and the great sadness in my life and to ask the questions like, you know, where is God in the middle of of the brokenness of our experience And um and it's from that that I that I write a story for my kids. I'm not I have no intention to become a published author. That's not my world at all. And uh So it was um it was like um I want I want to write something that when my kids run into the brokenness of this planet in one way or the other that that if I'm not there, they will have uh some language that uh that I put down that might be a comfort and a help to them. The fact that it spilled over on so many millions of people has been absolutely remarkable as far as I'm concerned and I'm I'm incredibly grateful. I don't understand it but uh and and you know I uh I'm I'm surprised by the the whole thing and they continue to be. It's as surreal today as it's ever been. Now at the conclusion of last week's show, and actually the final third, maybe in the final two thirds of last week's show, we were kind of bouncing around Uh lots of different questions have to do with uh with with judgment, whether judgment comes from God. We're talking about hell, that sort of thing. And related to that Maybe a pointed way of putting it, because this has been a critique that has been aimed at the book and perhaps at you more directly. So let me just put it to you pointedly. Are you a universalist? Ah, great question. I'm glad you asked it. Thank you for that. It depends on how you define universalism. If you define universalism as all roads leading to God, I'm not And I and I did that on purpose in that one section, I think it's on page one hundred eighty-two or one eighty-four and and where Mackenzie says to Jesus, you know, Do all roads lead to Appa? And Mackenzie says no. I mean Jesus says laugh says no, most roads don't lead anywhere, but I will go down any road to find you. Which is the statement of the incarnation. So if that's what you mean, no. If you mean Um was all of creation created in Christ? If that's uh a definition of universalism, then yes, I I'm that. If you mean Will everyone ultimately be restored fully face to face with the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit? I don't believe that as a doctrine I I hope that's true, but I don't know. And and I don't think scripture makes a any kind of declarative statement. It has that has hints that people it's easy to draw from, like every knee will bow and every tongue will confess, which is a worship pass worship passage out of Isaiah. And um So um I'm not uh someone who holds to a doctrine of universal reconciliation, so I'm not a universalist in that sense. If the the the big one for me is was all of creation cre uh uh uh included in Jesus in terms of the uh death, burial, resurrection, and ascension? When he died, did we all die? When he rose, did we all rise Is he the Savior? Is you is salvation universal? Did Jesus actually accomplish what he was after? Is he bigger than Adam? I'm saying yes. So and and I said solidly inside the early church on that one. That that salvation is universal. Does that mean that that means you automatically have uh like uh a face to face relationship with the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. No, but you have to work this what was accomplished out. You have to work it out in fear and trembling, as the English says, because he is in you both to will and to do his good pleasure. So one, I believe that everyone is created in Christ Two, I believe that Christ dwells in everyone. That's John 14, 20 and a lot of other passages. But you still have to work it out. You're not going to escape the love of God, but but God will not heal you apart from your participation. So y what you do doesn't save you in the sense of the finished work of Jesus. So it's a different tense. How are you defining in Christ? For God the Father was in Christ and reconciled the cosmos to himself, not counting their sins against them. And now it says so Be reconciled to Him. And God is reconciled Himself. So the issue of reconciliation is a done deal, and it's done for the entire cosmos That's the good news. You got included. Whether whether you like it or not, you got included. But the relationship is something that is up to you. And and God will pursue you, but God will not uh heal you apart from from your participation. Well I have like a dozen and a half questions I want to ask right now. We'll only be able to ask one at a time, I guess. Uh how are you defining in Christ? When you say that people are are uh are created in Christ, for example. Uh obviously created uh by the word, God speaks things into existence. Is that what you're meaning by that 'Cause like when Paul you know, the Apostle Paul famous not to be confused with you, Paul, the Apostle Paul uh you know recurringly it's one of his favorite phrases, in Christ, in Christ, in Christ, in him, in him. It's over and over again. And it seems like the context there is he's talking specifically about those who have believe in their heart and confess with their mouth that Jesus Christ is their is is Lord and Savior. But it seems like maybe you're broadening it that way. Is that am I understanding that correctly? Um I'm not broadening it. The early church broadened it. And uh so I'm I'm it's not my thing. But um Are you including Paul, the Apostle Paul in the in the UA church or Well well listen to Paul's statement about his own um Damascus road experience, not the one that was written by Luke or anybody else when he talks about it himself. And he says that he was set apart from his mother's womb. And r and in when it was time and when God was pleased to reveal his son, not to me, but in me, and I now preach him in the Gentiles. So Paul himself is broadening it at that point. And and I don't think that you can just y you make the assumption that when he says in Christ, he's only speaking of those who who who have prayed the center's prayer or done some some other transactional sort of device in order to move from one place to the other. And that's That is not the way the early church saw it. They saw it as all of creation is in him. So what happens to him happens to everyone. And that's the argument from Romans 5, that that otherwise Adam is way more powerful than Jesus. And and Jesus is not an afterthought to Adam's uh ability to to uh infect the entire cosmos. So if if Jeez if Adam could infect the cosmos, yeah, but th don't you see the logic though? If if if let's make it not about Adam particularly, let's make it about me And I end up rejecting the healing that's available because I don't want to accept Jesus Christ and his saving work at the cross. And so I'm going to end up being consigned to hell. Now you're saying that once I'm there I I could still come around to my senses and accept th God's gracious gift. But if I continue to be rebellious, continue to say, No way, I want nothing to do with that Aren't I personally, Troy, more powerful than Jesus Christ because I'm rejecting his saving work? Isn't it the same th the argument you're making about Adam being more powerful than the work of Christ? So would you argue the same argument for Adam himself? Is he more powerful than God because he could say no? Well, that's the beauty of free will. That's not it's not an issue of comparing power The fact that Jesus could accomplish something and you decide you don't want it, it's the fact that Jesus accomplished it that's the powerful piece. It's not the fact that you can say no to it Right, yeah,wise you're gonna end up with a God who coerces people and and and true love is never coercive Right. Uh Reformed theology versus Arminian theology here and it and uh if you fall into either one of those camps, it seems like you'd be more of the Armini Arminian side, but you're not making those arguments in the way that I'm most familiar hearing them from the Arminian side. So I don't know if it's merely semantics or you know language usage or if there's a uh a a clear difference in theological approach. It's hard for me to to grapple, but I've been hogging the mic long enough. I'm gonna let Jonathan have a tackle. So um you're saying that Paul is is making a statement that when uh when Christ was revealed in him, right? He was chosen from before he was born when Christ was revealed in him, that Paul's making a statement about Christ as always having been in him uh during all that time. And yet Paul is the one that says that in Ephesians that um that before Christ uh you were without Uh you were without hope and without God in the world, that you were separated from God in the promises. Uh that that there was significant distance in Uh Romans as well um refers, you know, to uh those that that heard the word of God but did not combine it with faith, and so they're they're separated from God. They're not in Christ. And so um so I get what what you're bringing from the early church fathers that all of us uh are created in Christ. So I mean created by Christ, uh and so therefore are represented by uh you know a universal thing. And I agree with you that that that all salvation is universal, meaning it's available to everyone. But to argue that Christ is already in people uh that have been rejected uh it feels to me uh from the passages that I just described, Paul, Jesus uh as well, that you are um Uh that that that you're taking a a phrase about being in Christ due to due to creation and you're imposing it on passage that no longer deal with creation but are now dealing with salvation with the moment where somebody uh sees who Christ is and makes that choice then to uh receive, you know, to as many as received him, to them gave he the power to become the sons of God. Well, if they were receiving him, then that would be because, you know, he had not yet been received. Like there is i you know, the there there's two different issues there. One is the creation reality and the other one is the uh the salvific moment of transformation where where we're saying, you know, through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made but but in him was life. That life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, but but but he came to his own and his own did not receive him. Uh there's a um a uh blurring of terms and of implications there that possibly some of the early church fathers that you refer to did the same thing and hence were called out as heretics themselves because they missed it. What they didn't go back to what Paul and and Jesus had actually said and written. Well one of the arguments that the early church fathers made with regard to your statement is that that they w I think that they would And rightly so, saying you're confusing existential separation and ontological separation. And for those who are listening, existential separation is the delusion of separation. It is the lie that we believe that we're separated. And so it has an ongoing impact on us. Ontological separation means that we are actually separated. Um like in our being. And that's when the early church fathers says anyone who is ontologically separated from God lapses into non-being. They cannot exist because all of creation is created in Christ. Sure, and we use John one that you were quoting, there is uh to as many as receives him who gets the the power The the whole what's the word power? It's exusia. It's out of being, out of themselves. So it's the acknowledgement and the reality that that what is happening is already in them. Or as John 14 says. Okay, so I hear how you're defining that. And and that's the activity that is going on in terms of of the the process of salvation is to expose the presence of Jesus who is in you And that's what Paul is saying about his road to Damascus experience. It's not an outside in experience, it's an inside out experience. Yeah, so certainly that is, you know, a place where we disagree with one another and where Um uh, you know, I respect that you are thinking that I'm the one that's interpreting it wrong and I'm sure you're hearing that You know, my impression is that you're interpreting that wrong. So I'm not saying that just to be like rude, uh, but just to recognize that that we're that we're in different places on that issue. And um and I would agree, like like where you and I are in agreement is that we are created by God and that what God created was good. from the beginning and that that that part of being created in the image of God from the beginning remains in us even as we're separate uh sorry, I'm using that word. Uh and now I'm thinking about it when I'm using it because of your um uh you know, persuasive arguments. But uh w as long as we were uh in sin and uh no longer following God Which I would argue led to a separation from God, a driving out of the garden, a uh being removed from the presence of God that we both see in the Old Testament. And well, we see it in the Old Testament and the New Testament that there's a uh a rejecting uh and you might argue that that's only Old Testament anyways. So my point is just that um that there's some key places here where the Bible is clear into to my impression. that there is a separating that does does no injustice to the fact that we are created by God and that that that creation uh that we are in God that That means that we're in sin, but God has not uh annihilated us. He allows us to go on living. His pa he's patient with us, not willing that any should perish. Like I'm in agreement that that remains for us uh until the final judgment. But my are uh my my uh read of scripture is that Uh at the same time there is a distance uh that is that you're arguing is merely in my own perception Um and yet that the Bible describes with very clear language about being distance that whether it's just in my mind or not, the Bible uh is what gives us the language of distance and um and therefore brokenness. Nevertheless, so then we come back into Christ when we believe and that coming back into Christ is a is a reintroduction of specifically his Holy Spirit. In your scenario, who saves you? Alright, so so let me let me say this If you do a study of the Holy Spirit throughout Scripture, people say this all the time. They say, I'm praying that the Holy Spirit will move on so-and-so because he's not a believer yet. I can see no places in the entire scripture where the Holy Spirit interacts with unbelievers. Right? And so at the very least, the Holy Spirit is that part of God that has left when we choose to disobey and to be in sin. Right? You can blaspheme the Holy Spirit. You can grieve the Holy Spirit. We're told in Genesis 6 that my spirit will not contend with man forever. Uh and and if you tried to enter the presence of the Holy Spirit without being cleansed, like they uh happened in the tabernacle once or twice, you would die. right because his holy presence uh could not um would not put up with unholiness, right? And so in the New Testament The Jewish people were shocked that the Gentiles were filled with the Holy Spirit and they realized that something had happened where the blood of Christ had had covered their sins, so now they could be filled with the Holy Spirit, even men and women, uh, and prophesying. And so my point with all that is that at the very least, being in Christ means that the Holy Spirit can now dwell in you and and I've I've found zero places anywhere in Scripture where the Holy Spirit is with an unbeliever. So you think the Holy Spirit can separate itself from the father and the son. Well let's John. No, I'm not arguing that. Uh I don't need to. Uh in fact this is part of part of the question right that that we get into with with the sh with your book, which is again such an enjoyable read, because uh because all three of them become incarnate in your book, right? And uh and that's the point though, is that the Holy Spirit uh doesn't incarnate, the Holy Spirit fills. And uh and God the Father never incarnates. God the Father is invisible, you're right. He is uh the all-in-all, but Christ is the one that incarnates. And so So there's no um uh uh uh division there. Uh in fact, and that's my point, is that is that we were without God before uh when we were in our sin. We were without his promises and we were without Christ and we were without the Holy Spirit. So when we believed in Christ Then we were restored to fellowship with God and the Holy Spirit indwelled in us. And so I don't see a separation. Uh yeah, uh we've had that conversation on the show uh many, many times. Uh scripture seems pretty clear to me about how faith comes. Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. And what we're told is that no one can come to Christ unless the Father draw him. Now All I'm saying is that is that the Bible makes those distinctions. It doesn't say the Holy Spirit draws us. It doesn't say that Jesus, well, it says the kindness of God leads men to repentance, right? And so God does the drawing, Christ does the does the cleansing, the the forgiving, the sacrifice, and the Holy Spirit does the filling. There's just unique aspects to those roles that uh that your book refers to. I think you recognize that So when you um but this does not happen until you believe. So who saved you? And I'm gonna have to jump in. This is Troy jumping in by the way, because we're about to run out of time again. And uh just for the record, Jonathan alluded to it. We've talked about this issue uh at length on the show over the years, and Jonathan and I are not of one mind on this particular issues. So we this is an area where we both disagree and it sounds like Paul might have an ally in you in trying to take Jonathan Sweitzer down. And I could use the help. He's a big guy. So Uh we've we've got so much left to talk about. We're gonna have one more show to talk about. So we're gonna maybe next week's show try to be a little bit more lightning round oriented and see if we can cover some important ground. We've covered A big chunk, actually a larger chunk than I anticipated we'd be able to in the three short shows. I wish we could do twelve shows with you, but um uh given the technological Technological challenges. I'm amazed that you're still standing after three shows, and we look forward to next week's show. So anyway, uh William Paul Young, author of the Shack, is our guest on the Faith Debate. Jonathan Schweitzer, of course, founder of Bridges in Frederick County is on the show. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith There you'll find a rundown of what's been on the show in recent weeks, uh description of the shows, the links to the podcast of the shows, and um you'll always always always also see a teaser for what's going to be on next week's show so you can plan your life accordingly because any good person plans their life around the scheduled airtimes of the faith debate, let's be honest. Till next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God Blessed