This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all for KUA where Faith Community The leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run b- Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron here, Sunday. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Oh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweister. Now, I'm just getting warmed up. Over the past number of years there's been a bit of a fight in the church going on. Not the regular fight along typical denominational lines. This has been more of a Civil War kind of a fight. Evangelical versus evangelical. Baptist versus Baptist. Professing conservative Christian versus professing conservative Christian. Where do you stand? Well first you need to know what I'm talking about. I'm talking about the shack. It's a movie, and before that it was a book. The author is William Paul Young, and he joins the Faith Debate via a modern marvel called The Telephone today. Now before we get into talking with Paul, Let me tell you about the Shaq. Because you might not have read it, you might not have seen the movie. Shaq tells us the story of a man named Mac. His six-year-old daughter was kidnapped and murdered. in an old shack in the middle of the woods. And this causes Mac to enter into what the author, William Paul Young, describes as the great sadness he might relate. Mac's life feels inside out Doesn't seem normal anymore, if it ever even was. He questions what he was taught in church and at seminary. He wonders if it's all a dream, a hoax, a hallucination, a nightmare Is God toying with him? His relationship with his wife and other children is weakened. Max finds no answers from his pastor or the fellowship of believers at worship service, mostly I think because his congregation seems to be more of a religious social club. And so he's not really certain of anything. Not even certain of a distinction between the irrational and the rational, perhaps At this point, Mac receives a letter from someone named Papa. And Mac wonders, is it the killer or is it God? And some who are critics of the book might wonder if it's the devil. So here we are, William Paul Young. Thank you so much for coming on the Faith Debate and joining this grand experiment. We have never before ever had a guest on the show over the telephone. Well, I'm absolutely honored to be the first. Hey, gotta start somewhere. You know, I didn't know there was such a thing as a telephone until a couple of weeks ago, so you're I'm catching up to the technology as we go Now let me uh and and Jonathan Schweitzer's voice is absent at the moment because he's uh out relieving himself in the restroom or something. I'm not sure what he's doing, but he'll be here in just a second. But we can get started without him. Uh the sh the shack Um teaches that our creator, uh Savior, King is a warm God, uh warm within the Godhead, warm towards others, and and the Shack at least partly teaches that God is a personal and powerful and all-knowing and all-good God. Uh and while also acknowledging the reality of pain and suffering and grief and and evil and this sort of cocktail that you've uh come up with uh in the storyline is what so many people find attractive about it Uh let me ask you this. It's kind of an open-ended uh powder puff kind of a question, but you know what else are you hoping other than the things I just mentioned, are you hoping that people will take away from the book about God, about the nature of God, the character of God So I gotta I gotta ask. We've got an issue with the sound. Oh we do. You keep yeah, you're going in and out. And I'm wondering if that's ending up on the recording or not It's not on my end, but um are you able to follow along at least? Yeah, I can I can follow it enough. You lose words and things like that, so I'm like I'm having to guess a little bit. Okay. Well the things I say that make no sense, that's clearly a technical problem. And the moments of brilliance, that means the technology's working just fine. Of course. I I wouldn't have said anything else Um all right. So tell me when I can start going again. Yeah, I mean basically I mean I mentioned some of the touchstone uh points uh about God, but what are some what are some of the big picture things about God, the nature of God, the character of God you're hoping people will take away from the book? Well well let's back up just a little bit. And that is I never intended to write a book for the world to read it. I intended to write a Christmas present for my kids And um and I'm Mackenzie and they know that I'm Mackenzie. I'm I'm also Missy, which is another part of the conversation that we might have have to have at some point But what I am trying to communicate to my own children, and then uh the extra copies I printed it off as depot uh went to my friends But I I don't want my children growing up with the God that I did, which was the distant omnibeing, uh of a of a very different character and nature than Jesus And you mentioned that l you know, God the Father in the shack is a is a warm character, a loving character, and everything that you mentioned is the description also of Jesus, which I think is accurate. That is When Jesus comes, he comes to reveal the nature and character of the Father. And yet, we have in at least my people, my modern evangelical fundamentalist holiness folk, which are my people, that's where I grew up and and whom I whom I love dearly. Um, we had two kind of gods. We had a Jesus God and we had a God the Father God. And we you know, in in our particular denomination, once the Bible was written you didn't have to worry about the Holy Spirit anymore. So because the the Bible basically stepped in the place of the Holy Spirit. And um but again Uh I'm trying to say to my kids, I I I want to try to create imagery and story that allows you to see the God who actually showed up and healed my heart, not the God I grew up with Yeah, so uh there was a couple of things I was planning to get to you during our time with you today, and I'm gonna pull it up forward because you brought a couple of things up already that I wanted to get to anyway. So Uh what kind of a faith tradition did you grow up in and in what ways uh is the story of the shack autobiographical? Okay. Um the faith uh tradition I grew up in is uh Christian and Missionary Alliance. I'm a missionary kid firstborn and then uh my father was a pastor for um most of his most of his adult life. Um On the mission field uh from the time I was a year old to almost ten and then uh came back to Canada, Canadian born So um CMA is uh is a holiness denomination and the offshoot of CMA became four-square. So the foursquare side uh was much more Pentecostal charismatic And the CMA side was much more Baptist reformed and uh although they came from the same roots. Um how the book is autobiographical, uh, you know, I'm I'm The book originated in my wife Kim asking me to write something as a gift for the kids, and we have six children. Um that puts in one place how I think. And I and I love story. I've always loved story. I think every human being is a story. And um so I crafted a fiction, uh a parable, in which the main character, Mackenzie, is is the one who is at the center of this of this journey toward wholeness. And that is m that's me. Mackenzie Allen Phillips spells MAP, M-A-P. But so does Melissa Ann Phillips the the daughter. And I had a writer from Nashville, uh Leanne Stewart, who said um wrote me a note when the book first came out, said, you know, I d I don't know anything about you. I don't know who you are, but my sense is that Missy who is um Melissa Ann, that Missy represents something murdered in you as a child, uh probably your innocence. And uh Mackenzie is you as the adult trying to deal with it And um and that's exactly right. I showed that to Kim um and she said, boy she nailed it. Um so there there is that. Plus my r relationship with my father was very, very difficult. He wasn't an alcoholic. But he was definitely addicted to the the mission. And um and then uh sexual abuse was a part of my experience in the tribal culture that I grew up in and then when I was sent away to boarding school, missionary boarding school at six. Um the big boys molested the little boys at night. And um so that's the loss of the child. Um we haven't uh we don't have a daughter who was kidnapped and and murdered Uh we had a six month period where my brother Stephen was killed uh in a horrible accident. Three months after that, Shirley, um, Kim's mom. uh and we'd only been married for about a year and a half. Uh she had a massive coronary on the operating table for routine surgery and passed away and then three months after that my five year old niece Jennifer was killed the day after her fifth birthday, so we know shock losses inside of our family. But um the book uh was not only uh referring to those kinds of losses, but really uh the the internal losses as well in terms of experience. So um Mackenzie's weekend that he spends in the shop represents about eleven years for me. of trying to deconstruct my world and and and rebuild it, uh asking all the questions that have been sitting there waiting to be asked all those years and it uh It's I I tried to squeeze the process of transformation that was my own into a weekend and a lot of it depended on changing my view of the character and nature of God. Uh at least opening myself up to a bigger understanding of the character and nature of God than the one that I grew up with. Now it's interesting hearing hearing that background, which I I didn't know most of of that. Uh you had a lot of of pain and angst uh kind of in in your in your backstory And so I can see ha uh wanted to craft a story that would really highlight the the idea of God's there to take you in his arms and and and hold you and hug you and have a very personal experience. Uh but some who have been critical of the book wonder if uh if in the shack God's imminence uh overwhelms his transcendence, that he's he's so familiar that that familiarity overwhelms God's otherness, his holiness, his grandness. Do you do you see any uh any fairness in that or or how how do you respond to those sorts of of critiques? Well okay. So One, if anybody's familiar with the uh the way that I write generally and some of the other things that I've written, they know that I'm I'm with George MacDonald. This is not a God who stands idly by a will. Anything that is not of love's kind remains in you. But this is a God who is love self-giving, other centered, sacrificial love. And that is the nature and character of God. So The accusation that that God is too familiar, what do you think the incarnation is? The incarnation is familiarity. And uh as Richard Moore says, Jesus doesn't come to change God the Father's mind about humanity. It comes to change humanity's mind about God. And in terms Well is do you think that there's some things that you can in terms of our In terms of our relationships, it's proximity and intimacy that creates honoring and reverence and and a sense of wonder. It's not distance. And a lot of times we've been presented with a God who is distant, uh as if that increases. No. Our wonder and admiration and worship increase in the incarnation because God actually became close and the proximity of God coming into our world and into our lives um caused us much more to open up our hearts in terms of reverence and worship than any kind of distance. All the other gods in the planet have always been distant And that aspect of the story is is I think what most people are drawn to and why it's it you know, explains its immense popularity and and it was so popular they decided to turn it into a movie and all that sort of stuff. So I totally I get that. But I'm wondering looking back, 'cause it's been a while since you wrote the shack. Uh Looking back, and you've heard some response from people who are a little unsure of some of the theological direction in the book, do you look back and think, Yeah, I probably could have done a little bit better job on that, maybe uh uh not to diminish the immanence, the the the love and the care uh uh uh that that is uh represented by the incarnation of Jesus Christ, but at the same time maybe gone a little more out of my way to also highlight the the righteous aspect of God, the holy aspect of God. The the fact that God is not exactly like his his creature, even though humans are made in the image of God, they're they're merely image bearers and there's something distinct about God. Do you f or you feel like you've got that balance pretty good? Oh I fe I feel like we've been so imbalanced that uh that anything that moves in the other direction appears also um imbalanced in the other direction. Um you know the uh Uh Jesus to me is you you see Jesus, you see God the Father. You see um the the sense of intimacy and and imminence And that becomes the basis for our relationship. When Jesus calls uh God Abba He's the first one in Jewish history to do that. And he constantly goes back to that, really intimate, personal. That this is not a God who is distant, but a God who actually dwells in you. And when we come to issues like holiness We have to remember that God was holy before there was any sin. So holiness is not about distance based on some kind of anesthetic purity. This is about holiness that is relational. And a a God who is other than, that is the love that the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit have one for the other is absolutely unique. But we are created in the image and likeness of this God, so it is part of our very nature as well. So I'm, you know, I I understand um and I I I sense the reverence, but it's not reverence based on distance. It's in my life, it's reverence based on knowing. And I think all true love is centered on knowing So, you know, uh there's there's too much Zeus worship or Marduk worship, you know, gods who are powerful and carry big swords and all that, as if Jesus is not God And um so I'm I think I'm pushing back on that. Maybe maybe um I I didn't Yeah, 'cause you're writing a book and a story, so there's of course there are things that that are not expressed to the degree that they should have been. You know, uh and there's lots of those in terms of the shack, 'cause it's a limited book, but but again I I would rather err on the side of the the goodness and the intimacy of a God who is with me and in me than on the side of a distant God, and if that creates reverence That's the voice of William Paul Young. He's uh best known as the author of The Shack. He's written other books too, but I don't think any of them uh compared to the magnitude of the success that the Shack has had. Not meaning any dis disrespect to your other works, but uh th this is the one that seems to have gotten the most attention. Uh this is the Faith Debate. You're listening to it on nine thirty WFMD. You can find us online at WFMD. com. I'm Troy Skinner and Jonathan Sweitzer is now here. And John if you would use that mic, but we've got to stay somewhat close to this mic just because I don't think that Paul can hear you out of that mic if that makes any sense. Pardon our technical we've You know, w we put a guy on the moon apparently back in nineteen sixty nine, but we can't figure out how to get phone calls into a radio studio. Go figure that one out. If I could transition real quickly into the names of of the characters, because that's gotten some attention. Um Yeah, and you've probably heard this is probably I can't imagine you've heard anything new after all these years. Uh in New Zealand, uh there's uh in in their mythology the Earth Mother, uh creator god is named Papa in sh in the shack Uh throughout most of the book, uh Papa is described as a large African-American woman. Is it a coincidence that both Papas are female creator gods or were you barring upon uh a tradition in New Zealand mythology? Um I wasn't borrowing from anybody, suspend and I love New Zealand by the way, but I didn't even know about that. Oh, okay. Well then there is something new Oh yeah. You know, it's not surprising that that when you use imagery of any sort, it's like saying, Well, you know, Zeus was a male. So were you borrowing when uh the the writers of the New Testament referred to God as in in male terminology? You know, so it's it's that kind of an argument. It's like hm, nope, uh that wasn't the intent whatsoever. Okay. That's um Coincidental in the sense that Well you might have a similar answer on the I wasn't even aware of it. Okay. Well you might have a similar answer on this one then. Sarayu, uh the the name given to uh the Holy Spirit character in the shack uh is an interesting name. Sarayu is a is a the name of a Hindu god, the wife of the god of fire. So it makes some people wonder why Sarayu, you know the name of an Indian river that flows through Hindu territory. Were you trying to purposely be kind of inclusive with world religions or is that just kind of some coincidence as well? So let me let me tell you how I got the name. And uh I was working three jobs and I ha and I wrote most of the shack on the train to w to my main job that was downtown Portland. And it was this one day 'cause I'm working on this to try to get it done for Christmas for my kids and and I I'm asking a similar questions of the one you're asking. That is I'm thinking like I need a name for the Holy Spirit. I've got Elusia and who who is Papa L Elohim Uzia, the uh the creator God who's the ground of all being, using both the Hebrew and the Greek. And so I've got a name. And Jesus was easy. But I didn't have a name for the Holy Spirit and I'm I'm I'm asking God about this. I'm going like hey is it is it like allowed for me to work on a name for the Holy Spirit? And um And so I get downtown, I get to work, and it was for a web conferencing service, and I get a Skype call. So in two and a half years working for them downtown, I only got one Skype call that was given to me, and it was Giti Ghatrabhu from India. And uh she's looking for a web conferencing solution for her company and I'm looking for a name for the Holy Spirit. And so it takes a couple of minutes to figure out we don't have the right solution but a competitor does. So I give her, you know, the competitor's name and phone number and stuff. Um because they got a better um solution for their comp for the company in India. And then I say, Gitika, I need some help with something. Um I'm writing this story for my kids for Christmas and I need and I need a name Could you give me a list of words in your dialect for the wind, W-I-N-D? And she gives me a dozen of them, and I'm immediately attracted to this one in particular. And I said, uh, how do you say this? And she said, Well, it's sort of beautiful. It's got movement in the word itself. You can properly accent both the first or second syllable. So it can be sarayu or saryu. And um and it's just uh it i it it it's one of the words for wind and and I said, that's a beautiful word. Do you do you name your children after that? Like a girl's name? She said, Oh no. Uh but we do have a river named after this. I said, really? So Gitika, what kind of wind is this? 'Cause I I don't want a tornado and I don't want a hurricane. And she says Saryyu is the common wind that catches you by surprise. And I went, What? She said, you know, it's it's like when you're so hot you think you're gonna die. And suddenly out of nowhere comes this wind that cools you down and changes everything. And I thought that is a perfect description for the Holy Spirit. And the fact that it is also the name for a river That is also a metaphor for the Holy Spirit. And that's where I got the name. Um so you know, people think I have way more uh intense, you know, behind the scenes. I'm writing this as a story for my kids and um not trying to make some big inclusive statement uh about anything And um so that's where the name of the Holy Spirit came from. Now the listener is probably hearing some uh nods of agreement verbally from Jonathan Sweitzer and try to give him a chance to squeeze in at least one question before this episode of the Faith Debate is over. But Because we're talking about the names, I'd have one more follow-up on the names, because you brought up you brought up the name uh Elusia uh and you even said meaning the god of all being. And for those that are, you know, um theological students, you know, people who pay attention to such things, uh that sounds like a it might be language borrowed from Paul Tillich uh twentieth century existentialist philosopher and theologian uh who said that God is the ground of all being. He dwells in, around and through all things, ultimately emerging as the real Which then has those who are critical of of maybe the theology in the book wondering, is this book s building upon Platonist philosophy mixed with a systematic theology that is supposed to be existentialist or pantheistic or Have you heard those kinds of res uh questions and do you have, you know, uh an answer for those? Well Paul Paul Tillich might have said it but and and wrote about it, but it was written in uh Colossians one, sixteen and seventeen before Paul ever got around uh Telek got around to it by the by another Paul. And uh And in those pa in that passage it says that everything that has come into being, both the visible and the invisible, has come into being in him, being Christ. And so now everything is held together sustained in for by through him. So that's the ground of all being. So there's, you know uh anybody can come along and and claim pieces of this understanding for whatever particular purpose and intent they have, but I was just going straight from scripture and um Using Elohim from Genesis uh chapter one, verse one. Uh in the beginning God, Elohim, so El And Uzia, which is just the Greek word for the in the New Testament, for being, and taking it right out of Colossians one, sixteen and seventeen. Well, we have like a minute and a half left, so Jonathan can say hello. Wanna say hello, John? It's good to talk to you, Paul. How are you going today? If you're saying hello, I can't hear you, but Paul, how are you doing today? It's good to uh talk to you. You know what? Ever everything that matters is good. Without a doubt. How old are your children? So my kids range, the youngest is twenty-five, Matthew, and he so that means he just got his brain, you know, because it takes twenty-five years for a boy. And um And it goes up to thirty-eight. So four boys and two girls between thirty eight and twenty five. So you started having kids when you were two? Ah you know what? In May I turned sixty-four. Wow, will they still love you? One wonders if they will still love you when you're sixty four. I don't know You know. Anyway. Uh that's gonna put a wrap on this episode. Thank you so much. We're gonna have William Paul Young back on the show next week. Jonathan Swipes will have quite a bit more mic time next week Uh by the way, happy Mother's Day to you listening at home or in your car or wherever you are right now. If you missed part of this and you want to catch it, give us about twenty-four to forty-eight hours and what you're listening to right now will be available on the website Wfmd. com keyword faith. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Thank you so much for listening. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now God bless