We deny that civil governments have lawful jurisdiction or authority to remove anyone's right to pursue their livelihood and conduct their affairs in public. A lot of people would disagree with what I just said. That's Article No. 19 from the Warranton Declaration, a medical mandate, biblical ethics and authority. This is episode number four on this subject matter. The goal was to try to get these squeezed into five. We'll see if we can uh finish this up with next week's episode. Well if we're quick about it this week and quick about it next week we will, otherwise we might have to do a sixth show at some point. We'll have to see. Anyway, I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning. with us again. And if you're listening to the podcast, thank you for spending part of whatever day of the week it happens to be. Daniel Razby on the panel. He was feisty last week We agreed with like the first eighteen articles, uh pretty much just right across the board, and then we got to article uh eighteen and uh the wheels came off. Daniel said, No, they're wrong. I can prove it. Listen to me. And we did like almost a whole show on that one. And then uh David Forsky want me to show up now? No, no, no. Then David Forski was like, uh I just think the whole article was too long so I don't like it. And that's pretty much all he had to contribute to that argument argument last year. So Uh I I I was I I was contrarian with David, but by the end of that long conversation I kinda ended up being swung around onto David's point. The article's too long, therefore I disagree with it. Actually I think it should have been like two different articles because they first made the point that it was Not biologic biological at all and then they made a second point that the ceremonial law is defunct now, which I think are two different points. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So this next one I think we're gonna like a lot 'cause it's short The one I just read at the start. Oh really? You deny the civil governments have lawful jurisdiction to remove anyone's rights to pursue their livelihood or and conduct their affairs in public I w I would say uh So last week you ended by saying, look, I think the COVID mandates were totally like illegitimate. And yet You're disagreeing with their arguments that are saying they're legitimate. I think the federal government has lawful jurisdiction to prevent prostitutes from pursuing their livelihood in public. uh or anywhere. Um right, so there clearly are certain livelihoods that the interest government can restrict. And also conducting their affairs in public, yes. I think if you are selling your wares outside Jerusalem on a Sabbath day, the government can prohibit you from doing so, right? So there's clear biblical biblical precedent. I wonder if I've picked up on a trend here. So the f First part of this declaration, first half, section one on authority, we were singing their praises, how strong and clear and definite the language was like this was really well written. And now I'm noticing that we're in section number two, the section on uh application of medical mandates. That we haven't been all that thrilled with how they've formulated and structured progress. The words aren't precise. It feels a little bit I wonder if different people wrote the sections. Like if they had primary writers. They must be. And whoever wrote the first section was like drinking lots of coffee and was nailing it. And the other guy was recovering from a hangover and uh this is what we got. I have a feeling we're gonna we're gonna all end up agreeing with your ultimate conclusion here. Uh probably. Um which is really talked against the this whole pandemic response stuff that we had. predicated on protecting public health as this is not their jurisdiction. And I would say, yes, I agree with that, except in the case of a symptomatic individual. who could be contagious to others that think you lock them down. They that's that's what uh the Leviticus passages are talking about. And possibly somebody who has come into contact with somebody like that. And so again The the the I think the point they're trying to make uh f I'm preferring to read their mind, but based on what we know about this declaration, I think it it's a fair assumption. is they're talking about they have no lawful authority to enact mass lockdowns on people that should be presumed to be healthy. Like there's no reason to assume that they're like there's you're just locking everybody down No matter what, willy nilly. Like if they had added the words uh lawful authority to an act, mass lockdowns. I mean quarantine used to mean a different thing before COVID. Quarantine used to mean you've been exposed to a dandelion disease. It's obvious you've been exposed. We know for a fact. So we're gonna watch you, make sure you don't get sick. And if you don't, then you're fine, right? But you only, not everybody else in your town. And I'm gonna just as a point of personal clarification, uh I'm not I'm not meaning to nitpick, but Quarantine still means that post COVID. It's just that the rest of the world is using the word wrong. Well at a certain point, the word is wrong. But we're gonna uh if if we don't get flagged on social media for this we're ne we we probably never will on this show. But it used to be a vaccine was an inoculation to keep you from getting and spreading the disease. That was the idea Now it now is a therapeutic. They send it to like yeah, the they said uh the COVID vaccine is designed to limit how much symptoms you have after therapeutic for the symptoms. So basically an a by that definition, taking an aspirin for a headache is a vaccine. Like they so so no, vaccine was means what vaccine always meant. It's just that now these so called so called elites the uh the power brokers, they're misusing the word and redefining it illegitimately. They don't have the authority. They're outside their jurisdiction. This is unbiblical. No. No Again, so again, I I would disagree with the precise nature, imprecise nature of the language. We agree with what they mean here, which is the mass lockdowns of people that are not the necessarily obviously exposed to certain diseases, that's not the jurisdiction. But I think targeted quarantines of specific people who have been exposed is a legitimate thing and I think is backed up by scripture. Yeah, I and I had to think about uh the co you're talking about the uh leprosy which came up last week, right? Or any I think that applies to any contagious disease. But yeah, some but I'm using that as like the strong any contagious disease. Yeah, I I mean It's just uh we uh growing up, right? If if you have the flu, you're not gonna come over to somebody's house. I don't wanna make you sick, I have the flu, right? So that's something that you do and you're quanting yourself But if it's gen you know, I I think it I think it's reasonable to to have those practices. I I think any contagious disease is is just far too broad. So so one of the things I was thinking about with the the leprosy, right, is it's uh you can't recover something? Right, according to Hm. You know, except except by divine intervention. Right. You know, as far as Israel was concerned. Uh it is It's you know, i I mean you go to the priest so that there sort of is like an objective person that everybody agrees, okay, they they decide or they they they look at it. They're also practiced at looking at it to see if it is or isn't. Uh but they could A anybody could tell, yes, this is what it is, right? This is the type of thing it is. Um Right, that's true. So I that makes sense. Um there definitely seems to be something about leprosy like that's impossible to recover. Nobody recovers from it. Like rabies. Right. So that's another example, right? Uh uh when I was a k Uh I got bitten by a stray cat and the the animal control came and captured the cat and they watched it for a week because they said, look, if it gets rabies within a week then you we know that you've been exposed to rabies and you should get the rabies shot. Um but if it doesn't get rabies within a week then you haven't been exposed. So they quarantined the cat. But that's an example of a unrecoverable disease. If I got rabies I was gonna die. Right. There's no there's no undoing that. And so Uh maybe that's a better analogy. So that that that that sort of is my thought there. I'm not saying quarantine for the flu or for the cooking. But even if there is a quarantine, I'm trying to think about these jurisdictions and who has the authority, and now everybody by default the government's in charge I don't care what it is, government's in charge of everything. That's how it's become the state, they're controlling everything. But like feeding the poor, right? The church is supposed to be involved with that, but the government's doing it. But I love old movies. I'm a sucker for old black and white movies But they also would oftentimes have storylines that were rooted in things even further back years ago. Like there would you know westerns or or or things about like the seventeen hundreds or you know what I mean? Like they were period pieces and things like that. And it wasn't that the there were you know, people were sick. That was maybe one of the big uh crisis moments in the movie. Scarlet fever. And there was a quarantine. But the government in a lot of these movies, if they were if they're accurate representations of what reality was like in the world, I don't know. But in these movies anyway, the government wasn't mandating the quarantine. To pass through us. It was And it was like a almost like a social compact. Like the doctor would say, Oh my gosh, David, you have this horribly contagious disease, you can be in quarantine and David would say, Okay, and his family would say okay and the pastor would say like everybody it was just a social compact that I don't know who had authority or jurisdiction there, but it wasn't like a top-down mandate from the government. Somebody, if we have any Liberal listeners, uh one of them might now pipe up and say Well, you're making my point for me. Clearly we should listen to the experts on the topic. The doctor was the expert, he diagnosed him, therefore we should all lock down. The expert has spoken. End of discussion. End of debate. That's kind of what they what they talk about. Yeah, except now the the the co the so-called experts have proven they lack any sort of expertise across the board these days. Everything's off the rails, everybody's hair's on fire. So what uh what's also interesting with the example of leprosy with the example of the olden back days. It might not even be the doctor, right? If if there's a disease, scarlet fever running through and the family knows the signs, the family can make that determination. Like, oh my gosh, David's got the fa so it didn't have to be the expert necessarily. But anyway, so in all these examples it's very uh uh it it's th there's a there's a personal examination, right? There it's very individual. Uh it's very uh um Localized, right? The the jurisdiction, the authority is all very localized and is not you know, nationalized. Or globalized. Right, yeah. Yeah. You go you go to your you go to your local priest, right? And your local priests Makes a determination. And the question is we do live in a much more globalized society now though. I mean you can get on the plane tonight and be in Beijing tomorrow. Okay And if I affect anybody there then right then then the local right decides what to do locally. Right. And so wherever You know, and so sure a local could say a local jurisdiction could say, it seems like uh uh so here's a good question. Could you do can can the civil authorities do a lock out? If they can't do a lockdown. Right. I th that that sounds much more reasonable. Which is what happened a lot of times. You couldn't travel between company countries. Right. Now uh does that affect your livelihood? It did for many people. Uh But there are other examples and now that I'm thinking about it in scripture of people that are sick and they're in society, right? Hezekiah was sick. and and the Isaiah d went over and talked to him and clearly other people were around him. Like he wasn't put out. Right. But Nebuchadnezzar, God dis and he was put out. Well yeah, I think of the diseases. I think of the declaration. There are various other diseases mentioned, not just leprosy in the Bible. Right. Yeah. And the way they deal with them sometimes is by expelling and sometimes is by just treating the sickness. Right. So maybe it does have to do but then the question is how does it have to be? What's the line? Because some people do die of the flu. Forget COVID. People do die of the flu. But most people would c not consider the flu to be all that dangerous of a disease. Right. And nobody's starts uh screaming and leaping that oh uh the horror that I got the flu. They're like, Oh that's annoying you know. But they're not they then they're not horrified that they might die generally. Yeah, I th I I think And at the beginning of COVID that was what we were thinking 'cause there was there were stories of a twenty five percent death rate in China. And that's what the news was saying. So for the first few weeks it did seem like everybody was gonna die of COVID and it seemed like it was leprosy. And I think a lot of times And and that's what you said, Troy, on the on the station before, you said that uh some of the churches that did e initially follow those mandates and lockdowns and stuff did so out of great clear conscience and wanting to help other people. And as soon as a few weeks later it was becoming abundantly clear that that was not the case, that this was such a dangerous a disease worthy of all these mandates that they they reverse their positions on it. You don't have any problem with that kind of a church, but you you you're uh preaching against the churches that who are paying very close attention weren't fooled and and immediately recognized we were being lied to. But not every was not everybody is able to pay as close of attention to every little thing that's going on in the world. And so you're just seeing what you know David Muir has to say on the you know, six thirty news on ABC and if he tells you everybody's gonna die, well it must be true until you have time to check it out. And then some pastors checked it out and after a number of weeks or a month, maybe two months max, they realize, okay, this is not checking out. They're lying to us or they're or at least they're mistaken. Then there was those of course who just refused to acknowledge reality and they stayed locked down or shut down or whatever for couple of years even in some cases I think. It's crazy. But it seems like this declaration they're saying if this is not the civil government's jurisdiction. Uh Daniel's not agreeing with that at all. David and I have entered that, well maybe what they're saying it's the ecclesiastical uh thing, which is kind of very sympathetic to that. However, then here comes number twenty one. They got a king and an ace here. Says we affirm that individuals are free to restrict their own movement about society to this end, should they deem it wise to do so. They may not lawfully demand that civil government employ force on their behalf to restrict the liberty of others. So now it seems like they've almost pivoted from it's an ecclesiastical matter to an individual Self governance matter. So I I I going back to the leprosy thing, this is like a uh this is like uh it was in the constitution. Right, like if you will. Right. Right. How how we handle this kind of disease is this way. Everybody knows up front. Okay, that's what we're gonna do. Right. Right. So I I I I think that does have maybe that has some relevance here, right? Is what is the understanding, you know, what the the civil government maybe you maybe we should say the civil government doesn't have you know, an aut an authority in something like a demo you know, a democratic republic unless they're given that authority by the people. Right. So it some of this does does have to do with Maybe the type of government that's in place. Yeah. And not to make this a political thing, but that was part of the challenge that people who are constitutionalists had is If the government in general would be allowed to do this, assuming that that was assigned to them based on what you just said, the constitution as it stands now a fair reading of it anyway, doesn't seem to give the government the kinds of authority that they took it upon themselves to to to demonstrate. uh back in twenty twenty and twenty twenty one. Um it's it's it's unconstitutional is a common refrain I was hearing from my friends, right? This is unconstitutional. I w I was one of the ones warning people, you know what's coming. This is what's coming. I'm telling you, this is coming. Like, oh no, they'll never do that. It's unconstitutional And then they did it. And I said, see they did it. No, but well they can't continue to do it, it's unconstitutional. They couldn't have done it to begin with, so because it's unconstitutional. So you think they're gonna stop doing it because it's unconstitutional? Like listen to yourself And we live in a post Christian, postmodern, post constitutional America. And what do you do? As soon as the first bureaucracy was established, as soon as Congress first delegated something. Right? Yeah. That that was unconstitutional. Now we're a national since we are a nation of middle managers. That's what we've become. We are a nation of middle managers. Middle management is running the show. So so how do you deal with the passage where God tells the Israelites, Oh, you want a king? Okay, let me tell you what the king's gonna do. He's gonna do this, and he's gonna do he's gonna take your sons and your daughters to be servants in his castle, and he's gonna uh force you to fight in his armies, and he's gonna tax you uh uh you know to no end. And he was gonna do all those things. And people was like, Oh yeah, I give us a king anyway, right? Which is really stupid. But the point is, God was telling them, like, this is what a king does And he's almost and then he and then God ordains the king, right? So God said this is what kings do, and then he creates and appoints a king. So it's almost like God saying you could you could end up with a a fleshly king who's gonna do unrighteous things. This is this is what Sinful a sinful man. Yeah, this is what a sinful man who's made king is gonna do. That's what I think the con that's how I would read that, but 'cause God doesn't punish all for doing any of those things that in the long list, with taking servants and raising armies and raising taxes. He punishes Saul for specifically just and merciful God. But he punishes Saul for specifically disobedient his disobeying his commands. And sinning, but not in the way that he governs overall. Yeah. So again, I I think just because God doesn't act immediately in addressing somebody's sin doesn't mean that they're getting a pass. You know, uh that in some ways we have gotten what we've asked for as a country because we've maybe Maybe. I I I know you get the government you deserve that kind of thing. I was just trying to push back on the on the idea that the civil government is extremely limited because of scripture. I I'm I'm wondering if maybe they they do sometimes have more authority just because they are in charge. Uh and that's how God set it up. But um I don't necessarily hold that opinion, I would just kind of bring it up as a counterpoint. Yeah. I mean I I I think th there's a point in there, definitely that All I think your phone died. All all authorities are going to all authorities are going to seek to overstep their authority. Somehow my phone died. I I think I made the mistake of not connecting to the Wi Fi here and it uses more energy. So if you uh if you're listening to this and you're mad that you were listening to this via the video portion and it cut out at this part This is now bonus coverage on the audio. Well sometimes I get bonus coverage on the video, but now this is bonus this is content you'll only hear on the audio. See it works both ways. So who has the jurisdiction? The audio audience or the uh video audience? I don't I don't know. Turn it off or keep it on. Alright, so we're up to uh dosekes II, number twenty two. We deny that such violations of medical freedom by the civil government or the subsequent mandating of vaccines and masks are rightly justified based on the claim that unmasked or unvaccinated persons present a general danger to the health of the public due to virals I agree. And and going back to Leviticus, there's a clear example of people that are symptomatic. But you can no example of, oh, just in general, everybody needs to do X, Y, and Z Um and stay away from each other so that we don't communicate this disease. There's there there's no precedent in the Bible for that. Yeah, I don't know. This is dangerous territory 'cause I mean I'm so tempted to talk about the the merits of these uh so called vaccines and the masks. But it doesn't matter. it masks and and vaccines they could all be proven beyond a shadow of doubt with nobody disagreeing. Every single expert completely agreeing, even the conservative ones completely agreeing. These are one hundred percent effective So, the government does not have the authority to do it. The Bible is very clear on that. And I think that's the point they're making the a and I think it's important that they didn't include talks about the efficacy of such masks or vaccines. So I'm trying to understand the consistency of the argument. So that if I'm understanding it correctly, the government would be able to say, David, you must stay in your house But the government doesn't say unless you put on a mask. No. You can put you can make David stay in his house if it can be shown that he's been exposed to a specific deadly disease. for a time. Say seven days. Seven days, for example, which is what's given in in the scripture. And if he does not show symptoms, he's free to interact in society after that. But having shown symptoms, now he must put on a mask. That's also Assuming they were saying or if if he comes near another person, right? Well yes, that that's the that was the reason it said it said but it said put the covering on your upper lip and cry on clean if somebody comes near you, right? So That's the whole point, is so that you don't spread your bodily fluids that are germified into other people. So that everybody knows I have an employee. I think I think the covering on the upper lip is what is the only thing that you that you can you can say if it's mandated. All right, number 230 here. Well, this is probably the last one for today. We affirm that it is the Christian duty of each family to seek the well-being of their neighbor. and that this includes adopting reasonable practices for the symptomatically ill to refrain from knowingly exposing their neighbors, especially in a crowded or public context Each Christian should seek to live at peace with all men in a manner that displays the love of Christ in obedience to the law of God. I don't really love this one, but I'll let you guys go first. I think I think it's actually I I I agree with it. Okay. Uh yeah, I mean I I think that last line leaves a lot of room for r wacky interpretations? Well, so they before before they got here they said okay The the civil the civil authorities don't have jurisdiction here. Right. So they they establish that first and then they say now it is a matter of Essentially it's a it's a matter of of discernment and and conscience. In the family. Yeah, but there's there's the thing I don't like about this is they make it specific to the Christian family and I'm willing to bet that three percent of the American population is Christian, so the other ninety-seven percent have no jurisdiction over them of how to handle this. That's I I i th like w what's what's the enforcement mechanism here? So then just just remove the word Christian. It's the duty of each family. They put the word Christian here well more than once. I I I think I think the idea there well, yeah, that's true. I you know, I I think part of it is okay. It's the Christian duty. Only the Christians are gonna be following this document in the first place. It's written to Christians. Yeah, but this is about the application. This is how to take all these principles that we think are biblical and how to make it work in the real world. How does this apply when the rubber meets the rubber? How does it apply No, I don't know. I think it's it's how does it apply to Christians? Because it's written to Christians saying which things do you obey and not obey And they're saying, Well, you are a Christian, you can do this and you don't have to do this and you can choose to do this and then you must do this. So if you're a Christian in government and you agree with them, you're gonna say, Okay, I as the governor of the state of Maryland don't have the authority to mandate lockdowns or mandate masks or whatever. Whatever. It's incumbent upon all the Christian families to do that on their own when you know in the state of Maryland, heck, it's probably three percent nationwide that are Christian, it's probably one percent. I think you're Maryland's Christian. No, i I mean it would be What what they are saying is if you are a curtain in a place of civil authority that you say, okay, this is this is up to families. Yeah, I think because I I think that God's law, um certainly Christians should abide by it, but it's not merely the cr so I I think I read the word Christian. I think I would like this. Right? We affirm that it is the duty of each family to seek the well being of their neighbor. Just because you're not Christian, you don't get to get out of jail free cards and be mean to your neighbor. Yeah, I I think you're overthinking it because this this was clearly written to the Christians. We oh we're we're we're way out of time. I've got to wrap up this the faith debate. Daniel, David, I'm Troy. Find us online at Household of FaithThenChrist. com. Till next week, 167 hours from right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.