This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but that's what in less than 30 minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble. Ow! Yeah! In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Joy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John. So weiser. The Shack is a movie that has raked in tens of millions of dollars at the box office. It's now available on DVD. Before that, the Shack was A book at the top of the best seller lists now with more than twenty million copies in print and counting. That is a host a lot of books Shack has sold more copies than The Godfather, more than Jaws, The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn, more than The Grapes of Wrath, The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy, The Old Man in the Sea. Yes, even more than The Exorcist, Catch 22, and The Cat in the Hat. And the joy of sex. But as far as I know, it has not sold more than Who Moved My Cheese and so the author, William Paul Young, shouldn't allow his head to get Too big. Uh Paul Young is uh on the show, joining us long distance by telephone today, and uh this is a technological experiment for us, and so far We're weathering the storm okay, but I'm not sure that uh William Paul Young is gonna be any better for this experience when it's over. He's having a hard time sometimes hearing what we have to say. So anyway. Let's reset the stages a little bit. Uh if you haven't read the track, you haven't seen the movie yet, what's wrong with you? Uh go do so, you know, get yourself up to speed w what people are talking about. If you don't want to do that, at least go listen to the podcast at the beginning part of last week's show and you can kind of get a a quick rundown of what the story in the shack is all about. Uh but kind of resetting just a little bit, in the acknowledgments in the back of the shack Um William Paul Young himself is quoted as saying that the book shows the ways in which God works. And we read in the back pages of the book that it offers a quote magnificent glimpse into the nature of God, that it offers one of the most poignant views of God and how he relates to humanity. Now some might think is is Mac dreaming? Mac is the main character in the story. Is he dreaming or hallucinating? Uh but in the shack w whatever the situation, he ha is presented as having an encounter with God. At least this is what the book intends for us to understand. And so the question is Is it God, the the the real God, the biblical God? There are critics who have their their qualms, but there are great uh supporters who sing the praises of the book as well. So Uh I monopolized last week's show quite a bit because Jonathan Schweitzer wasn't here from the beginning of the show. So in fairness, I'm going to let John Ask the very first question on this week's show. It seems only fair. Might be the only question it gets asked though. We'll see. So um so last week we talked just a little bit about Um uh Paul, you were saying how Christ is um he's the revelation of God that when God came close to us in Christ, in the incarnation, that that uh that's when we came to understand uh even This is my language, not yours, even some of the terminology of the Old Testament that we couldn't even understand holiness uh until we saw Christ and even his relationship with the Father that we couldn't understand righteousness and and uh you know um uh you know, justification, whatever the issues were that that Christ kind of represents that. And so um Kind of a question that I think is is pretty important uh you know for establishing on the front end is how is it that we know what Christ was like? Like what what is our standard for knowing what he was like? Uh how would you answer that question? I'd say Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John and uh and then the other writers as they had a revelation themselves of the person of Jesus. But that's That's where I would go. Right, so that's an obvious question and um and uh th you know the reason for asking a question like that is just to help to establish Um, you know, like where are the places where you and I uh in in Troy might already be on the same page? Uh, and then kind of explore a little bit. So where is it, you know, maybe where we diverge, you know, 'cause that's where the interesting conversations happen, not when we just start uh claiming that I know where you stand on things, but kinda exploring it a little bit. And so, um, would you say that Matthew, uh, Mark I don't know how to ask this question without sounding like I'm I'm just leading. And so uh it it seems to me that there's different ways to approach the word of God in terms of how trustworthy it is and how uh like um how much of of the nuances that we see in the Gospels should be definitive for us in terms of kind of defining than who God, the Holy Spirit, you know, different ones are. You know, and so some people accuse conservatives of bibliolatry uh you know, caring too much about the word of God. And I think your view of scripture, it sounds like you're inspired by it, that that it has a strong influence on you. But could you just characterize like how you approach the word of God kind of compared to some of the historical approaches to the Word of God. Um and historical you mean a hundred years old? Do you mean a thousand years old? Uh early church the way they approached it. Uh yeah, so there's a lot of um historical data to unwrap there. So maybe what I'm asking is uh the the the approaches that that might be like the broad categories in the last hundred, two hundred years uh where would you see yourself as uh fitting uh you know in in some of those categories? Is that an okay way to ask that? Sure, sure, sure. So uh and and I say this, and this is a conversation I have with my own people a lot, and that is I believe in the infallible, inerrant word of God, and his name is Jesus That's that's where I start the conversation. And because scripture never claims either of those elements for itself and the way that the New Testament writers even refer to the Old Testament or the Hebrew Scriptures is that they're they're reinterpreting it oftentimes and saying that no there's there's there are things about the way that those in the Hebrew scriptures in the Old Testament looked at the character of God and were wrong. They were wrong. But uh um everybody is looking from the New Testament through the person of Jesus at what was written before. So I ask a quick question, like an example of how the Old Testament um is reinterpreted because I think probably you and I differ in in our understanding of that and that that would just kind of I think be helpful for you and I to uh you know kind of identify to the extent that's the case. For example, Paul who is a expert in the U in Jewish thinking and and rabbi school. He is the greatest mind taught by Gamelliel. And he quotes section of scripture from the Old Testament. And in the Old Testament it says, Cursed by God is every man who hangs upon a tree. There is a a a rule in interpretation that repetition without redundancy equals interpretation. That is, if I repeat something that somebody says, but not exactly Then I'm interpreting what they said. And so when Paul quotes that same passage, he quotes it, cursed is every man who hangs upon a tree. He takes the by God part off And that is interpretation. He is saying that no, it's not by God that anybody is cursed who hangs upon a tree We did that. We cursed that person, which is exactly what Isaiah says. You know, we're the ones that turned our face away. We spat on him. And then Isaiah says, and we esteemed him stricken by God So by the time Isaiah comes, Isaiah is making a comment about that too. It is not God who curses someone on on the tree. It is human beings who do that. So it looks like John tapped me on the shoulders. He wants to ask a follow-up of a question. So um uh so I would argue, so this is definitely a place where you and I are uh are diverging from one another. So it's uh just helpful again as a marker. That um I find uh a whole number of places in the New Testament where it's clear that God has wrath, that God punishes sin that um that uh that God is active in uh in bringing judgment uh and not just passive. Uh and in fact those many whom I've spoken with who argue that God is passive in that and that really we just feel the weight of our own sin. Uh they even take that in the Old Testament. Like they find places in the Old Testament where they feel like God is passive and So um again I uh w when I read the New Testament, um I uh I find you know, in Thessalonians, uh for that matter, Romans, Ephesians, Revelation, uh, and Christ Himself uh noting uh that that the master when he comes is going to kill uh the servants in the parables Right? Uh say for example. And so um I feel like we're hard pressed to say that the New Testament somehow has shifted along those lines, except to say that the fullness of that wrath has been poured out on Christ. So, oh, you're saying that the fullness of the wrath of God was poured out on Christ? Is that what you're saying or are you disagreeing with that Uh I am saying that it was poured out on Christ, but I'm also but but that doesn't mean that um that that those that reject Christ uh do not face wrath. In fact My understanding from the New Testament in a number of places is that is that the wrath of God remains on those who do not uh choose Christ. So um what is the intention of that rap? Actually if I this is Troy again jumping in, by the way, this is the Fate Debate on 930 WFMD. We're joined uh this we Again by William Paul Young, the author of the very well known The Shack. Jonathan Sweitzer is the other voice you're hearing on the show, of course And you can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith will get you directly to the Faith Debate page. I I think another way of maybe asking the question that John's getting at, uh Papa in the story says, I don't need to punish people for sin. It's not my purpose to punish it. Sin is its own punishment. Exactly. So but if God doesn't punish for sin with death, uh what would be the the reason from your view of why Jesus died Because Jesus has to defeat sin, death and Satan as a human being, because we're the ones that introduce them. And so he's got to go to the place of greatest loss. So his his death is necessary. And he does it not only as us, but we're in him. You know that's the that's the argument in Corinthians. When he died, we died. When he rose, we rose. Because we are in him. All of creation is created in him. And so the the death of Jesus, the resurrection of Jesus, and the ascension Particularly the ascension, because that's what Moses and Elijah came to talk to him about on the mountain of transfiguration, is the restoration of humanity in terms of its authority when it uh when it uh absolutely destroyed it from the beginning and uh through Adam. So it's not you know, 'cause punishment doesn't change anything. Punishment doesn't heal anything. And I believe that God is not a God who Who stands idly by, as McDonald says, but but this is a God who is a flaming fire of fury, but that fury is love, and the intention of that love is restoration and healing. So then along these lines and is I'm sorry I didn't want to cut you off. Go ahead. No, no, no, go ahead. Um what's your view on hell? Is there a hell and if so, does anybody go there? Hell hell is a relationship to love. Hell is if you want to hold on to your stuff Potentially forever you can continue to say no. But I don't I don't believe that you cease the ability to choose at death. That has all kinds of problems And um but so hell is a relationship to love. You want to hold on to your stuff, the presence of love that you cannot separate yourself from will be hell to you. The process of of the healing journey that is open to you will be hell to you. If you want to let your crap go, your darkness go, the presence of love. will be heaven to you. So it is m is not about a spatial destination because even even in hell however you uh understand it to be, you're not separated from God. There is no separation. Separation is something that religion absolutely needs in order to exist. But there is no separation. All of creation is created in Christ, which means that hell, however you look at it, is is created by a good God with a good intention and it is created in Christ. And so you're not going to escape from you're not going to escape the love of God. No one who is in Christ, that is the entire cosmos created in Christ. No one can be separated from the love of God. Not anything present, not anything future, not life nor death can separate you, nor any created thing. So it sounds like you're saying that this person has has the power to separate themselves from the love of God. No, it sounds like you're saying that if anybody goes to hell, they go there temporarily, I guess, uh and that eventually uh w God's love will win out. Love wins, so to quote Rob Bell. Uh so So is that what you heard me say? Well i it's uh you're saying that no one will escape the the love of of Christ uh And that and that includes the cosmos you can do. Did you hear did you hear me say that potentially someone can say no forever Yeah, but oh uh okay. So that well so that is a point of clarification because I've heard you after that say that uh and in the end basically n Christ wins because uh N everybody is going to be redeemed in Christ because the whole cosmos is in Christ. But maybe I misunderstood, so I'm glad you're No, every everybody is already created in Christ. That's I mean, that's orthodox early church theology. But nothing has come into being apart from him. Everything, and go back to Colossians 1, 16 and 17, everything that is created, both the visible and the invisible, was created in him So there's no separation right from the beginning. You won't meet a person who is not in Christ. Except new that we're told the except that we're told in Ephesians chapter one that um you also were included in Christ when you believed. Right? And so um so what I hear you saying is that is that uh that there's a creation in Christ that is the primary focus of all the the New Testament emphasis about in Christ and and what we're saying is that uh is that the New Testament indicates that that those that don't choose to believe in Christ than are not in Christ, i. e. John 15, where Jesus says, if my words remain in you and you remain in me, you will bear much fruit. Uh and so he clarifies there in and uh again in Ephesians one and several other places that being in Christ is that's not an eschatological passage. He's he's not saying He is just making a statement of fact. You know, if you want to hold on to your darkness, you're not going to bear the fruit of of the life uh that is yours in Christ, even though you're in Christ. Right, and so so have lots of crap going on in your life. Right. So I'm just clarifying that the way that you interpret some of those passages is is uh is different from my understanding of classical Christianity that in Christ is your understanding of what I missed that sorry. Of classical Christianity that in Christ is something that refers to those who have uh become uh believers in Jesus Christ that have chosen Jesus Christ. And you're saying that that it's not that in Christ is not something that's based on being chosen, but it's something that's based on um just having been uh created uh uh just by by uh by being. And I would disagree that that the position that I'm espousing uh is not classical Christianity. This is the early church. This is Athanasius Irenaeus. And Hillary, this is the early church desert mothers and fathers that are that would say what I'm saying. What modern uh evangelicalism is the idea of separation, that you are that you can remove yourself from being in Christ, that you have the capacity to do that. The early church, quoting Athanasius is if you are not in Christ, you will lapse into non-being. There is nothing that is outside of Christ. So that would be the classic position. The modern position i is the one that I'm uh uh opposed to that uh says that look if you're if you are Uh you can you have the power to separate yourself from Christ. That you can do that and still exist. And the early church would have said that's absolutely crazy. Is there a uh in in in your understanding of things, is there a judgment day coming? Of course. There are ages of judgment. According to the Greek, Ionias is plural as well as it is singular. So Yes, and what is it? Everybody gets salted with fire. What is the purpose of fire? And what is the purpose of salt It's both redemptive and it's restorative. All the language with regard to fire is restorative. And and there's a there's a big issue in terms of Is hell punitive and retributive or is it restorative in nature? The intention is restorative, according to Jeremiah Jeremiah's viewpoint, he's the one that, you know, penned Lake of Fire because he was talking about the uh Hinn Valley in which the m uh Marduk priests were were slaughtering children by burning them. And so he took a a big army in there and just leveled the place with fire, burned the place down. And it was the lake of fire. But the purpose of it was to cleanse and restore And that becomes the symbol of that point of view in terms of of hell. And so every time Jesus quotes Or every time Jesus says the word Gehenna every single time in the New Testament, he quotes Jeremiah Just so you know that he's in the line of Jeremiah. And then it's fascinating that in the book of Acts, which contains all the early major sermons, hell is not even mentioned once at all. And so it's like, oh okay. It's obviously not Dante's infernal. And and so if we want to have a conversation about him about eternal conscious torment, let's let's do that because it's got it's got major problems You know, what do you do with the unborn? What do you do with the mentally ill? What you know, what do you do with those who have never heard? All of those things which you know, and I know some of the classic conversations in regard to it, because I I learned them in seminary and Bible school. And uh but uh there are some issues with regard to that. So for me, hell What however you just even if it's a um a place, a destination, it is not one in which you are uh you can escape the love of God God is good. God creates a very good creation. And so can you point me to good intent. Can you point me to a passage that uh in scripture that's that that shows somebody uh moving from hell to heaven Like like what what what gives us the impression that that we can go from one to the other? You know, the passage says that it's appointed to a man wants to die and then the judgment, right? In in the passages that talk about hell, you know, it's it you know talks about the word Sorry, go ahead. As w uh rather than this is a God who is g who is going to separate in your heart and life the distinction between that which is true and that which is false. So you're right, I am referring to that, but the question is why am I referring to it as a singular event And part of it is that very passage that I quoted that it's appointed to a man once to die and then the judgment. And so yes it's true that God's a God that's making judgments, you know, like all the time. Yeah, I would agree with that. Uh however, uh this is referring to you know to a to a single moment where You know, the books are gonna be opened and you're gonna give uh give a an account of your life for every word that's been said. And so at that point it's appointed to a man once to die and then the judgment, not to m not to die once and then to be judged, judge, judge, judged, you know, over and over again. It's a one time scenario. So what are the ages of judgment? Well that might be a question that uh Jonathan can answer at the beginning of next week's show because Unfortunately, if this were a true podcast, we could just go on until we're all done or blue in the face. But we have time constraints because it's also a radio show. So we're gonna have to wrap it up here William Paul Young, author of The Shack, is on the show today. Jonathan Sweitzer is the other voice you've been hearing. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Again, if you've missed last week's show or this week's show in its entirety and you want to hear them, uh go on the website and you can hear a podcast of Last Week's show now. And give us a couple of days and you'll be able to hear a podcast of uh today's show. Uh usually usually it's up and running by Tuesday morning, so don't hold me to that, but sometimes even Monday afternoon. So you never know It's up to our webmaster. I have no control over that. And and it's up to God's will, let's be honest, right? Uh until next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless