This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master of the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. KUA where Faith Community Leaders are. Wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a more Corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Oh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. The Shack. has a good setup. It's emotionally tugging. Easy to connect with personally. Wrestling with questions that we all grapple with, at least sometimes, through the use of a simple plot with simple characters The author attempts to reveal his answers to compelling and challenging questions. Why is there evil in the world? Where is God when there's tragedy? What is the meaning and purpose to life? And these answers have led some Christians onto a battlefield in a sort of civil war. With the faith debate for a fourth time in a four-part series is the author of The Shack, William Paul Young. Known as Paul to his friends, so Jonathan and I will be calling him William for the duration of the uh recording session. Is that right? Okay. Well we all we all go by our middle name. Well that has always been the standard abbreviation for William, so you know It was put on the first manuscript as a joke for my kids. In fact the first manuscript had said uh the shack by Mackenzie Allen Phillips with William P. Young. And uh you know, because I didn't expect it to be published So the the William part stuck and I've had friends call me up and go, Hey, hey Paul, have you read this book by this William Young? I mean he thinks like you He's he's crazy that guy. Have you read his book? He's a heretic, yeah. So let me let me ask uh selfishly, I've got a couple of questions. When I first found out that we're gonna have an opportunity to have you on the show, there were uh two questions very related to each other that I wanted to be able to ask you because I haven't seen anybody else interact with these questions. And I was like, ooh, I have a chance to ask him. So there are a couple of famous people in your book that you mention. You mentioned Bill Moyers Uh and for the uninitiator, those who have forgotten who he is, uh Bill Moyers um uh is is famous for among other things for being the host of PBS's Faith and Reason. Uh Moyers was an ordained Baptist minister, and he has since described himself as neither wholly a believer nor wholly a skeptic. Uh and yet uh he's described as a favorite and a and a brilliant man who expresses the truth with an unusual with unusual clarity uh within the pages of the shack. So I I think it's fair to say that uh Bill Moyers would be a self-professing partial skeptic, and yet he's held up in the shack as somebody holding the truth. And so I'd like to kind of get your your take on that. And then my follow-up is going to have to do with uh Bruce Coburn Well oh good. I'm so glad you're gonna break covert into this. That's so great. But um and in the book, Moyers is simply on the TV that um that uh Mackenzie's watching when he's after he's hit his head on on the on the ice. So it's it's not like um there's any big deal about Bill Moyer. I just appreciate how hard he works at his craft and how much he he really tries to to get to the core of of something. So I just thought I'd throw throw that in. And and I think I was watching Bill Moyer when I was working on on uh deception anyway. So I I will say it caught my attention. Again, because of the the the um The adjectives that were used in the book when he was described as a quote unquote favorite, a quote unquote brilliant man, a quote unquote truth with the usual clarity guy. I was like, Bill Moyers, really? From from my Christian perspective, I don't think that he expresses the truth with unusual clarity. So that's uh caught my attention. Anyway, um, maybe I've watched him a lot more than you have. Uh Bruce Coburn, uh aga again, in case you know somebody listening doesn't know who Bruce Coburn is, singer-songwriter, and he shows up recurringly in the book. Either Uh and and maybe more than I even noticed, but he shows up either by name or by song on at least four pages of the shack. And if you're scoring at home, I noticed it on pages thirty-nine, one eighteen, one thirty-four, and one forty-four Uh what's the reason for such a prominent role for Mr. Coburn in the book? Uh because he's my favorite artist. Um I I love Bruce's work. I think he's one of the best uh lyricists on the planet and uh he's definitely one of the best guitarists. Um but I've uh I've followed him since the nineteen seventies. Seventy six I think what it might have been his first first album. He's got thirty-two albums or something like that. And uh has been very prolific. Well known internationally, much more than than uh in the West um and pretty much every genre of music. So um how how well well how familiar are you with his his take on spiritual things? Um uh you know, uh I'm part of the reason because I put him in the book that he ended up being contacted by a publisher and saying, Would you write a spiritual memoir? And he said What is that? And they said, Exactly. We don't know either, but we think you're the person that should do it. So he did he wrote one. And um and so it has a lot in there about his own spiritual journey. And I'm I'm quite familiar with it. It's called Rumors of Glory, by the way. And um so I I know that he's a person who loves Jesus. I know that he struggled with the politics of the world and he um the social injustice in the world and I know that he grappled with s all kinds of different ideologies at different times and was really honest about that journey and has you know, I know he plays for a worship band at a church in San Francisco Uh and an evangelical church. Okay. Yeah, I don't know where he is right now. I do know that uh there was there's an interview out there, uh rather lengthy interview with Bruce Coburn that he conducted a year before your book came out Uh back in 2006 he did an interview and during he says things like, I flirted with Buddhism, I sort of moved into the occult, studied the tarot, I tried for a minute or two to be a fundamentalist Christian, and since then I've fallen under the influence of Sufi writers of Hindu teachings through yoga studies and various other things and the search continues. And then he talks about other sorts of New Age stuff and and paganism and I mean he's he's uh At least in the interview, he presents a pretty outside the mainstream quote unquote Christian view if if he was even trying to advocate for one at the time. So it was interesting that that interview, you know, came out W was was conducted right before the book came out and I was wondering if there was a connection there or not. But it sounds like maybe there wasn't a direct connection. I I've never heard the interview, so uh I didn't use any of that. But I can tell you about the music and I can tell you about the songs. that are just riddled with redemption and gospel and and uh and the fact that he he's done searching in all these different directions uh he's just you know, he's a searcher and he's honest about it. I know where he is now and um so I don't I don't have any problem uh having him quoted in in the book. In fact, in the movie where Pop is singing Only Love Can Break Your Heart by Neil Young. She wa she was supposed to be singing a Coburn song, but right after that she asked Mackenzie, So how'd you sleep? And he said, Fine. And because he'd had nightmares all night long and you know he's doing the doing the thing where he's not being a truth teller. And uh she says, you know, dreams are important. Sometimes they're a way of opening up the window, letting the bad air out. That's a Coburn line. So so there is um There's a lot of pieces of of Coburn's history and his music that I definitely relate to. I could I could almost write my autobiographical story using Coburn songs as far as just headlines. And uh, you know, dialogue with the devil. Uh he came from the mountain which is all about the incarnation. Um on and on and on. There's just Hundreds of songs. And before we dive into real media stuff again, one more selfish question. There's some interesting names of of of uh of places and the cat I'm just wondering if there's anything into it. There's a cat named Judas. Uh the characters travel through Hell's Canyon, Snake River, Seven Devil's Lookout. They go through the l the town of Lostine. Uh there is there any hidden meaning any of that or is that just something that my hyperanalytical mind picked up on? These are all places in Oregon. Well I I I know they're real places, but y you could have set the story Yeah, in different pla I don't know. It just seems there were so many of those kinds of names for places where we used real places that we we went camping at. So we camped in the Wallawas and And uh all of that is up in uh in the eastern Oregon part. Um up there's probably a whole bunch of more like that too. Okay, well now back um into more serious matter. Jonathan touched on it towards the end of last week's show and so we'll kinda pick up there He was talking about the idea of uh whether or not the the Godhead, th the the Father, Son, Holy Spirit, and you actually talked about it a little bit too, can be separated or not separated and that sort of thing. And uh uh one of the most popular critiques of the shack uh is the critique that it advances modalism. That uh that and and part of the argument for that is you know Papa uh uh says that uh she um at that point papa's a she later in the book papa is is a he but uh papa she was um you know on the cross with Jesus. I don't know if the book does, but I know in the movie you can if you pay close attention, you can see scars on the on the on the hands or wrists of uh the Holy Spirit characters there are you So uh so it sounds like you're saying that all three members of the Godhead are on the cross. And is that your position? And and if so, how is that not some sort of uh Patripassionism, uh Sibelianism, modalism, like all of these her heretical kind of terms that get thrown at the book. How how are those critiques not accurate? Um I'm sure you're assuming that all your listeners understand these terms? Well, I figure in your answer you're gonna help them to understand what what they mean. is that that God operates in three modes. That like uh I'm a dad and I'm a brother and I'm a husband, but I'm I'm just one person. So modalism would state that you can never have uh different persons in the same event situation or time. Which Anybody that reads this act would say, that's just an absurd accusation because obviously there is a interaction of relationship between three persons But and that denies modalism. So I I just don't even begin to understand the accusation of modalism at all. But when they're presented all as hanging on the cross, I mean that that's that's an accurate. Let's go back to that. And that's And that's from the early church. I didn't pull that out of nowhere. Um some of the earliest icons we have, the Father and the Spirit, are nailed to the cross behind Jesus. Um and the the reason for that is is that um uh partly out of a passage in Isaiah and partly because you can't have one member of the Trinity uh have an experience that the other uh persons of the Trinity do not encounter also. And um so it's it's not saying that uh the father is crucified for our sins. Jesus is the incarnate man, capital M, human being. But the Father and the Spirit are in him. And so experience that. That's all that that is trying to say. The passage in Isaiah is and um and unfortunately we have somewhat of a negative translation of it, and that is And he, the Father, laid on him, Jesus, the iniquity of us all. But the Greek, I mean the the Hebrew uses the term paga, P-A-G-A, and it means to encounter And and some of the translations do it do that justice. They say that it was in Jesus that the Father and the Spirit were able to encounter the iniquity of us all. And and that was the question. How did that early church question? How does the early how does Jesus encounter, or how does the Father and the Spirit encounter our iniquity except in the person of Jesus, in the incarnation. And therefore, you know, there there was never any separation between the persons of the Trinity with regard to the crucifixion. Well here let me ask you this on page ninety nine the character Papa says when w which is representing the the the uh the father uh of the Trinity says when we spoke ourselves into human existence as the Son of God, we became fully human. Who's the we? Isn't it the Holy Spirit, the Father and the Son? Isn't that who you Absolutely, because you can't have the decision made arbitrarily by one apart from the others. So is your theological view that the Father and the Holy Spirit also became fully human, that they also became flesh and blood They experienced humanity in Christ. So so while not being see the thing about pericures, which is the early church word for the Trinity, how they relate to one another, it is the mutual interpenetration or union of one with the other without the loss of personhood. So the Father and the Spirit are able to enter into our experience in Christ. who becomes fully human but is still fully God. Fully God. And so again, there's no separation. It's not trying to to create a um some some understanding of the Trinity that is that is not uh uh accepta acceptable to the early church in terms of orthodoxy. Um it's just saying that you you cannot have the experience of of one of uh the persons of the Trinity without it also being the experience of the others. Now I've selfishly grabbed the first half of this final show and so I probably in fairness need to let Jonathan uh jump in and ask at least one or two questions that might be on his His mind and heart. Yeah, we we are coming from different paradigms, no doubt. I d I do not hold to penal substitutionary atonement theory and and some of the other things that that I I know that are dear to him. But I I so distinctly appreciate um the openness and the kindness of his of this conversation. I just wanted to s mention that in passing Okay. Do you want to take the mic, John? Okay, well then I'm going to ask one more question and then by the way I'll reset real quickly. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD with William Paul Young as our guest on the Faith Debate. He's the author of The Shack. Perhaps you've heard of the books seen the movie. Uh Jonathan Sweites are on the show. I'm Troy Schooner. On page 145, uh the Jesus character says, quote, Papa is as much submitted to me as I to him or Sariu to me, and I'm not sure if we're pronouncing all these names exactly right. So Forgive me if I'm not or Papa to her. In fact, we are submitted to you in the same way. He's talking to the character Mac. Now the main character Mac asks, how can that be? Why would the God of the universe want to be submitted to me? Now that sounds like a good question, isn't it? So how do you, Paul, answer that? Because I don't think you really exactly answer it in the chat. That's a to me that's an easy one. And that is Uh, you know, how many times has God come to you and said, Hey, uh I uh you are such uh you you do such a bad job of making choices that I'm just gonna do it You know, this is a God who constantly works with what we bring to the table. And the crucifixion, the cross, is exactly the probably the prime example You know, God doesn't build crosses. Uh human beings create torture devices, execution devices. And so how does God destroy it? By submitting to it. This is a God who submits by nature. And that again is early church, the father submitting to the son, submitting to the spirit. It's the great dance of pericuresis, this relationship between three persons who are absolutely one. And So the cross then becomes this monumental example of a God who submits by nature. And by that submission, not only destroys the power of that cross and destroys death itself but is able to transform this torture device that we brought to the table into an icon and a monument of grace. So God is not going to say submit one to another when it's not already true about the nature and character of God uh within the very being of God uh in terms of this triune relationship. Sure. Um But to assume that a hierarchy uh is automatically um like antithetical to mutual submission uh again feels to me like we're reading too much uh we're we're we're uh we we have a category problem, right? So So Jesus is the head of the church, you know, uh just as um you know as he submits to his father right in the speak up because I'm losing about f Forty-five percent of what you're saying. Yeah, so just uh making the point that um that you know Christ is the head of the church, just just as the Father is the head of Christ, right, that there's that there's headship issues that don't uh violate uh uh uh mutual submission, that mutual submission is not somehow um uh hindered by hierarchy um is something that We seem to see all through scripture that uh again to you know to say that the hierarchy is somehow antithetical to that seems to take it just too far. So I uh I'm going to uh well see I look at the passage like the first Corinthians eleven passage that you were just using, and I and I don't see that as hierarchy. I see it as a w what's called a Hebrew ring syllogism. It's where Christ is the beginning and Christ is the end. Uh and it creates a ring. It creates a circle. Christ is the the head of every man and the man is the head of the woman and God is the head of Christ. And it's done that way Later in that passage he's going to say, However, in the Lord, neither is the woman independent of the man nor the man independent of the woman, for as the woman originates from the man So the man also has his birth through the woman, originates from her, and all things originate from God. So to me the context of a passage like that is not to create a sense of hierarchy at all. It's to talk about origin and source And yet the language that is used the language that is used in there is the language of headship, of um, you know, roles that are to be played. And um, you know, for that for that matter, the uh 1 Corinthians 15 that says that, you know, all things will uh Christ will turn all things back over to the Father. There's still a um a uh uh uh you know just a a a sense of primacy and a r yeah respect, you know, I would use all the all that language, but but at the heart of it is still uh aspects of hierarchy that are redeemed and so likely very different from how we interact with them now and yet uh yet there's still hierarchy. There's still things there that we need not be uh afraid of just because they've been abused uh by other people in the church. And this this is probably uh m a a similar uh concern that I have about the the use of the word religion that that um you know you said religion is something that that is a modern or a more recent phenomenon which is uh it's a phenomenon interesting to me. It's a human creation. It's not it doesn't originate in God. God's never been religious Sure, uh though all of the law was given by God, right? And so whatever system, you know, that God created there uh you know, we call that a religious system. Uh and uh certainly the Egyptians had their own religious system. One, you know, the Israeli uh system, the he the the Jewish system being a uh a a system given by God and the other system being a system that is uh that is man-made. Uh same thing, you know, in the New Testament that uh the body of Christ, elders, deacons, all of these kinds of things. Like that's that's God's idea. That's uh you know, Paul and the apostles setting up structures inside of congregations that have uh organizational uh benefit to the body of Christ that are uh part and parcel that that would be religion that is not man-made but that certainly man uh engages in and so uh to write those things off Similar to hierarchy seems to me like we're going too far, like we're throwing the baby out with the bathwater. Just because there's hypocritical hierarchies out there that are given to tyranny. Just because there's hypocritical religious systems uh doesn't mean that the Bible doesn't uh give to us uh from God very effective um systems, you know, that that if we can catch uh what the Bible is teaching us uh are full of life and full of um love and grace that are very meaningful. And and I would say that the that the systems, say, of the old covenant and all that were accommodations to human brokenness. You know, the invitation to the uh tribe of Israel is to come up onto the mountain and have a face to face relationship and they're the ones that put out a priesthood. And then God accommodates to us, just like he accommodates to a king. It was never intended to be a king, other than that relationship with God at the center. And so to me I see these things as a again um the accommodation of a God who submits to what we bring to the table and then finds a way to climb in it and do good things, you know. Um missions can be destructive or missions can be beneficial But it doesn't it doesn't justify the structure itself. Same with politics. Pol po you know, political systems can do good things. And um obviously missionaries did many good things uh but they also did a whole bunch of not so good things. It's because we brought it to the table and it is the redeeming genius of God to climb into the systems that we bring to the table and to make good out of out of things that that we participate in. I don't think it's um saying that, okay, so God God is a religious being and that's why we have religion. I think we are religious beings. That's why we needed a sacrifice And the prophets tell us that God hated sacrifice and intended to put an end to sacrifice. Well that's gonna put a a wrap on the the fourth and final uh uh part of our series here. Thank you so much. William Paul Young He is the uh author of The Shack. I'm Troy Skinner. We've been joined of course by Jonathan Sweitzer on the show again. We can do another four shows, another four shows, another four shows. I don't think we'll ever quite exhaust this 100%. But uh thanks so much. Find us online WFMD. com until next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.