Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Troy Skinner, also the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, and therefore you can find me online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. Joined this week by Well, we're back for some more fisticuffs over the Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics and Authority. Daniel Razby with Concord by Love Ministries, ConcordBylove. org and uh a church, a house church that meets in the Thurmont area. And We still don't have a name for it. The Whackamole Church, David Forcey pastors them. They they they meet in various uh and sundry places throughout the uh Uh we decided the Tri-State Potomac area. There we go. That sounds really impressive actually, right? He's pastor of the Tri-State Potomac Region House Church. Right? I mean that's like it's gotta be huge. What do you have like thousands? No. Nope. That's all right. Alright, so uh if you were listening to the last number of shows, you kinda know what's going on. If not, let me just give you a real quick teaser of what's happening here. We've been working uh this year uh for months now really with with with a few uh pauses to to address uh some other issues along the way. But for the most part we've working through the some historic proclamations that uh and declarations that have been published by entities within the church over the last like fifty years or so. We've been going through them in chronological order. And so we're up to the Warranton Declaration now, which is only a couple of years old, came out in 2021. And I wonder why. Anything happened like in twenty twenty, twenty twenty one that might have made them put out a declaration on medical mandates, biblical ethics and uh I can't think of any dangerous diseases that happened around that time. Yeah, or authoritative overreach. Nothing. Nothing comes to mind Yes, I'm not sure why they did it, but we're just following along. So don't blame us. You know, don't cancel us. We're we're I'm sure I'm sure they were thinking preemptively and not reactionary. Exactly, yeah, because uh I mean to be honest, we don't even want to do this topic, but It it was next in line. As we're going in historical, you know, c uh order, right? Yes. So let's read number twenty four. So we're in section two for for those reading along at home. Um this is yeah, number twenty-four. Uh affirmation and denial. Oh, this one's in denial. Number twenty-four, we deny that the existence of communicable viruses, viral testing mechanisms, or the invention of Invention of that's an interesting word. Vaccinations create a new standard of morality whereby a healthy person simply conducting their affairs in society without vaccination, viral testing, or wearing a mask is evidence of criminally or morally reckless behavior. Moreover, if such a standard for violation of medical freedom is Adopted. Conceivably civil governments could permanently regulate and restrict every facet of life. Since according to this same rationale Various flu-like viruses can be unknowingly spread at all times. Further, there are a host of other far more deadly dangers such as heart disease, which, like virus-related hospitalizations, also place a burden on the health system. The civil government does not then gain authority to ban soda intake for obese individuals. I think someone should read this to the government in New York City. They they They right, they cracked down on Doug Gulps and stuff like that for these kind of reasons. That was heavily. That line in there is to reference that actual event where they did ban No, they're not being no no, they're the r what did you say? They're not being reactionary, they're being proactive. Pre preemptive. Preemptive, there we go. Preemptive. They want to have something in place for whatever might happen in the future. Yeah, but we because we want to be careful. We don't even want to talk about this. So we we're just, you know, having a friendly conversation. We're not saying. We're just saying, right? We're not saying, we're just saying. Well, I mean this comes back to what their premise was in the in the first section where they said there's different spheres of authority. that God has placed over the world. You have the government authority and you have the what what was it Let's go back and read those because that we want to keep have that in mind. There's individual, there's individual family, there's church, there's civil. And civil. Okay, so this is the four. So this is coming back to that same uh spot where the where they're saying it's not within the government's authority to do that. And I think in our society these days we have a a default assumption that the government's job is to do X. Like if you boil it down, what's the basic job of the government? Is to keep people safe, right? No. Not to keep people safe, but that's what people assume and because that, well of course it's the basic I mean to promote the general welfare of the society, right? That's in the constitution. Uh and so I think that has to be dealt with first and once you realize the government's not there to for the f sole purpose of keeping everybody safe. They are there to punish evil. And to uh and so with when there's intentional criminal acts, things like that. But you're just walking around being reckless or whatever, or you know, eating things that are bad for you or consuming things that are bad for you, that's not the government's job to stop from happening Uh and that that's kinda brings back to why I have positions that I have on, you know, drug laws and things like that. I think it's terrible to do drugs and government shouldn't respect any of it because it's not their job to keep you safe. Well they should not provide health care for anybody. Well and that's right, and that's that sort of is the the argument and we see it we see it here toward the end of this this denial, so because Uh further there are a host of other far more deadly dangerous dangers such as heart disease, which like virus related hospitalizations also place a burden on the health system, right? So I I think the the civil government does have um they can make an argument to some degree in saying if we are going to be responsible for covering health care costs, right, then that puts anything health uh related in our sphere of authority. Right, but that's a usurpation of their authority. Well just because it's so well I'm taking care of this. Yes. It's it's we it is uh when but I I mean it's a it's a legitimate argument to say if you are going to hold me responsible for something, then I have authority. over things related to that. And so the government it's it's okay now I think your opinion, my opinion probably around the round the table here is It's the government should not be responsible for those things, yeah. The health care of every individual in you know in the country. But they're overstepping their bounds in one area, which then gives if you're going to follow the same logic, it gives them reason just to overstep their bounds in other areas to related and here's the consistency that I can respect from a lot of people, which is a lot of people who are in the camp that say we want the government to provide universal health care are also in the camp that say the government has the right to Tell us what to do medically and shut us down. Yeah, and I I would argue that's part of the problem that our society faces, right? It's the era of the total state where you want the state in total control of all things. And yeah, and we wouldn't have the same problems we have with uh with immigration if we didn't have the the uh welfare social net set up the way that it is. First of all you wouldn't have as many people coming. 'Cause they wouldn't be getting all the freebies. And secondly, people wouldn't be as concerned because anybody who comes o comes here is like, well, they're gonna have to work their way through like everybody else There'd be a lot less tension and stress, but because we don't because the government doesn't do what it's supposed to do, protecting the the borders, it then causes all these problems and then then and when it does do when it's not supposed to do With all these mandates, that causes problems. So when the government's not in its lane uh uh to do what it's supposed to and gets outside its lane to do what it's not supposed to, it's and this isn't I don't know if it's a distinctly biblical worldview, but it's clearly a biblical worldview. And while we have the cultural um dynamics at play that we have right now is because most of the culture is not biblical in their worldview. People are either biblical directly like the three in this room, we would say, Yeah, the the Bible guides what we think, why we think it um and there are other people who wouldn't have the same commitments that we do, but they've been influenced during their life in such a way that kind of by default They have a biblical worldview in a number of ways. They don't know why they believe what they believe, they just do. But we we're a minority now. I remember back in the eighties the moral majority, that the idea that the that people that were either Christians or influenced by Christianity were the majority. I I I think it's been a while since that's been the case. But I think they're they're actually making the case here in this uh in this paragraph that uh David that Just uh conceding that the government has overstepped and has usurped authority in taking care of health care and paying for health care for many, many, many Americans. even assuming maybe they'd someday pay for health care for all Americans. That then still does not give them the right to regulate every facet of of society. Um, you know, i it's 'cause they're saying then you could permanently regulate and restrict everything. What you eat, what you breathe, where you go, where you walk and all And it completely upends uh everyt every other individual freedom that we have. 'Cause you're not gonna stop at the flu or covet or whatever, you're gonna stop like I said, heart disease or you know You could say everybody everybody needs exercise to t uh to be healthy, so you've got to run a mile every day. If you don't then I mean, eventually it's gonna be regulating every single thing and now you're a totalitarian government. So they say you can't let that slide. It's one thing if you're gonna want to pay for people, but and and and we don't even agree with that. But having paid for healthcare it still doesn't give you the right to do all these other things. Uh I it it might Which which is which means that the problem starts starts further back than just hey you're taking away my freedoms the problem starts further back with hey I'm entitled to these benefits. Yeah, I'm not sure if if if what you mean is logically Because I would say if you're if we're talking logically it's more than it might. It's logically consistent, so one follows the other. Right. But does that make it just and right in the way things should be? Are you saying that there could be an argument that It w could be okay or you say no just logically. No, I'm I'm saying I'm saying that's the logical outcome. But we need to go back further than this to fix fix the problem. However, you can still cut it off at a certain place because you can say Um logically if the government is paying for uh child care, they should be able to tell me to kill my child so they don't have to pay for it. That's abortion, right? That's logic. It's very logical. But it's m immoral. And it sounds silly, you know, on the face of it, but you know what? There is a story just just this year in Canada when somebody uh called they were having some problems in their life. I uh I think they couldn't make rent or something. I it was something like I think a rather practical concern and they called the government and the government agent in Canada Asked if they wanted to be connected to somebody in the medical department to help them with an assisted suicide because life was just too hard for them. It sounds crazy. Oh, well that let's just kill your baby. Well how about you just kill yourself? It it sounds absurd and yet that is happening in different parts of the world. But it's logical Just because it's logical doesn't make it morally right. And you don't have to I agree, I'd love to take it all the way back to the to to where it started from, but you can still also cut it off at the knees where it is. And then work away backwards. Yes, I'm fine with that. I'm fine with that. But I'm wondering if logically speaking it isn't if it is wrong for them to f you know, for the government to take away uh to overstep their bounds authoritatively, right? Is it is it not also wrong for uh for these other spheres of of authority to cede their authority to the civil government Right, is it not wrong for right if you don't want logically if the government is in charge of you know, the education of your children, then the government is can logically decide what they want to teach. your children. So And that's why many in the home school movement have been very much against the voucher system. Right. And then so the question is, then if it's not right for them to have that authority, then is it right for Christians to cede that authority to the government in the first place. So you say we should we should um rebuff any attempts for the government to give us um any sort of bennies from the government. Like i the uh if you don't if we don't want our the government to be the ones to decide how to educ educate our children, then we should take that responsibility fully on ourselves and not Not have them take any part in it. Right. And that particular example is is really more dramatic in recent years than it ever has been because now I mean they're it's what they're doing to these kids, it's throwing them up. You really gotta I I I understand anybody Christian or not, I don't understand anybody sending their kids to a government run school these days. And the thing is if if Christians truly believe okay it's the responsibility of the family to do that then is the you know i is the church supporting families in you know, equipping them, helping them, enabling them to take responsibility. We also representative democracy. So just the government is not some nameless, faceless it may often end up being, but it's not supposed to be some nameless, faceless entity. It's supposed to be the totality of the people and what they will. Uh and so conceivably in the education system if the the people have decided to hire a teacher collectively, they people can also decide what to tell the teacher to to to teach, but that doesn't mean you don't have any say, you still do have a say because you're one of the people that's voting. Supposedly. I know that's how it's supposed to work. And it's not a good thing. I think it probably did once upon a time. I'm not sure when it stopped working that way, but it doesn't work that way anymore. Probably when you were beyond like the one room schoolhouse. Yeah. Let's uh let's let's jump into the next one 'cause I think we might not have much to say 'cause we've kind of talked about some of the things in this next one. Number twenty five is an affirmation. We affirm that a biblically faithful view of the civil gu civil government sphere as well as the ecclesiastical government sphere provides no lawful jurisdiction for civil magistrates or ecclesiastical authorities as church authorities. to mandate or in any way coerce individuals to inject substances into themselves or their children, or cover their mouths, noses, face, or any combination thereof with masks. So I disagree with this b just like I did last week where I don't think uh This you don't see this is just kind of the flip side of the of the denial that came a second. cannot mandate a mask. I think if you're symptomatic with communicable disease, just like Leviticus says, then yeah, you should be uh uh quarantined and you should cover your face when you're in public. I think that's that's very biblically sound. Now I think that's the extent of it. It has to be symptomatic and it's gotta be only while you're symptomatic and contagious. And oh uh you know, so th that should be the extent of it, but I would I would have that carve out exemption there. Well, just like you would say, okay, if someone i if someone is clearly ill And uh I I might not invite them into my home. Right? If if I but you always have the uh ability to invite or not invite, but I think someone in authority can actually force you to save 'em. Uh well or at least who whoever whoever has authority over whatever sphere legitimately can not allow that person to enter into that space. So like a a shop owner could say, This person is clearly ill or out of their mind or whatever You know, sorry, you can't come in here in that state. Yeah, but Leviticus is also i it's about a civil entity. It's not merely ecclesiastical. It's civil and ecclesiastical. It's a hybrid. Right. So it's not necessarily a one-to-one in today's context. And and and and now, I mean I'm not sure what the context would would be for putting something over your mouth and nose or whatever. I mean if it if it's the kind of thing that would actually work I c I I could see a logical basis for that, but to force somebody to use something that you that you know is just not going to do what everybody thinks it's going to do is just uh you're LARPing and The thing that bothers me about it is somebody who wants to come to church to worship and because everybody's afraid of something airborne, you're not showing any symptoms, Daniel, and you show up to to to household the faith in Christ and you want to worship and I said, Well you can only worship if you put this thing over your nose and mouth. That's extra biblical. There's there's no requirement that you present with that. Yeah, that you have to wear something in order to go worship. Specifically your face. Specifically symptomatic is what it says. Not only do you have to wear that, you can't even come to worship because you're symptomatic. That's that's the whole point. Right? But if you're not symptomatic, if you're not showing signs that you're clearly ill, then you cannot be prom probi uh forbidden from worshiping. Yeah, they they also include inject substances into themselves. I'm not sure what kind of substances they're talking about, but I'm not a big fan of injecting any substances into my person, regardless. That's probably what they mean, Troy. Yeah. Yeah, probably. You gotta watch out for the uh the the uh the brown shirts. All right, number twenty-six, I guess. We affirm. By the way, we're the uh we're a little past halfway, so I'll reset here. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, David Forcey and Daniel Razby also on the panel this week as we're working our way through the Warrington Declaration. And uh we're heading down the home stretch. We we're about probably three-fourths of the way through. We I'm not gonna finish today. We might not even finish next week, but we will probably finish the week after that. I'm I'm kinda guessing, but we'll see how it goes. So we affirm that any civil or ecclesiastical authority that attempts to coerce individuals or their children with any form of public banishment, fine, imprisonment, social ostracism, or other forms of coercion for not wearing a MAFK or injecting a substance into their bodies, are ascribing to themselves authority not delegated by God and are in grievous Sin and they got some proof texts here. Matthew nineteen, Titus three. Go back to the proof text. First Corinthians one and Romans sixteen So they're not they're just they're not saying, hey, it's not a really great idea, I might want to steer clear. It's kind of a wisdom issue. No, no, no. Grievous sin. Not just sin. Beyond that. Yes. Grievous. What do we think? Based on what you just said, you probably have some issues with that. I do, yeah. For some of the same reasons. Yeah. This is just more specific than the last one's out. There's probably not more fodder for discussion, is there? No. No. I mean I I I agree with the social ostracism and public management. I think it's a good thing to do if you're symptomatic and if you're contagious. Okay. Well let's go to the next one because this is the next one is they have Daniel Rasby in mind. They're trying to meet him where he is We affirmed that although local churches may reasonably enforce policies of calling on the symptomatically ill to stay home, any attempt to impede fellowship in the body by a believer on the grounds of failing to inject a substance into their bodies or the wearing of an M A S K is also d divisiveness. And they got some proof text again, Titus, Christanthians, Romans. Yeah, they're trying to meet you and me on that one, right? Maybe we just didn't read far enough ahead. Yeah, I think the government can can coerce people for that too. The civil government. Not just the church. For for symptomatic things. That's what the purpose of the quarantine. Yeah, I we we talked about this at length um was it last show or two shows ago and and we went round and round and I I I'm I'm not sure I'm there with you. I I understand where the argument's coming from and so I'm I'm trying to really think about it, but Hey, I believe in very, very limited things that the government should be allowed to do And this is one of them, but I'm very specific with the boundaries of it, because I think the boundaries are set biblically and they're very clear. Uh I don't want to step over those in a in any way. So I'm just slightly more uh And and to and to be clear the you know in the Levitical law the symptoms are blatant Obvious, unmistakable and severe. Severe. And and definitely contagious. And it wasn't and it wasn't like the sniffles, right? We're talking about deadly kinds of stuff. Right. Yeah, so. Yeah, I I think if we hash out all of those things, you know, look at every little jot, every little tittle, cross every T, dot every I figure out every little nuance. We probably would agree. The point is somebody ha you know would have before making those kinds of rules and defendations. You can't extrapolate and then say because you have the Exactly. You got yeah. It reminds me of a a uh I in the in the past I've seen churches that have so this is many years ago, even decades ago at this point, they had uh they had uh uh a nursery health policy. So there would be a a short list of symptoms and they were usually pretty, you know, fairly severe, obvious symptoms, but if It was sort of, you know, if if your child has had any of these fairly severe symptoms in the last twenty four hours, please Please don't bring them into the nursery with all the other kids. Right. And that makes to that makes total sense. And if somebody's going to be that selfish about well, I'm bringing my kids anyway That's a sin issue as well that has to be dealt with. Yeah. But I gotta go to work and I can't get off today. Well, then for Sunday school. Figure something out. Alright, so I think we're up for what? No, twenty-eight, right? We deny that personal and family decisions so decline vac to two. I was like so doesn't make any sense. That's because it doesn't say so. It says two. We deny that personal and family decisions too decline vaccination or the wearing of masks are necessarily out of step with the biblical command to love one's neighbor as oneself. And again, they've got Leviticus and Matthew as a couple of proof texts. So If you as a family say we're not doing this, that's not Nobody can then accuse you of not loving your neighbor. That's what they're saying, yeah. And that's definitely in reaction to what was a very popular thing, right? Love your neighbor, wear a mask. Love your neighbor, get the shot. Love your neighbor, right, stay six feet away. Just just so you uh you know the the the proof text that they have are specifically the love your neighbor verses, no other context. Oh, gotcha. So they're just letting you know where they're coming from, like why they're even bringing this up. And and and probably pointing you to The actual texts that say love your neighbor so you can look at the context of what the Bible is talking about when it says Love your neighbor. Yeah, and love your neighbor as yourself. Well, I I don't want people to stay away from me. I don't want people to be covering their fa their beautiful faces and their smiling teeth from me. I don't want people right? I I that's what I want So if I'm gonna love them like me, I guess I should tackle them to the ground and not let them put the mask over their face or get the injection of the substance, whatever it might be. Yeah. Alright, we got time maybe for one more Oh no we don't. Who am I kidding? We don't have time for one more. We got like a maybe a minute. So we're gonna pick up with number twenty-nine. It's a denial. By the way, in case you're wondering, there are thirty-six. We only have seven more. So I don't I don't think we've got seven done today though. So we're probably not gonna get seven done next week in all likelihood. Anyway, Daniel Rasby, um you can learn more about the ministry he's involved with at conqueredbylove. org. Uh David Forcy doesn't have a website, so you can just connect with him through me at householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's website the best reach me, Household of Faithinchrist. com Of course you can go to the radio station's website, WFMD. com, find the Faith Debate page there as well. And I'm on all the different social medias, Odyssey, Sermon Audio, mm not so much Facebook, but different places. Mewee, whatever gap. So anyway, till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless