This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron here. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor. Founder of Bridges Connecting Needs and Resources in the Local Community. The notorious bridge builder John Sweiser. Task Two shows they opened with comments about the political video produced by Still Vissure. Who's that? Creator of Veggie Tales I started there because when we talk about big worldview ideologies using big fancy philosophical terms, it can seem so irrelevant to our everyday life. So out there somewhere But it's right here, right now. And some like me are warning it's a great danger to the Christian church. Some others administering a generous dose of benefit of the doubt suggests that the goal of people like Phil Visher is to educate evangelicals who, if the broad caricatures are to be believed, are ignorant of or at least in denial about the history and the lasting effects of what critical race theorists call systemic racism. It's all rooted in white supremacy, don't you know? But hey, Phil Visher, he's the creator of Veggie Tale cartoons, the voice of Bob the Tomato himself. Those cartoons are marketed to Christian families, so He absolutely must be a trustworthy voice to evangelicals and followers of Christ everywhere, right? Well, if you have the time and want to take a deep dive into the variety of errors and biases evidenced in Phil Vischer's 17 minute video, then I highly commend to you a different video presented by a man who clearly spent lots and lots And lots in lots and loss of time. Digging into the research behind Phil Visher's comments. In the meantime, you can hear his thoughts Right now during this show, because joining the panel via telephone this week, Jonathan Harris, who has a book about this stuff coming out real soon. The book is called Social Justice Goes to Church. And uh Jonathan's website is worldviewconversations. com. And I wanted to bring it up at some point during our time with uh you, John. Uh not to be accused of John Sweitzer, so of two Johns, dueling Johns uh on on the shows th this cycle. Um you've been a pretty big cheerleader of a of a documentary movie called Enemies Within the Church, and I don't know the current status of that. I think it was scheduled for release a while ago, but is it even out yet? And do you know what's going on with that? Yeah, no, it's it's uh as far as I know, they're still waiting to get the final funding for them to go to Europe and film they they want to film the last leg of it there. So if you're interested in contributing to that, you can uh go to enemieswithinTheChurch dot com and contribute. They do have a documentary on First Baptist Church Naples, which should be dropping within the next few weeks And uh I I know the producer just moved recently, so that's some of that and I think COVID put a wrench in their plans and I mean everyone understands that because everyone's going through that. But Uh it will be coming out and uh hopefully before the election. Do you have any idea how far away they are financially? From from their goal of what they need to finish it? Yeah. Yeah, I don't know right now. I think the last conversation I had about that was early summer and uh from what I remember then they they were pretty close. I think they needed uh twenty five thousand dollars or something like that. But um but yeah I I'm sure they're probably have closed that gap a little bit. Um so yeah if you want to put them over the edge and get this film out there, I think it'll be really important to uh and valuable for the church. Well Jonathan Sweitzer's he's uh he's checking his pockets right now. He he uh there's a coin shortage because Jonathan Sweitzer carries twenty thousand dollars worth of coins in his pockets so We we might we we might be able to do that. Anyway, I know that John, the other John, John, has a uh a whole bunch of questions he wants to get to, so I'm gonna let him uh take the microphone here. Yep, uh you were responding though at the end of of our last show to this question of social justice. Um and I kind of ran out the clock and I was uh kind of asking the question, you know, what's the what's the roles of of our you know, responsibility to care for one another um in the body of Christ and to care for those that are hurting, right? That not necessarily a gospel question, meaning the basis upon which we're saved, but is a question of of righteousness in terms of how we conduct ourselves uh in the earth. And so uh you were uh preparing to respond to that when I ran out the clock. Well you had brought up Isaiah fifty-eight and uh specifically verse six which translated in in at least the NIV and probably some other translations uh uses the word justice for the Hebrew word Resha, which in NASB that's translated the bonds of wickedness. So it's actually not um mishpat, which is the most common term translated justice in the Old Testament But i if you read that passage in Isaiah fifty eight, it talks about um setting free the oppressed and dividing bread with the hungry and those kinds of things. And and so these were are things that I would categorize as charitable. And I think the the key difference is when we hear social justice advocates use passages like that often, uh they're taking it into a civil context text and they're saying that this is something that must be done um from the top down in a modern state or there must be some uh redistribution of some kind. Um when in reality I don't think that in that passage you have enough evidence to warrant the civil context. If we wanted to talk about civil context, civil justice, so that word Mishpat, and we want to see, okay, where when does this word show up In in civil law, we would go back to Exodus and we would look at the Mosaic Law. And that's where we're going to find our more clear norm for what God thinks of justice. Well and in fact if you go to Ezekiel, uh it digs he digs significantly and and even transfers some of what would have been personal responsibility back onto uh the king in Ezekiel in a way that um that it feels to me like we even see something of a transition from Exodus, which is based on twelve tribes, and the tribes a lot more decentralized. into what we find in Ezekiel where the prince of the nation is being obligated to walk out uh a bunch of of those instructions for caring, you know, for the poor. Um and so you're right that there's that we get into civil systems there that are arguably pretty different from a capitalist system. Is that accurate? Well, we we ever supposed to have a free market system, we don't really much anymore, but um in in theory, right Uh I I I'm not saying that because the system is different, justice looks differently though. What I'm saying is that um that there's in it no matter what the system is, whether it it doesn't matter how you set up, whether it's a king or a a republic Um justice in a c is going to be equality before the law, justice being blind, not considering external factors when someone's violated the law. You bring the same punishment on them whether or not you know they're red, yellow, black, blue, green, your brother's in in law's best friend, you know, it doesn't really matter. They still have have to bear that penalty And and so that's the kind of equality that uh God calls for in a civil um sense. Okay, can I ask a question about that? Sure. My question is that clearly in Isaiah 58, God is calling the nation, the people in the nation to account. And so before God's righteous standard um the issue of caring for the oppressed and and sharing food with the hungry and the poor wanderer with shelter, clearly that's part of God's rebuke that they're falling short of an obligation that they have before his heavenly law And so I'm not disagreeing that equality before the law is the root of biblical justice, but it does appear to me that that there's obligations on individuals that God expects where if they're not doing that then he's bringing judgment as the judge of heaven. Yeah, number one, that's nothing new. Christians have always believed that. That's called charity, and that's why so many hospitals are named after, you know, Christian figures. Christians have done more probably than any other people group for the world in bringing people's lives and bringing charity. So that that's nothing new. Um The w when we look at a passage like that, I I don't think what we're looking at this is how your civil program is supposed to work, so we're gonna have a forced redistribution of goods. That's not what you see there. Social justice advocates, that's what they're working toward. They want some kind of a top-down forced redistribution. Um, or more accurately today, it's more of a Um it's a redistribution of privilege. So it's not just monetary stuff, it's um it's advantages, it's platforms, it's uh you know, all that kind of thing. So So you don't get that out of Isaiah 58. What you do get is a call to do charity. And this is again in a nation which had a covenant with the Lord. The justice that's going on in most of the prophets is God justly punishing his people because they failed to keep the covenant that was unique to Israel that he gave them And th it's curious to me that a lot of social justice advocates in the church want to use passages like that to forward their more egalitarian understanding of social justice because in the same breath they will usually say things like Well, you know, the religious right thinks that we're American exceptionalism and we're chosen by God and and they don't believe any of that. But then when they use a passage like that, they're assuming that there's some kind of a shared quality that the United States has with Israel. uh they're a covenant people of some kind, they have that same relationship. Yeah. So I I don't see a huge difference. Um when when you know Jer Jerry Falwell or Pat Robertson back in the eighties talking about how America's special and unique and God's got a special place for America and then these guys want to take you know verses from the prophets condemning Israel for breaking a national covenant and apply it to the United States. Tell tell me how that's different. I d I don't know. But um but that's and I I think it's grossly misrepresenting scriptures. Taking it out of context, it's um using it to really the motivating factor isn't the scripture at that point, it's the philosophy that you're using scripture to you're using the exegetical method of interpreting scripture to forward. So That would be my answer to that. I I I just don't think that's about government philosophy or how to you know establish a government or anything like that That's Jonathan Harris, that's his voice. And he back in the day we used to do a word of the week on the Frederick Face debate and uh Isegetical, that's a good one. So for the uninitiated uh isogenical is reading into the text, exegetical is taking reading out of the text, and so he's saying that you're imprinting your own preconceived notions into the text kind of thing. That's the Word of the week, a throwback, word of the week on the faith debate. No, no, hey, that's what this show's all about. Anybody who's listened to this show for the last sixteen years, uh, might even already know what that word means, but not everybody listening for the last sixteen years, so That's what I'm here for. I figure if I'm not sure I understand what it means, the audience probably doesn't know either, so I'm going to explain it. Uh so anyway, uh Jonathan Harris, he you can find him online. He's got a website, Worldview Conversations Uh or is it World With Conversation or Conversations? Yeah, this worldview conversation, singular. com. Singular. com. Okay. And he's got a book Social justice goes to church. You can look for that as well. And he's got a YouTube channel where he does podcasts. That's called Jonathan Schweitzer, the other Jonathan on the show as well. He's our big bridge builder. Um and I think John has another question. You have another question? Okay, because I was gonna ask the question, but I'm gonna say I'm gonna table my question and let uh Jonathan and Jonathan talk. By the way, you have an amazing name. I got a what, I'm sorry? An amazing name. Oh yeah, thank you. So do you. Yeah. Um so I'm looking back here at Isaiah fifty-eight, you know, your question of, you know, is that referring to a uh a civil redistribution or is it referring to, you know, like uh individual charity and um I just gotta say that that when I'm when I'm looking at Isaiah 58 and it and it opens up and it says um like that um declare to my people their rebellion Um as if they were a nation that does what is right. They ask me for just decisions, you know, but why have you not seen it like Um I think it's it's hard in the prophets to turn the uh rebuke of the Lord into something that is individual as opposed to corporate. And in Oh, it's definitely corporate. And that leads me into a into a a key part of this discussion that m uh and again, I tend to be where you are, so I'm playing a lot of devil's advocate, but I'm wanting to kind of press in because I I feel like you're capable to to dig in and to see if you can shut down some of these arguments because I don't know that I've been so effective at doing so myself. And that is individualism in the United States is is arguably a part of our ideology and certainly the social net that this represents uh in being this um this stew of different people groups from around the world coming together and Italians and the Irish and the you know the those from from Africa or from you know all over the world. uh trying to connect with one another and build community with one another. Uh we've been uh not great at doing that. Um nevertheless the structure of the constitution provides space for each of those different groups to grow and to do their thing. But my but My question is, is rugged individualism a problem? Do we have a problem that we read like most of the the places in the New Testament where Paul says you or Jesus says you moral. They mean y'all. And and uh and so I I think that part of the rebuke that comes from Keller and and some of these different we are We're too individualistic in our application of those passages is accurate and that they're tearing down an idol. that is an important idol to tear down, which is rugged individualism. Um, while at the same time as saying that, I think there's a dang an over danger of corporatism re define everything's you know as together as opposed to the fact that I personally chose you know, to trust in Christ. And so that's what what brings me into the kingdom, not that I um, you know, was a part of that did that together. But when I read Galatians and Ephesians, when I read Jesus' uh rebuke to the seven churches in Revelation, Those are corporate in nature and Baalism or the teachings of Jezebel, like those have systemic church problems that they create that that um Jesus, Paul, different ones are saying Excuse me. My throat went dry. That um that they're saying that this is a corporate problem that you need to address corporately. and that therefore it ends up having a systemic or a corporate um expression that needs to be ameliorated. How's that for a big word? So what what are your thoughts about that? Yeah, so um when they're writing to churches, they're obviously writing to corporate groups and there's a hierarchy of elders that are supposed to deal with these things. There's Some some of those things are within the purview of just Lane and to deal with, but he's writing about issues that they would have all known that they should all deal with. They're a body, they're connected through their gifts. So so yeah, there's there's a corporate issue here. When we we talk about systemic oppression or systemic sin though, um we I think there's a there's a way you could try to understand that to mean, which is not the way they use it, but You you could do some gymna gymnastics and say, okay, what they're talking about are uh individuals within the churches who are doing bad things, or all of them are doing bad things, in the case of Israel. I mean, how often when Israel sins when they all play the harlot I mean that there's it seems like they're all playing the harlot. It's really no distinction. Uh and so um so so that that's I think a a sort maybe charitable would be the word, a charitable way to try to read that word, but that's usually not what social justice advocates are meaning when they say the word systemic. They're usually talking about something that's really almost invisible. It's uh I mean you get this with like white privilege, you know, something that you don't know. It's You can't see it, but it's there. It's always there. Critical race theorists believe this. Everything's a power structure. Communication is a power play. And and you don't always know what's happening to you, but someone's dominating you or trying to dominate you. And and so when they talk about systemic oppression, what they're talking about is the whole system needs to be burned to the ground because it's the system's fault So you have uh a prison system. You could have everyone in that system is just swell, right? You could have prison guards who uh are minorities Um we've seen this with the police issues lately. You know, you have minorities who are police officers. Doesn't matter. As soon as they put on that uniform, they are part of an evil system and they're doing the bidding of that evil system. And so um so that's the way that social justice advocates tend to look at these things. They're not looking at it the way scripture looks at it where behind these corporate groups are actual individuals with evil hearts sinning. And that's the way Isaiah looks at it. That's the way um if also looked at it, I suggest that's the way we should look at it and not try to be revolutionaries, which is what is going on right now by burning down a system because you're saying that the system itself is fundamentally flawed and unjust. Instead, uh def and of course I don't know, you know, depending on the system we're talking about, I'll just take the police as an example. Instead Uh if there's a real legitimate problem somewhere in policy or in personnel, then seek to change those things. Uh don't just say police are bad. Police are terrible. If that makes sense. I hope it does. I could give a an example real quick. to to maybe hopefully clarify this more, because we're talking about obligations upon us and you know, aren't there obligations to feed the poor? Yes, there are. ch charity, uh especially in Israel, I mean this is a corporate body that has a covenant, corporate covenant with God. Charity applied to each individual, they're all expected to leave the edges of their field for gleaners uncut. And that was a personal choice. You don't ever see it enforced, uh, or the government coming in and forcing them to do it, but this is something that God expected them to do And if they did not do it, then that would have been a problem. They were disobeying the law of God. Uh gives obligations to parents and children and to husbands and wives and to other relationships. And so if you didn't feed your child That would be you could you could even say that might be unjust. That's something that you're obligated to do because God has given you that. But that's not something uh that the state uh i in in that particular example. That's not something that is the state's job. That's not something that needs to be somehow ameliorated by the state. That's something that is between you and the Lord. So um so I know this this can get complex and there could be more tentacles going in all sorts of different directions, but I think the bottom line is we believe sin comes from within. That's what Jesus said Human hearts are the sinful entities. Uh it's not unjust systems. That's not where the sin comes in. And if we understand that distinction, I don't think we fall into the social justice trap. But uh unfortunately most or a lot of American preachers don't seem to really understand that. I don't want anybody ever to accuse this radio station or anything involved with this radio station of being afraid of tackling highly intellectual, stimulating discussion about hard to understand topics. Uh the the if you listened to this week's show, last week's show and the week before that, we're talking about the kinds of things that are happening in our culture, in our society right now and and a lot of people are scratching their hands like How do we get here? And where even are we right now? What's going on? And there's so many different things that are weaved together in this tapestry that uh is, in my opinion, destructive to culture and society, and unfortunately it feels like it could be i if it were possible, uh be destructive to Christ's church as well. Um we need to try to grapple with these things and so this This is an entree. If you want to learn more about what all of this really is and begin to understand it more richly, more deeply, and kind of make up your own mind of how to think about this sort of thing in a biblical way. I would encourage you to go to Jonathan Harris' website, Worldview Conversations, or Conversation dot com, Worldview Conversation dot com. He's got his YouTube uh podcast, Conversations That Matter, and he's got a book coming out, Social Justice Goes to Church. This is the Faith Debate. I want to thank Jonathan Harris for being on the show today. He's going to be on again one more time next week. John Sweitzer, of course, thank you for being on the show, our big bridge builder. I'm Troy Skinner. You find us online at WFMD. com. If you go to the Faith Debate page, you can get a rundown of a description of this week's show and upcoming shows and kind of follow along and access the podcast there. You can also go to the audio vault. And download your download the podcasts on WFMB. com as well. Thanks so much for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours thereabouts from right now. God bless