We are involved in a war. Whether we want to realize it or not, truth is under attack. There are few courageous warriors willing to fight. There's no shortage of people willing to kill for a lie. Yet few who seem willing to speak up for truth. Our duty in the truth war is not only to oppose false teachers But also to rescue those who have been led astray by them. This is not warfare against people, it's a battle against ideas, confronting error with truth Truth is not any individual's opinion or imagination. Truth is what God decrees. And he has given us an infallible source of saving truth in his revealed word, and he commands us to participate in the battle Sometimes it's even necessary to wage civil war within the church. Of course, when conflict proves unavoidable. We are not to adopt a mean spirit. And there, with the help of words from John MacArthur, we have the foundation of what is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Foot footman pulling and heating. How can we make you smile? And uh Deer Valley. Uh he changed this on me and I get confused. Now it should be Deer Valley Hardscape. No, Deer Valley Masonry Heart No. Oh, you changed it. What is it? You don't know. I think it's Deer Valley, Heart Escape, Masonry, and Landscape. Hardscape and masonry, but now it's Deer Valley, hardscape masonry, and landscape. So I'm very confused. Yes. But before the show is over, we'll find out what the truth of that is, because the truth matters, baby. Right? Nice tie to this. Yeah, I know. That's a little bit of a retro action, you know, with all those stripes going on everything. Yeah. You got stripes on stripes and not everybody can pull that off But you're doing it. Yeah. Only only a good looking chap like myself. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and let me make sure I get these titles right. Uh joining us on the panel this week is Dave Hughes. Now he's got a lot of stuff going on. We'll probably tear this down as as we move forward. But for now he is a past senior pastor at Adamstown Community Church, a formerly known as, what was it called, Once Upon a Time? Trinity Evangelical and Reformed Church. There you go. I'm not going to try to say that again. That's too many words. And uh he's uh currently uh president and founder of David Hughes Ministries Inc. And we'll be talking about what those ministries involve probably next week's show. Um uh because it'll lend itself to the topic when we talk about next week. But this week's show, if you've listened to this show, the Freddy Faith Debate in recent weeks, you've heard us talk with Paul Monday. uh about prayer in a public setting at uh council meetings or commissioners meetings or at the Senate, for example. Right. And Dave has a story Uh apparently he was like on the FBI's most wanted hit list or something. I don't know what happened. I think he threatened the president's life. He was banned from the US Senate. Is that right? Maryland State Senate. Maryland State Senate. He was banned from the Maryland State Senate. Probably the U. S. State Senate too. I mean it was a serious offense what he did. And that's not the kind of band that makes music. No, not a band. Yeah. A band. He band. He was kept out. Because he did something horrific. He called Jonathan, you know, a name or something. What'd you do that was so offensive that they banned you from the Maryland State Center? Well Alex Mooney was the it was back in two thousand three and Alex Mooney Alex Mooney and Alex Moody banned you? And no, Alex Moody came to the church. Oh, okay. And I did I found out who was a Democrat and who was a Republican in my church. I've never tried that. I should bring somebody in. clapped. But uh Alex Mooney is is I find is a uh an upstanding and upright young man. I'm sorry that he lost the election, but it was near the end of the um it was near the end of the cycle for the Senate and he invited me to s uh to end the uh Senate uh uh uh uh situation in prayer. So uh at the beginning of every s uh session They pray. So I really didn't know if I wanted to go or not, but I said I would. And uh I had gone up and he'd never met me before. Alex Mooney had never met me. He had just met me in my church. And I w had gone up there and um the very first thing they had me do is to write out my prayer. And I usually don't write out prayers, I usually pray from the heart. I'm a baptist. So we don't we don't write stuff. So I wrote from the first time. That's good to know. We should do a show on that soon. Praying from the home now. Isn't John MacArthur a Baptist? He writes a lot too. So I found an old piece of paper and I wrote that. Remember now, Dave. The truth matters, Dave. I hear that. So I wrote my prayer. And and and I wrote it and I said, in Jesus' name. And um and the secretary took it and she said, This won't do And I s I said, What do you mean it won't do? And she said, This won't do and she took it and she said and she's going as as she's walking down home, she's going, Oh boy, oh boy And she took it to the to two people in the Senate and uh uh one of them was a Christian and the other was a Jewish lady. Well first of all I want to stop and interject here. Her reaction Makes it seem to me that nobody'd ever done this before. Like you're the first person that ever tried to say in Jesus' name. But anyway, go ahead. Uh what what she was referring to was all What she told me was all session long when ministers came, this issue was before her on every that a that a Christian minister would come. And I'll tell you afterwards uh what happened with two ministers that had spoken to me. But anyway, wait, so just to clarify, it never happened with with people from other religions. Oh no. They only had an issue with how Christians pray. Exactly. Okay, I just want to clarify. Just by Christians. Okay. I w had gone into the Senate chamber, I met uh Mike Miller, the Senate President. I met all the senators that were in there and I came back out. They brought me back out into the hall. Senator Moody had had uh moved off. And these two uh ladies, um one of 'em was Senator Rubin, I d I don't remember the other lady's name, and they said to me that I could not pray in Christ's name, that I should take that name off, and I should pray in the name of the Messiah And I told him that I can't pray in the name of the Messiah because that is not Christ's name. I am mandated by my religion and by my belief and by my relationship with Christ. to pray in Christ's name and not as a title. And she says, well other ministers had done it. And I said, I will not remove that And uh while I was talking to her, and I gave her some scripture, and while I was talking to her, there was a a Baltimore Sun reporter standing behind me and they heard the whole thing, the whole exchange. And uh the the Christian lady says, Well, I'm a Christian. Yeah. I'm a I'm a Christian lady, she says, and I don't mind if somebody prays in the name of the Messiah. I said I have to pray in Christ's name Well, they went back into the Senate and when they Well let me let me just clarify, Messiah is okay, but not Christ. Yes. Messiah would have been fine. They they said Messiah. Which is interesting because they're basically the same thing. Messiah is just Hebrew and Christ is uh is Greek. But they both mean the same thing, don't they? Yeah, I I think they do mean the same thing, but maybe the point is is that that then for people is that Christ is used so often in Christian circles that Christ means Christian whereas Messiah would probably use Messiah comfortably. Yeah, you're not a Messiah and you're a Christian. And not use Christ. Yeah, so maybe that's the I don't know. Anyway, so that's interesting. Well you see that but but But Saul was called the Messiah. It's Messiah means chosen one. Saul was called that. Saul was called the chosen one. So it it what it means is it doesn't mean it's a title for Christ, and I said I can't do that They had gone back into the Senate and when they when they come back, I I like I said I was an ex I'm an ex cop. I'd I've been on the police force for about four years. And this guy came out, whom I know now as a sergeant of arms, because he had a little badge on his little lapel, and he did a parade rest, a former military, and he did a parade rest in front of the door. What is a parade arrest mean? It means put your hands behind you and and uh kind of block the door. It's you're at a parade rest, you're at arrest Instead of having your head down to the side, you have a parade rest. Gotcha. So it's blocking you, you can't go in. I can't go in. I'm sitting there and I'm thinking, I'm shaking my head and you know, I'm kinda slow and I'm saying but I'm saying this ain't good 'Cause I can't get by the door through the door with this man and I and the Senate's starting. Senator Mooney came up to me and he said, You are banned from the Senate floor. You are banned from the Senate gallery. He says you will not be allowed to open the Senate in prayer because you use Christ's name. And I said, Fine, bye. And I left. Wow. They wouldn't even let you in the gallery. No. Like they were afraid we would heckle. No, for the whole year. But and there's ministers. For a year? For a whole year. I was banned for the whole year. Are you you were banned for a whole year, not for praying in the name of Jesus, but for intending to pray in the name of Jesus. And what year was this? Two thousand three That's like two thousand. I feel like that's a Taliban. You know? Yeah, they wouldn't let me in. Now the funny thing to me, we've talked about this before, so I don't want to beat uh a dead horse of what we've talked about uh in the past, but m Not every single person listens to every single show, every single second, as they show. Almost everybody does. So it's possible that one person missed. Okay. Um But if you're not praying, as a Christian, all right, from a and everybody on the panel today is a Christian, so this is our perspective, right? Okay. As a Christian, if you're not praying In the name of the Son, if you're not approaching the Father in the name of His Son, Jesus Christ, then you're not praying. You're you're talking, but you're not talking to God because he's not hearing you. You're not gonna get an answer. You're talking you might as well be talking to yourself. You're not gonna get an answer. So if the state really wants to have a blessing on the proceeding and they really want to approach the throne of God, then they should want you praying to Jesus Christ. Otherwise they don't really want to pray, they just want to have Hot air is when they have words. And the prayer was very generic. It was, you know, bless the bless the Senate, give them wisdom, uh, bless our military. And that was that was about the extent of the prayer. So so this is a very non-confrontational prayer. Yes, exactly. You're not going to, you know, pray that God change the minds of those Promoting homosexuality or change you know the whole thing. And the only problem is that at the end of it, you uh the word Jesus is going to show up. In Jesus' name is going to show up. And that was the And because of that you were banned from the floor and from the gallery for a year. Yes. The only person in the state of America. When I discipline my children Right? And they uh I I I catch 'em, you know, uh throwing rocks in, you know, hitting cars You know, uh there's there's discipline that is appropriate and you know where the punishment fits a crime, and then there's discipline that's way overboard. And if I'm really angry, my tendency is to go way overboard, you know, and then I'll have to come back later and say, No, sorry, you're not you're not banned from rocks for a year, you know You know, I'll have to come back and I'll say I'll say, look, you know, uh I'm I'm gonna have you, you know, wash a couple of cars or whatever so you can appreciate you know, the the punishment needs to fit the crime. Right? Whereas in this scenario, they banned you for a year. They banned me for a year. I mean that that is a major, major problem. That somehow they're they're they're of the opinion that that you're intending to pray in the name of Jesus and unwillingness to not pray in the name of Jesus is worthy of a year long ban. Ban, yeah. A veteran at that. Yeah. I'm an I'm a veteran. They won't go after illegal immigrants. They won't go after people doing marijuana anymore. But they're going to ban you for a year. Yes. For intending to pray in the name of Jesus and unwillingness to not pray in the name of Jesus. Am I missing something? I mean I'm shocked by that. Well you're probably missing lots, but on this point I think you're good. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and the uh president and founder of David Hughes Ministries. We have David Hughes. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And uh let's talk a little bit about uh prayer and the Christian approach. Like I might be willing to pray in in in that setting and not use the name of Jesus. This is something that I've really been grappling with, you know, and and when would be a right time when when I might be willing to do it or not do it. Nevertheless, I'm I'm totally of the opinion that they way overreacted with you and that their response uh indicates a bias against Christianity that is totally unacceptable in the United States. It it I What I would say is to that is that if if you're comfortable and not praying in Christ's name, then you and this is what the Supreme Court says What happened after that, uh Senator Mooney came to me and he says, I don't want you to file a lawsuit, but we're going to try to work through this. And I said, There won't be any problems. So I called the Christian Law Association, which is down in Florida, which represents churches and individuals who is in this situation. Yeah, okay. And they started writing a year long campaign and they used uh different uh approaches and they used uh the Supreme Court uh opinions, the illegal opinions of the Supreme Court in these issues. And so finally, after a year, Senator Haynes, they they put it together a committee and Senator Haynes was on the committee as long as as along with Mike Miller uh Senator Miller, the president of the of the um uh of the Senate, and they came to the conclusion that Uh you cannot be exclusatory of a Christian. He has to pray or she has to pray within the bounds of what Christ said. They should be free to do so even when they pray at the Senate. And even when they pray at the Senate. And so they also and and it was very simple to fix this. It was really simple. Before in the Senate, if you started the Senate and and they did a roll call or a quorum call, you could not leave the floor Without uh without losing your vote. You couldn't get back in. And they used to pray before the quorum. So now what they do is they pray, they pray Before that quorum is called, and any senator that does not want to be in the room does not have to be in that room, and then after the prayer they all come in. And they all and then they they they start the business. So that's how they that makes total sense to me that they would allow that. And that they would work it that way. Because then a Christian is allowed to pray according to his conscience. Right. And so so have they been able to pass that? Yes. But they'll let people know ahead of time, look he's gonna pray in the name of Jesus. If you don't want to be here you're free to b excuse yourself at this time. Exactly. When some people excuse themselves And then they can come back in and then they come back in that sounds to me like such a proper response. Yeah. If people are offended by the name of Jesus, give them the freedom to walk out. But if you're having people pray according to their conscience when they come in, you can't tell them to not pray according to your conscience. That is state-sponsored Non religion. And that's as bad as state sponsored the. way that they want to handle it and then there's a church's way that the people who are the church are going to handle it. And I think the government has come up with a good plan for how the government might want to handle these sorts of things. Which that's fine 'cause the government can do what they want to do. The church isn't going to tell 'em what to do. And if they don't want to have Christians praying, then okay, Christians won't be praying. I mean that's the government has the right to do that Yeah. Uh so then the question becomes if the government is going to do that, does the Christian cave give in to it or not? And what does caving even mean? Like we have to define those sorts of issues. So let's do that. I think part of the problem is that we have to do that. is Messiah, an epithet of Jesus, anointed, right? And the the uh the definition for uh anointed one in the old testament is the exact same thing. Messiah. Messiah anointed one. It means the exact same thing, you know. So anyways, they they clearly totally overreacted in that scenario, but it resulted in what sounds to me like an appropriate um uh decision being being come to you. Yeah, the it was appropriate. And then I noticed in the paper that here we are flash forward to 2011. The um County commissioners, they want to start the place with prayer, and they're getting all of bombarded with all of these emails and so on and so forth. Then I read where one of the commissioners had put in the paper that they wanted to make sure that everybody could pray. But a Christian would have to play uh uh be uh n what it says, neutral prayer, a neutral type prayer And so I wrote the county commissioners and sent them the paperwork that I had for uh Oh did you? Yeah. Yes I did. Yeah. And and I got a call from one of 'em. And uh and I sent them the paperwork and the public opinions that I have and they've passed that on to the county attorney, Matthias, Councilor Matthias. And he's looking over it now. But they they're looking for this a public opinion. And I told them the very same thing. All you have to do is tell the people that we're going to pray before the meeting, get out the room, and then we'll go ahead and pray. It's the same way if you know don't want to pray with about a Muslim or a Jewish man or a Hindu or anybody else. Then they could bring a Muslim guy in and if there's a Christian in the room, he could leave if he wanted to. And then everybody Yeah. It seems to me like that. But if a Hindu or Buddhist or somebody came in and did the prayer, would you walk out? I would. I w you would walk out. I think I would. I don't Well you think that being there is is tacit or implicit uh It for me it would fall under the first Corinthians thing where where if there's somebody watching me that thinks that I'm giving tacit approval to it then then I need to I need to act in such a way that helps people to know that I'm not giving tacit approval to that. And so if there's another way to do that without me getting up and walking out every time then I'm happy to do that. But it's important to me to to for the sake of those that are watching to not give the impression that I'm that that I'm um calling something right that I don't believe is right. Do you see what I'm saying? Yeah, I think if I felt like people were watching to see how I was responding I would carry that weight a little bit differently. Maybe there's not that many people to watch commissioners. But if I don't feel like anybody's really paying strong attention to what I'm doing or say you know, dump whatever, I d I don't think I would I don't think my first instinct would be to leave. But maybe I just need to rethink that. But anyway, speaking of rethinking, I've I've been rethinking lately. As we've had this conversation in recent weeks about prayer and public settings and that sort of thing, I've I've given some thought to this and I think part of our problem is And and if if you pray this way, you know, please I apologize up front, I'm not picking on anybody individually here, 'cause I think we all are guilty. I'm guilty. Speak for myself. Okay. Our prayers suck. I mean, they really do. Can you imagine? God's, you know, sitting there listening to our prayers saying Okay, tell me something else I haven't heard a million times before. I mean how many tim please bless this food, bless our time together. We pray for your presence here in this meeting, you know, uh give us the strength and power and wisdom and discernment, blah blah blah blah blah. All these little cliches and then we have to end it up with uh in Jesus Christ's name, amen. Shouldn't we be praying a prayer that would explode from the beginning as a prayer that's boldly going before the uh the throne of God because you have Christ with you. So instead of this dear God, blah blah blah bless this, bless that, it's We praise you, our Lord and Creator, the God of the old universe, the sovereign one. And I can boldly come to you in prayer because of the sacrifice of your son Jesus Christ. And I'm praying to you right now in his name, and I ask that you would bring wisdom into this room and discernment into the men the minds of these men who have to make difficult decisions. And we praise you for bringing such capable minds. And have that kind of a prayer instead of the blah blah blah blah blah prayer. Yeah, but that's just 'cause you have a personality that's overt and expressive. No, I'm not. And can't can't another guy come along that's a little bit of an intellectual and say, Lord. Okay, well I'm not talking about the style part. Yeah, exactly. The style would be the same. Amazing and I thank you that you brought wise men into this room and you know he could be monotone or whatever, but it could be just as sincere No, but I'm saying yeah, but you're not saying what I'm what uh I'm criticizing. Okay, so you're not criticizing I'm not talking about the tone. The tone. I'm talking about the content. The content Instead of saying this, bless that, bless this, Amen in Jesus' name. How about God, we honor you? We're not supposed to look to God for blessings. How about that once in a while? Okay. Right? So you just feel like there's too much blessing uh asking God to do that. God do for me, do for me, do for me. How about God help us to do for you and your people? Yeah Help us to win more people to Christ. Help us to advance the kingdom. Help us to honor and glorify your name. Why don't we ever pray that? What is wrong with us? That's a good question. I'm just gonna think for a minute and see if I pray that. So if you were to pray like that in the Senate, what would happen? Well again I think I I think it happens all the time. You know? I I the point is is once you have s w once you have something like this clarified, I think that there are that there are godly men and women that are doing this kind of thing all the time. In fact every now and again you hear about somebody that That praise a prayer that really, you know, goes off on hot topics and cultural issues, you know, like homosexuality and abortion and blah blah blah. And that those guys have really been burned in the press and burned, you know, for for praying those kinds of intense prayers that are out there. So I think it happens a lot more more often. Maybe you just need to change churches. I can't im I know you're a pastor and I can't imagine that he's praying just bless me club prayers. No, he's not. Yeah. I'm not saying that everybody's guilty of this all I think all of us are probably guilty of it sometimes. Okay, so so what percent of the time it's What percentage of the time do you think most of us are praying that kind of prayer? The blah blah blah prayer? Blessing club prayer. Eighty five percent. No, wa are you serious? Oh yeah. Absolutely. Uh it all depends on who you hang out with. I know I know he's not doing that. I know I know you're not doing that. I mean in this room I think it's unlikely that that that we're praying that way. Maybe we should put out a call for people to play pray bless me prayer clubs and ask them to come talk to us on the show. But y uh you know, uh as a preacher also y you don't want to preach a sermon when you're trying to pray the prayer. That's the time to preach the sermon. To preach the prayer, I want I and I I don't disagree with you. Okay. I'm really a kind of laid back type guy. I'm I'm I I get loud in the pulpit at times, but I'm just kinda uh I was brought up I I was brought up outside the church. I never went to church until I was about twenty-eight years old. I I I I wasn't a Christian until I was twenty-eight. I had a conversion experience and it was very traumatic for me. and dramatic. And uh once I got saved, but I I entered into a Baptist church, but I the college that I'd gone to was interdenominational. It it there was no denomination there because I didn't want the the denomination rhetoric I wanted to learn what the Bible was because I never had a Bible in my hand. But what I find uh is my style of worship is kind of quiet at times and laid back. So I can kind of contemplate, I want to be fed uh when I go to church. So I kinda contemplate and listen to what is being said and then I evaluate and then what I can use I use and what I can't I can't. Uh and so in a in a another setting A more of a charismatic setting. I find that I don't I don't get as much out of it because I can't absorb most of it Because it's too emotional with other stuff going forward, so it's not a good thing. Undercut my own argument by doing it in an emotional way. But what I'm talking about is I'm praying through the model prayer, the Lord's Prayer, which starts with Father, hallowed be your name. Let's start there. Let's praise God in our prayers. Let's elevate his name. In fact, I argue. I'd argue that the whole prayer is div Finding the will of God, that he provide for our needs, that he that we learn forgiveness, that we be not led into temptation, be delivered from evil. I mean, that's the will of God for us. Anyway, theology. We have to wrap up. Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Dave Hughes, the founder and president of uh David Hughes Ministries, Inc. Is that right? That's correct. I'm Troy Skinner. This is Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating, How Can we Make You Smile and Deer Valley, let's see if I can get this right. Hardscape, masonry, and landscape. Two skapes on the ends? I think that's right. I don't know. Shane will tell me if I'm wrong. Tell him next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pub and Plumbing, how can we make you smile