This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. KUA! We're Faith Community Leaders. Wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the fate-to-date master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron. And in this corner. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweitzer. Now I'm just getting wrong up. How have disparate cultures understood the script? Historically. For example, Jewish versus Christian, Alexandria versus Antioch and the uh patriarchs, Rome versus Constantinople, Rome versus the Protestants. Today we're probably gonna need to establish established early on in the show the basis for accepting that different groups might find themselves inclined to interpret the scriptures in different ways. Who knew? Go figure. Here to do that, Jonathan Schweitzer serving the Frederick area community. now for more than eighteen years currently as founder of Bridges and Michelle Rader, lead elder at Damascus Road Community Church. So I wouldn't have realized it until I I brought up the the topic just now. it occurs to me, but people do tend to approach the Bible a little differently. It took us like twelve years having this show to realize that I I just figured that out. That's why we keep having fodder for discussion, right? That's why this show continues to exist. Yes. Because not everybody looks at every passage of scripture the exact same way. Well first of all Everybody even looks at Scripture the same way. You know, what is Scripture? What are the Scriptures? Right. Those sorts of things. But even when we agree that, you know, um the gospel according to Mark That is scripture. Yeah. Yeah. We interpret it differently depending on what school of thought we're coming from, what perspective we come from uh what our uh predispositions are as we enter into the text. So some of them I think are more valid than others. Maybe we'll explore some of those uh differences as we go for fun. So and I think what prodded this uh this panel to come together and I think Michelle was reading a book. Right? And you mentioned the book to John and John said, Ooh, that sounds really interesting. Let's talk about some of the things that book talks about on the show. Is that right? Yes, actually it's um Scripture and its Interpretation, which is edited by um Michael Gorman, who is a professor at Saint Mary's Seminary and University in Baltimore. I'm actually doing a masters there right now and I'm his research assistant. So I read this book for a class as well as helped with an uh the newest edition um that he published last year and our elder board is reading it and discussing it just because it uh offers a lot of good insight on the history and interpretation. And is it a um a a book for a classroom? I mean is it an academic book? It's aimed at a yeah, at a classroom setting, but it has discussion questions in each chapter. So it could certainly be used by you know a church. Okay. And the title again? Scripture and its interpretation. Okay, so if you want to challenge yourself and read something that's not, you know, Max Locato or Or a Nora Roberts novel or something. Uh then you're gonna go to Amazon. So how many books a year uh are the elders at your church? uh required to read? Well it varies. We actually haven't read a book for several years, but we've read we we did NT Wright Surprise by Hope a few years ago. It sort of just depends what topics are coming up. Sure. Um as a non-denominational church, we have a lot of people from a lot of different backgrounds. We thought this was probably time to sort of look at the history of interpretation and be more aware of The fact that people do come from, you know, very different assumptions. A couple of years ago as we were doing this show, I I realized that the group of churches that I've been a part of growing up, uh, has a distinctive approach to interpreting scripture and I realized that it wasn't always like clear to me what that was and when I began to ask, uh I I almost ran into like a sense that that like that was uh like an uncomfortable question for people to ask. You know, w when we're looking at passages are are we looking for a literal uh you know, translation, are we looking to build, you know, some kind of allegorical, um, you know, larger uh story uh into passages and and the allegorical in particular like I just found myself uncomfortable with because 'Cause it's a little bit harder to get uh real clear about what we're all supposed to agree that it means. You know, when you move into some of the allegory, it it's a little bit more Personal you know, uh each individual subjective is the word I'm looking for. Let let's start with uh very basic building blocks. So let's start with you know everybody in the on the panel today is a Christian. Okay and so everybody on the panel is going to agree that the Bible is Scripture. So we're not going to debate that. But we're all in agreement. So we'll start with that. So let's talk about the Bible as scripture. What are some of the um the various ways that Christians might view the Bible? Even non-Christians, I guess, but particularly how would Christians maybe approach the Bible? What are some of the the basic ones? the Jewish people view their Bible. And uh that's kind of really where uh where I got drawn into Uh well how do the Jews tells uh what this book was all about. Well, that was the point is that after Plato and Aristotle there was a sense with with uh before Christ, you know, a hundred, hundred and fifty years, two hundred years before Christ that the Jewish people were trying to grapple with uh how do they in a Greco-Roman world view, uh it was actually Greco G Greek originally, how's how do they um you know, interpret their scriptures, you know, in lieu of a Greek culture, you know, or or are their um do the idioms, you know, do do the uh ideas about who God is translate effectively? And so they they started to grapple with whether or not they should uh be more allegorical themselves. Am I reading that right? Um yeah, I think there's certainly you know a lot of discussion in Jewish uh circles during that time of how how to read the Bible and and even what it is. That it's during that time that the Jewish canon is forming in terms of, you know, which books do we read and um and that's I think one of the interesting things too from a Christian standpoint is you know, how d how did all of these books get determined as to which ones are part of scripture? And you just used plural, so let me go with that. I mean some people think of it as a collection of books and and there's a sense in which that's totally fair and true. And there are other people who will talk about the good book, it's one book, you know, the Bible is a book. Uh and then there's debate over how many uh sections uh are in it. Some things more of the library. So I don't really think I know the answer to this. You guys might be more uh a depth at answer to this. The the Jews, particularly the the more ancient Jews, did they tend to look at their scriptures as one? quote unquote book one one canon or do they have a tendency to look at it as a library of of inspired Well this is I think one of the things that's interesting is how technology impacts um that sort of question because you know remember the change. And it changed everything before When they were creating the Septuagint back in uh uh Alexandria, sorry. No, well y because back in that in in the Jewish time they had scrolls. This was the codex the book, being able to put something into a book with pages, that didn't come about until about 200 AD. So before that, the individual books were in scrolls and they could be in a big pile and it wasn't as important to figure out which one of these skulls always belong and always go together. They didn't even think of it that way because they didn't come all attached. Once you started to um be forming these skulls into books You had to start saying, okay, what belongs in this book that's not going to come apart or be in a pile anymore? So so that's the part that as as I was reading this particular book that that I'm not sure that I'm fully confident um uh that they really didn't have a sense that that these ones belong and other ones don't. Like they had their pile of scrolls but like how it and There was a sense that certain groups had extra scrolls in their pile and certain other groups, you know, so like the Qumran community uh you know where the Dead Sea Scrolls were found. They had uh a number of extra scrolls in their pile that wouldn't be uh in in a uh uh Jewish canon today But there's uh uh so can I just pierce into that a little bit, your understanding of it and and I'm trying to grapple with my own understanding so I'm probably in over my depth, but there was still a sense that, you know, like the Torah is like a necessary scroll, right? And then the the history books or testimonies is uh often what what what it was called would be like a an important scroll and uh chronicles coming later perhaps than Kings, uh because, you know, it came out out of uh it seemed to be finalized later. You know, and then of course the the wisdom books and the prophetic books like Isaiah Jeremiah and so uh but then it was these these extra We call 'em extra canonical now, meaning these extra books that like there was still a sense, am I right, that that you had the basic scrolls that everybody kind of agreed on and then there were some people would add some to that and some people would take away some from that. Is that correct? Yeah I think that's fair. And you did have the Septuagint that was formed before Christ and um before the time of Christ. And that was a pretty standardly accepted um sort of grouping. Um and for the uninitiated Septuagint is uh a the the uh Hebrew Bible is translated uh into Greek. And there were um the the legend anyway is that there were seventy uh uh translators scribes that were working on that And so we get our word Septuagint from that means the seventy, I think, or something like that. Wasn't the legend that they all translated it separately and they all came up with the exact same translation? That is the legend. So anyway, so that's just a fancy uh uh you know word that most people who have gone to seminary don't know what that is. Now am I right that the that the Targums, is that the right word was was being developed at the same time, so uh the Hebrew was being translated into Syrian or Aramaic? Yeah, at the time? Yeah, it's all it's around that time period, and the Targums being um sort of a commentary, so scripture along with a commentary. So it was a translation with a commentary attached to it, both of which arose not just because well, it arose because Jews weren't speaking Hebrew anymore. They were either speaking Aramaic or they were speaking Greek and so uh it it just didn't help to have uh Hebrew scriptures. There had to be a translation, which means that you gotta start interpreting it at a whole different level Right? I mean so so the whole discussion about how to interpret uh the scriptures seems to arise precisely at the point at which we have to cross from one language to another and that all the same words don't uh don't exactly translate from one language to another. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer rocking the pink today. Not not wearing not wearing pink today is Michelle Rader. I'm not wearing pink either. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMB. So continuing this this this track of uh compares and contrast with you know how we might think about things today with how the ancient Jews or ancient Israel uh would have thought about things. A lot of Christians today will will talk about a meta-narrative. You know, the the Bible has one big giant story. Yeah. I'm wondering did would the Jews have thought in those terms as well Uh and a lot of times the Christian will think in terms of the story being this love letter from God and it's an invitation to Christ sort of thing. With you know, were the Jews looking at us at it in any way, shape or form as an invitation into um worship of the God of Israel. So I don't I don't know if we know the answer to that. And so my answer is Christian reading the Bible is that it must have. And yet there seems to be a sense that that maybe those narratives weren't as clear as as I think they are. Well, I think the Jews certainly w were very cognizant of themselves having a story with God and they were that began, you know, back with the Exodus and all the way back to Abraham. And so I think they very much thought in that term and they saw that story going to the Messiah, that's what they were looking for. Um but once the Messiah came, it look he looked very different from what they were expecting. And so I think that the difference is in you know the the what we now call the Old Testament, it's all telling the story of the need for the Messiah to come. 'Cause the people are rebellious, they're stiff necked. Every time God, you know, entrusts them to do something they they they reject him left and right. And they bring up a king and the king fails and they have prophets that that don't get the job done and they're failing at every turn. They need a Messiah. And so everything's pointing to Jesus. And of course the the New Testament is pointing to Jesus too. But it's it's a different kind of pointing, right? They're pointing ahead to something they're expecting and the Krishna is pointing to some someone who already exists and inviting someone to uh accept the invitation. Well, and in the question of interpretation I feel like is uh is exacerbated, made more painful by the fact that Jesus said to the Pharisees of the day that here I am right in front of you, but you don't see me, while others did see him. So there there even seemed to be a sense that there were different groups of people that maybe were interpreting the scriptures more appropriately and others that were not. Like when Jesus says in in uh John has Jesus saying that if you had believed Moses you would believe me. But because you don't believe Moses, you don't believe me. And so it it seems to give me the impression that that that couple hundred years before Christ that that there were groups that were moving away from a better way of interpreting and others that were moving toward, you know, a more accurate or more I mean, what what's the term to use there? W God's God wanted them to view their scriptures a certain way. Jesus expected them to view their scriptures a certain way, and if they did, then they would see Jesus when he stood in front of them. But if they didn't then they would reject Jesus when he's standing in front of them. Although in all fairness, I think when you look at the disciples who are closest to Jesus, even when he's telling them very specifically, you know, I'm gonna be um killed and raised on the third day, even when he's being very specific, they don't understand that. They don't connect it to the scriptures and it's really only after Christ's death and resurrection when he comes back on the road to Emmaus and opens the scriptures to them. That's really the first time that any of them really start to say, oh wow, that is Right. If the Spirit of God doesn't illuminate the scriptures, you just can't see it. There's kind of a lesson there. Okay, well that's interesting. Or is it that that again the And and so so I'm I'm assuming something I'm and and I would admit that I'm kind of being very judgmental and that I approach this uh in a very judgmental way in terms of how the Jewish people were interpreting their own scriptures, just because Jesus seems to be very judgmental towards them. And so even though I have no business, you know, aligning myself as like the Christ-like one, you know, that can take on the uh the resentments of Jesus himself, nevertheless He's the one that says, you know, uh how how long must I put up with you, you know, and how foolish and how how blind you are, meaning that that he seems to still have an expectation that they should view the scriptures from a certain direction and even and so in those moments when they didn't, he's not saying, Yeah, yeah, yeah, I get that. Here let me let me Uh you guys just you couldn't have known this before now and so let me show you, you know, the right way to view scriptures. And instead it's a rebuke that says, uh, you know, how long must I put up with you? Uh you know, it's right in front of your face, you just can't see it yet. And of course that's still true about us today, you know, that we we struggle. So I'm not I I wouldn't argue that somehow I'm better than the disciples, but it does seem to be the case that there was and so this is the side of me that that I want to openly admit I think is is very uh conservative, you know, like like I want an absolute right wrong, but it appears to me that Jesus is pointing at a right way to read the scriptures that The worst of them couldn't even see who Jesus was. The best of them could see Jesus, but still didn't get exactly what it what he was all about. But but that it still came back to were they reading the scriptures the way that God wanted them read the scriptures? And so I don't know if if that's accurate or not, but I'm uh I feel like I'm stuck in a certain place. I don't know that I really think about this very often, but you know, we started off today talking about how there's not this monolithic view and approach to the scriptures. And here we are kind of talking in monolithic terms for the ancient Jews. And we forget sometimes, right? That the the what we call the Old Testament was written over hundreds of years. And so they must have had their own interpretive uh challenges like we do. Like there would have been idioms from five hundred years earlier that were no longer contemporary. Precisely. Yeah. And they're having to figure out w and wrestle with okay, what's the setting? Right, what what's the geography? What's the history? What what genre of literature am I reading? grappling with how could uh how could God uh have actually killed all the people that he tells Joshua to kill, right? So he's grappling with, you know, how do you uh how do you you know, think that that's that that's a good God, that that's a, you know, enlightened God. And so he was grappling with those very issues very Which a lot of people still grapple with today. And it is interesting to see that some of the questions that we bring to Scripture today were questions that were wrestled with you know, two thousand years ago by Jewish interpreters then. And and we know that th the there was you know, like you said, not a monolithic um interpretive school within Judaism because there was the the Sadducees and the Pharisees, for example. As well as, you know, a number of other groups. So just like, you know, we have our various interpretive schools today in different traditions, they certainly had theirs You know, I think what has been unfortunate in in Christian history is that Jesus rebukes to, you know, certain members of the, you know, the scribes or Pharisees or Sadducees over And so, you know, they sort of applied that to okay, all Jews are just cursed by God and that's Yeah, totally. I think that's a very important uh point. It it appears to me that since the Holocaust that the the Christian world has been at pains to kind of purge anti-Semitism from are theologies in I I think I I sense a check in my spirit, you know, uh it's a good Pentecostal way to say it. You know, like like there's a red flag that goes up for me that uh that if our goal is to purge anti-Semitism, like like that that in and of itself is an interpretive uh uh choice that feels to me too arbitrary that that that the goal of purging something out Um, you know, then then we gotta get into definitions of anti Semitism and and those kinds of things. But some of my Messianic Jewish friends are some of the most um honest, I feel like, and they're free maybe to be honest because, you know, they're they're uh of a blood heritage, you know, of Judaism, but they they're they're the most willing to to speak negatively about uh the Jews of the day I find, you know, across the whole church that that that others, you know, are uh are often less willing to do so and I'm So that's that's an interpretive technique that's a good idea. Well I think you always you know we always feel like it's it's okay for us to criticize our own family, but when someone outside the family criticizes them, then you know we're gonna be um defensive. But I think you're absolutely right. Since the Holocaust you know, there have been there has been a lot of, and I think rightly so, Christian soul searching about, you know, how Jews were treated for many centuries. You know, because Germany was a Christian nation I mean the Holocaust came out of the nation of Martin Luther that gave birth to Protestantism. So I think, you know, there was rightfully some soul searching of saying, Well, how could a Christian nation with all that Christian history have done this. Yeah, well there's a debate of Christian in name only perhaps. And in fact it that that feeds into this question. W were there interpretive choices that the German church was making in the late eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds? that led them to a place of of of accepting what we look back and see as just pure evil. And I and I feel like that there were some specific choices that were made that um that I find myself, you know, at pains to try to avoid, you know, at this time. Yeah. So we're uh we'll pick up next week, we'll continue this conversation, we'll talk a little bit more about some interpretive principles. We'll talk about we've we talked we touched on canon, but I want to spend a little more time on uh on that because there's some interpretation maybe that's involved in how deciding what's can and what's not. Uh and then we'll get into s maybe we'll get into some more practical applications for somebody that's wanting to read their Bible and think about how to how to understand it and uh walk through some of the the possible approaches that people could could. So we'll start down that path next week. John Sweitzer, thank you. Michelle Rader, thank you. I'm Troy Skinner, thank you for listening to the Faith Debate. We're online at WFMD dot com keyword faith. Until next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from Now God bless