Broadcasting from the west side of the Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith There you'll find podcasts of the show, links to uh news items, uh links to various religious traditions, and the faith debate blog which is really more of a vlog with a V these days. You can check out all the videos for the show there. You can also see the videos on WFMD's Facebook page. So be sure to check that out. And if you care to communicate with us Please keep the uh besides those outlets and commenting to the Facebook posts, you can email me, Troy Skinner at iHeartMedia. com, Troy Skinner at the letter I, the word heart the word media dot com. And then maybe we'll interact with uh via email or maybe I'll share something with you shared with me via email on the show or online somehow. Alright Last week, happy new year again, by the way. We're now about a week and a half into the new year. How's your resolution going? Uh huh, that good. All right. So Uh last week we started kicked off the new year with a sermon message, the first half of a sermon message called Greed Time. Greed is good, based on Psalm 112. And we're going to finish up that message, but so you can get the context. I'm gonna have a chance I'm gonna play the audio as this as it was read when I had a chance to share this message at Fairview Chapel uh last year And um Beautiful Life is who could actually be reading that passage and then we'll jump from there into the last half of the message and hopefully that'll help bridge it all together for you. Okay. We'll have a hopefully a regular panel discussion type show next week with John Schweitzer and and all of our buddies. coming on to to debate and argue about theological issues and the things that matter most to us. Alright? So without further ado, the last half of Greed Time, Greed is good. Our call to worship is going to be a little bit unusual. We're going to use the scripture passages actually as the foundation of today's message as our call to worship because Psalm 112 uh begins with a call to worship. And so my wife Jean is going to be singing later, is going to read that scripture passage for us now. Psalm 112. Praise the Lord. How blessed is the man who fears the Lord, who greatly delights in his commandments. descendants will be mighty on the earth. The generation of the upright will be blessed. Wealth and riches are in his house, and his righteousness endures forever. Light arises in the darkness for the upright. He is gracious and compassionate and righteous. It is well with the man who is gracious and length. He will maintain his cause in judgment, for he will never be shaken. The righteous will be remembered forever. He will not fear evil tidings. His heart is dead-fast, trusting the Lord. His heart is upheld. He will not fear until he looks with satisfaction on his adversary. He has given freely to the poor, his righteousness endures forever, his word will be exalted in honor. The wicked will see and be vexed. He will gnash his teeth and melt away. The desire of the wicked will perish. What does it mean to share Christ? Well just consider it involves a giving up our time, your body, your emotions, your money. What's your motivation? Why do it? We get part of the answer to that question in verses six and seven of Psalm 112. Surely the righteous will never be shaken. They will be remembered forever. They will have no fear of bad news. Their hearts are steadfast, trusting in the Lord. Confidence. The righteous will not be shaken. No fear. Steadfast hearts. Always trusting in the Lord and thus forever remembered. How, or better ask, where are we forever remembered and by who? The world as we know it will end one day, so we won't be remembered forever in this world. Even if this weren't the case, even if the world as it exists now were to go on forever, we would not be remembered forever here. We don't remember people forever. We don't. Even important people are forgotten. Forever. Quick, name the twenty-fifth president of the United States of America. When exactly did the Mongols rule China? Who invented the wheel? Even noteworthy men and women. Crucial periods in history, momentous occasions of technological advancement, and we forget it But with God, it's different. He knows those who are his, and he does not forget them. Ever. The righteous are remembered forever in heaven by God. So motivated by this, the Christian can give. Freely, we see this idea taught in 2 Corinthians 9 and in Psalm 112 and as I've been mentioning we even see it uh this idea of confidence in the movies that we watch. Some of them anyway, like the living generous uh videos. There's news in them of these in a video series of a stock market crash and It doesn't send the main character who was heavily invested in the stock market, by the way. It doesn't send him into a tailspit. He does not have fear. of this bad news. Now actually, if you ever see this this video, you're going to see the theme played by the actor kind of ambivalently. Now I don't think Christians are ambivalent to bad news Yet we're not consumed by bad news. With our hope in Christ, we have no need of fear of things like ISIS or Ebola virus. Concerned about international conflict? Sure, absolutely. And we should pray about it. And Christians could offer wise solutions. Concerned about the spread of a deadly illness like Ebola? Sure. Absolutely. And we should pray about this. And Christians can help to offer wise solutions But while we're engaging with and in the world over such matters, we must remember to trust in the Lord for trials. We must be greedy for his way to play itself out. We must be greedy for God to act more than we are greedy for politicians and medical professionals to act. And this greed for God will be satisfied because guess what? God will act. In Malachi chapter 3, God not only tells us that he will act, but he tells us to test him to see if indeed he doesn't prove to being true. Malachi 310, quoting now. Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse that there may be food in my house. Test me in this, says the Lord Almighty, and see if I will not throw open the floodgates of heaven And pour out so much blessing that there will not be room enough to store it, says the Lord Almighty. We have kind of a movie theme going on today, so I'm going to mention another one, Flywheel. Have you seen that one? Made by the same folks who made the movie Facing the Giants, Fireproof, Courageous Well, Flywheel, the main character, is this down on his left, backsliding Christian, used car dealer. Then He recommits himself to Christ. He stops cheating people. He stops ignoring his son. He stops Speaking angrily to his wife, but most importantly, he returns to worshiping Christ and he gets greedy. For God to be glorified. And so he ties. He gives 10%. Even though his business is about to go bankrupt. He gives more than ten percent. Really, he gives his whole life. But as a function of mere math fact, he gives ten percent of his income. all while returning the stolen money he took from people through dishonest deals when they brought cars from him. And then there comes a scene in which the wife is doing the accounting And as she's tabulating, she realizes that God has given them exactly to the pennies, exactly how much money they needed to avoid their bankruptcy. In the movie, as in real life, God passes the test that he invites us to put him to. It's interesting, in the movie, God gives exactly what is needed. Just like he does with us in real life. He gives us exactly what we need Which is faith, to trust him, and even to put him to the test where he tells us to. Bring into the storehouse what he instructs and watch him give more blessings that can be stored in that storehouse. Now unfortunately, we fail to follow his instructions as we should. But amazingly, he's already done this for us in the person of Jesus Christ and in his work as a representative. Jesus does what we did not. Cannot. Will not. Christ puts in the storehouse everything. That the Father requires of us. And so now we are adopted by God and share in the inheritance of the Son of God. It is an inheritance that throws open the floodgates of heaven and pours out so much blessing that there isn't room enough to store it. Do you see? That's how greedy God is for his people. His great desire is to pour out more blessing on us than we know what to do with a lavish love. Are we greedy enough for that love? Greedy enough for sharing this love? Because that's how we feel even more of this love. The more of this love that we give away and share with others, the more we begin to realize just how wealthy in love We really are. What we have been given to give away is endless and eternal. And praise God for that because We have a world full of people needy for love. And we can satiate that need By being greedy for God's glory. It's part of what God wants of us, wants for us. To be greedy in bringing him glory. He knows that the more greed we have for his glory, the more need we will meet among our neighbors. It's a mystical yet rock, solid reality rooted in the good news of Jesus Christ, the gospel recorded for us in our Bibles. Speaking of our Bibles, let's read two verses right now. Psalm 112, verses 8 and 9. Their hearts are secure, they will have no fear. In the end they will look in triumph on their foes. They have freely scattered their gifts to the poor. Their righteousness endures forever. Their horn will be lifted high in honor. You've probably already begun to connect the dots. You're seeing that our greed for God's glory is not just honoring to Him, but to us too, and to those people around us, our neighbors. It's all speaks of everlasting honor, it says here. This sort of thing would be God's alone to bestow, right? Everlasting honor. Anything everlasting would have to be. For God to bestow. This is a verse about us, God's chosen people. But it's only true for us Christians because it is first true of a representative, the second Adam, Christ. Verse 89, sing to us about a secure heart, fearing no one but God, triumphing over foes Well giving to the poor, having a righteousness that endures forever, and a horn lifted high in honor. What does that sound like to you? When it comes to the foreign lifted high and honor part, I have to admit I had Bambi come to mind for a bit. In the cartoon, Bambi is this adorable fumbling, bumbling, immature baby deer, cute as a button, but merely a babe in the woods. And then experience brings maturity and maturity wisdom and wisdom strength. And as Bambi grows from fawn to yeerling to buck, we can see as antlers grow until at the end. His horns are lifted high in honor, and Bambi now resembles his father. In the Old Testament, the word horn is meant to carry with it an image of strength, power, and dignity. God's strength, power, and dignity are on display, lifted high in honor. This is most true in the biblical narrative and in recorded history at the cross Jesus Christ lifted high in honor. Might not have looked like it to the world, but true nonetheless. What's true for the Savior is true for those he saves. He shares that honor with us, and we're not deserving, but we get it anyway in Christ. And that's pretty cool. The end of the Psalm is pretty cool too. It provides a perfect ending for our message. Psalm 112 concludes with these words. The wicked will see and be vexed, they will gnash their teeth and waste away. The longings of the wicked will come to nothing. So we see here that the normal way in which we think of greed, the normal way, it leads to disaster. The wicked are lost, they are best, waste away, gnashing their teeth. Why? Because of their greed, their longings. These are the longings of the wicked The greedy of the wicked. What are the wicked greedy for? Well, make a true list. Do it for them. Agree for their own self-preservation. Their comfort, their convenience. They play it safe when their life is at stake They choose a big comfy couch in front of a big glorious game on in front of a big beautiful TV. Or they watch the Home Garden Show on TV, or they pay attention to that next snarky tweet that comes in on their smartphone device. They choose these things for themselves without any worry for others who might have rain pouring into their shanty and only dirt floors upon which to sit. The greedy The wicked greedy. They take the parking spot that is nearest to the front of the store. They think hateful thoughts about other drivers on the road. They cheat on their taxes. They use coarse language. They Use the name of the Lord in ways that are not glorifying. They argue over the silliest things. They say mean things. They talk about The personal lives of other people, even when, especially when those people aren't present. They deal pornography, they steal from their employer, they lie for no reason at all. It's just a habit now. They refuse to heed God's word. They make no time for prayer. They find excuses to avoid true, authentic fellowship with others they hold arms and grudges they wish right now please would you stop talking about me Good. Horrible. Good. It's devastating. God's word says that the wicked will waste away. They will be vexed. And now they're key, and we are the wicked, aren't we? This is such terrible news. Which actually leads to the really good news. The psalm ends with a word of wisdom for us. It tells us to be greedy for doing good, avoiding bad. Or else. Okay. So let's do good. Like oh We can't. Like I said much earlier, even when we have great reason to bellow out from our diaphragm's praises to God. And to do the right thing, we struggle. We like television so much. Our football team is our favorite football team, you know? We're afraid to give other people anything of ours because then we'll have less. And we might someday leave what we just gave away. We're addicted to social media. We are addicted to fear and drugs. We are addicted to salacious images of naked bodies. We are utterly lost in an ungodly sort of greed. We fight it, but we just can't do it. We can't win. But we don't want to be enemies of God because the enemies of God lose. We can win, though. Not on our own. We are right to realize that we can't fight against our own sin nature all alone. This is why the eternal Son came to earth as a baby swaddling clothes so that he could die a horrid death on our behalf. And then ascend back to heaven in glory. A glory that he shares with us just because he wants to. Because he loves us. I'm telling you, be greedy for this life. Be greedy for this good news. So greedy and empowered by the Holy Spirit, you share it with everyone else. Share it because in sharing it you will feed the greed. Keep feeding this greed for God's well, for God's glory, and you will soon see your wicked Desire comes to nothing, it shall perish from our hearts. Like I said at the start, grieve is good. Just depends what you grieve for. Who? Father, we thank you for the humbling truth of your words that remind us of our need for you and your call for us to be greedy for your glory so that we can meet the need of a lost world around us. We thank you for the forgiveness that you offer to us for those times we fall so short of what you have commanded of us. We thank you for loving us, despite our being so unlovable so often. We thank you for the call that you have placed on our lives to share this word of truth, to share your love, to make others greedy for your glory. Help us to go about this work with diligence and joy-filled hearts. By the power of your Holy Spirit, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. And that brings us to the conclusion of a two parts series. Breed Time. Breed is good based on Psalm 112. If you only heard today's portion and you're curious to know how the first half went, you can always go online and check out the podcast All of the podcasts. We've been doing the show for over I guess it's over eleven years now. Yeah, we started in 2004, so it's over eleven years, eleven plus years And nine plus years worth of shows are available in the audio vault. Somewhere along the line we lost about a hundred shows, which represents about two years worth of shows. And I don't know. We've searched and searched and searched over over years and uh part of me thought that over time eventually they would show up somewhere, but they're lost to the ether somewhere. I don't know whatever happened to those. But All the other shows, like I said, nine plus years worth of shows are there. So that's uh you know, we're coming up on uh close to a thousand shows on podcasts, so you could Make yourself busy checking those out. Uh this is not the typical format for the show. If you've listened before you know that, but if this is your first time hearing the program, normally we are a panel discussion program I am Troy Skinner, typically joined by Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, formerly known as Crossroads Valley Chapel. He is the co-founder of the show and uh typically kind of a co-host or permanent fixture on the panel if you want to look at it that way. And every week we bring somebody in that we uh identify in advance as likely to disagree with us on some point. We might agree on almost everything, but we'll try to find something It will provide some thod or for for discussion where we can try to wrestle with each other, uh not to prove one person right or one person wrong, but to really honestly wrestle and to try to speak clearly and truthfully to one another, uh with unguarded hearts, and and at the same time be willing to listen and receive what the other person has to say and at the end You know, we don't always change each other's minds, but maybe you gain something from that and your mind uh begins to either be changed or formed in a way that is righteous and true. That is our goal. I I don't subscribe to the idea that there is no such thing as truth. There is truth, and we are in pursuit of that on this program. That's what the faith debate is all about And I mentioned what we're doing the show now for over eleven years and for probably somewhere close to ten of those years, Putman Plumbing and Heating has been our sponsor. Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile. You give them a holler, when you need some plumbing help, tell Marlena and Patrick that uh I said hello. Uh you heard my voice uh throughout most of this, but you also heard the voice of my wife early on, so thank you to my beautiful wife Dina Carroll for doing her part uh in in sharing God's word with you this morning. Um I don't really have much else to say other than encourage you one more time to visit us online. Uh check out our videos there at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. And we're also on the Facebook page for WFMD, so you can find the videos there as well. You can comment there and you can email me anytime you like, Troy Skinner at iHeartMedia. com. That's the letter I, the wordheart, the wordmedia. com. Troy Skinner at iHeartMedia. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. Be good yourself and praise God and God bless