Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock. County, come on stay with me. We're preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. People continue to place their hope hope in unsatisfying things. That's why I host the show and he's just the recurring guest. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Footman Flumbing and Heating House. We make you smile. We're online at WFMD. com keyword faith. What's stopping you from having a sheet of your own? I'm gonna steal yours in a minute. Uh what was I saying? You're online. You can listen to podcasts, find links to all sorts of religious traditions, there's news stories up there, and there's the Faith Debate blog Our blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Eighteen posts a day. That's for Monday through Friday. Monday through Friday. What's that add up to a week? Ninety. Ninety. Eighteen times five. He's a theologian, not a mathematician, all right? I could have put it together, but if I asked Hannah, she would have known five Five times eighteen is what? Bang! She would have given it to me. Yes, but it's also on your seat. Is Jonathan's healthy enough to to participate in this show? He's got medical clearance? Just about. Okay. Just about. Wow, okay. By the way, I need to set up another appointment because I just met with that other guy so I could come back and talk to you again. Here we go. I don't need to be known about these problems. Yeah, I wasn't gonna get into the Take two and call me in the morning. Give him a give him a shot, it'll be okay. Hey, I like this guy. If you're looking for a good doctor, I'm just saying this guy knows his stuff And he is very personable and he listens to me. That's what I like the most, is that he pays attention, you know, to what I'm saying as opposed to just kinda blowing by me and not uh sh taking a personal interest and so anyways there you now um it's it's not a very well known secret uh well kept secret it's a well known secret I guess which makes it not a secret at all that we don't do this show live and I'm I've lost track but I think Uh I think that this is uh Thanksgiving weekend, so happy Thanksgiving. Yeah. Can you believe it? Getting cold already, a little dip in the air, the trees outside are changing, right? Yeah, too much. I can't keep up So this is round three with this particular panel gathered together and uh Hannah uh in the first round shared her experiences as a kind of an advocate for uh people to understand what Sikhism is all about Done some amazing things. If you have if you didn't hear that show live, I encourage you to go online and catch the podcast uh from a couple of weeks ago. Get your young people to go listen to it as well. Yeah. Very inspiring. Yeah. And uh last week we we kind of continued with a little bit of that and then we got into a discussion of of what it means to be a Christian, what it means to be a Sikh, and that led to a question that we kind of ended the show with. We didn't really finish talking about. Yeah. So And I think part of it was trying to lay a foundation and ultimately didn't get back to the question. And so we need to get back to the question. Yeah, and I I'm wondering if we even maybe misunderstood exactly what the point of the question was, which is why we might have talked around it and not t didn't answer it to your satisfaction. So why don't you Uh articulate. I understand you might have misunderstood the question. That never happens to me. No, I didn't. I laid the foundation. Ask the question again and I'll bring it all around. The question I was curious about, you were saying the absolute way to attain God is things uh through Jesus Christ. That's right. The question I was asking is if we look at the evolution of uh Christianity It went through various steps. And the most significant time was when Constantine came about in in the late three hundreds, early four hundreds. And as Troy cr uh rightly pointed out That's when c uh Christian Christendom as Christianity became Christendom. Exactly. It was a change that occurred. So my question to you, uh, is when the faith was initially uh came about. Yeah. Was this absolute value there that you have to go to J Jesus Christ to uh apply to God? Right. Or did that come when Christendom was formed? So everything that I that I shared last week, if you missed it, you know, go back and listen to the podcast, everything that I shared last week lays the foundation that there's a whole stream of Christianity that would argue no. And these are the people that in the last hundred to a hundred and fifty years in the name of science have reinterpreted whole swaths of Christianity. I mean literally there's a Jesus seminar that they vote every year to say, okay, did Jesus really say this or didn't he? And and a bunch of theologians get together and they vote and if it gets a certain amount of votes then they say, okay, yeah, Jesus did say that and they do it every year. What I'm saying is that the original manuscripts that talk about what Jesus said and how he said it from the very beginning said that Jesus said, I'm the way, the truth, and the life, and that no man comes to the Father but by me. Jesus is the one that made himself the issue from the very beginning. In fact, he's the one that they s that they picked up stones on several occasions to stone in. Because he said things like, Before Moses was I am, claiming to be older than Moses. Or when he said uh when he made himself equal with the Father and he said that he's the Lord of the Sabbath, they picked up stones to stone him. Because he was he was identifying himself with God and all of the Jewish leadership knew that that was the case. And so that's what I was getting to is that the history of Jesus' life That's where we get it from, and Jesus is the one that said those things. Not the people that came after, not just a martyr, you know, and not Irenaeus, and not Origen, and not even Constantine. Constantine turned it from an emphasis on the resurrection of Christ to an emphasis on the death of Christ and the crucifixion of Christ. Now the death of Christ is very important But Constantine turned it turned it into this thing where he saw the vision that said in the you know, in this, you know, s sign you're supposed to conquer the world, meaning in the name of the cross. When the cross was supposed to be a representation of what it meant to sacrifice your life in the name of uh restoration of our of of our relationship to God. But Jesus is the one that said those things from the very beginning. And so in the evolution, it was there at conception. And not to make it even more confusing, maybe, for somebody who hasn't Uh not necessarily for you, our guests, but you know, we have an audience of at least one I'm sure out there. Uh might be a good thing. Yeah, we do what and you know, uh this is not meant as a slight against uh against other shows on the same radio station. But the the the latest ratings that I looked at, uh I gotta thank you for supporting this show. Yeah. The uh and uh I didn't break it out into quarter hours, but the eight o'clock in the morning, Sunday morning hour, which is us and and uh Paul Monday's show, which is uh uh time with challenge which is on right before us. Yep. Uh his show and our show together make up the eight o'clock hour. The eight o'clock hour has as many or more listeners than most of the programs that you hear on this radio station Monday through Friday. Are you serious? So can we name them and mock them a little bit or something? I mean, you know, uh i that would be probably inappropriate. But I mean they're that's not what a Christian does. I think part of that is You know, people like to listen and laugh at us, so that's got to be part of it. Yes, clearly. But the other thing is there's a lot of that other kind of talk radio out there. There's a lot of political talk, a lot of cultural talk, a lot of national talk. And we have a niche that is not being served. And so people that are interested in this sort of thing, this is the only place really to get it around here. And so I think that that's probably a big part. Because in the name of tolerance everybody said we shouldn't talk negative. Ninety blob blog updates a week. But we are uh other than the home page The news page uh and the contest page where people go to try to win things, those are the three most popular sections of the website. Other than those three, the Faith David page is consistently the most popular section of the website. Just need to put a couple contests in there and we'll be there you go the whole time. You can win eternal salvation just by clicking here. So that is exactly what Martin Luther was preaching against. That's exactly the point. So you were saying I mean, do you hear that distinction that's what I started to say though to make it more confusing is it almost you have the impression after hearing what Jonathan said, articulately and well, but you can be left with the impression that Jesus invented that. truth that he was But that truth, as a Christian reads the Old Testament, we see that it was pointing to that truth from before the time of Christ. From the very beginnings in Genesis. with the fall of man and God makes a promise the in Genesis chapter three that He's going to provide the seed of the woman that will rectify everything between man and God. And that seed of the woman, that who's going to rectify, ends up being Jesus thousands of years later. And that promise of that we read about in Genesis chapter three is a recurring promise as God is constantly renewing and reminding about his covenant. with his people, with with Abraham and Moses and the Mr. Moses prophesied the coming of the prophet that would, you know, lead people back to uh back to God. And Jesus said time and again, if you believed Moses, you would believe me But because you don't believe Moses, that's why you reject me. You know, and then of course there's uh uh David prophesied in Psalm twenty two uh in in uh uh amazing detail, the crucifixion of Christ. And Christ cried out, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me when he's on the cross? And it comes directly from that Psalm. Isaiah fifty-three, where he's talking about the suffering of the afflicted one, that he has laid upon him the iniquities of us all, right? And so he suffered and we esteemed him not, we considered him despised, but he was not. Right. I mean all of these are prophecies that led up to Christ, and so it's right, Christ wasn't just something that happened two thousand years ago, but Uh but the the impression, and this is backed up by the Dead Sea Scrolls, that the Bible that Jesus was using is the same Old Testament that we have today. Right. And so uh uh there there's just significant support for the fact that these documents were not uh written later, but that the uh the prophetic uh anticipation of Christ and his fulfillment of that and the growth of the church is something that goes all the way back to the biggest. and say, uh 'cause when Jonathan I think what you mean, when he talks about there they're surrendering uh the truth of the Bible for the truth of science and reading the Bible, the scriptures through the lens of science. He's not necessarily talking exclusively about like what we might think of like evolutionary science and those sorts of things, but hierarchical scholarship, you know, literary science, historical science, those sorts of science principles as well. They sort of overlying all of these modern uh conventions of how to analyze things. And the bias is this, that science has shown us that there's no such thing as a miracle. in that there's no such thing as people knowing ahead of time what's going to happen. So every place in Scripture, this is this is the bias they come to the scriptures with, every place in Scripture where there's a prophecy about something that's going to happen later. must have been written after the fact. And so we need to read the Bible, you know, uh so like, you know, the Israelites returning from captivity, the Babylonian captivity, and Isaiah prophesying that 150 years ahead of time Then we need to read that, oh well, Isaiah must have been written after they returned from the captivity. Right? And they come with that bias. They don't they don't approach the scriptures with a clean slate, but they come assuming that any kind of miracle like that uh must automatically be um considered to be either written after the fact or just a nice story that somebody made up to create a myth that will draw us in. But that bias is a bias that um that is untested uh in those circles and that they accept without any um you know real uh uh challenge to it and it's unfortunate because it undermines you know, what has what has been the the clear historical record, you know, of what happened back in the day. And it ends up not being a discussion over did Jesus really say those four words that we see, you know, in Matthew. And they and they want to say, No, he well, we don't think he really said that and we say he did. It's a bigger argument that's it's not just about those four words. It's about if you if you're gonna take out those four words and these two words over here and these six words over there You start you're also taking out big blocks of the Old Testament. Because those words are directly tied to the Old Testament. So you take it out and you've just lost four chapters of Isaiah. in the process. And so we're defending the integrity of all sixty six books of the Protestant uh scriptures and they said Jesus Seminar is famous for it. Um Dominic Crossing and guys like that. We're in a different place than maybe you thought that we were Coming into the discussion tonight. By the way, let me uh reset a little bit real quick and then we'll we'll launch into whatever I can see you've got something on your mind, Jonathan. And it's rare, so I don't want to lose it. So hang on to that. Jonathan Sweitz is a senior pastor across Rosa Valley Church. I'll be curious to hear what uh uh what her take is on some of this as well. Uh uh Hannah and her father, uh Dr. uh Harpo um Singhman Got our uh our guests. They're representing Sikhism. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, representing I don't know, all things that are good and beautiful. Uh the Frederick Faith and his wife and his kids. Dog. Yeah, yeah. So you had a a spark in your eye, like you want to say something, John. So this is what Troy and I have been saying since the first time we started the show. This stream of Christianity that we've been describing that that kind of puts science ahead of the Bible has since the late 1900s They took control of some of the major institutions of Christianity, right? Meaning like the major denominations. Uh, and they Literally they there there were major infighting back during those days between those that were hanging on to uh the original biblical uh teaching and those that were rewriting everything. through this scientific worldview. And um and the result is that the scientific guys won the day. You know, back in the late eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds, there was just the sense that science had somehow proven that that these things couldn't have couldn't have really been true. But since that time archaeology has um has uh kind of struck back and shown that that the originalists uh really did have a leg to stand on and that science hadn't somehow shown them to be wrong. Anyways, all that being the case somebody like you comes along or uh all of the Muslim guys that we've ever had on the show, they always hang out with those Christians that are from those streams. And they're they're never uh from my impression, getting significant time with people like Troy and I that believe the original scriptures, that go back to what was originally there, you know, that can give a um uh an uh you know an intellectual rigorous defense, you know, for an originalist view of those scriptures and the result Is what you just shared with us. I mean, this is a major revelation, right? That here's a guy that has lived here in the United States and has known Christianity for so long. And it appears that this is the first time that he's connected with some people that really uh believe and understand this way. And that's really amazing to me. I mean, is that true? Well, yes or no. It is true to a degree. I mean I think w I have c come across that before, but I wanted to understand it better. I think you expressed it very well. Sure. You've had the chance to talk and to hear things. But you gingerly put it gingerly and very uh intellectually put it together. So for somebody like me who's from the outside, it gives a better understanding and that's why it's very direct with the question with you, I'll ask them that question. And you know, for you that one who's listening to the show right now, uh if you profess to be a Christian, then consider this a rebuke because we are told in the scriptures to be prepared to give a defense. for the reason for the hope that we have that lies within us. And we don't do a good job of that. The average Christian doesn't read their Bible. The average professing Christian doesn't go to church. uh isn't involved in in discipleship and really learning what their what their scriptures say and what their religion is and what Jesus is all about. And so when they're asked uh a question or put on the spot on something They give a very politically correct, safe answer because they don't want to make waves because they know they can't defend what they don't really understand. And so you end up with Oh, well they believe you I would imagine, Hannah, that you run into students at school that would claim to be Christian. Maybe they are, I'm not saying they're not, but they would they you would identify them as Christian, they would identify themselves as Christian And you can't tell the difference between what they believe and what you believe. Is that fair? Yeah, I guess so, yeah. That that should frighten people like you, Jonathan. Right, but let me ask this question, because Hannah, you are very well spoken and uh very intelligent. You seem to know and understand your beliefs at a very deep and thorough level. Uh do you find that there are um others even your age that are that are in the SID community that some of which are are a little bit less rigorous about, you know, understanding what they believe and how they believe it. Like is it it's certainly the case in Christian circles that there's a lot of even young people that that unfortunately don't have a good sense for some of those things. Of course, yeah. I mean I think that, you know, a lot of times in Sikhism that we say it's a journey that you don't know Ye I have my own understanding of it at this age, but who knows when I'm my dad's age if I'm gonna sell, I understand it the same way. You know, it's May you live to be so old. Had to be said sorry. But I think what part of what Jonathan's asking though is and and he and he means this as a compliment, and I don't want you to out of modesty deflect it So uh i ignore the complimentary part of it and just try to be analytical about it. You, we've heard in the last uh two and a half shows, we've heard you uh offer a defense for your beliefs. You corrected uh uh us on getting a date wrong about uh one of the founders, one of the gurus. You are obviously in tune with w you are on that journey. Yeah. You are actively involved in walking that journey. Yeah. Is it fair to say that others of similar in your age that are in the Sikh tradition are also as purposeful about walking that journey or are they a little more lackadaisical like I think an awful lot of professing Christian uh adults and children are. Oh yeah, I mean of course there's people that I would say are on the same want to be on on the same journey as me that, you know, that have a deep understanding of their religion, who f who have a love for their religion actually. And there's some kids who are, you know, my parents are Sikh, so I guess I'm Sikh too. It's Yeah. It's I it's uh different for everybody. Sure. So nevertheless, the c have you heard some of this stuff today, Hannah, if previously, or is this some of this new just about Christianity to you as well? Um a lot of most of it about Christianity is new new to me, but I of course I've heard some of like the history references. Sure, yeah, sure. Sure. Yeah. And in school, the the references you're gonna get aren't gonna touch on the things Jonathan was talking about because they they're m by design almost need to stay away from those sorts of things 'cause now you're getting into the core foundational religious beliefs. You're not You're not talking about the Bible as literature. You're not talking about the Bible and its influence on Western civilization. You're not so it's not a politically safe place to be. pastor and he's preaching and he's sharing he's unpacking the truth of the scriptures as he understands it. And so they're not going to get that in school. Yeah. So definitely get it a different way. So what are you thinking? No, that's what I think Troy just answered the question. I was gonna ask the question, why isn't it being unpacked? I think Troy said it quite well. It's uh it's not politically correct Yeah. Yeah. The place it has to be unpacked is in real relationship, you know, with your neighbors, with your friends, whatever, one on one, and we are ill-equipped to do that very well. Well in reality In nineteen twenty, nineteen thirty, maybe even up to nineteen forty, fifty, um the Bible was still being taught. Even some of what What I was teaching what was sharing with you just now was still being taught in the school system. Uh but around that time frame, Madeline Murray O'Hare uh who is the president of um atheists against religion or americans against uh uh religion in the but she began to argue against there being any prayer in schools and so in the late nineteen sixties prayer for the first time in the history of the United States uh that tended to be in the name of Jesus was taken out of schools for the first time. And it's interesting because right at the same time, within like ten years uh things that went wrong in the school system. It went from being kids being late, you know, and and uh and chewing gum and that kind of thing to packing guns. and doing drugs and and and uh drinking alcohol and you know and and sex sex un related offenses in the school system like there's a there's a significant d decline across the nation within ten years of when they when they took prayer out of schools. And it's it's interesting because when prayer was taken out of schools, a whole bunch of Christians yanked their kids out of the schools and started a private school movement. Right. And I happened to be one of those guys. In in the mid nineteen seventies my parents put me into a uh um a a s small Christian school. My dad started a Christian high school, seventh through twelfth grade at when I was uh in nineteen eighty two when I was headed into seventh grade. And uh my brother currently runs one. But that happened at the very same time that they integrated the schools and brought African Americans into white schools. and uh and they they started forced busing. And so the African American community assumed and a lot of people politically assumed that the reason why those private schools were started was to keep their kids away from African Americans. instead of the fact that it all happened at the same time in parents were saying, look, we don't want our kids raised without a deep sense of what what their faith is all about. We've had prayer in schools our whole lives. Now they're taken away from our kids. Fine, we're just gonna educate our our kids ourselves. So that was a major movement and there's there's major uh repercussions that have affected the United States in the in the meantime. Yeah. So um I feel like I'm seeing a lot of processing taking place. Totally right. I'm imagining like the wheels spinning inside and pretty soon the mouse is gonna need a new chunk of cheese because he's tired from spinning those wheels so fast. So I don't put you on the spot to ask a follow-up question or make a follow-up comment if you're still kind of processing. Maybe it's something that we could hold over and and maybe do one more show together. uh next week. But is there something that you really are itching to address now? Is that we've got just a couple of minutes before this show needs to wrap up. But you don't have to say anything if you don't aren't prepared to. I think it was very enlightening what you said. I mean to to anybody from the outside coming in. I mean they weren't aware of this what was going on. And if you're saying that, you know, the common misbelief is that people didn't want integration. That's why they sent their kids to Now I'm not saying that there weren't some people that didn't want the integration. Right. So I'm sure that there are some racists out there. But everybody that I know went to private school to retain prayer in their kids' lives. That's interesting. That's very interesting. In fact, you know, and even my saying this I'll probably get mocked for it, but you know, we had a number of uh African Americans and Asian Americans and different people, you know, in our private school. So Uh in the Are you saying that some of your best friends were black? My brother's school current school is like seventy percent Latin American. Right. And so he's the minority in that particular school. He married a a young lady who uh grew up in um Honduras. And so I'm just saying that that my particular stream of private schools was just about making sure that that the kids had had uh their uh had prayer and were being raised like all their parents had been with the faith being taught in the school system. So that's only in the last you know, even the fact that you're doing a tolerance thing, you know, Hannah, like you were describing previously, um, uh that's the point back in the sixties That never would have happened because they were starting off every single day praying in the name of Jesus and even having like a Bible study to start off the day and it laid the foundation for you know not lying, cheating, and stealing the Ten Commandments We're on the wall where it says, honor your parents, where it says, you know, uh don't mock God, where it says, you know, don't steal and cheat and all these other things. And and so when they removed those things from the schools, it released, you know, something of a tidal wave of violence, even intolerance, you know, towards one another. Though again I didn't live previous to them and I don't know what it would have been like to be a Sikh in those schools, you know, previous to that time. But there's a whole number of political issues that are driven by this topic. for those of us that that are that are Christian, you know, I still pay taxes that covers the public schools, right? And so I have to pay for my kids to be schooled privately. while also paying taxes for the public schools. And so my sense is that then I'm paying for things to be taught that I don't agree with. And I wish that they would give me some kind of a voucher so that I could pay, you know, because I'm not as rich as most people are. And I really have to have to cut major corners and go without major things. to ensure that my kids get the education that I feel like, you know, fits what our family's um uh convictions are. And, you know, that that's a major major thing, you know, uh we homeschool right now And I'm amazed at how the National Educational Association mocks anybody that does that kind of thing. Uh in uh anyways, the point is is that it's only been in the last forty years where the nation has been in that direction and it's been a big shift and it just changes that dynamic of the nation in a huge way. And we're going to end it there. This is Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined this week by Dr. Harpel Singh Mangat and his daughter Henna, representing Sikhism, the fifth largest religion in the world. Let's not forget that. Uh are we online at WFMD. com, keyword faith, our sponsors putman plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? I told you I was going to give you a reading recommendation If you aren't too squeamish, you will love The Bride Collector by Ted Decker. The Bride Collector. The Bride Collector is one of his best. And it's like a horror. Uh l it's got a little horror elements to it. Anyway. It's a fascinating unpacking of mental illness in the process of the book. It's fascinating. Anyway, till next week. God bless.