Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face debate where I'm right now on camera. That's gonna take some getting used to. This is uh The fifth show now where we've had a video camera in the studio and I don't know I I've regretted some things in my life, but there are a few things I've regretted more than giving Jonathan Sweitzer a video camera. On the show this week is Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, and we're joining this Week by Dr. Pamela Blake, who is uh an elder at Strong Tower in Frederick. Thank you for being on the show, and thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile? I encourage you to visit us online at the WFMD. com keyword face. There you'll find uh the video that I just mentioned And all sorts of other interesting things on the uh Faith to Date page. In fact, uh the videos also on the WFMD uh the videos that we shoot for this, uh Is that the right phrase? Is it shoot? Videos. Sounds very violent. Sounds violent. Yes, we record. We record the videos and we record also show up on the Facebook page for WFMD. Oh, on the Facebook page as well. Yeah. So they're like everywhere. We're multimedia. We need to like Twitter 'em. Oh yeah. We need to put 'em up on uh, you know, YouTube. Yeah, we haven't Twitter or YouTube. That's a good idea. Totally See? Every now and again. That's the second time in a month you've had a good idea. So uh As as uh I'm not sure as this show airs, because you know uh we we don't uh have the opportunity to do this show live on Sunday mornings because, you know, Pamela and uh Jonathan and myself for that matter You mean we're not here in the studio? Yes. Uh so we're busy. So we always have to do these shows a little bit in advance. So who knows how the world might change around us in the meantime. That's true, right So but I'm gonna reference a couple of things that haven't that have happened in the not too distant past. Yeah, and I'm betting that it's still an issue 'cause this isn't gonna go away right away. No. But you know, there's there's the uh The fact that Baltimore is on fire. Right. Uh you know, Ferguson happened not that long ago. I mean, there are lots of uh uh Detroit's a mess, Chicago's a mess. This thing in Texas with the pool party. So there are If you if you wait forty-eight hours, a new major race relations, cultural war kind of misunderstanding among people groups is happening. And so we're going to be talking about that primarily over the next uh handful of weeks. But before we get into all of that, I'm going to take a second to uh to frame this out so you can know who the heck it is that's talking uh to you this morning. Nice. I'm Troy Skinner, I'm a white guy. I'm a white guy in every possible respect of the word. I am a white guy. He never sees the swim, so his legs are as white as could be. I can't dance Apparently you played basketball though. You and I have never played basketball you're pretty good. teens and and early to mid twenties, I could hold my own on a basketball court, but uh uh uh not anymore. Long way. Not anymore. Long way. And I don't want to give away any trade secrets here, but Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crosshills Way Church. He is also a white guy Big and ugly. We were talking before the show about, you know, Jonathan, have you ever been part you know involved with uh membership or a s at a significant level in on the from the inside of a church that is uh not all white? Yeah And Jonathan says, Well, I grew up in my dad's church. That was all white, and now I'm leading my own church, which unfortunately from your perspective is all white. where we drew a circle around uh the church, uh a mile radius on every side, and we said, We're gonna reach those people. Who cares where we live, we're gonna reach those people and we went after 'em and that year at VBS And uh and from then on the church began to move in a decidedly minority direction because we just went after 'em. And today that church is eighty percent minority. My brother is married to a Latin American girl from Honduras and they lead a um a K through twelfth grade. private school that is like seventy percent Latin American, some African American, and some white. And so um I have actually been significantly a part of some settings like that. And the group of churches, uh, well, the larger group of churches, not like our particular stream, but the larger group of churches that we were a part of. in the eighties, nineties, into the O's, uh uh in the late nineties made a shift of bringing specifically Latin American people into the leadership of the group. And since that time it has uh become a very mixed group. And and literally my dad and I and several other pastors are still going to this every year. And in that context I have had some of the most difficult conversations with people that I worship next to uh and people that are preaching the Word of God as effectively and accurately as anybody that I've ever talked to. And yet when we come down to talk about race issues, all of a sudden there's this divide between us that is that is genuine and real and ongoing. And so even though it's the case that I've been um raised, you know, in a in a white perspective. Um my dad and the the leadership of the churches that I was a part of uh saw a prophetic. I don't know how how else to put it, meaning that there was a problem that was a that that was a a a problem in the church that God needed it to address. God wanted us to address us to change, and they began to move in that direction significantly. And so uh it's in my spiritual blood, I think you could put it that way, to you know, to to get into this uh and to be a part of seeing some of those solutions happen. So like I said, John the white guy. All that being said And Dr. Pamela Blake is uh a black woman. Or I first of all I want to clarify 'cause I don't want I don't mean to be of offensive to anybody. Do you prov Is it appropriate to refer to you as a black woman, an African American woman? What's the right social uh norm these days? I view myself as a African American woman. I'm not opposed to people saying black. Um Okay. Yeah, the reason I I bring that up as a because uh there was a time uh it's a couple of years ago now, I'm trying to remember the exact but I referred to someone as African American and they corrected me and said that they weren't African. You know, they were f like from South America or something and I was like, ooh, you're a South American American, but that doesn't really help explain the point that you're trying You know, w what you mean by that. And there are some people that could be African Americans that are very light skinned. So if somebody if if somebody who's from British descent who lives in South America comes to live in America in i in the United uh South Africa 'cause I live in in the United States, would they be African American? Actually I've been to South Africa and Zimbabwe And uh I was with a missionary who uh when he got there he was told that um by the other white missionaries that you know you can't put Africans in the leadership. You just can't do it. uh so don't even try. And he he said, Wait, what? And he began to do so, and Zimbabwe in particular uh everywhere he went raise up indigenous leadership to to be uh in authority and then Mugabe came into power in Zimbabwe kicked all the whites out and the only churches that stayed were the churches that were led by the indigenous people uh locally and Uh so to this day he still you know ministers into that area. But when I was there they noted that um that the colors are totally different uh strata of society than the blacks. And they don't I mean they they they'll fr they'll be friendly to one another, you know, maybe they shop near one another. but they don't live in the same neighborhoods and uh and they generally tend to stay very different from one another. The the you know, again there's just these these lines that get drawn that seem to hang on for a long time. And this is what we're getting at today, that in the church of Jesus Christ in the United States, there's still this barrier that is a significant one. that we gotta talk about. We need to not just leave it leave it unaddressed. And I wanna s uh say one more thing well probably two more things before uh I I turn things over to uh Dr. Plague for a second to share her cultural context and her life experience because I've seen the demographic data for this radio station. Yeah. And the listenership to this radio station is it's not a hundred percent white But it is overwhelmingly white. Huh. So most people odds are if you're listening to this show right now You're a white guy or a white gal and you're you're gonna uh look at things a little bit differently than Pamela's gonna look at things. And you're gonna hear, I'm assuming, I think we probably already have said it this way a couple of times and I'm sure throughout the rest of this show and uh other shows that we we intend to do together, you're probably going to hear us talk about uh racial issues, race relations, uh this race, that race. I wanna let I'm not speaking for the uh the other two, but I'll speak for myself. I'm not comfortable with that choice of language. Uh but because of the the cultural norm and the conventions of our society, we're going to probably use that kind of language so we're understandable But I'm not comfortable because I don't like to think in terms of different races. There is one race, the human race. Yeah, yeah. And so we start getting into people having slightly different uh pigmentation of their skin as being a different race that bothers me, but I can't be the only voice in the wilderness trying to fight that fight and hope to be understood. So if you hear us talk about race, race relations And you happen to be somebody who agrees with my sensitivity to that kind of language choice, don't be offended, please. Know that we're just, you know, hopefully over time we'll get away from that kind of language use. But for now, that is the way people talk. So anyway. All of that said, Dr. Blake, uh w where did you grow up and was it primarily an African American community? Was it a mixed community? Let's kinda real qu I don't want to have your whole life story, but I'm trying to get a frame of reference of of of y what your experience is then. I grew up in the South, in North Carolina. I grew up in a African American Methodist church. Um there were no I grew up in the late sixties, seventies, so there was no going to church with other races. Um, however, when I went away to graduate school at Penn State, um I found there were only two black churches in state college. One was United Methodist and one was through the student organization there and that one was African American. Uh so you had to choose United Methodist or non-denominational Pentecostal. So I became involved with the Pentecostal Church. And um you know, I I g it sounds like we might be close to age, uh same age, and uh you know, Jonathan's just a pup, you're like what, twelve years old? I'm sorry, that's the way you act, but you're actually seventeen years old. Uh yeah. But so it's after the civil rights movement that you know y you're making your way in the world, but in in the Carolinas I imagine that they were a little bit slower to embrace some of the societal changes that were taking place on the heels of the of the sixties. And so you probably dealt with uh a a sense of um Significance. Uh I wouldn't say isolation because um in the black community we we knew each other We had our stores, we had our lives, we had our churches. I don't mean you individually, I apologize, but y th you and your community in isolation from the rest of quote unquote America with Walter Cronkite, you know uh representing all of it as American. D is that is that fair that you y y you see them you you seem to even nodding like you know what I'm talking about. I do, but I'm w I'm I'm wondering again if it's accurate in terms of, you know, what her perspective is. I wouldn't say isolated. I mean we were all and we still are as African Americans. We are aware that we have our different cultures within the American culture or society at large. So I was always aware of my culture and I was always aware that my cultural instincts and my cultural behaviors may not identify with those of the majority. culture. And what's the time frame w that you were at Penn State? I was at Penn State in the early Mid well, I did my first masters and my doctorate there, so I was there about nine years in the eighties. Okay. And that's um as you said, very white, only two African American churches. But was the attitude different because it's a little further north and also another twenty years had passed since the civil rights movement really made headway or Not not in state college. Not so not at the time. If you go back now it has. Okay. But uh back then the um You hear of the fallacy of the North and the North being all encompassing and open and all of that. That was not the case in I grew up in Chicago and it wasn't true there either No, it it wasn't. It wasn't. And um as a matter of Still not true there, by the way, which we'll be talking about, I'm sure. Yeah. As a matter of fact every spring at at Penn State the annual rites of passage were the um uh marginalized students having to march and protest and beg the university to do better by its um minority, quote unquote. I don't like that word um students. So in state at that time nor was State College very uh progressive. And you've been in the Frederick area for how long? Well, before I got to Frederick, let me let me add something else. I um left State College and I worked at Dickinson College in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, as their director of multicultural affairs and I taught intercultural communications there. Now Dickinson at the time, this is um in two nineteen ninety six Or ninety-five. Dickinson College was ninety-four percent white. US white. Uh US white, what does that mean? Well, because they had a sizable international statement body that they counted. But that was a almost a subset. Sure. Of the remaining six percent, some of those were also white, but just from Canada, Europe. From Europe from Europe. From Europe. As a matter of fact, they had a larger international number than they had US minorities. They had out of two thousand students, they had uh sixteen African Americans, twenty one Hispanic Latinos and eleven or twelve Asian Americans. Mm. You can almost count 'em on one hand. I mean on on your on your fingers, on your two hands. Absolutely. And so I taught there. I was the only um professional in my department. So what was that for? This isn't a yeah, it's kind of an aside from where we're going, but um i it it is related. I don't know why. the minutiae of it, but did you feel what was that? Like a token? Like No, because I'm qualified. I knew I was there because of my ability. I mean, you know, I had three degree. staff member? Well, I think people didn't know what to do with me. Right. Here I was African American, very articulate. Um overseeing their multicultural department at a school that's ninety four percent white um that has managed to uh dodge racial issues for a long time and now I've been hired to come in and open blinded eyes. Mm-hmm. So that in itself set up for some isolating incidents and feelings. Oh, totally, yeah. So I'd like to hear some of those stories as well. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. We are joined this week by Dr. Pamela Blake, who is an elder with Strong Tower or minister if you like at Strong Tower uh in Frederick. Uh so after Dickinson from there you came to Maryland? Nope. No, there's more. Okay. From there went to Duke Divinity. Oh right. Okay, I knew that. I forgot you mentioned that. That's where I got my second masters in uh Divinity. She's got two masters, John. How many do you have? And she has a doctorate. I didn't gotten even gotten there yet. Uh she and I are working together in the context of the Bible Institute of Frederick that offered its first classes here in the spring, one of which was a class that she taught specifically dealing with the Ferguson issue uh and how that's a Rorschach test, you know, describing how you approach um racial issues here in the United States. And in that context, she's the one that's teaching me how to teach a class. I just did an Old Testament survey class finished a few weeks ago and she was the one walking us through how do you develop your curriculum, how to make sure that it's thorough, how do you make sure that your curriculum for the school as a whole is moving in in a a specific direction. And so it's her expertise that has helped us to move that forward in a uh very effective and important way. And so I'm very excited about that on several different lay uh levels uh not just the opportunity to um have a discussion with her and participate with her about dealing with racial issues in particular. So you're At Duke in the late nineties, I'm at Duke. I received my divinity degree in two thousand. Okay. Then I pastored in Jacksonville, North Carolina. Then I left there and pastored in Uh interesting and since we're talking about race, the church I pastored in North Carolina was all white. United Methodist Church and Military. Yeah. Well that might help the to answer my question without me even having to ask it. I was gonna say you grew up in North Carolina and then you go back to North Carolina uh you know, in the Duke vicinity. Um twenty five, thirty years later or something, how much of a difference could you tell? How much of a of a sweeping cultural shift had there been? That's almost a generation. Right. Unfortunately there wasn't a sweeping cultural shift. Not in Jacksonville. Okay. Um African American women pastors of all white congregations in North Carolina back in nineteen sixty eight. No, this is in nine this is in two thousand one things had to go. From like nineteen seventy-ish until two thousand ish, there was a pretty significant change. Right. You're saying that since two thousand, the last fifteen years there really hasn't been much change. Is that what you're saying? I mean you're saying back in two thousand one, two thousand four era in Jacksonville, North Carolina, there wasn't much change. Okay. Um things were still similar to nineteen seventy. Precise. And it's still there today, do you think? I don't know. I've not returned there by choice. Um I I don't ever anticipate God leading me to go back. So you've been in this neck of the woods for the last ten or so years, is that about right? I left there and pastored an all black church, United Methodist Church in Pennsylvania. So, um in d during my internships while I was in Duke I also uh did internships at Black Presbyterian, White Church United Methodist, um Black United Met So I say all this to say I have a very ecumenical background. And not just ecumenical but cross cultural. Very cross cultural Experience in terms of dealing across those cultures. And one of the churches I was a member of when I worked at Dickinson was um white since we're using racial terminology. Uh about three hundred and fifty member congregation and I was the only person of color, n not Hispanic, Latino, not any other Group but again. There you are, all alone. But me. Not just African American, but a woman that is highly educated in moving into all of those environments. You know, I heard uh it said that the difference between a pastor and a missionary is that you are willing to go across the cultural uh boundaries that that um you know somebody just kinda uh identified that as a as a distinguishing mark and um there's something that is You know, not many people are willing to go there, you know, outside of, you know, let's eat at a you know Indian restaurant tonight or, you know or or go visit um uh you know uh that part of the city and uh walk around for a little bit. But in terms of really building relationships cross culturally and getting to know people cross culturally Culturally, that's really uh not a common thing. Now we're running down the home stretch here, so I want to uh um re I'm making an uh a verbal note here so that Jonathan can follow his mental note. Because I want us to be able to talk a little bit it for the beginning of the next show we're going to do together, about how Frederick, in your experience over these last handful of years, however long you've been here, kind of compares with your other experiences in other parts of the country in different periods of time. I'd be curious to kinda hear uh about that. Uh but what the funny because I I can't figure out whether we should spend time on her story because I'm fascinated And uh I always want to hear more just about that. I think we'll end up swinging back around. But then also getting into just the the meat of the discussion about what is it really like between African Americans and the uh the white community specifically in the church and how they view things differently. And so, you know, all of that I feel like is rich and worth getting into it. And and we've gotten a chance to get to know uh Dr. Blake reasonably well, this given the confines of of the radio show. But this is you know not a poly side show. You know, this is the Frederick Faith debate, so d j just i if you could in thirty to ninety seconds, how would you like Jonathan, I would describe uh in in very simple terms, this is not fair, right? Caitlin Broadbush bro fraud frustroaks, it's not fair. But Jonathan is uh is I would say an evangelical, uh, you know, conservative, Bible believing, charismatic pastor. Okay. Uh I would say all of those things are true for me except I would probably take the word charismatic out and probably place uh essentially reformed uh in in there instead. So anybody who's listened to this show for a while probably has a sense of that. You've bounced around to different places. You've mentioned ecumenical uh sensibilities and stuff, but where do you have a tendency to fall down on things and or come down on things theologically? How would you you know in in a handful of words describe your theological outlook? Um, my theological outlook would probably resemble that of the great mystic Howard Thurman when he pinned the book Jesus and the Disinherited. Um I am Bible believing. I have a background. I've gone where I felt God has led me. But my faith leads me to challenge the pro provincial uh tenets that have been taught about the Bible. I think that we have not looked deep enough. We want to talk about Jesus' love, but we don't want to talk about the things that Jesus did not stand for. Yeah. So he was not for poverty. He was not for treating uh your fellow citizens in a denigrated way. He was not for a lot. Yes, he was for love. And too often the church wants to focus on that, but we've done a poor job of focusing on the needs deeper than just to know the love of God. Hmm. Well there's all sorts of stuff there. Come on, here's the thing. So that was that was cool. So we're going to uh uh put a bow on this one. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, uh Dr. Pamela Blake, who's an elder slash minister, whatever title you prefer. At Strong Chower in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. What have I been reading? Saved by Grace by Anthony Hokema. I give that a recommend. Two thumbs up For that one. And thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, helping make you smile. Two thumbs up there too. And thank you for listening. We'll be back this same time, same place Well not exactly the same time. One hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now, if you want to catch the beginning of the show next week, visit us online WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week. God bless.