This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-ball forum. Kua! Where Faith Community leaders arrest. over the truth. Yabba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. How convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher. and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Oh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweitzer. No, I'm just getting warmed up. What are the best Strategies in our area for proclaiming the gospel. This has to do with what's called apologetics and evangelism. The importance of knowing the truth about the gospel is what exactly? The reasons why some people never convert to Christianity are what? Do we think? What hinders a person from converting? What can Christian believers and leaders in the professional ministry do to help turn around the bad taste, the bad thoughts that so many of our neighbors have? Back together for a fourth week of faith. debating together. Jonathan Sweitzer, who's the founder of Bridges, Connecting Needs and Resources in Frederick County, and Ace Ray, who is a longtime pastor uh on the East Coast and has now started a new church in Frederick called the River International Meeting at North Elementary. So thank you for being on the show. Um hope you enjoyed your Thanksgiving and uh looking forward to a wonderful advent season. The year seems like it's flown by. It seems like just yesterday it was July. And here it is. Yes, the biggest. And here it is, this is rainy summer. See the elections come and gone, midterms, all that, all that hullabaloo. It's amazing, right? So and so all those distractions are gone, we can focus on w really matters. The gospel of Jesus Christ. And actually Christmas time is such a such a good context for the gospel. I can tell you what Christmas is all about, Charlie Brown. Charlie Brown. So uh let's start with one of the things that's right there in the middle of my uh opening uh words there. What are some of the things that are hindering people from receiving the gospel, from hearing the good news and responding in a way that You know, the three of us would like to see them respond. What hinders them? Yeah, what's what's in there? What's their problem, man? You know, I I'd I'd say it's the same thing that that stops me from being a better dad or being a better husband. You know, there just pride, envy, I mean to the extent that that Any human uh is not uh actively addressing those kinds of heart um temptations or heart you know problems, they they blind us from being able to see what we're doing that is so painful to other people. Uh, you know, uh meaning they blind us to to what's necessary for healthy relationships with one another, let alone than what's necessary for healthy relationships with God. And so I mean I guess that's another way of just saying good old fashioned seeing, you know, is it sin? Is it you know I th I I just I just think it's pervasive, you know, how Envy and pride and those things can just So sin in two ways I guess, right? The w one is that y your sinfulness keeps you from responding to the truth. Pursuing a righteous you know a right standing before God, your sin gets in the way. Right, and then uh what was the other aspect of uh sin getting in the way? Uh drawing a bullet. Maybe ways that we've been hurt by other people Uh and so other people have hurt us. I I a and so then the second aspect of sin of the person trying to share the gospel with you gets in the way 'cause of hypocrisy and all of that. Yeah, and so uh that's the other part that I was gonna say. I think that th it it looks to me like like there are people that are actively promoting other solutions to to who we are as humans, you know, other answers to the great questions of life and and the uh the I guess selling of those ideas uh actively um argue against there being a loving God that created us, that sent us on to die, you know, uh in order to reconcile us back to the Father. Like those elements of the gospel. sometimes are are actively spoken against. You know, people use the language of anti-Christ, you know, uh uh worldviews and and ideologies that are aggressively against what uh Christ represents. So I'd I'd say those are the two things, you know, internal and external. Yeah. And I was going to say by the way we'll kind of flip sides of the same coin that was that before I lost my mind for a moment. our own sin gets in the way and then our inability to recognize our own sin and recognize we have a problem. Yeah. You know, so which is the bigger issue. We have a sin problem. If we can't acknowledge our need, then we're not going to respond to the good news. Yeah, the you know, the solution to our sin problem. If we don't realize we have a problem, we are not looking for a solution. So in fact a heart of humility, you know, as the Bible defines it, I think is Acknowledging you know, that that we have sin problems, you know, that that I have pride problem, that I have a lying problem, that I have a you know, lust problem or whatever it is, you know, just the admission of those things goes a long way towards John and I have our ears monopolized the first part of the show here. Yeah. Uh Ace, what do you have to add in? Um I believe that If let me say, a believer. A believer knows if they're in sin or if Um like you talked about um lust, all these different different things of sin. Mm-hmm. 'Cause the Holy Spirit will deal with us. You're convicted. Convicted of your sin. Now I I believe that a A person who's not saved would not know because they're already in darkness. They already are not in the light of Christ. But sometimes we can ignore that we have uh our sin, uh, but we know where we are because we come into the light of the knowledge of the truth. And when you come into the truth, you know, God won't leave us ignorant, you know. So we know uh where we are. I I feel that every man knows where they are. If if they have a lying spirit, they have a um prideful spirit. If we come into the knowledge of God, we know those things. You know, and of course going to Romans one eighteen I think is uh a classic description of uh men reject God because they they didn't give thanks to God. Right? And so there's a there's an element of ingratitude that that is that seems to be like a uh the beginning of of people's ears being closed you know, they they feel like they deserve something, you know, and and that's for me envy is a is a pretty uh significant thing that the Lord had to kinda work me through that that my my sense that I'm owed something, you know, and I don't I don't really have enough of whatever I might need. you know, that orientation seems to have a domino effect into lust, greed, you know, and and other aspects of things that can really close us off. to being able to hear the gospel. And so that ex explains part of what you know what what's going on, you know, w the the cause. But you know the Romans also says that they are left without excuse. Yeah. They should Yeah, they should. Right. So that's that speaks to something I kind of threw out at the beginning. This topic, by the way, was suggested by uh by Pastor Ace. Nice. Um what is it that keeps the one who was without excuse from continuing to make up excuses or turn a blind eye and r and just not come to conversion is I mean we're gonna get into I think a Calvin Arminian debate if we're not careful but what what would what would your answers be? What do you think? What would make a person not com convert is what you're asking? Yeah, some people never convert to Christianity. Right? I mean Well a man um first of all, a man has to be the spirit draws. No one comes to God unless he draweth him. That's what the scripture said. Okay. Are we gonna end up going there today? Uh And and if we say, okay, that's enough, then let's go to your next question. So we'll see where it goes. Another thing is uh we don't have enough enough evangelism. I i is what I mean is uh people who are sharing the good news. So that's why you're doing the drawing. We've got to go out there and and draw some people. Right. We've got to share we've got to proclaim the the the good news, evangelize. So that's where he's going through drawing. He's not doing a Holy Spirit God calls the predestination argument there. That's where uh if you're listening, you're wondering why Sean and I lack into it. I do speak into it. Yeah, a little bit. But anyway, he's not really going there per se. So and that's you know and we've done that topic a number of times. We're not afraid of it. We'll do it again. That can sometimes be four shows by itself to have one topic. Easily. So different Uh different different panelists. So but so let's talk about the the evangelism part of it for a second and we'll see if we get into the classic debates here enough. Just focusing on the evangelist because whether you're a Calvinist or an Arminian, if you don't know what those terms are, uh Google them. I'm not going to get into spending a whole lot of time di disc uh defining those for you because we're not really talking talking about that. Regardless of where you fall on you know, God's work in the conversion versus the individual's work in the conversion or you know, or whatever, how you want to use the the terms to define that. Regardless where you stand Everyone believes that the good news should be proclaimed. That evangelism should take place. So what are some effective strategies, maybe particular to our situation in Frederick that would help meet people where they are and be persuasive. So I like I like what Jesus uh says in Luke 10. I like what Jesus says everywhere, not just Luke everywhere. So I'm totally Name dropper here. My good buddy. You know, we hear that all the time. Right? Jesus and me. Yeah, creator of the universe. Yeah, you know that guy. We're tight. King of all kings. So uh so uh uh when he sends out his seventy disciples uh to you know to preach the kingdom uh uh he says four things that are really drivers for my thought process on this right now he says extend peace to them Eat whatever's put in front of you, which has an a a key element of fellowship or just building relationship. Fellowship. Table fellowship that you know in uh biblical uh mentality was pretty significant. Heal the sick, cast out demons, you know, that that has to do with uh touching their needs. in a uh you know powerful kind of way and then tell 'em the kingdom of heaven has come near. Mm-hmm. And so I feel like that that pattern You know, that we come in peace. We don't come harsh and angry. We come extending peace that that we start with the fellowship aspect, right, of building relationship. Three, that we go to the pain. You know, and uh and not just talk about the pain, oh God bless you, you know, but that we really look to bring solutions and then You know, we say, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And it strikes me out of those four, I think the one that's neglected the vos is the second one. I think so. Right w I think everybody wants to be winsome. They want to come across as a friendly good guy. So we're not going to go bat there are some knuckleheads like you know Westboro Baptist Church comes to mind, you know, or something like that. more confrontational street ministers right that can tend to not I think get the peace part. But generally speaking I think most people want to befriend someone and be nice to them. In fact I think sometimes we're guilty of spending too much time there and never actually get on with the game. Sure. Spent five years build a relationship with your neighbor so that maybe someday before he moves away you can share the gospel with him. So But we so I think we try to be nice, maybe to a fault. And then the uh third one was uh meet their needs, you know, figure out where their needs are. They need a sandwich, here you go, you know. I'll be praying for you. Thoughts and prayers sent your way. Wh which again is a key driver for the whole opioid initiative, just recognizing that that's a key brokenness. you know, in our community. Or it could be, you know, there's a whole number of things. Homelessness or or, you know, uh you know, single parenthood. There's a whole number of different places where people feel the pain you know and the heaviness of their situation that that for us to be you know, thinking about solutions and praying about, you know, powerful solutions to that. And then the fourth one was, you know, tell them the good news, right? Proclaim the gospel of the kingdom of Jesus Christ. And some people leave they start with that Yeah. They totally blow past the first three and just go straight to the fourth one. You need a certain gift and a certain measure of training if you're gonna go out and do street evangelism. Yeah. Right? And so uh you know, if somebody just goes out and does it Uh well, it might be somebody with a gift, but but I think it's important to to really be thoughtful about how you're going to do that, if that's what you're going to go do. But the second one is there is a place for it. Later on as you talked, you said ease the word fellowship, but you start with the word eat. Yeah. And there are so many examples in the Bible. Jesus' story with the sinner. Meeting with people. Yeah. Going to their house to eat. But over there it's not just one or two. Like it's over and over. It's a recurring theme. I don't know that we pay enough attention to that theme. We should recognize how important that is. We should invite people into our homes for meals. We should go out and grab a bite to eat at your favorite restaurant. You should you should ac accept an invitation to their home for meals. Gotcha. Right. And we just don't do that enough. In fact, here I go, I'm I'm making another plug plug for uh the water boys. Oh it says two bills and a right. Send them a bill. But they do their meetings in public. And I think there's there's something to be said for the fact that so much of our society does their fellowshipping in public. You know, there's some where where it happens over at people's houses. But it just you know, that's part of the whole community problem and people being more lonely. That that just doesn't happen as much. People don't have time to make meals or You know, it's just kind of more intimate. Whereas where people meet when they meet is at a restaurant somewhere. And so, you know, why not have your home groups or your Bible studies at a restaurant out where everybody can see you? You know, in a place where you're eating together and you can invite people. It just feels to me like that's a common thread in society today that when they go to Spend time with one another. It tends to be at a public restaurant scenario. Not that there isn't an invitations into the home or like barbecues and different things, but does it happen as often? Yeah. Maybe it does for you. Maybe it's a habit I need to do more of. Um well we have an annual barbecue uh at our house. Nice. Uh every every house on our street is invited. Uh there's about twenty houses on our street. Oh nice. And so we invite everybody every year. And um We've had over the we've been doing it now for like eighteen years, seventeen, eighteen years. And over those years, probably Uh four or five of the houses have never come to the barbecue, but the rest have come at least once. And we have maybe a half a dozen uh maybe eight six to eight that come almost every single year and we've gotten to know them as neighbors. You have you have to be purposeful to know your neighbors anymore because everybody hits the clicker on their uh on their garage door, they pull straight in, they hit the clicker again, it closes. You never actually see That is such a great practice. So and we've gotten to know them and uh and so now at the holiday time, you know, I imagine over the next couple of weeks we'll have neighbors knocking on our door, giving us cookies and Which of course I need cookies so I need to I'm I'm underweight. I need to gain another twenty or thirty pounds. So Radio's a good place for you to say those kind of things. Yeah, that'll that'll be good for me. They're out in the neck up. Yeah. Yeah. By the way, resetting, this is a fate debate on nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The the guy gave me a hard time about the uh gur what that was. Is uh Johnson. Why sir? And the guy being polite and friendly about the whole subject matter is Pastor Ace Ray from the River International. Yes. So Uh John and I kinda ran away again like we did uh the beginning of last week's show, I think. Uh maybe it was the beginning of this week's show. They're all running together now for me. Um Anything that uh y you you feel is important for us to add into this mix of what we're talking about when we're talking to the lost? Um well we are talking about evangelism. I feel that all churches really should um come together in their church and put together a evangelistic team. And train them specifically. Train them specifically to work the community. You have people moving in and out of the community. You that's that's new people all the time that That's true. You know, that will bring more people to the to to the actual church. So a straight invitation. Yes. I think there's something to be said for for people that are trained just to just to you know really make invitations. I exact I don't I don't think that happens as much as we could. Right, yeah. As as one aspect of outreach. You know, um I do feel like uh uh finding ways to serve in the community uh is just has a aspect to it Um that, you know, it's the word and the work of the gospel. And so serving, you know, you know, in terms of healing the sick, you know, or driving out demons, you know, addressing the pain. that that there's a platform that is created in in that context that is pretty important. I also wanted to say that um I think it's good to encourage people to practice like a 30 second opportunity to share the gospel. If you only had thirty seconds, what would you say? You know? If you only had three minutes, you know, that's the elevator speech, you know, to to share with somebody the gospel, how would you do it, you know leading to like the longer time when somebody really asks you, you know, f you know, and they're asking for like a thirty minute but I think a big danger for people when they go to share the gospel is that is that they're given like a thirty second window and they end up going on for ten minutes. You know, and then people listening are like, Man, I'm never asking them that question again You know, or you're given a three minute window again and you go on for ten minutes. Yeah, no, I haven't been great at either. I think that's something again we've given some practical tips over the last So I've actually enjoyed this arc of shows that we've done. Here's another practical tip that seems uh relevant to practical tip person. Yeah, here we go. Practical tip of the week. Yes. You should do a word of the week in the show. Practical tip of the week. Instead of trying to go through, you know, the creation, fall, redemption, glorification, like you know, the f the the four chapters of fourfold gospel or all those different strategies and try to almost like memorize a a tract those things you hand out to people. Instead of like memorizing all of that and try to rush through all in thirty seconds. Maybe you know the way you can share the gospel. If somebody asks you is you can just tell them a personal anecdote That's what I do. Right? So what's all this thing about Christianity? Well you know, it changed my life. Mm-hmm. You know, I was a no good not good for nothing this and that's not me anymore. Or I've seen God move. He he healed my son, miraculously healed my son's heart. He is for real. And if you ever want to know more, I can tell you more. And that might pe it it it speaks to the power, speaks to the relationship. It might give take change them from the thirty second or even the three minute just as a teaser. Right. And then they're good draw and then if they're interested and if you do a good job they might be. Like wow, your son's heart was healed? What? Tell me more about that. Or what do you mean you were good for nothing? Well I don't have time to get into it right now, but Maybe that's uh maybe instead of trying to you know feel like you're on task, you've you're being quizzed. Mm-hmm. Right? You're be this oh, I've been studying all my life for this moment So first what happened is God created everything out of nothing. And then you know there was there was this tree. And and you tried to say it in thirty seconds and Yeah, yeah, even still they're like, oh man, you know. It's academic and it's too much, right? Yeah. So anyway, I I that It's something I'm gonna maybe try to do more frequently. I think it might help me. Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm. Yeah, I mean you got me thinking now, so you know Oh boy. How would I handle that? I wasn't I wanted to steer clear of that. Well when I first came to Christ I had more hair. I mean that just changed everything, you know. Well our our time is basically up, so I'm gonna use some plugs and we'll end and wrap this up. All right. So this today's the first good to have you on Ace. Glad to be here. Pastor. Glad to be here. First Sunday of that. I hope you enjoy Get Yourself to Church. Jonathan Schweitzer, he's got a new organization in town called Bridges. Check him out online. It's Bridges um connected bridgesconnected dot org and you can uh check out uh pastor ace ray's new church the river international it's um at uh the river international. live, I believe. www. live. Very odd ending there. The Faith Debate Show is at wfmd. com, keyword faith. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless