Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gritlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfied things. This is a Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile? The Faith Debate is online, WFMD. com keyword faith, so you'll find links to interesting things. including podcasts of this show from the past. Um and the Faith Bay Vlog, which is really more of a program guys. If you're wondering what's coming up or what'll be featured on the show, you know, next week or something like that, you can uh visit the website during the week and see what's coming up on the upcoming Sunday. And you can look back and see what's been on in recent weeks to see if there's something that catches your interest that you might have missed on the air live, and then you can go find the podcast that might be interesting to you. All right. Uh we've been in a weird season. I've mentioned this last few weeks. So scheduling has just been nuts with Johnson Square. Patronized. We ran some best sub shows in our first year on the air back when the show was on Sunday morning at six A. M. , twelve years ago. Um so people who listen to us, uh, you know, in the eight thirty slot might not have ever heard those shows before, so that was kind of a a fun thing to do. do and listen to a sermon message I had an opportunity to preach last year in the area and uh learned heard some snippets from John Schweitzer uh last week, which was kind of a fun thing to do. And so uh I'm thinking we might want to do that um again. Uh And make this show more about John Schweitzer. We've done a whole bunch of shows in the past that have been all about me. I apologize for that. And do the best we can to bring fresh material to you. uh that would be interesting and fun and and enlightening and helpful uh as best as possible. And John does something called the CVC minute. He's got a series of them. They're usually about, you know, two, three, four, five minutes long, depending. It's kind of the range. So maybe we'll listen to a few of those and see what else I can find from the John Schweitzer library. So without any further ado Hello, good to see you. This is a really beautiful Day today. This is the day that the Lord has made. And we rejoice and are glad in it. You know, um I really praise God for uh the fact that every day that we live in Christ. is a day where we are living differently than how we lived before we were in Christ. Right? Everything has changed. And we are now a new creation in Christ. And in particular, I want to talk today about four things that are different now than before, four things that we have victory over that we did not previously. First of all, we have victory over the curse of the law. The law and its curse, where we would sin and do what was wrong and as a result be under the curse of the law. We are no longer under the curse of the law. We have victory over that because Jesus Christ took that upon himself. Secondly, we have victory over Sin. We're told that the flesh that sin no longer has victory over us. This is very important We used to be under sin. Sin used to control us and enslave us. But because we've been buried with Christ and resurrected with Christ, we are no longer slaves to sin. We have victory over sin in Christ. It's amazing. Thank God. Third, we have victory over the world. This is all of the the uh the pressures of the world, peer pressure and and uh the the uh sinful uh lifestyles of people around us. We are no longer uh victims or under the oppression of those things, but we've been set free from the power of the world that that the world could throw its worst at us And it has no ability to affect us because we have victory over the world in Christ Jesus. Last of all, perhaps the most beautiful, is that we have victory over death. When we die, when it comes to the end of our life, and uh and it's time for this life to end, we will spend eternity with Jesus in heaven. Right? So we have victory over the law and its curse. We have victory over sin. We have victory over the world and we have victory over death in Jesus Christ. And all of that victory is ours right now. You know, it's such a great thing for you and I to spend this time together that we could be more like Christ, to be reminded about all that he has done on our behalf. We have victory. And this victory that he's given us is something that it's important for us to remember. I'll see you next time. Welcome back. I'm so glad that you're spending this time. with me again today. Every time that we take time like this to just talk about the things of God, it changes us. We're changed from the inside out I praise God today that you and I are no longer under the wrath of God but are recipients of his mercy and his grace, that there is no barrier between you and I and the Lord, that we have been brought together and reconciled. You know, John Stock writes a book called Christ in the Cross, and he uses this phrase that divine love triumphed over divine wrath. through divine self-sacrifice. Let me say that again. Divine love triumphed over divine wrath. through divine self-sacrifice, right? So God's love was so amazing that he no longer leaves us under his wrath. And why was his wrath there? His wrath was there because he has created this place that is his holy presence where his glory dwells and his love is is so amazing And he created that place for him to dwell with you and I. Right? It's this amazing place that he doesn't want anything to corrupt. It's his holy presence And his intention has always been that you and I live with him in that place. And anything that violates the holy love of that p place incurs his wrath, his divine wrath. And unfortunately, you and I, when we've sinned at different times, we're guilty of violating The purity of that place. Well, nevertheless, God's love, his divine love has triumphed over his divine wrath. Why or how by taking that wrath upon himself. When he hung on the cross, all of his own divine wrath came upon him in Jesus Christ God died on the cross through Jesus Christ and his wrath hit himself. He took it so that you and I would not have to. That is so amazing to me. And so I praise God today. I thank God that we are objects of mercy And that there is nothing that can separate us from that holy presence of His love and His glory that He intends for us to walk in for eternity with Him. So thank you for spending this time with me today. When we do so, it changes us from the inside out. We take just a little bit of time to let the Lord speak to our hearts So how will it change your interaction with God and other people today to know that nothing can separate you from the great love of God? It's an amazing thing. I'll see you next time. Hello, it's good to see you again today. You and I and several others have been taking this time on a regular basis to diligently seek God, right? We desire to be more like Christ. And Jesus has said that he is a rewarder of those who diligently seek him. So you and I are just diligently seeking him, right? He's making us more like Christ uh every day. He's changing us so that there's less of us and more of Jesus. And that is always a good thing. I praise God today about something. You know, God came seeking me. While I was still acting in a very sinful and selfish way, God decided that he was going to come and reconcile with me and make things right. And I thank God that that is the case. You know, um there's a couple ways for us to look at what Jesus did for us. And I want to talk today about reconciliation. But before we do so, I want to remind us that he uh first of all, he took his own wrath on himself, right? God was the recipient of his own wrath. And then he He redeemed us. There's an economic term. He redeemed us from slavery to sin. Right? Really amazing. And then there's uh there's a judicial term that's used, that he justified us. He made us righteous and he's the one that became sin. Right? And that brings us to this idea of reconciliation, a very personal Coming together, right? Uh and sure enough, the issue there is that there was genuine enmity between us and God. God was angry at you and I and the world because we acted in such selfish ways. We had treated his holy world, the world that he created and people that he created and him in selfish and proud ways. He's genuinely genuinely angry with us. But we also were uh separated from him. We also uh had a wrong attitude towards him. So so it wasn't just that Jesus was kind of coming and helping us to come back to God, right? God was recognizing that that there was a problem on both sides, a two-sided problem, right? He's angry because of our sin We're we're distant and we're far from him and uh full of our pride. And there was a two-sided problem that he needed to fix. Right? Two sides. Most conflicts that we get in are just like this. And so sure enough, what did he do? He sent Jesus Christ to reconcile the world back to himself, right? So there's two sides to reconciliation. And God's part He finished it. He did a complete job in totally reconciling the world back to himself in Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ did it on God's behalf. It wasn't like God was trying to or Jesus rather was trying to convince God to do it. Jesus did it on God's behalf and he reconciled us back to himself. And so one guy put it this way, that We took on God's image, and God took on our image, meaning he became sin. So that we who were sinful could be righteous. And that was the beginning of this, that was actually the working out of this reconciling. So the question I want to ask is: do you Or should I, when we're in a conflict with our coworker or our spouse or with somebody else, should we start the process By forgiving ahead of time, by by doing our part so that when the other person is ready and willing to reconcile, that we we have already done our part. We're already ready to reconcile. And so I thank God. That he came and did it for me first before I was ever ready or in a mood or uh of a mindset to change. He calls us to this higher road that in our conflicts with people that we begin the process like God in Christ that we begin the process of reconciliation before the other person even knows that we're doing it. How would that change things for you? So I want to thank you again every time that we take this time together to talk, to consider What God did for us in Jesus Christ. It changes us from the inside out. We become more like Christ. There's less of us. There's more of Him. And the result is that There's joy that's released in us, freedom that's released in us, so that we are enabled and released to be more like Christ in everything that we do, to shine as light and salt. All right, we'll see you next time. Hello. Good to see you today. We are continuing on a regular basis to take time together to grow in Jesus Christ. And that is such an important thing. That today we're a little bit more like Jesus than yesterday. That his spirit is transforming us and showing us just how great God is through Jesus Christ. and how we can look more like them. I praise God today for all those people in my life that have forgiven me when I have treated them wrong. For all those times, not just where they've forgiven me, but they've been honest maybe about things that they've done wrong and they've let me forgive them. You know, there's just been a lot of times where I've had conflicts and things have come through okay. I thank God for that. You know In Ephesians, the Apostle Paul talks about this great reconciliation. That's a great word reconciliation that God has brought not just between us and God, but also between us and one another, in particular the Jews and the Gentiles. Right? The Jewish people that are the holy people of God, the special people of God that have the very high standards of God's law and everything that they do, and then the Gentiles that are just trying to live their life Don't need, you know, high and mighty self-righteous people looking down on them. I mean, it sounds to me like a lot. of the struggles that I get in. Sometimes I'm the one that's high and mighty and has the high standard and other times I'm the one that's like, hey, would you chill out? Yeah, I mean we're all human together and and yet in Jesus Christ We have been reconciled to God and to one another. We're told that the dividing wall of hostility has been taken down in Jesus Christ. So what I want to ask today is how has what Jesus Christ did on the cross to bring us back into relationship with God and with one another. How does that change the way that you deal with conflicts with your wife or your husband or your children or people at work. How does it change that that God paid the price to set us free from slavery to sin. That God took uh that Jesus Christ took God's wrath on himself. Or that that we are no longer viewed by God as wicked, but that he views us now as righteous because of Jesus' blood covering us. How does that change The way that you deal with conflicts. I'm just so grateful that you and I are taking this time. When we look at Christ, when we look at it together, look at his scripture together, it changes us But we're becoming more like Christ. So I'll see you again tomorrow, okay? We'll see ya. Hello, how are you today? I uh continue to be very grateful that you and I are spending this kind of time together. Every time all of us get together, In this kind of a um uh setting, uh we are saying that we believe that God can change us every single day. That The little things that that we share with one another about God change us and cause us to be more like Christ, to give more of our lives and our will over to Him to serve Him. Thank you for being with me again today. I want to talk today about uh about joy and about the devil's uh schemes to make us be sorrowful. You know, one of the things that I really praise God for is music. And one of my favorite songs is A Mighty Fortress is Our God because it it it jumps into how it how it is that the devil and and difficulties in life can can work together to weigh us down and how um mighty God is to bring us out of it. It's just one of my favorites. And um Martin Luther has a quote about how music is important when we're dealing with the pressures of life and the pressures of the enemy of our soul. He says this, the devil The originator of sorrowful anxieties and restless troubles flees before the sound of music almost as much as before the Word of God. He says, music is a gift and grace of God, not an invention of men. Thus it drives out the devil and makes people cheerful. Now, I really relate to this and I love music, but more than that, just loving music, I'm More and more recognizing how powerful it is to strengthen me in the midst of trials and things that I face when I'm feeling overwhelmed by sorrow, like Paul says in 2 Corinthians 2 He says that we are not unaware of the devil's schemes to try to overwhelm us with excessive sorrow. That we know that this is how he tries to outwit us by overwhelming us with sorrow. And so Martin Luther says That music is a gift of God. The word of God says the same thing. I sing a new song unto the Lord. Right? He lifted me out of the muck in the mire and set my feet upon a rock. What will you do today? When you're overwhelmed with sorrow, to not let it get a hold of you, to recognize the devil's schemes, and to say, I'm not letting that happen. I'm refusing to let that happen. So uh I just again want to thank you for being with us today. I'm uh I continue to be um excited about getting together like this because it it means that we are letting the Lord change us from the inside out. So I'll see you again next time. God bless you Hello. It's a good day again today. This is the day that the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad. By you taking this time together with me today You are saying, along with me, along with all the others that are taking the time to watch this today, that we want Jesus to change us to be more like him. As a result of taking this few minutes just to just to be together, to talk together about this insight that I'm going to share with you in just a minute, we will be Better equipped to glorify God in everything that we do. That is a really great thing. And I'm proud of you for doing it. You know, I really praise God for the emotions that He gave us. You know, we can be happy, we can be sad, we can be angry, we can be relieved, uh, we can laugh. Uh and I thank God that He interacts with us with emotion. He's not just a robot, but he he interacts with us with emotion. You know, uh Dennis Proger wrote a book. called happiness is serious business. And in it he's basically saying that all of us have this obligation to be happy. Right? But what about all the hard things that we go through? You know, aren't we allowed to be sad? Isn't there a time to be sad, a time to be happy? Well, he doesn't say that there's not. But he says that we have an obligation to figure out how to be happy with our lives, to count our blessings, to to uh to be content with the life with our life as we have it, to interact with others in a way that we encourage them as well. The Apostle Paul Also said the same thing in 2 Corinthians chapter 2, verse number 2, he says that I chose to not come visit you because I didn't want you to be more sorrowful. He was making a decision to not do something. something based on whether or not it was gonna cause sorrow or bring more happiness to the Corinthians. And that is an interesting point that Jonathan is making there, an obligation to be happy. By the way I think it's Dennis Prager, but forgive Jonathan that Maybe I'm wrong, but I'm pretty sure it's Dennis Brager. Anyway, uh thanks so much. This is a kind of a special edition uh salute and tribute to uh John Sweitzer and the thing good things he's doing over at Crosswitz Valley Church. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Fleming Heating. How can we make you smile for listening? Until next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.