And this week the show might not agree with your views if you've gone on some Christian retreats over the years that you thought were solid or you hoped to be solid. You might learn otherwise. We'll find out Uh there are there are warnings to be uh be uttered and I would argue warnings to be heeded and uh that's what we'll be talking about today. On the Faith Debate, I'm Troy Skinner, joined by our regular panelists of Imran Razby, Daniel Razvy, David Forcey. Find us online at householdfaith in Christ. com, of course, WFMD. We really appreciate you taking time out of your Sunday morning, your busy schedule to listen to us live on the radio or wherever you're whenever your schedule is for listening to us later on in podcast. So we've been working through the uh Chicago statements. We did inerrancy and hermeneutics. We're actually gonna at some point tackle uh biblical application as well. Uh because they did three Chicago statements uh from nineteen seventy-eight to like nineteen eighty-six-ish, I believe. Uh and so uh there's one more Chicago statement for us to to work through. But before we get into that in the future We had a a a discussion uh not related to the faith debate, the four of us, and uh Daniel and Dor Imran were invited to a Christian retreat. And they did a little bit of digging and were like, Yeah, I'm not I'm not sure we're gonna go on this retreat because we're not really even sure it's Christian. So Why don't you give some of that backstory and then we can talk about broader issues? Related to it. Just in in general, I mean, when you hear about events or retreats or organizations that are Christian in nature A lot of things claim to be Christian and as we've we've discussed on this show a number of times, not even most of the churches th uh are Christian anymore. So let alone some random one off events in different places, you gotta be very, very careful because sometimes you can actually be uh worse to go to one of these events than not to go to anything at all, right? You're you're you're learning the opposite things or the uh at best you're learning bad theology and doctrine and at worst you actually uh run the risk of uh being d uh demonically uh attacked. And so there's there's several p the the the focus of this the this week's show that there's several organizations that are kind of associated with each other. They all started with a Catholic movement called Curcio um back in the I think the seventies, um which was supposed to be weekend retreats. um done by laity, not by pastors or priests, just uh to come get together and learn more about how to love Jesus more and and all that. And they became very popular and so the Lutherans took initiative and created their own version of it called Via de Cristo and the Methodists created uh um walk to Emmaus and then they have a youth version called Christous this Probably there are a bunch of others. Those are just the ones that I know about after a little bit of research. And they're all following the same Cristillo method. So it really is all the a Catholic um uh you know, uh movement. And that by itself should be a red flag and not that everything Catholics do is always bad. There's there are certain Certainly plenty of what they do when working to fight abortion is good. Um certainly from a Protestant perspective, so when you mentioned the Methodists and the Lutherans gloming onto this It's interesting that Protestant denominations would take this Catholic idea which I think might predate the nineteen seventies. I think it probably became more popular and a bigger deal in the seventies. I I I uh I I'm trying to remember when I looked at one. Yeah. So it's been quite a while. The initial thing. It's not a new thing. This is not something in the twenty first century, right? This has been going on a long time. And and they're all they all follow the same format, at least these organizations do. It's a weekend retreat You get recruited or scouted by somebody that's been to them before. They try to find other people who may be uh good to join in with these events and try to uh it's almost like spreading the gospel or the uh evangelizing for for the movement rather than for Christ. But they say, Oh, it's all about Christ, all about Jesus, you know, come to this event. And there's a lot of if you really dig in and look carefully, there are a lot of things um that are very cotish about it. And it's it's important to know though and to to stop mentioning, nobody joins a cult. Like nobody ever has ever joined a cult, right? You join uh some organization or you become involved in some group that you believe is doing some good stuff And only you you either realize it's a cult someday and leave or you don't and you believe it's in today's world there might be some, but I understand the point. Right? Um people are googling right now How do I find a cult near me? So uh to to and I'm gonna make the accusation accusation that this organization is very cultish, but that doesn't mean all the people all the people that are involved understand that or are terrible people, you know. Um just like there's plenty of people out in the Catholic Church that might have uh might might be quote unquote good people but uh don't understand some of the major issues in doctrine. So with the Cristo weekends or the Via de Cristo or Walk to Emmaus Oh they all follow a similar format where the uh you you all the people come and they usually get dropped off or they get rides so that you can't just leave in the middle, you're kinda trapped there for the weekend. Um s and there's a lot of reports of people who had wanted to leave and were really pressured very strongly to stay through the weekends 'cause you won't get the full experience and you won't really be able to give a good judgment on whether it was good. until you see it all. And so that in itself is a little bit concerning. He won't know it's poisonous if you can drink it down. Yes. The weight there's more. The weight there's more. Yes. Wait or more. Um and so give you a set of Ginzunai at the end. Right. So you can make we can make as yeah accusations about uh you know, things that we think is going on there having not been there, but you can also just look at the websites of of who uh what the organizations are, you know, and they'll say things like, what is Christy? Oh, it's a series of talks that build on one another Okay, well that doesn't tell you anything. Um but if you dig in a little bit deeper, uh sensibly it's all about God and Christ, but the talks themselves are more emotional and motivational rather than really grounded in scripture. It's it's very metaphysical, it's very emotional, it's it's not um substantial in in doctrine. They try to make a point to say we don't believe in different doctrines, we're just all followers of Christ trying to uh grow closer to loving him. But in fact, what is the first meeting, uh first thesis that is to give it doesn't even talk about God. In fact they're restricted from talking about God in the first introductory meeting. 'Cause they wanted to set the quote unquote set the tone for the rest of the weekend by not talking about God or Jesus. Well, how is it a weekend about Jesus if you're not mentioning God or Jesus? And and so That those are some concerning things and and and even on their websites and the very cuz there's various websites about these organizations you can get a little bit of information. I mean they'll they'll say things like we teach you new ways to pray. Most people pray with their eyes closed But how about praying with your eyes open while focusing on an object? Well, to me that sounds very much like idol worship. Uh in fact, uh specifically what object in many cases It's a flame. They turn the light off and they look at w a f a flame from a single candle in the center of the room and everybody's silent and everybody just stares at that flame. That uh is is a very Um I mean it should i to the listener here that that should start to sound a little creepy just as I'm saying it. You know, it's yeah don't do the flame. If you're gonna f focus on an object, make it a golden calf. Yeah. So I mean there there's a lot of things um in that those are some of the highlights and just just in general. Um it doesn't seem to be well based in doctrine. So I was talking to a friend about uh this this whole thing and he said, Look, if I ever get invited to a retreat, a Christian retreat or Christian event of any kind, what is the first thing First of all, uh uh what what questions should you ask to determine whether it's something worth going to? Well, number one is, is anybody from your own church or your own group of uh uh uh inner circle of strong believers that you know, uh any of them involved with this or would be considering going also? If not, that's that that's not necessarily a red flag, but you want to do extra diligence, right? Um I mean the the people here in this room s we know each other well enough that if if I recommend something to Troy he's gonna have a little bit less of a of a hurdle d to decide to go just because he trusts me, we we trust each other because we know we have that kind of relationship. And we're in a covenant, you know, as far as in uh elders of different house churches that we work together So that's number one. Number two is you should uh check and see who are the people that are running the event. Do you know who any of them are Do you are you familiar with them? Have you if you've never heard of them before, then you really got to be searching carefully and you've got to find out what specifically are they teaching and can you be on board with all their teaching before you go and hear it? And if they're very secretive about what they're teaching, that's not really a good sign. They even have a statement of faith. And is it easily found the statement of faith or just uh you know, a lot of gobbledygook about different things they do 'cause But did Cracio have a statement of faith on their website? No, they don't understand. And that and that's a red flag, right? Any Christian organization should have a strong statement of faith. And so if it really is a Christian retreat or a Christian organization, then they should it should be easy to see what they believe. But by their own admission, they're very ecumenical. They want to join all the faiths together. particularly cat the Catholicism and Protestant churches. But they're open to anybody who loves Jesus and wants to know more about Jesus. Well, just saying that you love Jesus doesn't really mean that that you're actually following the right Jesus because Jesus himself said There are many false Christs. There are many people that are going to say, hey, you know, and and when Christ returns, there's going to be many times people say, Oh, here's Jesus. Go go see. And so that that's something to be very aware of and and and stay away from. If somebody had invited you, David, into this thing that you'd never heard of before, practically speaking, you would what would be some of the steps you would take to try to suss it out and see if it's something that you or your children or your wife or people in your church should go to. Yeah, I I I do think uh, you know, first personal testimony from people I trust, right? So like you were saying, Daniel. Um yeah Trying to figure out okay what is their and and also like you said their what what do they actually believe? Are they able to lay that out clearly? Um and So, you know, those are things to to look for as far as to you know to be pro. Uh things that Um, you know, you Daniel, you mentioned secretiveness, which I I agree with. You know, that's a red flag. Um also I think a red flag is um if there's some sort of implication that there's uh you know th that that you will get something out of it that you can't get anywhere else. Right. Uh that there's that you might get something out of it that you can't that you wouldn't get just from doing scriptural study on your own or from worshiping, you know, uh with your church. Uh yeah, those are big. And I because of the way we were talking about how language changes over time, I think that our culture has used red flag uh so commonly in in situations that we don't mean it's a stop signal. I just want to emphasize when when David says if if it's about being secretive and all that, that's a red flag. That's a stop sign That's a go no further. If they're being secretive, there's something wrong. It should be transparent. It should be open. You should know what they're teaching, why they're teaching it, who's behind it, who's funding it, what the organization is about. If I go to this weekend for the three days or five days or whatever the length of the thing is, what exactly am I going to be exposed to? Or if you're sending your your child to the Chrysalis version of Cristio? Uh they will be so excited and uplifted spiritually and they'll have such a high, an emotional high. This is this is what they what they're doing. So that's so that's what they're so you're getting that's the pitch. is you're gonna be so emotionally ecstatic and and happy and joyful after going to this event. And that's where you've got to go the next question, which is probably what you did, which is why you ended up not going, is okay, so I'm gonna arrive at this emotional high How exactly? Right. Well you'll see because there's a series of talks that build on each other. The first of which doesn't talk about God. But the whole weekend's about Jesus. Yeah, you gotta have discernment. Pretend you've you're looking at the national inquiry and have an inquiry in mind. That gets uh us sucked in to you know, involvements that aren't good for us, right? And I'm speaking like humans in general is if we have uh I mean I you know I I would say idolatry, right, is the is the thing. So if uh If I if happiness is my goal in life, right, if that's what I'm pursuing, if that's my greatest desire, then yeah, I I will very easily be sucked into something if someone says, you know, you will you will have a wonderful, happy experience, right? And you know, so I just maybe take a little bit of a step back, right? Like our our chief guard against uh uh against being you know led astray or or drawn into to things that are that are unhealthy or bad for us is to um I m for for us to worship, you know, God alone. Right? And um so anyway, so that's just I I mean that's you know, we're talking about something specific here, but there are You know, it's too many things to talk about. And so many people are living their lives that way. How many times have you heard somebody can you say, you know, you really think it's a good idea that uh you know your your son or daughter is has made that life choice or whatever, and how many times do we hear well, as long as they're happy. It makes them happy. Right? All I want is for them to be happy. Happy and healthy. That's all we care about, right? We we don't want to ever die and we want to be entirely happy while we never die. And that's that's our life goal. And and and the and the obvious logical problem with that belief is that you will die Right? Maybe you'll live a very long time, but then you're gonna die and your d what happens after death is so, so much longer than anything you ever could happen in life. So and it's mathematical you might not be happy for that really long time. Exactly. So the goal should be to be happy and live a long life, like after you die. Eternal life. Eternal. In blessed happiness. Right, yeah. Um and so uh and and what you do in this in this life is silly insignificant compared to that Yeah, I I would say that uh one of the big enticements is you're gonna meet other people, other men like you, other families like you, other women like you, or whatever. Because We're very isolated these days. You know, everybody's working from home and uh on the phone, electronics and th they're not seeing a lot of the people and churches are empty. So they're not having those relationships and that's enticing and getting people there. But even organizations that at one time were great, like uh Campus uh Crusades. For Christ, it's not that anymore. Right. I had a personal they even took Christ out of the name of the organization. And uh you know, that was a a catalyst for me being saved, but I don't know that they're saving anybody these days. Um, promise keepers. um any of these things, you uh what uh what has become of them now? What are they following, what are they doing now? Just you know be discerning about it because now God can use anything to save somebody. So, you know, you could end up being a non believer and end up with Chrysalis or Crusill and God save you and then you come out of it. That's that can happen. Uh when I was uh you know a new Christian, uh a a good friend of mine invited me to join the Masons for marketing purposes, to get connected with a lot of other business owners, leaders, and I would have a lot of sales And I thought and And you were a thirty second degree Mason now, right? I was I was thinking, that sounds like a great idea. It all sounded good. And I was all ready to join because my end result, I gotta support my family. I was a young guy and and do that. And my father in law said, No, no, no, no, you don't want to join the Masons because of these things Because it sounds good on the surface. You know, it's for the greater good, you're gonna it's gonna make you wealthier, happier, connecting with people. But really what is it? And so there's a lot of organizations we just have to say no, we don't wanna be part of those organizations And even churches now don't have statements of faith. I was looking excuse me. I was looking at some churches um over this past weekend and just researching. Many of them don't have any statement of faith listed at all. They just talk about how great their pastor is, how he connects with the people and and uh you know what kind of stuff they do for the people and how welcoming it is. But their congregants are involved in and and the youth ministry and the women's ministry and the and this ministry and that ministry without actually explaining what they believe. So because doctrine might offend somebody. So you're not going to put your doctrinal positions on your website because you might have you might offend them and they won't come to your church kind of thing. So for those listening We just said, okay, avoid these organizations by name. We named several, Curcio, Via de Cristo, uh Walktomaeus, Chrysalis for the Youth, and there's probably some other ones that have similar types of things. Alright, so we know okay, avoid those. But how do I be become more uh in depthly in depth involved and and uh uh get to know Christ better and meet other believers How do I do that if I can't go any any of these retreats to sound Christian and I don't have anybody that I know at other churches the uh the uh so what is what are some practical things that you can do as a believer to go deeper in your walk with Christ and also to meet other believers and be uplifted. Well one of the things I'll say, years ago my daughter was uh you know, just young, still living at home and stuff and uh I wasn't a pastor. And I was a churchgoer and, you know, I I I knew as much about the Bible as an S guy sitting next to me in church, which, you know, might have been a decent amount, but uh didn't know it as well as I do now. Didn't have as much discernment about these things as as I've grown to over the years. And so somebody we trusted invited um or recruited, I guess the way that uh Daniel phrased it earlier, uh our daughter to go on this retreat to a Chrysalis event. And uh we we uh trusted this guy and he also uh knew some other families that had gone that we knew those families, not super well, but we knew them, so we talked to them about it and it was a great event and it made a lot of friends and all the the emotional kind of stuff we were talking about. And we thought, you know, I don't know a lot about it, but these people are vouching for it. They're they're they've vetted it for us in our view. We let our daughter go only to find out that on the back end of it, you know, we realized uh when it was all over that it was a bad thing, it was all secretive, she was instructed not to tell Uh her parents, you know, what happened during the weekend, things like that. Like, what do you mean you were told not to tell us? What are you talking? No, you tell us. Now I I was only casually interested before. Now I must know. I'm going to find out what and so After the fact, fortunately we survived that, it was fun, but it was it was very cultic, it was not Christian. The kinds of things we're being taught were not biblical, let's put it that way for sure. That's uh at least Um and so the looking back, the one of the big mistakes I made practically speaking, I didn't go to my pastor. So I think start there. If it's an organization you're not sure about hopefully you have a good pastor, you're going to a good church. If you're going to a good church, a Bible-believing church, Christ exalting church, uh go to your pastor and say, hey, I was invited to this thing. I checked it out. Some friends they they vouched for their website seems okay. A little vague. I'm not sure have you ever heard of it And your pastor is either going to say, Yeah, I've heard of it, stay away or they're going to say, You know, I'm not really sure. I know a lot about that, but you know what? Mm part of my responsibility is to shepherd you, to look out for you and your spiritual well being. Uh I'm gonna do some digging, I'm gonna make I'm gonna make some phone calls, I'm gonna check I'm gonna call my other pastor friends, I'm gonna go online and see what I think of it. And you're gonna and I didn't do that. I think if I had, it's possible at least Hopefully probable, but at least possible and pastor has said, yeah, you don't want your daughter going to that. And here's why. And I didn't do that, so I would stay start start there. That's a good place to start. And and I would I would caution That one of the insidious things about this particular organization we've been discussing most today is they do make an effort to actually go through the church leadership as part of the recruitment process. So when they find something, this is in their procedures for w how to get somebody to come to the event is you get them to say, okay, that sounds fun nice Then you gotta go get them to have their pastor's permission to come. So they kinda get this rubber stamp already so later they can come back and say, See your pastor approved of it. You sh you know, if you don't like it, something must be wrong with you. And so then now one guy from that church from your congregation has gone and now the pastor can point to that them other people and say, See that person went, so maybe it's it okay uh things. So not all pastors necessarily are uh uh as diligent in researching some of these things. Uh and I would hope, uh Troy as as you mentioned, it if if you look beyond just the very big you know, bare surface, you would notice that these are Kotish uh organizations. But that's a separate issue though, related but separate. If you go to your pastor and he says, gives you the old gung ho, go for it. Sounds great to me For this, I don't think you have a particularly good pastor. You might need a new under shepherd to be take responsibility over your spiritual care. It might be time to find a new church. But they're sending you to a cultic event I mean, that's not a pastor. What is that? At the very least they need they need to um Yeah. Once you find out what it's about and you go to your pastor, hey David, you recommended this and I come to find out it's this garbage, it's all secretive and stuff. If they're not like ultra repentant and they don't figure out some mechanism to guard from ever making that mistake again, like it give them some grace and allow them to be human and make a mistake. But if if they're not going to learn from that mistake, oh no, it's totally fine. So what if it's uh if it's a bunch of Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons and uh and uh and Worldwide Church of God, Herbert W. Armstrong uh uh devotees Uh, I don't know if you know who all those groups are, but those are all cults. Those are all cults. And they would be welcome to an event like this. Sounds like to me. I can I'm I'm all for uh a pr uh uh as as as much as the Bible allows, casting a a a broad net, having a big tent. So I'm relatively ecumenical as far as that goes inside scriptural confines. Th there's no scriptural confines. They don't even have a statement of faith. Right. And Another thing that you could possibly do is if you don't know and you can't find enough information, maybe it's a new new organization and it sounds good, looks good, they may have a statement of faith. Then go don't go by yourself. Take another strong believer with you, at least one more, or maybe two more, to be able to have somebody that you can you know bounce ideas off of, hey, I didn't I'm not sure if I got that. What did you get out of this? and you know, have somebody that you trust to go with you. Because there are plenty of organizations out there and I think I I hope there's still plenty of retreats and places where you can go and and really do grow closer to Christ But it's harder and harder to find them, harder and harder to do that. And the thing I want to say at the very end here is just in case we're not I don't want to be misunderstood, just because somebody's been involved with this, maybe they've been one of the camp leaders or something, it doesn't mean they're necessarily evil They could be merely be misled themselves. So uh we're talking about the organization, not necessarily the individuals involved. You can also, one more thing you can do, you can contact us. You can Google us and find us and if you have a specific organization you'd like us to vet, uh we would be happy to do the research and and probably the best way to do that, go to householdfaith in Christ dot com 'cause that's the one stop shop for all the way to contact us, household of faith in Christ dot com. Uh thank you, um Imran and Daniel and David. I'm Troy. Thank you for listening, spending part of your Sunday with us. We'll be back next week um the same time. Well, not this same time, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from this same time next week, till then, God bless.