This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more. about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The Faith Debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword faith sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales entire pros of Frederick. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. This is part three of what's proving to be a fascinating four part series with Clement and Bowie, the pastor of International Church of Life I've got it wrong twice now, two weeks in a row. International Tree of Life Church in Fresh. Frederick and Neela Champong, Pastor of Covenant Family Chapel. We've learned about their their background, the formative years of their ministries, uh as with all startup churches that have gone through their fair chair. share of change. We've talked a little bit about that in the last couple of weeks. Um including the fact that there's a move afoot in just about three weeks I think it is now. Covenant Family Chapel is going to be gathering in Woodsboro instead of downtown Frederick. Uh and I think I misspoke uh earlier. I was mentioning October fifth, and it's fine that I didn't, I'll tell you why in a second, but their first Sunday in Woodsboro was October sixth The fifth you can go there too though because they're having some sort of a brand opening uh event, so you can check that out. Anyway, this week we're going to explore the considerations that go into weighing the need for changes such as this and the and determining the wisest path forward in making uh pretty significant changes in the life of the church So Neil, your church has moved a few times as we've talked about, now finds itself uh about to be rooted in Woodsboro. Uh can you talk us through How that happened, you know, what what what sparked the the thought that you know we need to move to a maybe a larger building might have been the idea, I don't know. But be uh but beyond that, you know, the move to Woodsboro from downtown Frederick or some of your other moves that brought you into downtown Frederick And y um International Tree of Life Church has moved twice now, is that right? No, we've been there for seven years. At the same place. Oh, I guess I'm counting your uh your prayer line as a second phase, but there was no building for that, right? So you were in the same place. So um After Neil talks about the Woodsboro stuff, if you could uh talk about what might be a next phase for you, if you guys are planning any sort of a move or expansion or or things like that. And 'cause I want to talk about the considerations that go into that. So how do how to come back? For every time that we have moved it is because we there was a need f that had to be attended to and those needs was what necessitated the uh the move. For example the um um when we moved from the hotel, the cost of the hotel was very high. And um so when we moved to the storefront we we were not also in a place where we've been moved around. Because sometimes in the hotel there were particular rooms where we were put in. You go there and then there's some com activity and then the same room at the time. Yeah and then they say today you are over there. And people who decided we're gonna visit us would think Where are they? You know, and that kind of stuff was going on so then I came here so there would be some form of stability. And then over time, because of the kits that were increasing, we had to take another uh another room in addition to what we had and that kept keeping the cost going up and so we decided we're gonna buy a building because whatever we were paying was enough for a mortgage and then we purchased that and went downtown. The good side was we own the building, we could do anything anytime we wanted. But then the pressure of parking in downtown. We couldn't have anything meaningful during the week. Uh if we wanted to have some kind of service I had to buy parking validation tickets for everybody just so we could help people. And sometimes you would not even find the parking, let alone pay for it And so the need for additional parking or better parking spots because there were people who kept living messages for us. Oh we wanted to come visit you today, but We had to drive around and didn't find a place to park. I said, Oh, there's parking on the parking deck and said, Oh, we didn't know that and I said, It's on our website. It says arrive there. It gives you directions to you how to get in there. And it's free on the Sunday mornings, you know. And so we found a For all the years we've been there, people keep saying the same thing. So at a point I have to respond to it and say you Either we're doing a poor job out of educating them, which I believe that we have done better than the responses we're having. Um Let us move into a place where there's adequate parking and we're not gonna struggle about this. And that won't be their excuse anymore. Yeah, it won't be an excuse anymore. Even though they're gonna find something else. And so after looking through all of downtown we realized that there's no place. And most places around here you will not have a big space and have enough parking. And so our focus was we will not be in a rush but we will keep looking And when the Lord opens the door, we were taken. And so when we found this property uh uh in Woodsboro, uh there were two buyers ahead of us. And um they were offering much better the m money than we were. So but for whatever reason I think the those contracts fell through and I wouldn't want to mention whatever happened on on the radio. So it finally came to us. And even though we were not giving the same amount of money uh to the sellers that the others were gonna give Right. Everything ended up with us. How it happened, I would simply call it a miracle. And that was the basis for which I said, Okay, church, let's go. Because when you look at the map of Freddie County, Woodsboro and Walkersville are somehow in the center of the county, even though that's not where the larger population are. So if we give ourselves say the next five, ten, eight, uh, ten years, uh as the um the population in Frederick County increases you will still have people who are going to move into that area. For now we will have to reach out to people both in the Woodsboro area and outside it. But over time most of the people who will come to church will be around us. So we were making a decision not just because of the parking but we also have to look into the future. uh to see where we can get land and expand from that land. There was a second issue that we had and the second issue is that I've already heard people say, Oh, um, uh our church wants to reach everybody. Personally I believe that it that's not true. You would not be able to reach everybody. And the reason is uh because of culture and that the dominant group that is in a particular um congregation always reflects the culture of that church. And so I realized that the greater number of the people in our church who are uh African descent, even though they're of Americans and there are some Caribbeans and so on and so forth. So the dominant culture then defines the culture of the ministry But I believe that my ministry is not only to Africans. Else I should have stayed in Africa. I believe there's more I need to be able to do to reach the people here. And so relocating, getting a better place, getting a better parking gives me a basis to say, let me start another service and reach out to people. from this country, tailor a service to them, but then the facilities will be there for them. And that is the second reason that necessitates our move. Yeah, and I do want to talk about that a little bit, uh that particular issue in more depth in a minute. But first, uh is your church, uh Clement, thinking about Moving into its own building rather than paying rent? Is that something that's on the other side? Right now we even have we collect uh we have a third basket that we collect for building funds. So it's something that we have uh thought about it for some time. So we started doing that the past two years, you know, people giving toward and we still looking and just trusting God for something to open for us Now when that sort of thing happens, like you've made a decision to move to Woodsboro, you've at some point you'll make a decision to move somewhere. Um the way that your church's governance and your congregations is settled, is that a decision that you as the pastors make? Do you have a leadership council? Do you have elders? Do you have an oversight that uh committee or some sort of I know you're not denominational, I don't think either one of you is in in a denomination. No. But do you have some sort of so uh some association that provides oversight that helps you s think through and steer those decisions. Like how does that process work out for you guys? Um I do have um uh uh a board of directors in place uh and be below the board of directors with the other uh what I call the seven leadership team that we work with in the church itself. But the board of directors are the ones that make the final decisions. And so when division comes to me as a pastor, I think it's in the book of Acts 16 when the scripture says that the Um most of the people wanted to go to Mycere and Britannia but then the Spirit of God restrained them. But then then they decided they were just going to make another move again. until the man of Macedonia that vision comes to Paul. And the scripture says when the vision comes to Paul, the rest of the people gathered. And so vision is often given to a committed person, not a committee. And those basic truths are it's missing out of Christianity today. However, whoever received the vision. Uh does not become indispensable, you must still understand that you are accountable to other people because you are not the best thinker in the world If God uses you as a conjure to receive the vision, it doesn't mean you you know it all. And so I have to bring that to my board of directors and they say, sure, Pastor looking at some of the things you're sharing with us, give us time to study it and we'll make recommendations to you. And then after that we decide that, yep, it's time to move on and that's where we're going. So I do have oversight and we I do have um what I call mentors and spiritual leaders who raise me that I'm accountable to. Because if you don't do that, you're human. You get to a place where you start erring and then you realize that nobody's gonna straighten you up. And by the time you realize you are out of line. And so um those uh little pieces that are very important uh to some of us who have begun our own mission. What does the oversight in the church government look like for the other? And then I also have uh mentors, other pastors and bishop. Uh one of them was uh one of our speaker in the past program. So that kind of oversight, you know, what we do. Keep in touch with as far as uh search for the building or the property. You know, we we I don't make decision on my own. We always have a group of people that, you know, sit and discuss see the pro and the coins of you know, the space like last time we did find something it was a little outside of Frederick. We all went there and see for ourselves and everybody kind of Pitching with what they think and then make made a decision from there. So that's our kind of a function. That's uh Clement Mboue. He is the pastor of International Tree of Life Church in Frederick. Joined this week also by Pastor Neela Chempong. He is the pastor of Covenant Family Chapel in Frederick for the moment, Woodsboro, in the not too distant future, so it's a few weeks away. I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. The the reason I'm asking about the governance governance thing is I know with with younger churches, church plants, um, from what I've heard, uh there's like these seasons, these waves. that kind of hits. You've got the early adopters. Those are there from the beginning. They're really committed. It might be just a handful. But they're there. And then usually, from what I understand, is a majority of those will fall off. after three years, five years. You know, there and so you have a different core group of of people involved in the church uh when that happens. You like trade out uh uh some really important people to the cu to the church and that what's going on for other people. And those other people weren't there at the beginning. So they might have different ideas than the people did at the beginning. So it it creates an environment where there could be some friction, some disagreement. You know, the new people want to change things that were that were important to the foundation, or they joined in because they liked what was there at the foundation. They don't understand that from the beginning there was a vision for there to be some change over time and now things begin to change. Like, wait a minute, why are you changing it? You know, I I joined in with you because of what you were doing when I started here. I didn't know you were gonna change How do you navigate that because the denominational structure that some churches have, they have courts of appeals for all intents and purposes, right? They can appeal to a some higher authority outside of the local congregation. And your churches aren't congregational led where it goes to a vote of the congregations either. So when you guys push comes to shove and there's a a a true disagreement. To the point where you have to say, you know what, we're just gonna have to agree to disagree. Okay. Then what? What happens in those moments? How do you navigate that when you have to agree to disagree? Um I've had the one of those moments. moments. And um not to put everything about it out here. Um when there are disagreements the the procedurally people do understand that they could appeal to the board of directors to hear whatever they have to say. And that if they met the board of directors, that would be a meeting that if it's about me, then I wouldn't be present so that the rest can deliberate. on whatever is going on, which would be brought to my attention and I will have to respond to it. And then as a board I think the state of Maryland requires that um there always has to be a certain odd number within the board of directors and that even if me and my wife were on the board our vote is one. We we don't get two votes, we just get one. so that you could always be overpowered by the rest if there was something that we were for and the rest were against. And so whenever those moments do come Which I believe it's also wisdom for you as a pastor to stay on the edge and allow the board of directors to make that decision. The tricky part is that because you tend to become the phase of the ministry, it is often uh either misconstrued or control that um maybe the board of directors will make a decision in your favor um, which I do believe that it's not the case because they do have a responsibility based on law, not to just uh give in to you because at some point they are there to make sure they become the check and balance to you as opposed to just um giving it to you The other thing that do happen is that most of my church members do understand that if they're not happy with what my board of directors are doing, um I do have an overseer who I actually submitted myself to for the purposes of things of this nature that you could also appeal to. And he can come meet the board of directors and say, Hey, you heard this case, I've heard the other side of it. This is how we want to proceed. Um The difficult part is when uh so most things could be solved easily through that medium. The difficult part is when somebody says, I don't like him, so I want him to be removed. That is when if you're in a denominational setting where people could appeal to a board and then there's a higher board somewhere, then they would say we want to transfer the pastor that in this case it cannot be done because the ministry was begun by me and I have submitted myself to all these bodies as uh for the purposes of checks and balances So then they would have to give me an option that Pastor, if you want to stay, this is the problem this might create. Or maybe this is how you need to solve it in order to bring uh some form of peace into the whole system. But that is how I have dealt with it. Um uh maybe for the one time I have seen it. And because you are seen as a phase of everything You should also give people the chance to be able to reach the others beyond you. And we have a big suggestion box that sits down in the church. to help people add their grievances which we respond to and not wait till things get so bad when it becomes so heated. Right. I haven't had a typical experience yet in our church. It's coming. It's coming. Uh find a way to deal with it. Are you concerned? I mean the face of the franchise kind of idea is is an important one, the face of the ministry is the way you phrase it, but in the common parlance you would talk about football players being the face of the franchise You guys are the face of the franchise, you know, face of the ministry. Um are you concerned at all? You know, literally, God forbid, but you get hit by a bus tomorrow. What happens to your church? So uh even though I'm a face face of the ch the the the church, but uh it's like I I see a similar like You know, Jesus was here on earth. He had a vision to win souls and, you know, to establish the kingdom. So when Jesus left, you know, he he left the vision. to the apostles and today we are also the fruit of those works. So that's why at in the church we always You know, we train people, you know, people to carry the vision. Because when God gives you the vision for the church, not all these people. We're there. So you're the one who received the vision. So you're in charge to to transmit, you know, the vision that you receive from God so that Today. I always preach sometime. I tell people, you know, tomorrow God can take me. So we got to have people who will believe in the vision of what God is trying to do in the church because there is a perce a purpose why God has established this church. You know, all the churches are different. We are all for the same goals to win soul, but how we win those soul and prepare them for the coming of Jesus, you know. So do you actually have a succession plan in place or if something were to happen to you right now that next week there'd be somebody that would at least be able to fill in until a permanent situation could be figured out. Okay. Same thing with uh with Girls. Yeah, we we have three levels of secession plan. The first one is that I co-pastor with my wife. And so if I am not there, my wife assumes the leadership. If she cannot do it, the secretary of the uh of the board of directors would then lay with someone who I have a paper written and it's not to be open until I'm dead. Because I raised somebody and they are not in the known of who I'm raising and the person I'm raising is not in the known he's been raised And the reason for which I do that is that when people feel that, okay, he's raising me to become his successor, they become all of a sudden a coke and proud. And so there are many things I'm showing him, there are many things I'm raising him to do. Uh it's a him, but he does not know. Uh that that paperwork When they open it by the Secretary of the Board of Directors would suddenly tell them this is the person who is going to take over if my wife cannot continue. Which I presume at that time with all the sadness maybe might be with her because I'm not there, she would not be able to. The other uh level that we also have is that the um board of directors would bring all the seven what I call the L CLT the seven leadership training meaning all the uh uh all the leaders of various departments like the music, the all the other places together and then they would also decide that okay if all these other levels of people who could have fit in are not there, then we should um one of us should step in and do this work. If the secretary of the board of directors cannot do it. All right. So that is how I was a setup. Well it's good that you've thought those things through in advance. Uh I don't know all the details. My understanding is there's a a church in Frederick County that actually closed its doors not too long ago. And part of the reason or uh I mean they had some issues going on, leadership wasn't getting along or whatever, and some people left, uh some important people left. But then the church had to close its doors because the uh the pastor finally had had enough and said, I need to step away from this congregation. I'm gonna figure out what I'm gonna do elsewhere, like e leaving Frederick, I'm gonna go do something else. somewhere else. And there was no provision in the church bylaws for the church to continue to exist without a plurality of elders. Hm. And so um When the pastor the the other elders left, the one remaining pastor said, I either need to uh uh make someone else an elder or I need to step away. And he stepped away. So now there were no elders. And so there were no elders in place to appoint any elders. And so there probably were men who could have been elders but there was no provision for that and all because of some weird bylaw language and because of unfortunate human ego and some other things a church that I think had some good things going on for it now no longer is serving Frederick County. And so I'm glad that I still believe that that pastor still has a responsibility. to those congregants. Because of their eternal future to say, okay, I am stepping away, but then your spiritual progress matters to me. So let me raise with another pastor, maybe in another church, and transfer that entire congregation elsewhere. Not all of them would want to go Right. So the best thing would have been having some form of secession plan. Yeah, I agree. I don't and I and my understanding is that that sort of thing didn't happen, which really caught my my notice as well. Like, wow I mean I'm sure they said all the right things. I wish the best for you and I'm still gonna always feel like I'm your pastor, but words are cheap, you know. You're human. Anyway, so thank you both. One more show we're gonna do next week This week uh was round three, next week is round four, we're getting ever closer to Covenant Family Chapel being in Woodsboro, just a few weeks away. Clement Mbui is the pastor of International Tree of Life Church in Frederick. Thank you so much for being on the show. Pastor Neela Chempong from Covenant Family Chapel, thank you for being on the show. Thank you for listening. You can find us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith, or you find the faith debate on the drop-down menu of the shows on the station There you'll find podcasts of previous shows. You'll see a teaser for what's coming up on next week's show. And if you're wondering when this podcast will be up and running, I'm told it should be up and running later this same day. So Don't tarry. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.