All right, listen up. We deny that the civil authorities have been granted lawful jurisdiction and authority over personal, familial, or public health. Baboom! That's article number sixteen. The first article in section two under the heading of application to medical mandates that we find in the Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates, Typical Ethics. and authority. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. Or if you're listening later on podcast, thank you for spending whatever part of the day it is. Daniel Razby is here on the panel again and he's excited. He's rare and the go. Um he pastors is part of a pastoring uh pastoring team, I guess, of at a church in uh Thurmont that uh remains to be named later. Uh but they do have a ministry that has a name. It's Concord by Love Ministries online at conquered by Love dot org. David Force he doesn't have a website. Doesn't really have a name for his church, although it's kind of playfully given that the uh the multi-location church in the Potomac region. It's kind of a mouthful. Potomac region. Maybe the tri-state Potomac region. I have like the it's like the longest search name ever. Uh see it if you say if you say Potomac, then people are gonna think down near DC. Yeah, there there's there's no There's no time for the sermon at his church because by the time he welcomes everybody and s and introduces the name of his church, time's up. Time for some good eats now. Time for some food. Because they have food in the church every week. That's true. That that's that's not a selling point right there. Huh? Come hungry, leave happy. All right, so uh we're in the uh Warranton Declaration uh the last couple of weeks. We're continuing now on week three. We've been enjoying this one quite uh a lot so far. And this last one Uh I think that this is the one that really kinda drove them to write the declaration, right? That last couple of words. Public health Did the government overreach on these public health matters or not? You know, and that is a subject for some debate. Maybe it's a subject for some faith debate So, what do you guys think about uh article number sixteen? Civil authorities have been uh they deny that civil authorities have been granted lawful jurisdiction authority over personal, familial, or public health. There's no proof text on this one. I know. And actually the preceding one we ended last week's show with, it's like three in a row. Like, what the heck? Proof text guy fell asleep. I I think uh I think with this number sixteen, uh, that they deny that the civil authorities have lawful jurisdiction over personal familial or public health. I think I think their point with no proof text is there is no biblical there's no biblical merit for Oh gotcha. For the civil authorities. They are going to address to argue otherwise they'll be arguing from silence. Well they are going to address the oft cited proof texts in the next couple of sections. uh and saying that they don't apply. And in fairness, this is kind of uh rabbit trailing off of some things they've said repeatedly and they're ample proof texts for the the point that there are lanes that people just say in jurisdictions to use their language. They've made those points and now they're just opening up section two with Like the this is the opening salvo, this is our thesis statement kind of thing. We've already provided a zillion proof text. There's more to come. I think I I don't think that they're fine on the job. Let's just be playful here. If you're a big fan of the Warranton Declaration We're not picking out it here, at least I'm not. Yeah, I wonder if they'll uh maybe they will make a get more specific on what civil authority uh what jurisdiction civil authority actually has under God, right? Because it's uh uh uh you know a lot of the a lot of the things listed earlier when they said civil authority, you know, they affirmed that civil authority has You know, the right to punish punish wrongs and praise good. Uh all pretty much all of those things have to do with how people interact with one another. Right. And so and and that's where uh a lot of people make the argument for the civil authority having uh jurisdiction over public health is because it you know, the the private choices that affect other people. Yeah, if somebody has a contagious disease that is spread by saliva and they're running around town spitting on everyone Well then the civil government has something to do with that because it's an assault with a deadly weapon at that point, right? You're you're just spreading like Ebola virus or something by spitting on people. I don't know if that's how evil fires a spreader now, I have no idea. But let's just say But if you're coughing and you're not wearing a mask, what's what's the difference, Troy? Well okay. Are we are we going to because yeah. I'm imagining, so maybe we should just read and see. But they're gonna say that it's it's a matter of of uh personal comportment, how one comports themselves and how they interact in society. And if if we all will sometimes cough and we're not intending any harm. There's no malicious intent in it Sometimes you have to clear their throat, sometimes they're sick and don't know it. Like the person that go w the would di the viral TikTok or or a YouTube challenge where they went into the grocery store and licked all the ice creams and put them back, right? It's is very disgusting. And that person was rightly caught and punished by the government. Because that's not only disgusting, but but also could spread uh diseases. And it's intentional. Right? So that type of thing. Where you're intending to cause harm to somebody. It'd be like poisoning somebody. Now I will be curious to see how they thread this needle um when it comes to clearly dangerous infectious diseases because what's the authority that is supervising and maintaining jurisdiction in the Old Testament when it comes to something like leprosy? Is that the civil government or was that the ecclesiastical authority in those cases? So that's I'll be curious to see how they navigate that because that's a public health issue. Oh look at that. Good job. Present once again. I serious and no no kidding, I did not look ahead. So let's see what they say. Number seventeen. We deny that the leprosy-related passages in Leviticus 13 to 14 can be construed to teach the general principle that civil government has unqualified and legitimate jurisdiction over managing public health. Unqualified jurisdiction I think is is the key here. And I'm thinking ahead now because I learned just now I should maybe do that. And they're gonna say more in the next one. But I would agree with this one and I'm going to strongly disagree with the next one. So um they have uh they have a a broad statement here and then they narrow it down specifically. So the broadness you're okay with. The narrowness you think they narrowly define. What they're saying here. is that the passages talking about leprosy cannot be used as evidence that the civil government can just manage everything to do with health with no restrictions and no limits. And I yeah, I agree with that. That it needs to be limited based on what scripture says. Um so uh that's kinda like saying the government can punish murder, therefore it can make anything a crime and punish that. Well no. Like Murder specifically, right? So that I agree with. Now the way they're gonna define it in the next section, which I did read ahead, I don't agree with, so you can keep that in mind if you read it. Okay, go ahead. And let me see where this begins and ends, 'cause okay, I misspoke in the very I think the very first uh show we did on this series. I I mentioned I think it was Article Five was kinda long. I said this might be the longest This might be the longest one it spills over onto another page as as I printed it out. I disagree with it just because it's long Yeah. Just on principle. Yeah, come on. These guys gotta get into like the Twitter world where everything's two hundred and eighty characters or less. Come on. Ever since ever since Sivan Mustok over X now there's I'm gonna a a Or it's a lot longer now at least. Oh, yeah. I think if you're willing to like pay for the special extra Dennies, I think if you're just a regular slug, I think you're just eliminated to originally it was a hundred and forty. Right. And now I think it's two hundred and eighty if I'm not mistaken. And I'm telling you, I don't know. I wasn't on Twitter when it was hundred and forty. It is it's two fifty. It's impossible to say anything in a hundred and forty not even words, characters Right. Like there's it's impossible. Spaces included. Yeah. Maybe they were trying to encourage better vocabulary, you know. No, well I think what ended happening and it developed a horrible vocabulary because now there's all this weird jargon vernacular that is really Twitter language. that has gone into the mainstream and it's like it's not English anymore. But anyway. Number eighteen. We affirm that these leprosy passages are related this is an affirmation. We affirm that they're pat that they are related not Sounds like a denial there, but not to the spread of biological contagion, but, so here's the affirmation, of ceremonial uncleanness, as is evidenced by numerous factors. First Even the man covered head to toe in white leprosy was declared clean and was permitted in the camp. Second, the stated reason for the general expulsion of lepers is the same reason given for the expulsion of those who touched a dead body or had a bodily discharge, not biological contagion, but ceremonial uncleanness which defiled the camp before the Lord. They give some proof texts here, by the way. They're back on track with the proof text. Third, nowhere in scripture is leprosy described as being biologically contagious. This leprosy also afflicted houses and garments. Leprosy was not the same as modern day Hansen's disease. Fourth, in order to prevent belongings in a leprous house from being declared unclean by the priest, the owner was permitted to empty the house of his possessions before the priest arrived. Turning the page. For inspection. Preventing biological contagion through sanitation of objects was not in view here. The ceremonial practices associated with the now defunct Levitical priesthood have been made obsolete by Christ's greater priesthood and cannot be credibly invoked as providing civil government with jurisdiction over public health. So before you get into your you know lawyerly defense of what you said before I just want to say, in disagreement with David, because it's so long, I have no choice but to agree with it. So but what we are at an impact. I from the last line you probably uh know some of w where where I come here. Yeah, your problem must come at the end, Daniel. It's actually no, I I I agree I disagree with almost the entire paragraph. almost every single point there I can totally disagree with. And um and so but but yeah that that whole thing about the ceremonial practices are now defunct. Well I don't agree with that. I think to what extent you can point to something is being ceremonial in scripture it would still apply to uh the believer today as something that does please God. Um, doesn't get you to heaven, but does please God and we should endeavor to do those things. So the gist of their argument is saying is it's not medical in the Old Testament and you're saying that their that their premise is flawed. It was medical. Yes. And it was because it was a dangerous contagious disease and people And and what is your scriptural reasoning? I I I am in shock that you can read these people apparently can read. Are you appalled? Are you shocked and appalled or just shocked? Shocked and appalled. Okay. That um and and and in in general consternation. That these somebody could read these passages and come up with something other than these are clearly contagious diseases that are being talked about. Um, like leprosy Wha what is the reason that the the white man covered head to toe in white leprosy was the Queer Queen? Because the disease has already run its course. You can't he ca it's no longer contagious. it the skin is all uh d dead and f and falling off. There's nothing else to to spread. Um, you know, I I'm not sure what the disease specifically was. I I tend to agree, probably it's not the same as modern day Hanson's disease. But there was some kind of thing where there there there was a contagious uh thing that was spreading. And that was the whole point of leaving out is so that it did not spread. And they're saying they're saying we know that it wasn't a contagious disease because Uh this same reason is for dead bodies and bodily discharges. Well yet those contain germs. That's why. Right? Wash your hands after touching a dead body. You know why we wash our hands in hospitals now after touching dead bodies It's because w a doctor read numbers and said, Oh, maybe we should do this. And so he started doing it and that's when they discovered germs. And the doctor he he his ward was uh the the mother's um birth uh you know giving birth and the doctors would come to that after touching the dead bodies and he noticed that his patients were all dying and so he required them to wash their hands before they came in. And lo and behold the mother stopped dying and they did they didn't like that so they kinda th threw him out of m of the hospital. So it was a while before he died a broken man, by the way, because everybody thought he was nuts And but but that's Which is really crazy. It wasn't j it wasn't just w he he I mean it's because uh I I don't remember whether it was like specifically because he had read the Bible or whatever, but it clearly that biblical precedent has a biological and medical application and I think that is the primary reason for the command to be unclean to wash your hands after touching a dead body. Same thing with bodily bodily discharges. What is the primary reason that there are biological diseases today? Sin. Okay, and why do they take the form of things that spread? Why did God ordain that they do that? I don't know that you would want to say that God ordained uh sin. Why did God ordain that that this bees would do what they do? After sin entered the world. Why did Nope, answer the question. Sounds like you've you've you saw an answer. No, I just just the question. Okay. I wouldn't put it as God ordaining it. That's that's kind of my problem with the answer to the question. I don't I don't think it's I think multi-premise. I think that's a basic theist answer though. It's not even a Christian answer. I think any theist would say that God foreordains all anything that comes to pass. Otherwise he's not sovereign. He's so there's different ways of understanding what the or what God's ordaining means. But if he didn't ordain it, that means it happened outside of his control. Right. So I think I think it's a basic theist. I'm I'm saying that the the consequences of sin were were determined by God. God determined what those would be, how they would work, how they would affect people. Right. And so uh so so I think that That the reason that it's so closely that the the ceremonial uncleanness And all of those laws I I would say okay, so they yes, I mean we can with modern medicine uh we can look back and say, okay, y yes, so there were there were um biological un uncleannesses, right? And so God was uh through you know had Uh yeah, through through his instructions to the Israelites was um both I would say both protecting them uh physically like from the natural world but it was it it was in order to instruct them of the the spiritual realities. Right. I I just I would agree with that. But I I'm my point is that you can't make the case saying this is not about contagious disease spreading. Well of course it was The whole point of putting them outside the camp, then they can't spread it to others. Okay. And and they're they're in masks. Could it be both? And they they just overplayed their hand That there are instances where Daniel, you're right and they just didn't address that, but there's also some ways of thinking about this where it's not. I think the point that they're making here is that the primary The primary point of those laws was uh was to instruct Israel. I I mean the the primary point of right the the reason that God has uh you know, that that God ordained that the that the curse would have the effects that it does and the way that it would affect us would be to instruct us of the pervasiveness, destruction destructiveness rate of sin. Well Right, but but what they're saying is not a matter of primary or secondary purpose. They're saying it had no biological purpose at all. And I think that's just wrong. There clearly was contagious disease that they were uh God was explaining how not to spread it. And that is wrapped up in touching a dead body and and so on and they're trying to say and then they're talking about leprosy affecting houses. Yeah, clearly they're talking about molds, what it says leprosy affecting the house. There's some kind of mold that's growing and the the whole point of moving the possessions out is so you can see the rest of the wall to see if it's spreading on the wall wherever there's just a a stain and the priest's gonna come in and say, Oh well but it's just a stain. But to the but to the Israelite it didn't have to do with biological contagions. How do you know? Uh because I don't think that they had that Oh I I think they surely did. very well known for thousands of years that we're only now starting to rediscover some of these things because we've had quote unquote modern medical science that, you know, I think certainly they they had a lot of uh understanding of how diseases progressed and how to that wasn't that wasn't the biblical emphasis. Like in the law, that's not the emphasis. And if the clay pot has has mold going on it, you can't clean it so you're supposed to destroy it. It it it explained what to do, what the remedy was, to make it clean. That's I I think uh y you know, becoming clean is is a is a very important uh distinction and you you're both spiritually and physically clean And God is making the point that He wants us to be physically clean, take care of our bodies and so on. So but again, whether the what the purpose was doesn't really matter. The the point is there is precedent for the government Uh uh or what I I would agree actually if if Troy they had disagreed with this passage appointed the civil government by saying, Oh well the church is supposed to do this. Yeah, and that is their that is the point. I mean they're meant building this whole case to get get to the the the crux of the matter for this article, article number uh eighteen for those reading along at home. Uh the idea is that it's not the civil government, it's not the judges. It's the priests. It's the it's the it's the Levitical priesthood. Right. And then they're saying that's been made obsolete because Christ now has the greater priesthood after the order of Melchizedek. All right. And so it's not about the civil government. They don't have jurisdiction over this. That's the point they're making. They they didn't get there in a way that you like, but do you agree with the the point? And if so, how else would we articulate and try to prove that? Well I would say that the government Uh the ecclesiastical authority and the and the civil government authority are and should be wrapped up in one. I don't believe in the separation of church and state. We talked about that a few meet uh several weeks ago in the theonomy discussions. So no, I don't think that has any relevance. I do think that there I I would I would not apply these leprosy passages to what ended up happening in twenty nineteen uh or sorry, twenty twenty, twenty twenty one, I would not apply these passages to by those things that happened by and large, the mandates and things, particularly because It went beyond what was prescribed. They t there's a talk about masks, cover your upper lip. When you're symptomatic, they're talking about go outside the camp when you're symptomatic, when you're showing signs that you had this disease, not when you've been exposed. And it does talk about, oh if you've been exposed, wait a little bit and then come back, but it doesn't d there's no precedent for wholesale s s making everybody sit in their houses and then walk around covering everything so they don't interact with society. That is how I would take it. That's how the the attack I would take. the uh the army discussion because we did like five shows on that and I think and I would commend them to you. I think those were uh uh educational and interesting and kind of freewheeling fun shows to listen to for that matter as well. But I think there was a uh an interesting array of uh of of opinions and of of approaches, all of them friendly to the general concept of law and order and theonomy. But there were different gradations. So but I don't so I don't want to reenact that now. But I your view on that is like there's uh in in the ideal world there wouldn't be this separation between church and state, but what what would be the position that we should take In the situation we find ourselves in now where there is a separation, you know, the the United States government is not the church, I would argue it's not even remotely Christian or or biblical in any shape, way or form. Uh so what do we do in that reality when we just whose jurisdiction? So if the church and the state are are to be one, but if they are separated, then who's ultimate responsibility or can that answer not really be arrived at? It's really difficult um because you have the D do you have both of them trying to take roles that maybe jointly shared. I mean the the whole idea in this passage in in Leviticus, whatever you can say about the reason for doing it There's no question that when the priest decreed that you were unclean, the civil government was gonna make sure if you refused to go outside the camp you were gonna get booted out, right? Like you couldn't say, Oh no, I'm not c I'm not unclean The judge is gonna throw you out of the camp, right? The priest has declared you unqueen, you're gonna be unqueened. Right. Uh we would assume that that's how at least it doesn't a lot of people. sort of situation. And vice versa. The priestly authority presumably would back up the civil authority. There wasn't this idea of, oh, you're escaping from, you know, this thing, oh I claim sanctuary inside the Catholic Church, which is what people have done in a lot of places, right? That that whole thing is. Well they they would agree, but they would perform different functions. Right. And and and so that that's that's I think It's hard because the there is such a separation in our society and I don't think it's a good thing. Um but I I I think it's reasonable for those in authority over the society in general to enact certain uh of these uh requirements and I I think that um just because Th the very reason that we're not this there there's say there is a separation, you know, one church is not having authority necessarily over people in a totally different state or part of the area, part of the country where the government maybe does. And so there is only one means with which to enforce some of those things. Now I am against by by the way these math mandates and the vaccine mandates and all those things. So none of what I was saying today is is is should be c to cast down on that. I just think the passage definitely does talk about biological contamination and spreading of disease. Well, the first uh couple of uh episodes we did on the Warrenton Declaration we averaged around eight articles per show. This one we did three But you know what? It's because they got this really, really, really long one here that we spent a lot of time on. So I told you I didn't like it. I know you might have won me over. I don't know. I might have to agree with you. Anyway, so uh we're gonna pick up with the article number nineteen on the Warranton Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics and Authority next week. Daniel Razbees Finally found one he didn't like. We've liked it all pretty much up until now, but he found one he's like, Nope, I'm not giving up on an inch on this one. Actually David didn't like this one either, so we've And uh now I'm agreeing with David because he won me over. So the first one none of us like. We'll we'll we'll continue next week on the Faith Debate. Uh find me online at householdfaith in Christ dot com until next week, one hundred sixty-seven hours from now. God bless.