Put them on me, how can we make you smile? Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact. It's like plowing pavement Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. It's brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? BMC Insurance, proud supporters of New Life Christian School, and Cruise Holidays, uh sponsors of that big uh cruise getaway that Bob Miller and Morning News Express are uh going off on in a couple of months now. By the way, I realize a neglected uh a couple of weeks ago to say happy new year so happy to new year to all you secular viewing of the world folks out there Uh I'm not even sure if we said Merry Christmas or any of that sort of stuff. And I I don't want to offend, so you know, politically correct here on the Frederick Fate debate. So happy Kwanzaa Uh I'm not sure what else I might have um Would you stop doing by the way, glorious glorious day of Epiphany to our uh Orthodox uh brothers. Right. We wanna we wanna recognize you as well. And by the way, last week you heard me say it's all about me. I meant it. Today's my birthday. Happy birthday. You want us to sing? I'm waiting. Happy birthday to you. That's plenty of that, okay. Yeah, that'll be burned onto a CD and available in iTunes later on today. Yes It'll be one of the free downloads though. Nice. Yeah, they won't they won't charge you ninety-seven cents for that one or whatever. I love that. Visit us online. Keyword faith there, you'll find the faith debate. uh page with links to all sorts of religious stuff and uh the audio for the show. Yeah I didn't do that by the way. The uh the the the the webmaster said we need a We we need a little more traffic on this site. No, we just found out it's all about you. I think a good picture of Troy would really drive traffic to his websites. And clearly your wife dressed you that day too because you're you're looking pretty much. Uh blog, which uh my blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Five blog uh days a week, Monday through Friday. Don't do it on Saturday and Sunday. But the other five days of the week, nine postings a day. Forty five post even with the new mask. Yeah. Nine times a day. So anyway. Troy Troy goes to put things up on his blog page. Speaking of smoking, you want to hear you wanna see something funny? Uh Google smoke and Jay Cutler one time. Jay Cutler is the uh quarterback of the Chicago Bears. He's got kind of a reputation of being kind of a surly character, you know, doesn't doesn't really like the media all that much, although he's warmed up quite a bit uh this past year. He looks a lot like you. And no, but he's uh somebody has photoshopped uh cigarettes into the pictures in very amusing ways. It's very, very funny. So smoke and Jake Cutler if you want to have a good time. Jonathan Sweitzer, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church and now embarrassed to be a part of this panel. Angela Phillips is the Director of Development. For New Life Christian School. Uh last week we were talking about homeschooling. So this week we're going to talk and she has experience with that, but now we're going to talk about something that she has present experience with, and that is Private, particularly religious private education. I'm not sure, but I think New Life Christian School is a Christian school. It is. See? I'm I'm quick. Voila Uh it's a good tea shop downtown in uh on Marcus Street by the way. Yeah. I didn't mean to throw that little No, but Mary Jean's a good friend of mine, so I don't mind giving her the plug. Um anyway So religious we we we kinda decided that if it makes sense for you and your family then homeschooling might be a good option. Yeah. But uh we're not saying it's the only option. And a really good second option would be a religious private school. Absolutely. Of course the problem is it costs some money. It does. Not everybody has that kind of money. So you gotta take that into consideration. Other than the money What would you say are risk factors or negatives associated with a religious private education? Can you think of any besides the money? Yeah. Yeah, uh mm mm the the expectation when you go to a Christian private school is that it's gonna be Christian. And uh, you know Hence my joke of a moment ago. And uh so hope deferred makes the heart sick. And um Many parents do send their kids to to Was that Groucho Marx that said that? Uh perhaps. Um and uh uh when When parents send their kids to a Christian school or to a private school to kinda because they need help, you know, because th they want to make sure their kids are are kinda getting fixed. Or educated. Yeah, or educated. Yeah. There can develop what they're doing. We'll talk about the positives there in a second. I don't I don't want to feel like we're getting up on There can develop in in a uh uh private school a sense of those that are there because they want to be there and those that really don't want to be there. Yeah, I have some friends that have made that the decision to go to a a Christian school for exactly that kind of reason. They have a daughter who's my daughter's age and started maybe getting mixed up in the wrong crowd, started to be a little more quote unquote interested in boys than uh they were uh um what's the right word? uh fond of. They were they were concerned. There were some issues and they thought, you know what, we're gonna pull her out of public s school and we're gonna send her to the the Christian school because that's a safe place for her. And after one year they realized it really wasn't any different as far as that dynamic goes. And so they said, Why are we spending all this money? And they pulled her back out. So that's an example of they had the wrong idea of what a religious private school. So that's the first that parents would approach it as a panacea of of sorts. The second one is that um though Most of the teachers at a Christian school are very sincere in their faith. Um you don't hire a teacher based on um their uh you you know, that that they would be like a leader in your church. You hire them because they have a teaching capacity and they have a genuine faith. Point being is that you end up hiring some people that are that have a teaching capacity that that are, you know, made for that, but that still have some edges to their character that It's supposed to be a Christian school. Uh the you know, and so the students are looking at the teachers, expecting them to set examples and when they don't, it uh same thing that happens in a public school, it just notice it, they begin to talk about it and uh and it again can develop into, you know, those that uh that give them a pass, but those that don't want to be there then turn it into discussions of hypocrisy and You know, these people don't really mean what they say and you know, and and when I talk to 'em about it, they just tell me that I'm rebellious, you know, and they don't they don't really recognize that they're you know, that they're the ones that are doing things wrong and And it just requires a lot of um diligence. Let me ask uh a a school like New Life Christian School, is there I mean there's an interview process I know. For for staff or for family joining? I mean th it you know you don't just show up on the doorstep I want my kid in in that classroom over there starting today. I mean there's an interview process. But is part of that process uh determining whether or not their motivation is a good one and the fit is that part of the process? F for students that are middle school and high school, there's an interview process that includes them with their parents and then there is a process as they get older in middle school and into high school where it's an interview without their parents. Because that's one of the and there's a committee of of uh volunteers and staff who parent volunteers that are current family members um and staff and part of that process is finding out from that student w what is their interest in this education. It's not just the family's interest. The family's interest has been laid out. Otherwise mom and dad wouldn't have brought them through the front door and filled out all the paperwork. But then the conversation leads to, well, what do you think about all this? And where are you in the idea of leaving wherever you've been and now joining our ARC school community? And That is a huge um a time when a lot of listening is going on by the committee, as well as a huge determining factor as to whether or not we we offer to families the opportunity for students to join our school community. It's not like the public school which Johnson had mentioned a show or two ago about the fact that we are obligated to accept everybody We we want to make sure that the faith is there as well as the the desire and the level of respect that's expected is in this young person. So now if there's a kid that's wildly out of control and would be disruptive and it wouldn't be fair to the other students and the families of those students to to to allow them in, those seem like obvious reasons. Ooh, you know what? You're probably not a real good fit for what we do here. But what are some of the considerations that, you know, in general terms that aren't quite so obvious on the face of it that you you might pull the parents aside and say, you know We're not real sure. You know, it's hard for us to say 'cause there's a lot of reasons why we should allow little Johnny or little Janie to come into our school, but You know, we're not real sure we're gonna say yes for this what might feel to them like an oblique reason. You know, it can you think of are are there times when that happens or it's always pretty obvious? Well, I th I think that if some students and their families have have sought us out and their student might have a diagnosed um learning need that we have limited capacity to serve. Um speech therapy, students who might need that in their school day, students who might have other academically um learning dis differences. We do have a great program called Discovery at New Life and it does support students who learn differently. but it's not an all-out dyslexia program. So if you have a student who has dyslexia, for example, um if they're not getting support by you paying for another service at a n private location, we're not prepared to serve that um need. So I'm going from the standpoint of their learning styles more so than their lifestyle. Now I know that one of the negatives sometimes people associate, whether it's fair or not, is something you guys will talk about here in a moment, is that uh a Christian school can be too uh legalistic or formal of an experience for you know with dress codes and and uh and behavioral codes that are uh uh beyond the pale of a public school uh requirement, sort of a thing You think that's a good thing? There's a s a fair critique there? Let me start by by saying this. I'm a product of a Christian school. Say no more. Don't send your kids to a Christian school. Yes, send them pin my experience was awesome. I loved it I loved every part about it. I love the friends that I have. I love the chapels. I love the education, the the intimacy with the uh with the teachers that I had. Uh I got a great education. It prepared me for college uh very well. All of my Many uh I won't say all of my peers, most of my peers uh chose to go on to college and did very well in college, did very well in life. Uh and so but my dad is the one that started the school And now I have a brother that runs a school. And so when I talk about the negatives, I'm talking about it because a couple years ago this thing called Facebook showed up and I ran into all all of my friends from back in high school. We all kind of refound each other and there's a whole bunch of them that can almost say nothing good about their experience at the Christian school. when my closest friends and I we all have next to nothing but good to say about it. Mm. And so I paid close attention because it was my dad running the school and so whenever anybody would say Well what about this, you know, and then this happened, you know, I would feel it personally. And so I've thought I've tried to think very deeply and honestly about You know, well, was that really going on and and what would have been the right way to handle it? And you know, did did dad handle that well, you know, and and uh and i you know, what's the right even my brother now runs a K through twelve And uh he does a few things differently from how, you know, dad did it back in the day. Uh but again, um all right, so coming back to your question. The question is, is it legalistic? For me, not a bit. I loved everything about it. You know, the whole, you know thing about girls' skirts, you know, being the right length, man, I was super glad somebody was paying attention to that 'cause I was trying to pay attention to my teacher in class. You know, and it's really hard to do for a young man, you know, when there's skin being flashed all around. I'm just saying that these kinds of issues for me, as a young man wanting to grow in the Lord and wanting to you know to to uh to do what's right uh in the Lord, uh I loved it. But looking back, I know one guy he came in and he got uh he got called in for wearing his collar up because you're not supposed to wear your collar up 'cause it's ends up being an attitude thing, you know, and they're trying to And that was the preppy thing back then, right? And it was very, you know, very much the preppy thing to do. So they called him in and talked to him about it and The language, the same language they would have used with me, and I would have been like, Yeah, no, I see what you're saying. I just, you know, I I need to curb that and just, you know, just have my attitude right. He came from an environment that didn't have all that in his background And within a year he was out of the school and I still talk to him, I still interact with him, and he and all the other ones that came through the school and didn't make it, that were out within a year or so All they do is talk about how legalistic and no grace in the school. It was all cold and unkind and mean and certain people had it all together and certain people didn't and just too bad. And man I I don't think anybody meant that, but if you're not used to the discipline that's associated, you know, with a Christian school, uh, both attitudin you know, and in the classroom and dress wise, um, it can feel like just a bunch of, you know, torture. But that goes back to were the parents supporting what the school's decisions were or were the parents kind of just feeding into the child's dissatisfaction, the child's disrespect, the child's desire to be w be more of the world instead of conforming to what is the high expectations of the Christian school. Sometimes you don't find that out though till afterwards. You think that it's a good fit But it ends up not being a good fit. For the student. And for the parents. And for the parents. Yeah. Uh guests on the panelists, whatever you guys are. I don't know. Jonathan's co founder of the show. I don't know if that makes him a guest exactly. But I don't have my picture on the website. That's true. If you weren't around that day we'd like to. Okay, what's it for? It's going to the website. Ooh, I probably would have change my hair or something that day. Uh Jonathan Sweiser is the uh senior pastor come back really good come through really good with that background. Now see you're you're screw you're screwing up your own plug. I'm plugging you in your church and you're talking all over me. Jonathan Sweiser is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Angela Phillips is the Director of Development for New Life Christian School. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Okay, here's your chance to shine now. Let's talk about some negatives Let's talk about the real benefits that people should be thinking about when they look at a particularly a Christian uh public school, although if you I'm a private school, but if you want to throw in some uh some non Christian private school stuff too, that's fine. Uh I think it would be fair to say that the class sizes are on average are going to be smaller. Is that true among most Christian private schools? Um I would say the class sizes are smaller for New Life, particularly smaller in the elementary Our middle school probably matches many public middle school classroom sizes where we've seen tremendous growth in our middle school and high school classes. High school grade c numbers are um are fairly large for a public school class, um, but you don't sit all all ninth graders don't sit together, all tenth graders because there's different levels of classes that they will be taking. So I would say that on average you could you could probably look at many of our classes as being slightly smaller than public school, but I'm not sure that that's I think it's more that the overall size. We're we're a preschool through twelfth grade on our home campus where kindergarten through twelfth grade and the overall size of the school um being less than three hundred students. gives it a s a more intimate feeling. You don't have an elementary school or middle school or high school in Freddy County that has less than three hundred students in the building. And so so faculty, um, staff, administrators pretty much get a chance to know everybody. And so you you know, probably a lot of Jonathan's fond memories would be the fact that he felt Um connected, felt that there was truly community in his in his growing up years. And is it just the students that have that feeling or do the families end up feeling like they're part of that community too? Does it extend beyond the walls? Those who are invested in their child education and wanting to it to be something more than buying a service. Because the kids go over to one another's houses and they get to know one another's parents. And then the parents are at different events and I I I remember thinking often to myself that some of my closest friends I had such great respect for their parents. And I and and I would literally say to myself, Wow You know, and and a parent like that chose to send their kids to my dad's school, you know, and it it would like raise in my mind, you know, my dad's prestige 'cause he was running the school. You know, there's just a sense that that, you know, from for a lot of these kids, man It's some great things. Well then instead of me trying to guess at additional benefits of of of a religious private school, what would be you're s somebody comes to you and you're gonna give them the pitch. These are the reasons you you and your family you should think about New Life Christian school, uh what are some of those things? Well, it it relates to the fact that we are admonished to bring our children up to n to know Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. You too could have your children go to a school school where they use the word admonished. Huh? That's a good word. I like that word. Well, I think I think that realistically a Christian education allows the faculty and staff to pour more than just the three Rs into the lives of the children that we see Monday through Friday. A great book was written and I'll just throw out the Um just title. Reefer No, reading, right and reciprocal. Reefer rap and uh Red ones. Um is is it worth it? So though the t title's worth it, the fifteen thousand hour decision. If you haven't done the math and we won't try and do it since you know we couldn't quite get seven times five times the number right at the beginning. is that Turk Bass false. Fifteen thousand hours is the amount of time a student from kindergarten through twelfth grade will have been in somebody else's unless you've homeschooled somebody else's um direction, l um teachings. Uh we'll be sitting at the feet of somebody else. And that's not counting television. Right, exactly. Or internet via the internet. We're just talking their their school day. And so the fifteen thousand hours is more than the youth pastor, the senior pastor is going to see them at church. is more than realistically, most moms and dads there's just not enough hours left in the day um and the week. Um and so For that year that teacher has more of your kids' attention. Ms and hours for a child's lifestyle that time frame. And so Who do you want your child to be trained up by? If it's not going to be the mom and the dad in a homeschool setting, then do you want to feel some level of confidence that who is even if they are full of faults, but still trying to get their act together as a professing believing Christian. Right, right. They're not they're not perfect and they don't say that they are. Um and that wasn't an issue for me. Right. When I was in that setting, most most of my peers it wasn't an issue, the fault. Right. Because we recognize that in a Christian worldview, it's not about perfection, it's about grace and it's about heart. Right? So most of us got that, but It was the ones that did it. So it's it's more intimate, uh s uh deeper friendships, more sense of community. Uh the parents can have more confidence in the character or at least the world view of those that are helping to train up their children. So those are Those are good considerations. What are some others? Um this this week we have tests in uh a number of classes. We can actually pray before those tests happen that God helps to bring to mind. um for the children what they've already learned. Um a child's facing, you know, they fell down on the playground and got hurt, but it's not serious enough that we're calling 911. Um they're sitting in the the Med Tech office and we can pray with that child to help calm them down and soothe them. Th things that are valuable in that idea that we call upon the Lord and the Holy Spirit to be a part of who we are and what we are all about is what you can do in a Christian non public school setting. You won't find that. Other than in a home school setting that's a Christian household, you won't find that in a public school. Even if we have strong Christian teachers in our public school settings, which I know we do They are they would be I don't know what they'd happen to 'em, but they w something pretty serious would happen to 'em. I wanna say hung up or something, but they would something pretty serious would happen to them if they were caught praying before their class was getting ready to take a major test. A major A P test coming up, I'm a Christian, you all know that about me. Let's pray. That that just doesn't work. The other thing is that in the in every classroom in math, in history, in science, in in literature, you're bringing a biblical worldview to bear on every single class. And so once again uh there ends up being discipleship, there ends up being the weaving through of everything that God is there and a part of it, His grace, His love. His wisdom, his majesty, it's really an incredible thing. And his creation. And it's my sense that the approach to education is a little bit more on the classical side of of approaches to education. It's not these newfangled, untested, tried ideas Yeah, yeah. Uh I don't know I don't know three R's ten you know, good classic reading, writing. When when's the last time that uh New Life had to send a flyer home saying, We're we're planning to show an objectional uh objectional video to your child We need you to sign off and say it's okay. You probably don't have that happen. No. You know, so w we're not gonna give everybody the uh the ins and outs of uh how how to uh you know fit the condom over the cucumber. You know, that's not gonna happen. Right. Right. So there's those sorts of it's just you don't have to worry about it. Right. The reading lists in the English classes or English lit classes, I mean the reading lists uh in in public school, high schools I'm probably gonna get stick with some of the classic. Some of the classics, but I would say that I heard um that this this fall and I don't remember the the uh title, but I heard this fall that there were one or two again, classics But classics that were dealing with some issues that are are normal everyday life issues but are a little bit on the edge of what um you know, families might say, I'm comfortable with my ninth grader reading And and we then engage with parents to have the conversation as to well why does this classic still fit into the English curriculum in ninth grade and what what is the value? And and it's really so that we can see the and it was a sexual immorality issue that was uh you know underlining the the the you know the plot. And good Shakespeare has that in it. Right, exactly. And so being able to, you know, talk with the parents and say that's why we're doing this is so that we can see see what God's plan is versus what's actually being played out in the city. Exactly. Exactly. Boy, we don't have like 60 seconds. I don't know if you can, but I'm curious. I wanted to ask this question so we can give you just a quick a quick answer, kind of a black and white answer. How important are theological considerations for parents? If I'm if if if I'm uh primarily Pentecostal uh and I pick a primarily Baptist Christian school, should I be concerned or if I'm primarily Lutheran, but I want to send my kid I'm thinking of sending my my child to a Roman Catholic private school. How how much weight should parents give to the theological outlook of the institution? I I know at New Life um we are all about Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. And we have families who are Catholic, we have families who are Baptist, we have families who are Pentecostal. We we represent at New Life between staff and and um families over eighty different denominational churches in and around Freddie County, Washington County, uh Carroll County, Loudoun County. We've done that show already, by the way. Why are there so many denominations, right? It is true that there are some Christian schools that end up being more legalistic than others. And it can come from some of the theological uh underpinnings. And if you're sharp enough to pick up on some of that, then that can be an issue, but you know, most of that you can find out just from Asking people and you know, and finding out what the reputation of the school is, you can get a good sense for those things. Alright, that's Jonathan Schweitzer talking about good sense and those sorts of things. He's a senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined this week by Angela Phillips, who's the Director of Development at New Life Christian School. I'm Troy Skinner, thanking our sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile, BMC Insurance, proud supporter of New Life Christian School, and Cruise Holidays Sponsors of that big getaway trip that uh Bob Miller of the Morning News News Express taking to the Bahamas. What am I reading? A couple weeks ago I mentioned I was reading a book called First Peter by Karen Jobs I've also been reading a book called First Peter by Ramsey Michaels. These authors, they have such creative titles for their works. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.