Baltimore Orioles game. A photo taken by a Baltimore Sun reporter at the game shows the fans unfurled a red, white, and blue banner with the words Keep America Great. and Trump 2020 during the eighth inning at Camden Yards. The paper reports that the ban remained up for less than 10 minutes before Baltimore police asked the fans to leave. I'm Tevin McManus, WFMD News. And a good Sunday morning, the 930 WFMD weather bug forecast for Frederick in the surrounding counties. For today it's going to be partly sunny, high around 88. Do have a 30% chance of showers and thunderstorms afternoon Tonight a 30% chance of showers and thunderstorms mainly before 9 p. m. Partly cloudy low sixty-seven. Monday partly sunny, a chance of showers and thunderstorms after 9 a. m. and a high of 85. Mostly sunny Tuesday, high 90 No service, contact the best, Thompson Best at bestheatac. com. I'm Jim Tice. This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big brick. Builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Ow. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform DLI. Seminary, the faith debate, master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Big Bridge Builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. What is the biblical view on cannabis? Should Christians embrace marijuana, prohibit its use, or articulate a more nuanced position? Shifting gears, is God transcendent and angry, or is God imminent and pleased? Or is the answer maybe all of the above. These are a couple of the issues we hope to address during today's faith debate with Jonathan Sweiser, co founder of Cross Bridges in Frederick, and Jerry Gilbert, a curio curious Christian. He's likely asking many of the questions that you're asking. My name is Troy Skinner, and we're speaking to you from the studios of 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. So welcome to the show, Jerry and John. It's good to see the show. And Jonathan Schweitzer has been on probably ninety percent ish of the show those fifteen years. And that probably means we've done, I don't know, several hundred, five hundred, six hundred, eight, I don't know how um seven hundred and fifty shows. You've probably been a part of at least six hundred of them maybe, right? So I liked you more before I knew that. So of these six hundred shows that John has been on in this show, I think this is the first time he's not sitting in that chair. Oh that's chair. Jerry stole John's chair. I was late to the studio and lost my I knew I liked you. I knew there was something I liked about you. So anyway, so I'm not saying I got tired of losing, so I needed a different chair to sit in on the So I don't know if that means you know you'll have better answers this this week or not. Let's see if the chair has anything to do with it. So let's start with the first thing I kinda threw out there as a teaser. You know, uh during we're gonna do a series of shows. That's our hope anyway, God willing. Um and we're not going to have a central theme that we're going to talk about, at least that the intention isn't to have a central theme that we talk about for, you know, two, three, four, five shows in a row. We're going to try to do a little a little bit more of a potpourri But not a wild free for all, so try to limit it to a couple of topics maybe per show, but over the course of the arc of the shows we do we might touch on you know, who knows, a half a dozen or more different things. So a couple of them I'm hoping we can uh make some headway on today are the two I teased at the beginning. The first one had to do with cannabis. Cannabis. And the other one was was whether or not God is transcendent or Angry or please. Clearly those two are like related to one another. Because if you're if you're on cannabis, you feel like God is pleased with you and imminent. If you're not on cannabis, then you might doubt whether or not Uh God is pleased with you. Yeah. See? See? Bridges. So anyway, uh is there I'm gonna ask you, John, you were the pastor at Cross at Crossroads Valley Church for for quite a long time. Yeah. More than a decade, you know, a decade and a half maybe. Yeah, about sixteen years. So Were you ever asked? Pastor John, what's the Bible say about marijuana? So, uh, yes, though I don't know that I was ever asked uh kind of directly like, hey, I'm about to, you know, be using it and so what do you think? And and it was probably asked by indirect like what do you think of Mary Jane? Teenagers and the height and uh and college age guys that are kind of, you know, just you know, trying to More recreational use than anything. Yeah, m well more yeah, yeah, more asking the question like, you know, so what's the big deal, you know, and and uh that kind of thing. And so Um so the answer to that I think would be uh I was not asked about marijuana for medicine medicinal purposes, but I was asked Like there was there's co there's regular discussions about um medications for um depression, uh chronic pain in and when is it appropriate and when is it not appropriate and uh and so that kind of question which I think plays into the question of uh marijuana in and really leads into you know the the question of when is it right or when is it not right. Um it w I think was regularly a part of discussions. And in fact I would say this, that generally in the uh in the conservative church world that there's a kind of an automatic assumption that uh that anything like that means that you're you you might not be doing what you should do. Maybe you're not praying enough or maybe you're not you know, reading your Bible, maybe you're not really making the decision to be uh a disciple, you know, and and uh always kind of the question as to whether or not you're you're compromising. you know, something and so um in unf uh I I don't I don't know that that's where I would stand, but I I would say that that was kind of a This is correct. So I'm wondering if people would have allow themselves more permission to enter into a dialogue about this kind of an issue with you rather than their pastor. Right. You know, they w they're not gonna go to John and say, Pastor, is it okay if I smoke a joint? Because either they don't want to know the answer if it's not what they want to hear or they're afraid that he's gonna be why are you asking that question? Whereas you they're gonna like, so what do you think, Jerry? You think it's okay if we smoke a joint? They might so Ha have you had direct conversations about this question with people? I actually have had quite a few conversations. Well and in fact you're asking I think more than that, but but maybe not. You're asking as you had the questions about whether or not a Christian should Or are you just asking generally? Well, yeah, I'm I'm I'm talking about in a in a I guess a Christian church context. I've had conversations on both. um from from a wide variety of of people with different backgrounds. Um some more skewed towards Uh should a Christian be able to use uh cannabis for for medicinal purposes? Uh some more on moral issues uh but uh definitely have had had questions from uh from christians and non-Christians alike uh about it. Um a lot of times the Christians will Well I work in the cannabis industry, so we'll throw that out there. Um so I get questions frequently as part of my job uh when when people find out that I am a Christian. the conversation changes slightly, we'll put it that way. Uh that makes sense about that in the past on this show many years ago I think when this last came up, but you you made the point how if you're out golfing or in some sort of social Yeah and they find out that I'm a pastor. That sort of thing. Yeah, I got a brother in law. Yeah. Spent a week and a half. Yeah, so I was gonna say this. There's a gentleman that came uh that that we knew at the church whose father uh smoked like his entire life, mother and father, um, marijuana and um and i he was in a funny spot because uh he was working through his own struggle with um substance abuse and and using it recreationally but in a way that that was less helpful, you know, and and affected um how he was as a husband and as how, you know, a as a dad and and, you know, trying to work through what should he do or shouldn't he do and then you know, getting drug tested and, you know, it it affecting jobs and and that kind of thing. But he was he was uh ready to argue that it should be legal while at the same time recognizing that it really wasn't good for him. Right? And and it was a really funny discussion because You know, on the one hand the whole question of legalization, he was pretty adamant about it, you know, and but but then we're trying to shift over to well what's best for you uh as somebody that doesn't need it for medicinal purposes, you know, and so is it recreationally wise, you know, for him, uh, you know, as a dad, as a as a husband, you know, to to to engage. And unfortunately it it wasn't something that was good for him and he knew it and I don't know where he's at on it today but I I know that it was something that was an ongoing struggle for him. Well one of the challenges we have a in our in our American context in our culture is we haven't Generally speaking, so I'm painting with a broad brush stroke, I apologize, but we haven't generally speaking had a lot of nuanced discussions about this historically. I think there's been a lot more nuance in the last ten or twenty years than there was the previous two hundred years combined probably. And, you know, with these um the Reefer Madness movies from, you know, uh probably coming up on a hundred years ago, eighty years ago when a Wiperman was moving. Whenever back in the forties and fifties I think is when those were really prominent. Uh I'm not familiar with those. What was that all about? Really? um um propaganda films really speaking against the dangers of drugs, specifically marijuana, which is sometimes called reefer. And if you smoked reefer, you'd go mad and people you'd you'd want to kill your neighbor, you'd become an axe murderer or something, you know, and and it was so over the top and it scared the bejeebis out of that generation, a lot of them I think Uh, but it also made people who had some experience with some um Mary Jane's, uh, who were like, wait a minute, I don't want to kill my neighbor when I smoke a little. So th And it became laughable and some would say that that set the stage for the whole cultural revolution that took place in the sixties and seventies because they were it was like a a pendulum swing in the other direction Against the authority figures who had basically been lying to people with these propaganda films. And the reality is that it was in that time frame uh I'm gonna forget the names of the two uh professors uh it'll come to me in a bit that uh that at the collegiate level were arguing that um that since God was now dead you know, and and and we couldn't really believe in God because science had shown us that that there was still a need for a divine experience and that uh and so they they taught at the collegiate level that that the way that a scientific community would would do that would you know that that it could be facilitated by uh by the kind of high that you get from using, you know, psychedelic or illicit drugs. And so um so the point is is that that It's always had a cultural aspect, uh I mean uh a a a culture war aspect to it, you know, between the atheist uh scientific naturalist crowd in the the religious crowd, you know, grappling with, okay, well what You know, how is it that we approach God? How is it that we that we come to be inspired? You know, in in this this discussion dealing with medicine uh really is is how do we care for, you know, those that are hurting, but all of it ends up having a ver religious tone and uh and uh twist to it that makes it hard to be nuanced. And and my point in bringing that up because of the more nuanced discussions that are beginning to take place now, and I'm imagining given y y you your uh uh you know, the industry you work in and the context you're going to church and you're in that context as well and there's a lot of misunderstandings. There's probably some nuance discussions that you're able to have 'cause part of a nuance seems to me one There's recreational use and there's medicinal use. There's the the private usage question, like should you and should I or should Christians do it is one question, which is a separate related but separate question from should the government allow allow it, uh disallow it, uh make it some sort of a penal sanction thing if if you if you go against the rules, should there be a prohibition or not? Are there advantages to prohibition or disadvantages to prohibition? There's all these questions. I might, for the sake of argument, I might be radically opposed to anybody using marijuana for any purpose ever and at the same time hold the position that the best way to accomplish my aims is to steer away from government prohibition. You can make you could hold both positions at the same time. You could be for decriminalization and anti usage at the same time. Because prohibition doesn't work. One has to do with goal You could make you could hold both positions at the same time. You could be for decriminalization and anti usage at the same time. Because prohibition doesn't work. One has to do with gold, the other one with the process of how to achieve it. Exactly the tactics to achieve it. Yeah, because I mean Your prohibition doesn't work. It's never worked in the history of of you know mankind that I know of. Um don't do it because I said so. Right. I mean uh the Apostle Paul writes about that in the New Testament. Absolutely. Kind of spurs us on to wanna so that's a whole other discussion, right? that uh like I think I would disagree. I think I think prohibition of of murder of it stopped murder? It hasn't stopped it, but it's theft. But it's certainly uh uh a society that is rooted in law and order Uh hi you know, you go anywhere on the planet where where there's a society that has a strong sense of law and order And you're gonna feel a lot safer in that uh in that uh environment than if you're not. It doesn't mean that it stops it, but it does raise a moral standard that that has uh has a uh a an an effect of s of both stopping but also causing the people in that society to grapple with what's right and what's wrong along those lines, right? And so so even driving in the United States, you know, you go anywhere else in the world and the nobody follows the laws and everybody's scared to death when they're on the streets, right? Well, uh, do I speed? Uh probably. Sh should I admit it uh on the radio? No. But the point is you know that that having laws that are enforced definitely strengthens my appreciation for being a good driver and I think that's true about uh about everything and so so I'm not saying that that's an argument for uh um pro for for or against prohibition. I'm just saying that that prohibition in many areas of life has a very yeah but I think positive again the nuances here. By the way, that's Jonathan Schweitzer uh wearing a purple shirt today. Maybe we'll talk about that in a minute why he's wearing a purple shirt Um and uh I'm Troy Skinner and Jerry Hilbert's. Actually it's about this issue, right? It's about the opioid issue and substance use disorder and how You know, our community can be a very important thing to do. And prohibitions that are that are safeguards for the rest of us. So I've I've yet to find So I can't I can't take you know take out a knife and stab you in the eye with it without having some penalty. That that that sort of behavior should be prohibited because there should be some law and order rules in place that would protect you from me. Sure. But if I want to stab myself in the eye, I don't think there's a law against that Actually there is. They'll they'll There's a law against stabbing yourself in the eye. If you're stabbing if you're stabbing yourself in the in the eye, they'll take you Uh the police will come, they'll put you in a straitjacket and they'll take you to uh to a emergency room with a mental health uh part of it and they're not gonna let you keep stabbing yourself in the in the eye. So sorry, but that one didn't quite seem to work the way it's a lot of things. Here's a question for you, John. Um I I kinda'm trying to follow your prohibition argument. Um Is it based more on uh simply a moral argument? That that because I mean because cannabis has a Has a euphoric effect, a high if you will, whatever you want to call it, that that's immoral. Uh so In the context of the opioid epidemic in Frederick right now in across the phone. I I get it, but but The the the discussion has often said that the best way to remove stigma is to stop saying that it's a moral issue. And I I've thought about that so much over the last year. And I have a hard time identifying many behaviors that that humans engage in. If there's a choice related to the behavior, um many of them are are therefore moral at heart. And so for example, if I'm drinking alcohol and I'm getting drunk and it affects how I interact with somebody else, then there is a moral choice that I'm making. Am I going to allow myself to uh to engage in certain behaviors? This is probably the reason why uh the the biblical Greek term for wickedness is pharmacia because for many people when they are under the influence of a drug they are less capable of making a moral decision. They're they're amoral. They they for some of them step out of actually being able to make moral decisions and hence the reason why you can't drive under the influence, right? And why don't you drive under the influence? Because you can't be trusted to make the right decisions under the influence, right? But under the influence of which medicines For example, should should I mean honestly the opiates are are every bit as are more intoxicating than cannabis. And that's why I've been thinking about it. I mean those exactly right. I mean there tends to be a a uh a negative connotation to uh to cannabis simply on the fact that it it it tends to make people feel good. Um and it seems to be a prohibition uniquely uh associated with cannabis. I mean that's why people take antidepressants to feel better. Wait, what's uniquely associated with cannabis? The the fact that because it makes people feel good, that that shouldn't be. That there's we it can't it can't be medicine. I've never heard anybody make that argument, so that was made to me. Okay. That the reason that we should outlaw any drug is because it makes you feel good. I've always heard the argument that the reason you outlaw a drug is because uh it undermines the individual's ability to uh to engage in society and uh to uh to lead a life that is productive for society. And I think that the alcohol uh comparison is is reasonably valid, at least in our current cultural context. I mean, as far as I know, the Bible is silent specifically about cannabis. I don't know of a Bible verse that talks directly about marijuana. But I think we could apply the principles that are talking about alcohol and its intoxicating effects. And I know there's debate on this, but I'm uh firmly persuaded that the Bible speaks against drunkenness but doesn't dr uh speak against uh warming one's heart uh with a glass of alcohol, glass of wine. And actually I'd be inclined to agree with you. Paul says to Timothy. No longer drink only water, but use a little wine and water. That wasn't what he was saying. from alcohol or cannabis is not inherently immoral. Correct. And I think I would agree with that. So we can apply the would you you you think it's fair to apply what we what the Bible is more clearly saying about alcohol more broadly and say alcohol was the intoxicant of the day So the implications we have of today, uh, we could apply those principles and say if you want to have some recreational and I'm asking the question, some recreational marijuana to take the edge off, to make us have a m a a more relaxed outlook on life to be able to enjoy the presence of of our spouses and have one of those just chill moments with them. Is that totally okay according to scripture and it becomes a problem if you get stoned and you're wasted on the couch and you're kind of a zombie and you're tuned out. Or or back in the uh the uh the the Leary uh quotes from the sixties, you're you're turned on. Uh you know, is is that the problem? So is is it a matter of a matter of scale where, you know, it's it's okay to h to have the edge off, but it's not okay to go too far. And I would kind of lean in that direction And I I don't use marijuana myself recreationally, but I don't know that I would come down hard on those uh that do unless they're be having a an abuse problem with it. Yeah, in that's well we never I think the struggle for all activities that we engage in in life is that I tend to minimize the negative impacts of my behavior on other people, maximize the negative impacts of their behavior on me. And so so the ability my ability to be honest about something that I'm doing that I like doing and whether or not it's affecting other people negatively I mean for that matter, even how much I smile. Talk more next week when we get into the transcendence and immanence question about God next week. We ran out of time for this week. We spent more on this issue than I thought we would. Anyway, Jerry Gilbert, John Fleitzer, I'm Roy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFM. detail next week 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless. That was stupid. Was it? Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com, a service of clustered spires. Maryland's golf at its finest. From the 930 WFMD Roy Rogers Restaurant News Center. This is WFMD News. A lab at Fort Dietrich has been shut down due to a failed safety inspection The Frederick News Post reports that the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention conducted the inspection of the facility at the U. S. Army Medical Research Institute for Infectious Diseases in June. and found the biosafety level 3 and 4 labs failed to meet safety standards. The CDC issued a cease and desist order in July. A spokeswoman for USAMRID tells the News Post There were a variety of causes, including failure to follow local procedures and a lack of certification for workers in the biocontainment labs, which handle high level diseases such as Ebola. She could not say when the labs would be back in operation. The Maryland State Police and Frederick will be joining other local law enforcement agencies for national night out on Tuesday, August 6th. Troopers will be at the Walkersville Fire Hall on Frederick Street in Lake Lingon or on Cold Stream Drive in Newmarket and the Thermont Police Department on Main Street. Citizens will have the opportunity to connect with local police through cookouts, festivals, and community events. Bimbo Bakeries has issued a recall of the mini chocolate chip cookies from Etiment's Little Bites to the possible visible blue plastic pieces in the packet. According to the Food and Drug Administration, the plastic was not baked into the cookies, but it could still pose a choking risk. Officials say the products are being removed from store shelves People who have them at home are advised to return them for a full refund. Officials say no other little bites, muffins, or other company products are affected, and no associated injuries were reported The recall was voluntary. Loretta Gaines, 930 WFMD. And for more on these and other stories, go to our website, WFMD. com. I'm Kevin McManus, WFMD News. This is a Fox News Alert. I'm Terra McHugh. Two massacres in less than twenty-four hours. The latest happening overnight in Dayton, Ohio, where a gunman in body armor opened fire on a large outdoor crowd around one a. m. Twenty-six have been entered. Injured uh and are at area hospitals. Ten fatalities in our community, including the shooter. Earlier a gunman went on a killings free Saturday morning in El Paso at a Texas Walmart. Police responded in minutes to this shooting and managed to take the suspected shooter, a twenty one year old white man from Allen, Texas, into custody without firing a single Bull shot. Twenty innocent people died, and more than two dozen were hurt in this shooting affecting