Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hopes in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How can we make you smile? BMC Insurance Send him Bob on that big getaway trip to the Bahamas. Or no, that's uh Cruise Holidays. DMC Insurance is a proud supporter of New Life Christian schools. Give me my tagline's all confused. Okay, fine, I admit it. I'm a product of the public school system. Oh no. Or as I joke with my sister, who's also uh went to public school, we're victims of the public education system. Uh this is the faith debate. Visit us visit us on I can't even talk now Visit us online at www. wfmd. com. Remember when commer when the internet was kind of a newfangled thing and All the commercials came out and it was always and visit us visit us online at www. Nobody says that anymore. Anyway, uh we're online, WFMD. com keyword faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page. You'll find links to all sorts of interesting religious uh materials and uh the audio book, the the podcasts of of uh this program. You'll also find the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Troy Skinner, my name, at Clearchannel. com. Five days a week, Monday through Friday, we put up nine new blog postings each day, so that's forty-five of them doing the math right. Forty-five blog updates Per week on the fifth and eight page. Four weeks to be trained with that. If you give me enough time, from new life training him. If you give me an infinite number of opportunities and I choose a different number every time, I will eventually get it right Think about that one. Dizzy, truly dizzying process. Yes, it is. And dizzied by the prospect is Jonathan Schweitzer. He is senior pastor at Crossroads of Valley uh church, almost said chapel, gotta catch myself. And the director of development at New Life Christian School is with us as well, Angela Phillips. This is round four. So we've talked generally about educational issues. Here we go. We've talked about homeschooling and how it's so wonderful. Right. We've talked about and how it's so negative. Well we talked about that too. Yeah. Uh we talked about uh religious private school and how it's so wonderful, particularly at New Life Christian School. Absolutely. Uh and and some of the the concerns and things you gotta take into account there Uh we've touched on in our three weeks some public school issues and that sort of thing, but we haven't dove in on that subject, and so we're gonna dive in on that subject and things that revolve around that. So part of the public school debate will include charter school debate, so we're gonna talk about that. Um, and I wanted to get to this last week, so I'm going to throw it into the mix this week, because it will work just in a different way. I wanted to talk last week about what the church's role should be in establishing religious schools. And we didn't really get a chance to talk about that. If you have a really deep thought on that and you want to comment, that's fine. But for this week, since we're going to be focusing more on public schools, let's talk about the church's role in influencing public the public education discussion. Uh and maybe the influence on that discussion is no, we can't influence it. Let's just set up a school. I don't know, but I wanna I wanted to throw that out there. Well I grappled it with this big time because I ran for the Board of Education here in Frederick. And the question is How is it that you made it through the primary spot? I did. Yeah. And got more votes than I've ever gotten in my life. 14,000 votes. And then he would have done better if uh everybody didn't gang up on him because they found out he was a pastor and everybody freaked out. Whoa, a pastor A patron on the school board? Are you kidding me? He probably leaves in God. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The whole creationism thing. Yeah, and so everybody came out and you were like the target. You were the poster child for the the anti establishment vote. I was, but people were pretty confident that if I'd have run again I I would have had enough name recognition. I think there's a good chance that that was the case. Um but, you know, I'm not called to public school education. But this is the this is the question with public school education, right? What is its purpose? And when we started as a nation There were very few public schools. It wasn't until the late eighteen hundreds, coming into the nineteen hundreds, that public school education began to be a really big deal. And at that time they were all religious. And everybody prayed in them pray prayed it in those schools. And then Catholics showed up on our on our shores and said, Well look Clearly all of your schools are Protestant in nature. Why don't you just give us the tax money that that we're paying for public schools and let us start our own schools? And all the Protestants rose up and said, No, no, no, no, no, we can't have that separation of church and state. We can't let you do that. And they set up the law that um this is a little over a hundred years ago in New York City, right? Yeah, this is in the nineteen twenties. Not quite a hundred years ago. Uh that all this went down and sure enough The law was created that eventually 30 years later or 40 years later drove all prayer out of school 100%. In so so in the s in nineteen seventy we had something that we had not had for two hundred years in the United States uh purging itself of all reference to God. Right at the same time was the um uh the civil rights movement and the desegregation of the schools Uh and so a funny nineteen fifty a funny thing happened. The schools got desegregated Prayer got taken out of the schools and the Christians said, we need to start having private schools, and so the public school system immediately said These guys are all racists and that's why they're leaving the public schools because they don't want their kids to have to be around African American kids. And it wasn't true the reason they were leaving was because they wanted to raise their kids according to their r uh their their religious values. But all of a sudden we had a school system that went from chewing gum, you know, and and uh whatever, you know, shooting rubber bands as the problem to guns. and drugs and uh you know, rape being the problem in the school systems. And the point is is that we lost the sense of moral foundation in the public school system and so e you know a lot of people were running for cover. The question is how should Christians respond to that? Well we can't go back There's a public school system out there now and our taxes significantly go in that direction, which is why it's Fredder County half of the budget More than more than half. More than half? Fifty what, two percent or something? No, it's like sixty-seven cents of every dollar. Yeah. Did it jump I've been in Frederick County for thirteen years. I want to say it's sixty four cents, but he's saying sixty-seven. I think or somewhere as close Even if it's over at fifty two, it's still pretty substantial. Yeah. And the point of all of that being the case, right, and then there's state money that comes in and then federal money, and everybody that has money wants to attach strings You know, and so then that means that that your curriculum becomes more and more secular. Why? Because the public school system has to be there for Jews and for Muslims and for Christians and for the atheists and for Buddhists. And so if that's the case and everybody's forced to be in the same place, then of course you can't preach one religion. I agree with that. However the fact that we have created a system that requires us to purge all of our religious, moral background and heritage out of our our curriculum isn't is is a a indication that we have a major problem. And related to this, it's a landmark case, I I can't remember the exact year. I want to say nineteen eighty, but I'm not sure that that's right. But there's a school in Pennsylvania, Grove City College. that said, we don't want the federal money. Keep your money 'cause you this is why you think about this, the strings. We don't want the strings. So we don't want the money And the United States government sued the school saying, No, no, no, no, no, no, you can't opt out. You have to take our money. And so the school went to court saying, we don't want their money. And thank goodness from my perspective they won. And so to this day, that school and other schools now are able to ride the coattails of that landmark ruling that they don't have to take The because if you do it you're right, the strings are automatic, whether you want them or not. And I just don't know how to do it outside of vouchers, you know. Uh parents, why aren't parents involved in education? Because you show up at at the school and the teachers tell you, okay, look, this is what we want you to do. We want you to do this, this, this, this and this. And if you have any problems, you know, this is how we want you to tell us about them. And the parent leaves thinking to themselves They really don't want my opinion and they really see me as a potential burden and problem. And then parents are less involved and the teachers turn around and they lament. How come the parents aren't more involved? Right But the point is is that if you control everything, then you're telling the parent, we're the expert, you do all the other stuff And the parent, a anybody that is human is gonna is gonna react against that and say, Well, there's no dignity in that. You know, either they're going to submit and just let the teacher be the expert and fade into the background or they're going to we could probably rail against public education forever and not run out of material. That's right. And we'll probably swing back because that's fun But I wanna make sure that we talk about some of the advantages that the public education system does offer. For example, it came up a couple of weeks ago in the context I think it was either home school Schooling or private schooling private school uh had to do with uh special needs services. And that can be very expensive and you know uh it it's It can be tens of thousands of dollars in some cases. Families can't do that. Economies of scale mean that you really can't do that and so the public system handles that as far as the financial aspect of that pretty well. Whether they handle the special needs instruction well is a separate debate. Uh but at least the financial side and then uh Tax wise, again, economies of scale. You know, there should at least theoretically be savings involved when you can have duplicated processes and that sort of thing. I'm not sure that we quite get the the benefit of that the way that we should, but at least theoretically it's there. You probably know the numbers, uh, Angelo better than I do. Uh I is there a financial benefit? Is there not a financial benefit? If so, you know, how much of one is it really worth it? I don't know. Financial benefit meaning what what's paid per student for costs? If we didn't have the public school system in place, how much might we be spending to educate our kids compared to what we are spending now, which is sixty-seven percent of our tax money? Or whatever, sixty-four percent. public schools and turning them into public charter schools because they actually paid less per pupil in a public charter school than they would pay in a typical public school. Um I I know here in Frederick County a number of years ago we were paying slightly over twelve thousand dollars per student to crazy. Well it's crazy in that New Life is slightly over six thousand dollars a year and we're doing a fairly good job, um I would say an a an excellent job of education. How much is a little over six thousand. So half. Half. Half is what it will cost. Now that's that's dollars out of a parent's um pocketbook when they're already paying their taxes to help support the public. Sure, so they're paying twice. But of course people that don't have kids are also paying for the public education system, which and that that doesn't happen in a private setup. Correct. Right. So there's the if you're talking about fairness and equality, I I used to work with somebody in a different city and her big thing, her hot button was why do I have to pay these taxes for the public education system I don't have kids, I don't want kids, I'm never gonna have kids, I don't like kids. Right. Right, exactly. They're not gonna help make her so secure No, but I I I've worked pretty closely with her for like four and a half years, so you get to know somebody. It's not efficient. There's not an economy of scale. Where's the money? I mean this is not this is a faith debate and this isn't a faith question probably, but where's that extra six thousand dollars going? Well, it's because they have to take all students So you do have a uh an academically gifted student or a uh you know on on grade student and their services are just going to be their school teacher or a nice library, a cafeteria, you know, the general st But then you have a student who has those learning disabilities or severe learning disabilities or behavioral disabilities. All of those add-on services make that student Much more expensive to educate. So to put it in the parlance of what's been a ongoing discussion in our nation for for a while with the Obamacare or affordable care legislation Uh you know, the public schools are in a situation where they can't disqualify someone for a pre existing condition. That's correct. They have to take all the students, including the really expensive ones. And there's Schools like Ivy Mount down in Montgomery County. There's other uh that that's a really well known one that I'm familiar with, but there are a lot of really good um private schools that provide services for special needs students. And I don't know what the rates are exactly right now, but I know a decade ago it was like eighty thousand dollars a year. And I'm sure it's higher now. Not too much. Who can afford that? Not to mention students that are um discipline problems, that are severe discipline problems. They also can't turn those guys away and so they actually here in Frederick have a special school at the ridge. You know, that they send those kids to to to help to provide that education again You're talking a lot of extra money to cover the costs for those students. This is the Frederick Faith debate, even though we're talking a lot about, you know, uh what seems like a secular issue right now, but the there is a there's a faith component and we'll be diving deeper into that aspect of it here in a second. This is Uh WFMD 9 30 a. m. on your dial. Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined this week by Angela Phillips, who is the Director of Development at Director of Development. I think I slurred your title a few times, I apologize. Um at uh New Life Christian School So we can't demand, nor maybe should we expect religious instruction in a in a secular public school setting. So are we just left with a situation of it is what it is? There's not an or should Christians rise up? People of faith, people of the book, for those of uh uh Muslim persuasion, uh should the people of the book rise up and Try to make a change and inject God back into schools and prayer back in the schools because it does beg the question of if they have a Muslim uh teacher, they're gonna be allowed to do their Islamic prayer. And do Christian parents want that? So Is there a way around that? Or it it needs to be a secularist, atheistic, even though I, by the way, think atheism is a religion. Uh so you can't get away from the religion question. So w w what do you do? Okay, I feel like this question is at the heart of our experiment here in the United States with a democratic republic and religious freedom. Right, and at the heart of that question is can people with very different worldviews live together in harmony? in a democratic republic or is it eventually going to be a scenario that it falls apart and you end up having to go to some kind of lowest common denominator which ends up undermining the fabric of the nation uh at the same time. 'Cause if 'cause uh you know, if there's religious freedom and I don't know that I know the answer to that, but I will say that I'd rather live in a nation with religious freedom than in so many other nations around the world, right? And I I I don't feel like I want to go back. But uh if we're gonna have that kind of religious freedom then the the public school system has to change. Was it Lekwalesa, the uh Nobel Pri uh Peace uh prize winning uh uh gentleman from uh Poland that that led their uh uh drive into uh r religious freedoms and and civil rights uh back in the eighties was it? Uh is calling for a international secular Ten Commandments Hm. The first four in the real Ten Commandments are all focused on God. uh in uh for one another's religions and that has its own dangerous uh elements to it that that could be very difficult. The point is is that Tim LeHay and Jerry B. Jenkins would love that scenario. Falls right into their left behind series mindset. But we're living in this environment right now, uh internationally, not just nationally, with you know, what is a democratic republic that truly has civil rights and religious freedoms look like? And uh, you know, this is why so many of us go the direction of vouchers, because then you let each person decide for themselves. However, that means that my Christian kids are not being raised close to the Jewish kids and the Muslim kids and the other ones. That means that that it creates a little bit of a ghetto. You got the Christian ghetto, you got the Jewish ghetto, you got the Muslim ghetto, you got the atheist ghetto, everybody's in their own little group. And would that improve? the uh body politic in the United States or would that lead to greater division and infighting between one another, you know, and so I I don't know. I mean when you start thinking about these issues you gotta kinda kinda gotta look far out and say, well what are the ultimate consequences? The ultimate consequence of taking prayer out of schools is that we're losing our moral foundations and things are falling apart. But it is it's presuming something that's probably not a hundred percent true, and that is that everybody who goes to a that chooses to use their voucher on a Christian school would necessarily be a Christian Not everybody at New Life we learned a couple weeks ago, right? No uh nobody not everybody at your school is is ness is of like mind believing exactly the same thing Well, not in the sense of believing the same doctrinal from the standpoint of their denominational faith, but everyone is a Christian. So a one of our y one of the major cornerstones of our hallmark for New Life is that families who select us, they selected us because their household one or both parents are believing Bible believing Christians. But there would be other options available in the county that I'm familiar with. I think uh Uh Saint John, which is a Catholic school. Uh they have Muslim students. Friends. Exactly. The Baptist school in Nazareth is forty percent Muslim, sixty percent Christian. And they're like one of the top schools for education in Israel. It's very interesting to me. And my daughter goes to a a college now that is, you know, we talked about it a couple of weeks ago. It's a it's a Christian school. Um and you know, I talked to her about things there and she's roommates with somebody who's not a Christian and act is actually in a friendly way antagonistic. Yeah. Are there any private schools in Frederick County or nearby that are not religious? The Banner School and their preschool through eighth grade. That's a charter school. No. The Banner School's is is non public. Fully private. Yes. UP. Wow. And um and then there's the Lucy School out in West Middletown, but they're preschool through fifth grade. And they're both um non sectarian public schools. Hm. Or excuse me, not public schools. And so the question is would we lose the melting pot mentality if we had all these different religious schools, Catholic, Protestant, you know, the different ones? And I don't know what the answer to that is. What do you guys think? Well, it's about a hundred years old this uh public school experiment. Um we had a melting pot before that prayer has been taken out of schools. And it's only about eighty years since we told the Catholics that they can't have you know, government money to do it. And so I mean the point is is that it's a ev evolving you know, it's a it's it's in process and it's developing. This is the same sort of argument that was Yeah, a forced integration of of of uh of ethnicities and and cultural backgrounds and that sort of thing. But if we did think my sense of it is that busting didn't work It didn't accomplish that 'cause when people were done at school, they went right back into their community again. So I don't think it solved I don't know that you gain or lose anything probably in the big picture, but I I don't know if you guys agree. I think it's likely that you would end up having communities that are more Muslim, communities that are more Christian, communities that are more secular, like literally like like whole sections of town. But that exists now is my point. It's it's it we you know, it hasn't Right? That exists now. I mean I grew up in this in the in Chicago. That's where that's where I'm from. And it's sometimes block by block. Yeah, y you well, that's a little bit of an exaggeration. It's sometimes mile by mile. Yeah, no, I'm with you. This is the Greek mile. But that's ethnicity. I'm not sure that it's faith. I'm not sure that it's a belief system. I think to some degree, I mean again it's it's it's cultural. It's not just ethnicity, it's a cultural and and your faith is part of your your cultural experience. So when you're all culturally Christian. But when you drove when you drove were more so Well you drove the Greek mile, it was mostly Orthodox people there. When you drove the ki the in the uh Italian mile, it was mostly Roman Catholic. They always had a church associated with that group of those blocks. for where we were age wise. We're we're not that's probably not as much a reflection in the twenty fifteen, twenty thirteen kind of time frame. You know, in this in this time frame, it's probably not I mean, because you're gonna find the Italian block still in the Baltimore and the Boston, and you're gonna find that Italian block or that Italian mile But you're not going to find that that is predominantly Roman Catholic anymore. You're not going to find that's what we're saying though. If we went to a voucher system if we went to a voucher system and all the all the Christians in town said, We want new life New life would all of a sudden become a really big school. It would have a lot of money coming into it, and you guys would build new buildings, build new gymnasiums, you know, all the all all the things that would happen. And I bet that what we would tend to see happen is that people would start to buy houses closer to the school. You know, and that people like I'd move into the in into the air, I'd say, okay, I'm working for this company You know, and uh and I'm Christian, I'm looking you know, where are the Christian schools? There's one there, there's one there, you know. Uh uh I think we we like that school better. You know, let's look at some houses over there. My point is that ideas have consequences and if we were to go with a voucher system, I just think it would it would affect more than just where people go to school, it would affect how they live in general. And I don't know the implications of that. None of us do, which is part of the problem is the critics, you know, say, well you're just re-dividing our society. and we're gonna we're gonna lose the the the common core, you know, of what our nation is all about to use the educational idea. But the society is already d divides based on our socio and economic capacities. Right. So we choose now, those of us who who are moving and decide we're moving and we have children that we want educated and we're gonna educate them in the public school system We take a look at, I mean if you've looked at an MLS listing lately, one of the things on there specifically says school district. And so Parents are checking out school districts from the standpoint not because of their faith, but because of the outcomes that they can expect for their schools. I did. Now I gotta say we've got we've got to wrap up the show by the way. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Valley Church. Thank you, my friend. Thank you. Angela Phillips, who is the director of development. Well, it's hard for me to say for some reason. I don't know why Director of Development. Too many D's and E's and I's and things. Uh New Life Christian School. Um thank you so much. Uh you know, it strikes me I've got like thirty seconds. It strikes me it's interesting. I agree with you by the way. People make choices of where they're gonna live based on proximity to work, uh length of commute. uh socioeconomic considerations of the neighborhood, the house they can afford, uh what school district they're in or how close it is to the private school they might want their child to attend or that sort of thing. Somewhere. If it can't be at the top, okay, fine, although I'd like it at the top. They start thinking in terms of buying a house and a home in a community that's near the church that they want to attend. Wouldn't that be nice? This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Want to thank our sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? BMC Insurance, proud supporters of New Life Christian School and Cruise Holidays big sponsors of that uh cruise getaway that Bob Miller and the Morning News Express are taking. What have I been reading lately? I've been doing a lot of study Peter, I bet. A lot of study on uh the first epistle of Peter. So I I I write a book by Peter H. David's called the First Epistle of Peter. No way, Peter wrote about Peter. These theologians, they need more creativity in the titles. Anyway, till next week. God bless.