Happy New Year! We weren't supposed to be here. today according to Harold Camping, we should have been dead three times over. And uh this is uh we're we're we're we're like what do we have, three hundred and sixty days or something like three hundred and fifty something days left before the Mayan calendar runs out? Right. And we'll be dead. So I hope you enjoyed your your very final New Year celebration. You hedonists. That's right. Right, so this goes for all of you truly righteous people that even on New Year's Eve you still go to bed at a reasonable hour. Right. Jonathan Sweitzer, a truly righteous man if I've ever known one. Amen. Senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and the one Amen the A Ma Amen there in the corner, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, another righteous individual. The Righteous Brothers, yes, we should. Copyright infringement problems. And Deer Valley, Hardscape, Landscape, and Masonry. Last week we did everything we could to shatter your faith on uh Christmas. And this year we're gonna do everything we can to restore your faith. on New Year's Day. So that is the goal. Last week we were talking about what is the Bible exactly? We had some pretty good answers to that And then uh and I don't think any troubling answers really to that. And then we had the uh what do we mean by inerrancy? When we say the Bible is inerrant, infallible, inspired, all these in words, authoritative, you know, all that sort of thing. We had some very good interesting answers there but ones that could be problematic for those that are like, whoa wait a minute, you're rocking my world here And of course the show was only so many minutes long and we had to wrap it up uh kind of living in that space. I think I'm probably more of an inerrantist than than uh Jace is. I can't quite tell where you're at. Can't you tell where I'm I'm picking the moderator. Yeah. I'm about four feet I'm about four feet to the east of you right now. If that helps you know where I'm at. Yeah. No, the your GPS uh precision is uh inerrant, I'm sure. Nevertheless I'll I'll sh if if it matters, I'll share it later, you know, but right now I'm enjoying the debate between you guys. That'll keep em that'll keep em hooked Right? At least Troy knows where he's at. I'm not a hundred percent sure I know exactly where I am. They're gonna say So this is uh they're gonna say Large Don't touch that dial because Troy Skinner's gonna tell me where he stands on inerrancy. That's right. I gotta know. You know, Jace, the fact that you're not sure where you stand, but that it doesn't bother you, or does it bother you? Um Uh well the the questions that we were dealing with before, these little questions of inerrancy don't bother me a lot, but I'm guessing we're gonna get into some bigger areas that actually that actually provide quite a lot of angst for me, yeah. In in terms of the inerrancy or in terms of In terms of the quest the bigger question, what the Bible is. What it you know the question of um What it's trying to accomplish and how much of it I need to uh w I I know we're gonna get into these questions, it's probably not not the right day for this, but you know, i is this a constitution that I must live by? Or is this perhaps a It is the sum total of your New Year's resolutions. Okay. So yes, you would say it's a constitution of some sorts. It's something that morally I must live by and story-wise, or is it something that's a library of varying views on God and expectations for this life? Is there one theology or are there theologies, James Barr used to ask? There's no such thing as a theology, just as there's not A gospel. There's a gospel. Right, right. But the reason for theology means the study of God. So of course there's many studies of God because that's inherently human. We're studying who God is. So there's going to be many theologies, but in terms of uh whether or not there's an absolute God who works things out in a specific way, there's there is the absolute. Certainly perspective wise, you know, we're going to study him and and we'll uh move in and out of certain understanding. Is it possible that there is an absolute God, which I'm hundred percent with you on, but not an absolute record of him revealed in scripture. That is that there are different views of God that even, and I'm not necessarily arguing for this, I'm throwing this out as a conversation. As a scholar. As a scholar, yeah. And that what we're supposed to do is to continue the conversation, Brian McLaren likes to say, the um, you know, the whole emerging church movement. We're just part of a journey and scripture has begun it. And in some sense ended it. I don't I don't want to say that it's you know that that was irrelevant and now we can just move and now we can join Mormonism or whatever else adds on to that. It it's ended it. But It's it's not designed in order to give us the final answer about everything. He brought up Brian McLaren saying that's clearly gonna be. In the middle of of talking about these big things. Bang the sun you know, it sounds like this. Right? Is that irritating when it comes across the uh computer? Now, uh not everybody in the world knows who Brian McLaren is. I don't know if anybody needs to. I I mean I can name other people. Right, but what's important about different from the life Right. What's important about that name is kind of the movement that he kind of has become the face of, right, which is this emergent emerging church uh kind of thing, which it's Postmodern, I think that they're not the evangelical world in postmoderns. I think they would say that they were approached to scripture and to see the study study of power and the study of God and and trying to interface with the culture, you know, so they can understand the the gospel is that they need to figure out how to grapple with it in postmodern ways. I don't right? I think that's kind of I don't think I think it's unfair to say that they have a postmodern gospel. I think I I I I'm not fans of theirs, by the way, for the record. I I think McLaren um i is wrong in some important ways and I'm not comfortable with the direction he w so this is showing my hand from you know that I wasn't showing before. I will say this. Clearly our understanding of scripture is changing and and uh evolving. That's a scary word, right? But it is evolving over time. Just like two thousand years ago When Jesus arrives on the scene, the people who knew the scriptures back then weren't expecting that kind of Messiah. They knew their scriptures. They knew them inside now. They probably thought they were infallible, you know. And inerrant and all that, but they weren't expecting the kind of Messiah that shows up. And so they were surprised. And so then we have a whole bunch of additional books of the Bible written to in the New Testament explaining you know, what Jesus really means and now you look the oh now I get it. So I think when we get to heaven we're gonna look at things that we think are true and say, now we're gonna get to heaven and God's gonna say, Yeah, you weren't exactly right there But that doesn't mean that the Bible was wrong. It means that my understanding and how I approached it was wrong. So I am an inerrantist. I think that the Bible is is without error. Um in its original autograph. See that's the Okay, well let's go with let's go into that one. So there is two shows right there. Right there's the real cop out answer for me because if what I'm reading now doesn't seem to be accurate, I can say, well Somebody must have had a transcription error somewhere along the way. The original autograph, the original version, as it was written by the hand of Moses himself, did not say that rabbits chew their cud Somebody later got that wrong. It's not Moses. And for me right and for me to s to maintain a s uh a steadfast cognitive not to have cognitive dissidence, to have a uh to be cognitively sane in my faith is to say the Bible has to it must be true. I must understand it all to be true, because if I can say, well this part that's not right And this part over there, that's not right. And this part over there, that's not factual. And that's inaccurate. And that's if I can't report Luke, for example, if I can't ex if I can't respect as true Luke's um reporting of history. Then how can I you know if he got the governor wrong, then how can I b expect how should I be expected and how should he let me back up, how can I expect anyone else to accept his teaching on history when it comes to the life of Jesus. Well that that's the question. Why does it that you have to accept his teaching of Jesus I'm w w we're coming at this with a presupposition that scripture is a constitution, that it is inspired. And I'm not necessarily disagreeing with you again, I'm just trying to Um ask the scholarly question. How do I know anything about God or Jesus, right? So I have to I have to start somewhere. Okay, so so that's where you choose to start. And you choose to start with sixty-six books instead of seventy-nine Catholic books or including the Pseudopigrapha or any other what what is it that makes you connected to those? And by the way, a particular version in the year two thousand eleven instead of autographa. And why is it that God didn't give us the autography? It was so important that it was inerrant and that it was infallible. And God has the ability to deliver that to us. Why do we have four billion different textual manuscript streams? I mean, y it's not like, oh well, we've got, you know, two different variants here and we can just narrow it down to one. There's thousands. Yeah, but those thousands uh have have minor textual differences, but they don't have m any kind of major differences. Well, th this is not the question. The question is one of inerrancy. If we're dealing with inerrancy, but you're building verbal plenary inspiration. There there's these major, you know, options and and different ways to go and and that would be. There are questions like the whole entire end of Mark. Um, does that exist or not? Do you consider that major or minor? I think it ends the whole scripture in a very different way, whether you consider that to be valuable. Is is major only things that deal with salvation Because okay, in that case, yeah, I I probably agree with you, but is that the only relevant thing in all of Scripture? You know, does does Jesus s sweat drops of blood? Um well, you know, if you if you read that in the chiasm form that it actually is in there, uh that's probably not there originally. And if you look at the oldest manuscripts and lots of other questions, there's also meaning not there originally, meaning like it was added later by somebody else. And is that okay? Is it okay for someone to add things later? Is redaction okay? Why I would I would find it all right. Well what do you do with the p with the phrase that scripture is like twenty different things. Because that's usually God breathing it into existence. God doesn't make mistakes. So fallibility. We dealt with that last week and I'm I'm on board. God doesn't make mistakes. In what it is he's trying to get across. The question is, does God care about these little details or is he trying to get across a bigger picture? Then how would we know what it is he cares about and what it is he doesn't care about? And it's more than hermeneutics. It's yeah, it's the divine sense to some degree. It's dealing with the Holy Spirit, prayer. Um I know is this. Uh when w a major key to to believing Jesus when he was on the earth, according to John, was that if you believed Moses you would believe Jesus. That's uh that's that's how Jesus put it. Because you guys don't believe Moses, but instead you've substituted the traditions of men. Instead of Moses, uh that's why you don't believe me. And he's very clear about that. And so it seems to me like how we handle Moses, the first of the Bible uh is key to whether or not when Christ shows up on the scene we'll be like, that's Christ. Now now did the apostles get everything right? No, they didn't get everything right. There are certain parts that they had wrong, but they got it that this was Jesus. Right. The apostles thought that he was going to come. Certain parts that got wrong. You mean in in their general walking round? You mean the apostles, not the Bible. Gotcha. The apostles, yeah. Gotcha. But what they wrote down they didn't get wrong. The apostles are at least you're not saying that You're right. Okay. Meaning when they went to write scripture they got it right, but when they were walking with Jesus, they were expecting Jesus to do certain things. and they were wrong about Jesus doing those things while they were on the earth. But their being wrong was not wrong in the sense of of um missing what Moses was all about. They got Moses. You know, whatever it was about Moses that they needed to get, they got it. And so when Christ came along, they saw Christ and they're like, He's the one. We're following him. We're giving up everything to follow him. And once they opened their hearts in that way, then then they received whatever it is that he had to give them. And so something like that. Do you think that's because they were following because they understood Moses? That they began to follow Jesus? I'm saying that Jesus is the one that gives that algorithm, spiritual algorithm, that faith algorithm, that is very key. He says, If you believe Moses, you will believe me, but because you don't believe Moses You don't believe me. And uh in in particular he was speaking to the Pharisees and Sadducees when he said that and he was contrasting it against the traditions of men. So that leaves us with the impression that, just like you were saying that the traditions of men, the scholars of the of the day that were studying scripture and were interpreting it for us was precisely where people got led astray. The traditions of men got substituted for what Scripture said itself. And there's a whole bunch of places where Jesus recognized that th this was a problem. And so it seems to me that that that um that linchpin has gotta be kept in place. We have to we have to be very clear about how we treat Moses because because the the the i and and I'll tell you one way that it plays out. Those people that grow up in Christ that walk away from the Lord while they're in college, a study was done. The number one reason there was a bunch of reasons that they gave But the top answer, the number one reason, was, well, if you can't trust Genesis one, what can you trust? That that was the number one biggest vote getter for those that had left their faith. that somewhere along the way they were taught that, well, you can't really trust Genesis one. And so because you you know, it it's really just the first verse? In the beginning God created. Meaning the whole chapter. If you can't believe Genesis one, then how can you believe the whole rest of the Bible? I think that's because evangelicals have done a disservice to our children. by telling them certain things that must be understood about Genesis 1. And so when they get to college and professors go, Yeah, but what about this, this, this, and this, then they realize, wait, everything I learned in church was a lie. And now these people are telling me the truth, or they think that, maybe they don't realize that, but they think that. When all along we could have been raising them to see that yes these professors have valid points and that doesn't scare me away from scripture. And I'm not done with scripture because the study showed was that those are the ones, the ones that you just described. the ones that were given a moder moderated view of Genesis one, those are the ones that are losing their faith in greater numbers. Well what's a modest uh No moderated faith. You don't have to view it in terms of of, you know, it it was just seven days, but you can view it in a more poetic kind of a way and and uh and it leaves a lot of room open for various things. But the reality is that uh is that that's precisely the way that when it was taught that the kids were most likely to walk away from the followers. I'd have to see the stats on that because I don't like when people quote stats but they Sure. The one not happy with the stats is uh Dr. James Broadhurst, senior pastor of Pooh. Figures don't lie, but liars can figure. The one lying about figures is uh Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crosshurst Why Chaplain Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Uh a real quick little rabbit trail. Just to kind of s just to set the the context of the chilling of the stud. Sorry, go ahead. But no but because it it ties to this, all right We'll see. Genesis one is understood different ways by different scholars even within the evangelical world because of understanding different sorts of literary genre, right? So what there are dozens, I guess, of genres of of literature in the Bible. What are There's there's poetry, there's history, there's law, there's w I mean what what are some of them? Wisdom, parable, contracts, covenants, um songs, apocalyptic Gospel, if you want to call it that, gospels. Um even in Inwinton's songs you've got recreated songs or m or made up songs uh from the past or from the future. You might even argue for myth, legend, fable maybe, I don't know. Depends on who you are. So that that fits into the fable genre. I'm not necessarily arguing that that's fable. See, because that makes that makes a difference to me if if if if somebody looks at Genesis one, And says this is history, then yeah, you've got to understand it a certain way. It's historical, right? But if somebody else says it's not history, it's not meant to be taken in a historical sense, it's poetry. We don't understand poetry the same way we understand history, right? Nor should we, I would argue. You're using metaphor and analogy and and word pictures and so I'm finding myself I'm I'm finding myself moved in the direction of of taking uh Genesis one uh uh literally all right and the reason one of the biggest reasons for that is that the core of the gospel Is that the wages of sin is death. And the core of the gospel is that in Adam all men sinned. And that previous to sin That's not Genesis one, though, that's Genesis three. Well, but follow this. Okay. Previous to Adam sinning If Genesis 1 was thousands of years or billions of years, then there was all kinds of death before Adam ever sinned. And if that's the case, then look the heart of the gospel is at stake as to whether or not death came with Adam, or whether or not death was there before Adam ever came on the scene. You talk about death at the cellular level or death at the uh being level? I'm t that is precisely the question. What is the death that is referred to? Because if there are animals, only the strong survive in an evolutionary worldview, that for billions of years are killing each other off One after another. We're we're giving the impression that the lion laid down with the lamb, that there was no um uh you know, that that the little child put his hand in the viper's nest. You know, that the world's gonna be restored to this one day, which gives us the impression that that's how God created it originally. That's what all the pictures, you know, when people paint pictures of the garden, they were all there together. They were talking with the serpent, you know, he wasn't viewed as an enemy. By the way though, those pictures you might not know, but those pictures are not photographs Well they weren't Photoshopped, I can tell you that. So but but anyways you get my point. The point is is that is that if it was paradise And there was all this peace, then then it an evolutionary mindset, as science would tell us that it is today, is is something that has major theological implications. For the gospel of Jesus Christ. It strikes at the heart of the gospel. And all I'm saying is that if we're going to start playing with Moses, we need to recognize that that is a linchpin that can derail people's faiths uh uh people's faith and that has derailed people's faith ever since the enlightenment. Maybe maybe uh we could argue all the way back to Christ and beyond. So granted, this is a slippery slope. that might destroy people's faith. The question is, do we continue to talk about it or not? Because I agree with you. I mean when we get to this point what we're dealing with is something that that could be gospel shattering for some people. Especially if we're only doing a twenty two minute show and we've got to somehow deal with issues that are that are all encompassing to the other. But I don't feel so uncomfortable going there because my conclusions are such that that I don't think I wouldn't be uncomfortable with anybody in my congregation hearing. And and that's what Paul said. You know, we're not Gnostic where, you know, if you if you if you you know grow to higher levels of of understanding you can you can handle, you know, greater what y you know um uh sin or I don't know that you're arguing that. Um that that argument probably probably isn't so I don't I don't I don't want to call you Gnostic. I just want to I just want to warn us away from feeling like we have to hide our thoughts. Paul said, you know, that that I I uh interacted with you in a transparent kind of a way. And if if our thoughts on these things are thoughts that somehow we need to hide behind, you know, some kind of a shelter, then I've got great concern. about them whatsoever, you know? I I think I think if we can't openly discuss these things where even the youngest can hear it without their faith being shattered, then then there's a problem and maybe that's you know, maybe that's the wrong way to run a church, but that's that's how I feel like I've I've tried to Well there are there are certainly going to be weak people in the world, different at different levels uh that you I mean I'm guessing in the amount of study that you do, or at least I'm assuming and hoping to some degree, that you don't share everything that that you learn. And that might be. Okay. Well, I share it in the context of sermon. I get about forty minutes. I spent about twenty minutes on a sermon. I mean twenty hours on a sermon. I preached for about forty minutes. Okay, so so the big picture for them. I'm trying to give them what's the takeaway of that. I'm not going to deal with every ancient Near Eastern text and how it how it works with Genesis 1, 2, and 3. I mean y you you said this earlier. Well if i if if Moses is the important thing, I would say w Moses Moses who? Moses the author of the five books as they stand that you understand as them today? Or those books that came along uh that that are the predecessors to that, proto-Moses' books. I mean, we're talking about text critical issues, but I feel like we're just we're dancing over with this understanding that there is some kind of a text that we can just hold on to. There's no sacred text that's been handed out of the sky from God that we have. We have an NIV. I mean we've got a King James and if we're really brilliant we're using the R S V, one of those liberal versions, and ESV together, super conservative. But but I mean I'm guessing here even we're not spending tons of time in Greek. But even if we were reading Greek or Hebrew, if we're talking about Genesis. We're still dealing with thousands of different things. We're dealing with redactions over centuries, over millennia probably. Um redaction word of the week. Nevertheless, big word for editing. I guess this is the point. And it changes the stories, by the way. Is that Christ gives the impression that when he was on the earth, okay, whatever it is that you think he means by Moses, uh, he says, if you believed Moses You'll believe me. Right. But did he mean that do he's giving from Genesis one all the way through the end of Deuteronomy, you must believe all of those things as historical facts in order to believe me? He's giving the impression that how we treat Moses affects how we treat him. Okay. And Moses was understood to be a divine king of some sorts, a prophet beyond any other man. Not even a mere mortal person. Okay. Yeah. I would say the greatest of the prophets. Which is why he goes back to Moses. Okay. So so we're not dealing with questions of Bible here. We're dealing with questions of who Moses was. Right? Is that what you're saying? Alright now I'm just wishing my mom named me Moses because then everybody would have to believe me. Yeah, I I I would argue that he was saying if you believe Moses Which was the the Moses that they had to read in their day and age, if they believed Moses instead of the human tradition Okay, so step two a gentle version of Moses. Alright, step to a gentle will be next week's word of the week. I'm gonna wrap up with Frederick Faith Debate on Friday News Radio, nine thirty WFMB. Jonathan Swipes are senior pastor across Israelite Chapel and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Thanks to Putman Plumbing and Heating and Deer Valley Heartscape, Landscape, and Masonry for sponsoring our show. Till next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?