Here's some fancy words for you. We affirm that Scripture communicates God's truth to us verbally through a wide variety of literary forms We deny that any of the limits of human language render scripture inadequate to convey God's message. Like that one? How about this one? We affirm that translations of the text of Scripture can communicate knowledge of God across all temporal and cultural boundaries. We deny that the meaning of biblical text is so tied to the culture out of which they came that understanding of the same meaning in other cultures is impossible. What the heck was all that? Those were articles ten and eleven of the uh nineteen eighty-two document called the Chicago Statement on Biblical Hermeneutics. That's right, last name Nudic. First name, Herman. He wrote a statement back in nineteen eighty-two. And we are talking about it here on the Faith Debate. I am uh apparently much amusing David Forcy. Uh he's pastor of the church uh south of Frederick. North of Frederick, you've got Imran Razby and Daniel Razby, pastor a church there, and I pastor a church pretty much dead center in Frederick. My church is called Household of Faith in Christ You can find me and my contact information. Therefore, meet reach out to all these guys if you need to or want to through that website as householdoffaith in Christ. com If you want to go straight to the Razdies website, they have one. It's called uh Conquered by Love Ministries and their website is conquered by Love. org. So we've spent a few weeks talking about the Chicago State Mo on in Aaron Sieve in the nineteen seventies and then we got in our DeLoreans last week and we we motored on at eighty eight miles an hour to nineteen eighty-two and and uh met Mr. Nudics. Uh Herman to his friends. So hermeneutics fancy term for interpretation, basically principles of how to uh understand uh what's written in the Bible kind of thing. And so we went through the first nine articles in this statement last week and I just read the The the next two, Articles ten and eleven, is talking about um the variety of l l literary forms. Couple of weeks ago when we were talking about inerrancy, I think David Forcy uh brought that up. He mentioned that some of the Bible is poetry, some of it's history. Um I can't remember what other examples you gave. You gave those two, and you might have given a couple more. But there's there's legal code, there's genealogy, uh there's um apocalyptic. There's gospel, which I uh I I view as a separate literary genre all its so all its own. There's epistle. I mean there's all these different kinds of literary forms, and it's all still the word of God. But and I don't think anybody really argues that. The problem though is misunderstanding that that's true when you're trying to interpret scripture. You shouldn't interpret a historical passage as though it's poetry. Or vice versa for that matter. Some of them are um Different literary forms. And so you need to recognize that that's the truth, right? We all I think we all get that. Is there anything in the next one, uh Article eleven you wanted to talk about? Yes. In fact, I am not gonna disagree with it, but it's it it's not quite the way I would have worded it. Um especially the second part says Uh well, first part we affirm the translations of the text can communicate knowledge of God across all temporal and cultural boundaries, so it does it can be translated so that other people understand it. We deny that the meaning of biblical texts is so tied to the culture out of which they came that understanding of the same meaning in other cultures is impossible. No, I wouldn't say it's impossible, but It is extremely tied to the culture out of which it came. God has given the word with a specific people to a specific people group that was that has their own distinct culture that still exists today. that I think is extremely helpful in understanding what the meaning is. Not to say that it's impossible uh to understand it in any case, but that it is r uh v I would say necessary to fully understand it is to understand the culture to which It was written. Yeah, and I don't know that the authors of this would disagree with that. I think that's and that's what I said. I don't necessarily disagree with B that that's true. The other cultures can still understand it. Yes. Right. But it's important to d to view it through the lens of the Jewish people and th and their culture. And I'm assuming I to be honest, um I I'm not sure where it's coming up, but I'm sure they're gonna be talking about that. And this reminds me of uh the Peace Child, I don't know if you're familiar with that. Um, you know, th the culture just felt that hey, um, Judas was a hero 'cause he was able to betray somebody and that was their culture. And so yes, culture does matter. And so we had to they had to explain well Jesus was the peace child. You can't betray the peace child. And then they understood what the Bible was trying to say. So culture does have a strong meaning and as Jan said it's not that it's impossible but it i it should be culturally appropriate. You need to look at the culture. I think practically why this is an important thing and why it's, you know, made it at number eleven here on their list is Too often the habit is the culture isn't going to understand this word, so we have to change what the scriptures say. to meet the culture. Right. And they're saying, No, the scripture can meet the culture as it is. You don't have to change it. You shouldn't change it. You know, God forbid you change it. Uh that's the next sentence, right? We affirm in the next article, Article Twelve, we affirm that in the task of translating the Bible and teaching it in the context of each culture Only those functional equivalents which are faithful to the content of biblical teaching should be employed. We deny the legitimacy of any methods or an of methods which are either insensitive to the demands of cul cross-cultural communication or distort biblical meaning in the process. There's a really good example of this. Which it's in of the opposite of what Raz was saying about the peace child. There's another missionary story. Um I think Buchko is is the name. And I I I do disagree with this this man's uh process he came across this culture who um likes to uh uh uh you know li likes to eat pigs for example and so he would translate that the pig is a healthy animal i in the old time Well you can disagree on whether you Christians should eat pig or not. But that's not what God said in the in the Old Testament, right? So you can't just change it because the culture likes eating this. And then the the other one was well, he was reading the wise man builds his house upon the rock and the foolish man builds his house upon the sand And the villagers told him, No, no, no, no, sand is stronger, you should put it deep into the sand. If you put on the rock it'll flood and and and wash away because in in their topography of that uh climate where they are, that was a true statement that they were saying. So he just changed the translation of the Bible to say the wise man builds his house on the sand. And that's it I think what this uh statement is trying to say. No, you can't do that. Just because there i you know, you c y you can take a little bit of liberty in in translating a figure of speech, for example, but It still needs to say what God originally said in the context of which he said it. Um and so then you just need to educate the people, say no, what where God is talking about in that climate there It really would be a foolish thing to build your house on the sand and you're just gonna have to take my word for it. It's kinda like translating things about snow and uh if somebody who's never seen snow, well you could explain what snow is. And I think that's very important. Yeah. Okay. I don't have anything else to add to that. David? Raz? No? All right. Article thirteen. We affirm that awareness of the literary categories, formal and stylistic of the various parts of scripture is essential for proper exegesis and hence We value genre criticism as one of the many disciplines of biblical study. We deny that generic categories which negate historicity may rightly be imposed on biblical narratives which present themselves as factual. Um yeah, uh these uh generic categories negating the historicity, basically this would be those that are saying it's all a mess. Right? It's it's it's no different than all the other myths that are out there. It's religious literature. What do you expect? And they're saying, No. If they're saying it's factual, then we have to treat it as though it's factual, that's right. Mm-hmm. So we have nothing to add there So far we're not arguing about these at all. Other than wanted to clarify in Article eleven a little bit. Article fourteen We affirm that the biblical record of events, discourses, and sayings, though presented in a variety of appropriate literary forms, corresponds to historical fact. We deny that any event, discourse or saying reported in Scripture, was invented by the biblical writers or by the traditions they incorporated. This is probably a little bit more of the same, uh uh uh said differently from the previous one, the way I'm understanding. Well if they're not saying they're not making it up. So even in passages where it's not like a written like a history book, it may speak to a historical fact which didn't did really happen. It's not you know, just you know it if it's a no by the way, like you could read some passage in a poetry book and i um in fact that's Um a a good ex great great example of that is in Psalms where it says there's paths of the seas and it sounds very poetic and all that, but some guy reading that is the one who discovered the ocean currents 'cause he's like, Well God said there's paths in the seas, maybe they really are and there actually were. Um so just because that psalm wasn't a historical passage or a or a scientific textbook doesn't mean that when it speaks on science, it wa it's true. I think it's talking specific about uh events though, right, in this particular article, recorded events, historical events that are reported as this is what happened, this is the sequence of things that happened Names of people and places. Yeah. And dialogue and what so and so said to the other person. Oh that. Alright. Article fifteen. We have we should get like uh a little like a announcer voice with all sorts of bells and voice old fifteen, fifteen, fifteen. We affirm the necessity of interpreting the Bible according to its literal or normal sense The literal sense is the grammatical historical sense, that is the meaning which the writer expressed Interpretation according to the literal sense will take account of all figures of speech and literary forms found in the text. We deny the legitimacy of any approach to scripture that attributes to it meaning which the literal sense does not support. Everything I would have to say about this I said a couple of shows ago. So I have nothing more to add. You basically said that word for word last last time. So yeah, I I think I agree with that. Alright, Article 16. We affirm that legitimate critical techniques should be used in determining the canonical text and its meaning. We deny the legit the legitimacy of allowing any method of biblical criticism to question the truth or integrity of the writer's expressed meaning or of any other scriptural teaching. This this is almost like inside baseball, I think, because they got people in in academia saying you guys you you don't you apply any sort of critique or critical method to understanding the and they're like, no no, we do. Just not the way you guys do, because the way you guys do is wrong Right. Well they're saying you you can look through logically to figure out whether it means what you think it means, but that's different than coming at it with a with a Chisel of trying to kip away at at the meaning of the text. I think we're up to seventeen, right? Yep. We're going through these faster. I think we we already covered so much accidentally covered some of this ground in the previous shows that we don't have to talk about this as much. We affirmed the unity, harmony, and consistency of scripture and declare that it is its own best interpreter. We deny that Scripture may be interpreted in such a way as to suggest that one passage corrects or militates against another. We deny that later writers of Scripture misinterpreted earlier passages of Scripture when quoting from or referring them. That's um that last statement like um the virgin birth is an example, talking about You know, Matthew says that oh the virgin will give birth and they're saying ah he's paying playing fast and loose because virgin in the Old Testament it could have been just young woman and Well, first of all, there's all sorts of textual analysis there that would militate uh mitigate or militate or whatever were there against that. But let's just say, for the sake of argument, okay, fine Matthew wasn't changing the meaning, he was choosing one of two possible meanings at the very least and using it as context. And and clarifying that that's actually what the meaning was. Yeah in case there was any doubt. So because Matthew said it, we know that that's what the meaning was. And this is important too because there are a lot of people that I you know seems of late. I don't know why, I'm not sure what's in the water. Maybe I'm just traveling in slightly different circles than I used to. People who want to insist on something Uh I think maybe it has to do with I don't know if you know the Michael Heiser. But Michael Heiser's a big academic guy. He's written some books and he's pretty controversial, I would argue pretty heretical. And I think his influence maybe, but he wants to take like a a text from I don't know uh Exodus, let's say, and you're not allowed to understand what it says in Exodus based on what we know from the New Testament. We can only examine Exodus in the context of Exodus. Oh yeah I think it's absolutely you can put yourself in the shoes of the people who first heard Exodus and see if you can figure out some things. And then you read the it's kinda like reading the uh reading the answer book No, I agree that I agree that it should be done. But I disagree that that's all that should be done. Right. And I think that's what this article is making sure to make the point that the you know uh you y you can use the New Testament uh you should uh use the New Testament to understand what we call the Old Testament. It's the one same God who wrote the whole thing. So uh where I leave off. Eighteen? How much time we got here? We got we're halfway about through this show, a little more than halfway through. We affirm that the Bible's own interpretation of itself is always correct, never deviating from, but rather elucidating the single meaning of the inspired text. The single meaning of a prophet's words includes, but is not restricted to the understanding of those words by the prophet and necessarily involves the intention of God evidenced in the fulfillment of those words. Some of these articles are easier to hear and understand. Some of them almost have to read them to understand what they're saying. This might be one of them. The denial here is we deny that the writers of scripture always understood the full implications of their own words. Uh I I will say we we don't really know for sure whether they did or not, but they don't have to have understood the full implications of their words in order for it to be scripture. Yeah, I would I think that we can know with well, the writers. Yeah, the writ the the writers of scripture always understands. Yeah. I mean so you think about prophets in the Old Testament, did they always understand everything? you know, that would that their words were saying would come to pass. You know, I not necessarily. Yeah. I I think I think that we know that they certainly had a uh a vague idea, right, of the Messiah and what the Messiah would be like and do and but uh Yeah, that's a whole interesting study by the way. If you want to do a really, really deep like uh um particular kind of a study, you can see if if if you are open-minded about it, you can see ample evidence in the uh what we call the Old Testament scriptures, the Hebrew scriptures of indicators that are pointing to the the Trinity, knowing what we know to be true about the Trinity and shining that light on it, you can see it recurringly throughout the pages of the Old Testament. But did the people who wrote it understand the Trinity? I'm gonna guess they probably didn't, but I don't know. Maybe maybe those particular individuals were given a special insight so that they would know. I think there was maybe a lot more understanding than you might think. I mean just look at Job says, Oh, I know my Redeemer liveth and he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth like okay, well that's a pretty clear indication that he had had a good idea of who Jesus was or is. Um so it wasn't just that they were looking forward to some future day when everything would become clear. I think godly men were Well did have some understanding. But yeah, the full implications? I mean we even now having the full implications. We don't even have the full implications, right? Well much fuller, but there are certain I mean we're not God. We are always going to be finite. There's only there's going to be some limitation on what we can know and understand. I think what they're trying to say is that I if you if you're gonna say that they have to have understood everything and if they didn't, then it i i it wasn't really God speaking them. No, God doesn't just give the entire plan. It's a need to know basis. So they may or may not have understood that that's kind of irrelevant to whether the scripture is inerrant. Well, if the author doesn't even know what he's talking about, then we can't trust it because he didn't know what he's talking about. But we have to understand that the human author isn't merely the author. God is the author. Right? So God knows God knows the full implication. And and and just just like a general may give an order to a corporal and the corporal doesn't understand the order, but he has to relay the orders word for word It's still in order. Yeah. Uh uh the I don't think I read nineteen yet, right? We just did eighteen? No. So nineteen, we affirm that any pre understandings which the interpreter brings to Scripture should be in harmony with scriptural teaching and subject to correction by it. We've kind of touched on this already a little bit in the last few shows. We deny that scripture should be required to fit alien pre-understandings inconsistent with itself, such as naturalism, evolutionism, we've talked about that, scientism, secular humanism, and relativism. All of those are problems today in the world, right? Not much has changed since 1982. It's only gotten worse actually. Naturalism, evolutionism, scientism, particularly scientism. Uh secular humanism and relativism. Everything's relative. Mm-hmm. No absolute truth at all. Yeah, yeah. Part of what this is saying in essence this article is that uh right scripture is not subject to something outside of itself. It stands alone and above And everything else is subject to it. Right. Yeah. Yeah, it's fine to have a s a a science understanding. Right? But we don't read the Bible through a scientific grid. We look at science through a biblical grid That's that's the difference. Article ten uh twenty. Double X do S Dose Right, that's a beer brand, I think. We affirm that since God is the author of all truth they're not a sponsor of the show, by the way. Uh all truths, biblical and extra biblical, are consistent and cohere. And also affirm that the Bible speaks truth when it touches on matters pertaining to nature, history, or anything else. We affirm, further affirm that in some cases extra biblical data have value for clarifying what scripture teaches and for pr uh prompting correction of faulty interpretations. We deny that extra biblical views ever disprove the teaching of Scripture or hold priority over it. Yeah, and we kind of talked about some of this already, but talk about the the other aspects. Well the further affirm is a little bit dangerous, right? We affirm that in some cases extra biblical data have value for clarifying what scripture teaches. Okay, and for promoting correction of faulty interpretations. You can, if you're not careful, you can take that and run with it to an extreme That's a problem. And a lot of textbooks in most seminaries these days really take that to the extreme. They say, Well, this other extra biblical source disproves it. Well they're very clear. They say you can never disprove the teaching of scripture or hold priority over it So prescription is always the most important. That doesn't mean there isn't any other and and and you see this in in Romans, right? Uh Paul says that The Gentiles who have not the law uh know by nature what what the law is. They have it written in their i you know in their hearts. So you can tell things about God f just by looking around you without scripture, and that is helpful Um but scripture is still the most important and prior. Um correcting faulty interpretations I I think I have a little bit of a problem with They might have had like Galileo in mind or something. Galileo was correct. Right, but th a lot of people in the church were teaching the centrality of uh everything revolving around Earth. Which it does. Oh relative to where you stand. Wasn't that Galileo's view? Galileo was the heliocentric model and the uh supposedly other people believed in the geocentric model. They're both true actually, uh from a from a relative uh standpoint, depending on where you stand. We had this discussion a few years ago. Um but but the you yeah, they may have had some things in here in mind But it's a dangerous road to go down to say that you could correct a faulty interpretation based on some other observation of the world. A and I I I don't think that's a good place to be I I I'm I'm not sure if I agree because you have false interpretation, okay? The earth is flat, that's false interpretation. But then you get other uh d uh information and you realize that's a false that's a false interpretation. And that other information may be from extra biblical sources, but now you know that that interpretation was false. So that's what this is talking about. That you could have a false interpretation, but as information comes up w it may not be biblical, but it as it comes up It it doesn't change the Bible, but the interpretation that was faulty can be corrected. And the is and and that new information isn't correcting scripture, right. It's correcting our understanding that oh, because we're all Uh yeah. We're all uh victims of is what I want to say, of our surrounding culture, right? We all have influences on us because we're Yeah, th the the the fish doesn't realize it's swimming in polluted waters because that's all it knows. We're swimming in polluted waters all the time and it's having an effect on us. And then if you happen to get into a stream of water that's cleaner And so you have new information. Oh, I realize I need to m my vision was clouded before. It's not as clouded now. I have a clearer understanding. Maybe a good example is the eye the eel thing. The camel going through the eye of the needle. Right. If you read that and you don't know what that means, you might think that he was talking about an actual needle, which would mean that it's impossible for a Mishmaya to be saved. But we know there are rich men that were save rich men that were saved, so it's not that i you know, th that's the case. There seems to be a a a a s spot in the wall, a passage that was called the eye of the eagle. Or or maybe it's just A figure of speech, possibly. But uh uh uh you could have originally had that interpretation that it's a literal needle. And in that case, you know, I think that's a faulty interpretation. Um Well I think where we where we are now, we've got like um like a minute or so left um uh in the show, so we're gonna wrap up or stop with Article 20. So we'll do the rest in our our next show. Um and there's actually uh some really interesting statements in their exposition section on this uh uh on this. And uh uh there's pieces of that that we might touch upon So we're going to do at least one more, maybe maybe a couple of more episodes of the Faith Debate on this statement. And then they've got a statement on application. that might be maybe might whip through that more quickly because we've we've covered a lot of common ground, but we'll probably touch on that too and f put all of these Chicago statements behind us. I know that this can be a little heady and academic for some compared to some of the things that we do on this show, but we've been academic and heady in the past on this show uh as well. We we try to be a little bit of everything for all people in in different seasons So if this is heavier lifting, hopefully it's been a of benefit to you. And if you appreciate this heavy lifting, I can't promise we're gonna be heavy lifting all the time. Sometimes we're silly and goofy and talk about things that are relevant to the news around us and those sorts of things too. So uh anyway Thank you, gentlemen, for uh making another nice uh series of shows. Uh David Forcy, Daniel Razby, Imran Razby. Find the Razvies at conquered by love. org. Find me, Troy Skinner, at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Till next week. God bless