Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock. County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Sponsored by Putman Flumbing and Heating, Half We Make You Smile. BMC Insurance, proud supporters of New Life Christian School And cruise holidays gladly sending Bob Miller on a long getaway trip to the Bahamas. We can't wait till he's gone. You can tell him I said so. He appreciates that about me. No, I love Bob. He's a good We're actually taking an offering from everybody watching this show to send Troy and I and our wives on that cruise too. What do you guys think? But if everybody who's watching the show sends it, we won't get a nickel. It's a radio show. And everybody listening just turned off the radio. After nine years you think Donovan would know it's a radio program. Um anyway. Which by the way, you've your wife dressed you all today, I'm just saying. Well you're doing everything out of order. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. And um used to be chapel, I'm still getting used to that. Yes. And we're joined this week by Angela Phillips back for round two. She's director of development at New Life Christian School, which is proudly supported by BMC Insurance. That's right. And I want to encourage you to go online. You can visit us out online right now, later today, tomorrow, dozens of times. It just don't do it while you're driving. It is one of the most popular landing pages in all of Frederick. The Frederick Fate debate page. It really is. Exactly. We have like twenty-seven thousand people visiting the website page or something. That's some astronomical number. Which is weird because we only have like three listeners Maybe for maybe for pages they're taking a lot of time. No, no, no, these are unique leaving the page going back to the page. Now I am unique, I will admit that, but going back to the page. But they're a different kind of unique, unique visitors. Anyway, so visit there and you can email me. You'll find links and all sorts of stuff. You'll find links to podcasts of uh this and other shows like it. And you'll find there the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. It doesn't have to necessarily be a faith matter, although I do prefer those. But I get political commentary, uh house cleaning tips, how to sell your home. how to be a better, you know, mortgage lender. I don't know. I mean I get really bizarre things and I throw 'em up there. What uh hey, you think of me enough to send me your email I'm gonna put it up there. Great. Now we're gonna get all these companies trying to advertise their stuff. If it's a blatant advertisement, you know, I'll call you and say, Hey, would you like advice from everybody? Be warned. He's good at what he does. Anyway, we are talking about uh education uh slash Christian education, Christian education in the sense of What should Christians think about education? What should Christian parents do about education? Okay. And we kind of laid the groundwork last week about Jonathan's various perspectives through life on education, mine, Angela's, whatever. And we talked in general um senses about homeschooling and private schooling and religious private schooling and public schooling and Higher education, secular versus religious, whatever. We've touched on all of those. Now we're going to drill down a little deeper on some of those specif um some of those areas more specifically. Okay. So this week, homeschooling. Okay. I've met some homeschooling kids. And oftentimes you can't tell. But oftentimes you walk away saying I wonder if that's a homeschool kid. And then you find out later that they are. And you know what I'm talking about. There's almost like this uh social immaturity. You meet somebody who's homeschooled and they're twelve and you're convinced they're nine. Until later on you realize they're 12, and you're like, oh, they must be homeschooled, and sure enough they are. And there's enough of that that makes you wonder Is that just what happens with homeschooling? Has that homeschooling gone bad? Am I just exaggerating a couple of anecdotal moments in my life to make that somewhat normative? No, there was that perspective, but that was like back in the nineties. No, there's still that Stigma. Right, but the stigma is only there because it was there back in the nineties, but it was this this argument that people threw at homeschoolers to somehow claim that, you know, this is why you shouldn't homeschool and it just didn't stick. I mean most homeschoolers are better able to interact with adults than other kids their same age. With all ages. Because they spend so much time around kids of other ages. Whereas most kids that go to public schools can only interact or mostly are really good at only interacting with kids their age and they've been crowd socialized, which basically means they're really good at following the crowd. and not so good at establishing what their own uh values are, what their own convictions are, and living by them. And so uh that stigma is completely unfounded and it's a false stereotype. I'm saying that that there's a different type of socialization going on and that yes it's true that you're probably culturized by what you see, you know, in other kids. And the question is this, tell me one place in your life where you interact with just people your age at your stage of life. It never happens. Once you get out of school, every single interaction that you have everywhere in your life will be with people either older than you or uh more advanced career wise than you are or those that are less so, a few at the same place, but it's going to be super spread out. And so All of our college kids, they get out of college and they hit the real world and all of a sudden they have to learn whole new people skills Now before I turn to Angela and get her her take on on how I set this up, I want to also throw out there that I've met some twelve year olds, and after my interaction, I turn to my wife and I say I'm pretty sure that's a public school child. Sure. They're a little more aggressive or worldly or disrespectful or whatever and you don't typically get that from a homeschool kid. Not that all public school kids are that way. My kids are public school kids, okay But there's a stigma that goes with that too. That's and I hear what you're saying, you're pushing back saying that's not entirely fair to say that. Yeah, and in fact, there are opportunities for homeschoolers out there right now are so many. It's crazy. They play in all the sports that any other kids play in. And they're involved in all kinds of co-ops and group teaching environments where they have an extensive, like very large group of uh of friends that are their age coupled with then, you know, all the other socialization. Let's get Angela's take on Well I guess have I set up a straw man? No, you haven't. I think that I think what you haven't looked at though is that w what do those parents look like? So you're saying that you've met some students who are have a have a look that we are stereotyping as those are the homeschoolers quotation marks around the word. Um, but who are their parents? And so are we then just judging somebody that they've that their children might be twelve and may still be maturity level wise, be nine But again, it's the relationship that they've grown up under and the expectations um as who their parents are Well I'm surprised you said no, because I feel like I set up a straw man. So I'm I'm surprised you said that I didn't set up a straw man. people and you're turning Troy off here. Did anybody give her the memo? This is called the Frederick Faith debate. I I truly I'm calling your husband up to see if you know how to debate. I'm just wanting to know if there's another side here. What could I say to offend you, Angela? Not much. Um I I truly think that We need to look at everybody as an individual and putting that moniker on them of they're the home schooler and therefore some of them are gonna be not socialized well and they're the public school kids so they're therefore they're gonna be disrespectful and way too worldly for their own good. um I think is is unfair. I think that our best place to be is to look at each student for who they are as in the image of God. And I'm sorry so that might sound a little hokey, but I think that not on the Frederick Faith debate it doesn't. I think that it's got a lot of hokey stuff. Not to mention, you know, Troy and me. and say that they're that oddball and therefore they must be a home school student. I I'm sure I think Jonathan, I'm not sure you actually attended any public education, but Troy you and I both attended public education we probably have some memory, maybe it's ourselves, have some memory of that oddball kid in public school. Sure. Absolutely. There are you know, quirky, gangly, you know, out of step socially kids in all stripes. Religious schools, public schools, and home schools, whatever high demand. by colleges precisely because when they get to college they're they're already self motivated learners. And many of these homeschool kids start college like at fifteen years of age similar to what we hear about like George Washington and you know and and uh Abraham Lincoln back in the day because the reality is that We're so concerned about public school socialization that it's just become this big socialization. Now I will say this, it doesn't have to be the education happen. And it's not fair to characterize it as the norm and this big overriding stigma, which is why I do think it was a straw man that I set up. No, you did it well. I mean you got my got me going, you know. Put a little passion out of me. However, I will say that if there's a tendency among the homeschooling community that parents have to be on watch for, I think it's fair to say They need to be extra vigilant in making sure their children have social interaction opportunities with their peers. I'm just so they're not robbed of that. I don't think that's true anymore. two under the age of four in nineteen ninety as well. I've seen the kids, so you know, they're still out there. But it's not overwhelming like it was. But I will also say I've seen the kids that wow, you're twelve? I thought you were eighteen. You're so mature, you're so with it, you're so sharp. And those kids are I think and this is my theory, my own personal theory, I'd be curious to see if you Hearing it cold, you might not have a chance to process it fully, but I'd be curious to hear your take on. I think that one of the problems we have in American culture today is is uh the concept of adolescence, particularly in extended adolescence. Uh i you know, you it used to be back when I was a kid, you know, it used to be that you were a kid A child and then you were an adult. Like there was a moment in time when you were recognized, okay, it's time to time to be a man, son. You know, you just you jumped. And that doesn't really happen. Now it's it's time to be an adolescent and it used to be adolescence was your teen years. Then it was expanded to include the preteen years. Then it was expanded to include the college age years. Now it's extended all the way to You know, at least twenty six 'cause you're still in your parents' health care plan. And come on, the baby boomer generation is retiring constantly. All the way all the way into your early thirties because you may be still living at home with mom in the basement because you're you haven't quite launched. A movie, failure to launch. I mean there's this whole so adolescence now starts at ten and ends at thirty. And there used to be no adolescence, and now there's a twenty year adolescence, and I think homeschoolers don't have an adolescence. I think it's or if they do, it's a much shorter. They go from being a child to being an adult way faster than the typical population. You know, do you need an ad adolescence? But but this is the thing is that I think Freud would say yes, but those who don't like Sigmund Freud probably would mostly say no. Right. Right. So I was gonna say something but I forgot what it was. So I was so pointing. And so the parents think that, therefore their children think that and we're just continuing that belief system that it's all about me. So we have parents who are I and I don't mean this to be generalized, but some parents who are disengaged in that parenting role, therefore they've not they've not poured themselves into the lives of their children. So their children are gonna continue to be children because they've not been parented in a way to know that there's a launch period of time, there's a time when We're we're bringing you up to a place where your independence is what we desire as parents, where we see that as being the best for you. That we didn't we didn't have you as a mom and a dad so that we could continue to take care of you until you're twenty five and then thirty five and a and and I don't mean that to be that we don't want to as parents be there as a support system for those bolder experiences when it's really the heavy, heavy lifting has to be done. But if it's the experience where I I liken it to like pebbles. It's your pebbles that you need to be carried That's your job, son and daughter. You're being raised to be able to do that lifting yourself because those are your roles. Now let me just say this. If you've got that it's all about me attitude, you're clearly wrong because it's all about me. All right, I'm Troy Skinner, this is Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, and we are Graced by the presence of Angela Phillips who is director of development for New Life Christian School and we're talking about school issues. So I have Angela's here. I think the first parents that tend to think to themselves that to themselves that they can homeschool are parents that that are confident in their intellectual capacities. And that's going to tend to be people that are not as outgoing. And so I think it is true that there's a lot of parents of homeschoolers that that the first ones in are ones are are parents who who have that confidence and might have been somewhat nerdy, you know, or more advanced intellectually compared to their peers. Uh even though that doesn't have to be the case. But most parents are bred in our society to think Man, I can't do it. I you know, the public school is that's what the public school is there for. Not you know, I'm not supposed to do that. They're supposed to do that. And so there there's a uh a insecurity about uh an average parent's capacity to homeschool that I think is unnecessary. And a lot more people can do it than think that they can do it. But because we've been bred as well. And you're going down I was going to bring up uh um something else then actually bring up that point. So I'm gonna bring up my something else and that point at the same time. Yeah. Well I'm I mean that's so violent. Yes. Why would you use such imagery? You're an old testament God guy, aren't you? I don't know how to respond to that. It's a nice tie you have on. Um F from the outside, the critique a against homeschooling would might be some might be somebody who would say, look We're called to be in the world and not of it and you're depriving your kids of an opportunity to know what it is to grow up in the world and how to fend for themselves and defend their faith and interact with with with difficult situations. You're robbing them of that. So that would be an outside critique and a reason somebody might say, ooh, well then I guess I don't want to homeschool because that would be bad. Yeah. And then there's an internal critique, and this is going to be my follow-up, but I'll just throw them both out there. The internal critique is there's no w I'm not good enough, I'm not smart enough, I can't teach the new math. Where forty-five equals ninety-five. I can't do that. You know, I I I I want to create a bumper sticker that says my homeschool kid is smarter than I am I think it needs to be said because good homeschool kids end up learning more than their parents are teaching them because you're teaching them how to learn. Absolutely. And that's the home school. But I've seen the Fox World kids go a lot far. And I'm not smarter than a fifth grader. So how could I possibly teach a sixth grader or an eighth grader or a high school student? So you've already started to respond, but I want to keep those two things. So you've got the external critique, which would be a reason to not homeschool, which is, oh yeah, I don't want my kids to not learn what it's like to live in the real world. And the internal self critique, which is I'm just not equipped. So if you maybe Angela you could talk to those two. I guess I would talk about the external aspect in that How often do you want to throw your f your five year olds into a world where they're supposed to be fending for themselves? How often do we as a society that's very um paternalistic very protectionism protectionistic if that's the right word um of our kids that we would say that oh yeah therefore they have to go to public school so that they can learn to fend for themselves. I think that we as parents are are called to be um the protectors of our children. Is that what you're saying? Absolutely. Wow, I'm shocked. And and then I would argue arguably say that on the part where if a parent and I think I've differed from what Jonathan th thinks he has seen in that he thinks he's seen homeschool parents who believe that they're doing it because they are well equipped academically. I've seen actually much different things. I've seen more home school parents over the course of my seventeen years that I homeschooled from the first child through the second, um, that were actually high school educated. And that was their full Awesome, yeah. Um their full Come on. And how can that not inspire you that you just have a high school education and you're gonna go for it and and train up your child in the way they should go. I mean the courage Well it has to do with the family dynamics. the reason that we have education? Why do we I mean we we want our children to be smart. There's there's a value to that. But the state's involved in it and the state allowed itself to be involved in it through you know, governmental intrusion with, you know, law statutes and and lawsuits, but because of the fact that we want the outcome really to be our educated populace who are going to put in for my social security ultimately and to, you know, keep our society going. So we need people to be educated. We understand that. But if we look at it from the standpoint of biblically, realistically, we educate our children to be um disciples of Christ in our world. And so yes it's great that they're getting the math, the science, and all of the academics But that's I once heard a woman speak, um, and she was from Broadboard and Christian Academy when I was in my homeschooling years, who commented, what has it benefited me if I've raised my son or daughter to be a very intelligent attorney or a very intelligent accountant or very highly educated in one of these m very important professions But I haven't taught them the difference between right and wrong, stealing, um, telling the truth, lying. Um you know, so I have an accountant who now is able to embezzle, and I have an attorney who is now able to lie and cheat what have I benefited society. You know, an attorney who's good at lying and cheating could become president one day. I'm just saying. Would not have known that. You know, it it occurs to me that um You know, the a common refrain among students, you know, particularly high school students taking like uh calculus or statistics or something like that. When am I ever going to use this? This is not important. But they're always gonna use this is God's moral instruction for your life. They're always gonna need that. You know, so it's it's a I hadn't thought of it until you were talking about uh what we really need to be teaching our kids. And they're not gonna get that in the public school. You know, we've been talking about Character Counts. It does. They're not gonna get God. And the Character Counts program actually is an excellent program and I'm glad it's in the public school system. It's it it really does a great uh job of bringing back in things that, you know, so we're not throwing the baby out with the b bathwater. But I was gonna say, you know, uh I'm not I'm not sold on everybody should homeschool. It's clear to me biblically that that training up your kids in the way they should go is something that happens both by the by the priesthood training, you know, and doing doing uh little schools as well as um the parents, you know, training up the child in the way they should go. And so it's a both and um uh scenario and most homeschoolers uh recognize that that's the case and are finding ways to be well connected to their community and and providing those opportunities for their children to you know, connect effectively with the community. And so, you know, it's just not one or the other. Well, and the business community has come up with huge opportunities between Freddy Community College and a lot of um mastermind and a lot of organizations that are providing you ways to both socialize as well as expand the academic opportunities if you feel like as a mom who has high school degree, college degree, but don't feel like you're able to do the higher maths or able to do a a lab sciences. You have the opportunity to put your children into um group led classes on FCC's campus. Um whole group of homeschool classes. common knowledge and I hadn't ever thought about it this way. But Jonathan, you mentioned last week about how a lot of people have a perception that, oh, you're homeschooling that's because you want to take the easy way out. What did you mean by that? That what's easy or what do some people perceive as being easy about homeschooling? What they d the kids don't actually get to learn anything, they just Go grocery shopping and learn. Well that's what you said that some people when when you're talking about I'm gonna homeschool my kids, those who are critics of that decision might say, Oh well you're gonna homeschool 'cause you want to take the easy way out. Did I say that I think it may have been my s my comment that was your comment? Well it was a comment saying that it's not the it it would be much easier to have the children dressed and at the bus stop waiting for the bus than to choose to home school. The the easy way out would actually be to put the children at the school school bus stop. Right, I r I remember that you don't remember saying it, so maybe I misheard you or you were s meaning to say something else and it came across 'cause it struck me as like Who thinks it's easy? Yeah. I don't think I don't know anybody who thinks it's easy. Without a doubt. Nobody does. I know some people who think it might be unwise for a variety of reasons. Nobody. Nobody's saying it's easy. Nobody's saying that, right? But many are you know, many people are saying that it's the only right way. Many other people are saying that it is a great way. you know, with great benefits. And then there's some people that are saying it's a negative. Now this is a uh a final question with like you got a total of two minutes between the two of you here, okay? So I'm very nervous about asking this question because I don't see Jonathan finishing in two minutes. Nice Why would homeschool? Why would homeschooling end at twelfth grade? Why doesn't it continue into the college level classes? Well, honestly, I guess homeschooling could continue into the college level classes if what the parent skill sets are would be the desire by the student to be apprenticed under. So if your father is a carpenter or your mother is an electrician and the student ultimately wants to go on into vocational training or type of training that would allow for the parents to continue um at that level of education. But some students won't after homeschooling may not step into um college education, may choose to at that point in time Um go into a trade. Go into a trade. Go into a career. Go into the military. Um there's a lot of options. Uh college has priced priced itself out of the range of so many kids out there that what we're gonna see is we're gonna see a bubble pop and all of a sudden we're gonna see this plethora of of new college opportunities uh developed because of the internet because of uh homeschool co-ops that are super strong and are moving into college education and we're gonna see a lot more of that kind of thing. Now I wonder, I know that if uh you homeschool your your child through the equivalent of twelfth grade, that's recognized because homeschools are overseen by the public education system as well. They can be. And so there well I thought in Frederick County, isn't it l legally required to be overseen? No, you don't have to be a big thing. Part of the um under the umbrella You can either be a visited by Frederick County Public Schools as as the government entity or you can be a part of a a religious umbrella. They give you the the the um but that religious umbrella is still responsible to the county as well. It's responsible responsible to the state of Maryland and the uh the the connection between the two is set up in Maryland to show an uncommon amount of uh respect for a parent's um uh choices along those lines. It's it's really freedom bringing that around is significant. Is I you know I wonder if you were to to train your child all the way through a bachelor's degree Yeah, how the world would re would respond to recognizing the validity of such a degree, almost to get the credentials to Yeah, and you know what's gonna make the difference? Is a couple of people are gonna hire some of those people And they're gonna say, Man, we have no better workers and the word's gonna get out. Reputation makes all the difference. All the difference. And Jonathan's got the best reputation in all of Frederick County Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroad Valley Chief. Angela Phillips, Director of Development of New Life Christian School. I'm Froy Skinner. What have I been reading? The Message of First Peter by Edmund Clowney. Doing a lot of First Peter studies lately. Put me plumbing and heat him heating BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays are sponsors, thank you. Till next week, God bless