Broad Gepski from the West. A big brother city in the heart of Greatlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? BMC Insurance, proud supporters of New Life Christian School and Cruise Holidays. Getting ever closer to sending Bob on a three hour tour. Actually it's like a one-week trip to the Bahamas or something. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Project Faith Debate. You can follow us online at Wfmd. com keywordfaith. There you will find links to all sorts of religious resources. You'll see my ugly mug in the upper left-hand corner. And you'll find the Faith Debate blog My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Troy Skinner, my name, at ClearChannel, our corporate entity. Pretty much whatever you send me gets posted up there. Nine fresh postings a day, Monday through Friday, 95, 95, 45 blog postings. That's new, math. Ninety five forty-five. Nice. We're talking about education. That's the new mat they are trying. That's the uh What was that that controversial math program from a couple of years ago? It was uh not new math, but it was Turk or circ or something. Yeah. Circular math. Something like that. Yeah, that's the that's the new math. Yeah, Turk. Where forty fi Turk math where forty-five equals ninety-five Anyway, forty five blog up uh dates uh a week, Monday through Friday, five a day. Um so email me and then see if I post it. See how long it takes me to post it? Sometimes it'll be the same day, sometimes I'll get around to posting yours like three weeks later. You never know On the show today, Jonathan Sweitzing is already piped up. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. You can follow him on Twitter at SweitzerJonathan. That's right. When's the last time you sent out a tweet? Honest. Honestly, it's been like months. Alright, so don't follow them too closely. Yeah, yeah, there's there's not a whole lot to follow there And Angela Phillips, I don't know if she's on Twitter or not, but she is the director of development for New Life Christian School. And she's with The the kitty, so she probably does have the kids follow her on Twitter or something. Are you not on Twitter. Facebook. Facebook, okay. I don't do that either. I'm on Facebook, but uh I only upload pictures like whenever my family goes on an e you know, on a day trip or something and that's the extent of it. So I'm going to lay uh the um the geo geographical outlay of of what we're talking about today here and then we're just gonna go. Alright. We're talking about education. We have the Director of Development for New Life Christian Schools, so she's eminently qualified to talk about educational matters. But not just because of that, but I'll let her tell her different perspectives and and different ways she's come at education uh uh during the course of her life. I'll start with me and then Jonathan can walk through some of his things 'cause we have a v interesting variety. it seems to me, uh i in this room. I primarily myself attended public school, but I did go to a uh religious institution for three years. Three years. Three years. It was a private religious boarding school actually for three years. Um I have two children, both of them. It's interesting you said private religious. You're you're not saying some things there that I feel like might be helpful for us understanding perspective. I was okay, I was being just broad and generic there. But it was Roman Catholic. Okay. All right. I have two children. They both have attended uh public school, but my son ha was homeschooled for three years. Uh my daughter now attends a college that uh was founded by the Presbyterian Church a hundred and fifty years ago or whatever, and is still uh recognized as a religious uh school. So that's quite in a uh quite a feat to still have it after so many years. Yeah the Christian uh foundation. So my daughter went through the the elementary grades in high school in secular environment, but now she's in a non-secular environment environment in college, which is kind of interesting. Like I said, my s I understand homeschooling 'cause we did it with my son. Yeah. Um and my personal experience. So I've got all these different ways that I can look at what education educ might look like. So now Jonathan uh uh He has a lot of kids. Uh seventy-four kids, I think the new math says now. That's right. He's just busy. I'm just saying. But you you have a lot of varying uh perspectives and backgrounds on it. So real quickly what's what are the background was that um The school that my parents were going to put me into a public school was experimenting with a new uh classroom environment that had no walls. So all the students were, you know, kind of in one big room together and they decided that their children would not be experimented on. They sent us for the next three years to a to Mount Ari to a s uh a Christian school in Mount Ary Trinity Christian School was the name of it, uh Baptist School. And uh after three years then they put us back into a public school that was more traditional. But it was on the other side of town. Right. I was only there for three years. Then my dad started a Christian high school, uh, seventh through twelfth grade. And so I was there for uh all of my seventh through twelfth grade years and then um my kids are all homeschooled. And so I was just telling you earlier actually that my son recently went to a public school uh homecoming dance and uh we'll we'll talk about that a little bit later on the experience yeah and in addition to that you ran for uh school board. And I ran for the school board here in Frederick just because it's clear to me that the public schools are pushing an agenda. It seems like at some point somebody needs to raise the issue and recognize that um a secular environment Uh pushed on our kids with uh secular values is not necessarily the best way to raise the next generation. school and I think you were a part of that, weren't you? In some way? Yeah, yeah, for a while I was uh going down in helping to lead the worship. for that each week and uh for one year my kids went there uh just because uh we had had a couple of personal um hits As a family we were like, okay, you know what, we're gonna not try to homeschool that year, make sure that our kids don't lose a year of education. I I think I would also add this that my brother homeschooled his kid and then he sent him to University of Maryland uh afterwards. And have you heard of the Turginites? You know, these are the uh the coach, uh Turgeon, right? He uh he wasn't getting a whole lot of um uh support from the student body and uh he apparently he dresses a certain way so the tergenites or a bunch of guys that dress like he does and they get up and they dance at the University of Maryland Games. And anyways my nephew was one of those guys that started it. And uh they're so popular like they that they became like this thing across the nation. Everybody knows about the Turginites and uh like the Beatles now. And they get 'em up to do like halftime shows with the cheerleaders and everything now. And so it became like this whole Fad thing that that we've got. I wonder if the members of the Turginites even know who the Beatles are. It depends how uh Much of their parents were involved with culture. So Angela Phillips is currently the Director of Development at New Life, but what uh what are some of the different perspectives you're going to bring to the table today? I grew up in Middletown and graduated from Middletown High School, so I was educated all through public education. I have two children who I uh decided to homeschool, so I've home schooled both of my daughters. Both went away to Okay through twelve? Um preschool through twelfth grade. They were dual enrolled um at FCC by tenth grade. Sure. But um but then they went away to secular college. didn't choose Christian education at their college level, felt that having homeschooled them in a Christian environment, they were very capable of going off to their four year institution um and and holding their own with their belief systems. And so homeschooling them. Um, as I was finishing homeschooling the younger daughter, um I took a took a swipe not at being on the Board of Education, but took a swipe thinking that the Board of Education might have some interest in exploring a all girls public charter school for seventh through twelfth graders and tried to um organize that and found that back in two thousand seven and two thousand eight. Both times I was shot down by the Board of Education. That did not happen. And so um realized that Frederick County was not, at least at that moment embracing any additional charter education, public charter education, but at least um explored a whole lot of things that I thought were really pertinent to education during that process. And now I serve as the director of development at a Preschool through twelfth grade Christian school. Here in Freddy County, New Life Christian School. Actually that's how Angela and I met was in the context of the charter school. because I had run for Board of Education and I was advocating at that time uh the school system uh looking for ways to introduce more parental involvement you know, into uh uh the public school environment uh and so any kind of a charter school scenario tends to uh do a much better job in uh bringing parental involvement into the uh education of their children. So there you get a sense of the v the I don't know if if there is A perspective on education that we haven't just touched on between the three of us. Yes, clearly. I don't think there's any other way to educate your child Outside of what we've either first experienced or our kids have experienced. It's interesting to me that you sent your kids to public school all the way through, but then to Christian college, you know, uh but a bunch of the homeschool guys that, you know, have a very sheltered schooling environment for their children end up sending their kids to uh Christian colleges. It's interesting that all of us seem to to have a this little uh I don't know call it yin yang, that's not so Christian, but this recognition that there's there's some sort of a balance there as we're trying to help our kids to uh deal with the uh pressures that are out there. And now let's talk so everybody here and uh the three of us are all um thoughtful about education. Some of us are making our career in education. Uh so we're we're at least taking education seriously. And all three of us also take the Bible very seriously. Okay. Jonathan's a pastor of a Christian church. I'm hosting a show called the Frederick Faith Debate. And Angela is at New Life Christian School. Yeah. So we all take the Bible and and faith uh and uh hold it in very high esteem as well. So now let's marry the two. Okay. As a Christian who's a Bible-believing Christian, and you read things like train them up in the way they shall go and they will never depart from it, and there's this heavy emphasis on on the family. And the parents being responsible for their their kids and I think that's a big part of the motivation for a lot of homeschoolers, for example, in Christian churches So think about what the Bible says and is is there a best way? I don't want to say there's only one way, but is there a best way? for Christian parents to think about if I want to be in the best possible alignment with the Word of God, I should homeschool my kids or I should send them to a Christian school or I should send them to a secular school but make sure I train them up inside the church on matters of theology and doctrine or whatever. Is there a best and are the other options therefore lesser? Are we compromising? Well, coming from a background of having chosen to homeschool my children, I would honestly say that if a parent feels that the Lord is leading them and directing their steps to homeschool their children, the best way is to of course always be in God's will. Um I think that the opportunity to say, am I in God's will and be evaluated there is something that's personal Um but I I truly do believe that. I think that a parent if they're uncertain of their own capacity, uncertain of their own strength, um, to do the the homeschooling, and there's heavy lifting in homeschooling, you know. people might say, well that's the easy way to homeschool and I'm thinking think about it, it'd be much easier to make sure your child's standing at the bus stop for the yellow bus to pick 'em up than to get up um in the morning and spend the entire day um engaging with them, doing something with them, ensuring that there's some level of learning, um, growth going on in their life. Um so I would say that the the best way, and I think the biblical way is, like you said, for the parents to have involvement, but I I think in this generation, in this time frame, um most or many parents don't choose homeschooling and I think then the second best um opportunity is Christian education from the perspective of a Christian institution that has a covenant relationship with those families. And that means that they're partnering with families to do just that, to do the uh um educating so that the parents have involvement in in the input and in the outcome of what's coming out of it because it doesn't it doesn't help for the students um outcomes if what's going on at home doesn't match or at least align with what's being taught Monday through Friday between 8 30 and 3 o'clock in the afternoon when the students are in the care of of of the school setting. Turn my mic off. Why'd I do that to myself? Welcome back. Good to have you with us, Troy. Angela Phillips is the director of develop development for uh at new for and at uh New Life Christian School, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Light Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So, John, do you agree with that uh prioritization? Home schooling is the best, most biblical model, and if you can't pull that off, uh Christian school is is I don't know if it's a close second or a distant second, but a second. Would you agree with that? Um see the problem with saying that that homeschooling is the biblical model is that the Bible takes into account the fact that there's a lot of orphans out there, fatherless children out there, and fatherless children uh are simply not gonna be able to be um homeschooled. It's just there's it's not possible. My brother got his doctorate in education uh and he wrote his thesis on the role of parents in education. And the number one uh the uh negative response that he that he got from uh those that were helping him to write the paper uh were was that it works in an ideal situation. But and this is the problem with the public school system, this is the difficulty with the public school system is that they can't say no. They have to take every kid that comes, you know, exactly as they are, and that means from whatever background they come from in Christian schools ultimately do have the chance to make distinctions. This is the big question about vouchers. If you have vouchers where you end up having um uh where you know a parent can take a voucher to whichever school he wants his kids to go to Uh will there be will there be a situation where the school can say, well we're we're not taking you because your grades aren't good enough or because you don't meet certain standards? Right. The reality is that you know, uh we have to f work through some of those issues and as Christians we have an obligation also to the widow and the orphan and to help them to uh to raise their kids. At this point, Christian education is mostly only available to those that can afford it. You know, in and most Christian schools do their best to try to provide uh, you know, resources to help with that, but there's a limit. I mean, uh th that's what you do at New Life. Angela, as you help to get those resources so that their you know, resources are available. But there's a limit to how much uh people can go to a Christian school. And so at this point For the for poor Christians, you know, there's really not an option. And if you're a poor Christian widow uh there's really not an option. But my experience, I mean I see I've seen some homeschool kids turn out really bad and those parents said no business Homeschooling with kids. I've seen it. But but were they doing it because they believed that the Lord was leading them in that direction, or were they just doing it? If you ask them, they said the Lord's telling us to do this. And there had been others that were believers that were trying to gently talk them through whether or not that was the the best way to go. Uh Yeah, it's interesting. Your definition of the Lord's will is not that there's a one set Lord's will and we all need to, you know, fit with it, but that the Lord uh leads each of us uniquely. Right. So when it comes to education, you're not speaking to an ideal, you're speaking to a God that that responds to our situation. and is doing his best to release grace into that situation so that all kids, you know, can be handled, you know, the best way, which is I think the right way to handle that. Uh nevertheless But you know, I I know parents like Troy, like you, who whose kids went to public school all the way through, and what made the difference was the parents. I know parents that sent their kids to Christian schools and that was the worst thing that they could have done, and their kids ended up rebelling against the Lord because My experience is that Christian schools tend to have a measure of hypocrisy in them. Uh sometimes the teachers aren't as godly as you might like them to be, uh, because they're just like the rest of us. They're growing in their faith and the kids that are uh hormonal, you know, teenagers are quick to spot hypocrisy and once the kids start calling 'em on it, especially some sharp kids that aren't so sure about their own faith, then you can set up in any you know, in in any Christian school environment, you know, kind of the kids that are the in Christian kids and then the other kids that are kind of considered the rebels in the school and everybody's kinda trying to reach them and they all know that it's the case You know, and uh I know some kids that the parents should have sent them to a public school and worked them through, you know, just handling the public school environment, but they sent 'em to the Christian school to kind of try to fix 'em. And I think that's very dangerous to do because uh because a Christian school is not designed to fix bad parenting You know, a Christian school is designed to educate according to a Christian worldview and works best when the parents are fully on board with that and doing their job at home as well. And that and that's one of the reasons why our mission statement at New Life is clearly I mean starts with we partner with families to provide a quality education with a biblical worldview. And so it is essential and and in the interview process for families to join the the population um at New Life to join the the the school community. There's interviewing with the parents, there's interviewing with the prospective student. There's a pastor's recommendation letter that comes from that for that family. I mean it's Because New Life is is very strong in its belief that we need to be in partnership with parents We need to be in partnership with parents who hold the same worldview, which is a biblically sound worldview. Yeah. Because we cannot do it. Again, Monday through Friday from eight thirty till three o'clock and let that child then go home and have a world view that's so ter so different, so contrary to what they're learning During the school day. Now I don't want to put you on the spot, but you are the pastor here, so I'm gonna ask you this qu and and uh the pastor. Okay, you are the pastor. Uh and Angela, you might have uh some good thoughts on this too, so you can chime in, but I want to put you on the spot. So a parent comes to you. Yeah. As parents sometimes probably come to you 'cause you're the pastor. Yeah. And they're like, I have a child now who's five, six, whatever, they're gonna have to go to ki what do you go to kindergarten five years old? They're five, they're kindergarten age, and we're not sure whether we should send him to the public school, let's say. We can't you know private school isn't an option for us at this stage. We don't have the finances, let's just say. Okay. So it's going to be Public school or homeschool. And I think we're my husband and I, I'll say it's the wife who's talking to you are are feeling led that we should homeschool. Okay. You're going to help them walk through whether that's an accurate read on their leading how. You're going to point to them particular passages of the Bible and say, well As we examine your leading, have you considered this and this to make sure that you guys are equipped as the right move for you and your child? The reason I'm asking the question is y somebody can get a machete and go chop off a dozen people's heads and say, well, God told me to do it. I felt led by the Lord. And I'm like No. I don't know what you're led by, but what in the Lord, because let me point you to a few key verses here. Right. So are there some key verses that can help give us some Yeah, yeah. Guidelines, some boundaries, some bumpers, some key verses. Or themes. Hmm. Biblical themes for us to think about. Yeah, yeah. The biblical theme is this. Go into all the world and make disciples, teaching them to obey everything that I've commanded you. Right? The key to all parenting is discipleship. And and so the context is uh is never just what should I do with my kids, but the you know, if if they come to me and they're asking those kinds of questions, uh w we're gonna have some kind of a sense already of Where are they at in the discipleship process and and are they uh are they being responsible with that? Uh or are they kind of, you know, just kind of faking it and kind of doing their own thing? I mean, what what's gonna make the difference in the life of a child is when they see a parent that is sincere about their faith and sincere about the discipline or the the ways that they're submitting to the Lord's um uh uh to to the teaching of the Lord in Scripture, you know, to to the to uh w what it what are they doing to grow in following the leading of the Holy Spirit. You know, do they really get that or are they missing that? And so the question, uh the uh I would point them in a couple directions in terms of uh homeschool groups that are super well established anymore. It's amazing how uh how pervasive homeschool material is out there and and uh in how extensive many of the groups are, support groups, all those kinds of things. I point them in those directions, make sure that they're doing their homework at that. But the more important question for me would be You know, how are they doing as parents? And and if they're doing well as parents, again, this this is my experience. If they're doing well as parents, they're they're doing the right job as parents, meaning training their child in the way they should go and shepherding the child's heart, not just trying to get certain behavior out of them, right? And that's a key distinction. If they get it and they're doing those things, they could send them to a private school, they could send them to a public school, they could send them to a homeschool, I mean they could homeschool themselves. and they're c probably gonna do just fine. But the same thing that w would cause them to fail as a home school parent would cause them to fail as a parent of a kid that's going to a public school as well. Angela's way too well behaved to be a guest on this show Yes. She's nodding in agreement a lot, smiling a lot, but she's just letting you know, Jonathan will talk all day if you let him. So not let that happen. You are nodding in agreement um uh most forcefully at what points? What what parts where it really got you excited to agree? Well I agree that the student's heart is integral, the parenting's um the parents' abilities to um be present with that child, with um where that child is. I mean I think the I think the core of what we haven't talked about is really what is, and this is probably very philosophical, but what is the reason that we educate children to begin with. Why does why does the government put so much money behind educating our children? I mean it it's It kind of is understandable. I mean we know Because of Gutenberg Gutenberg Gutenberg's printing press. That's the reason why everybody's so Keen on education. You ever wonder if he really invented the uh printing press or if it was some sort of folklore legend like, you know, five hundred years from now we'll be talking about Al Gore's internet. And it'll just be assumed that yeah, Al Gore invented the internet, just like Gutenberg invented the Al Gutenberg and Al Gore. Yeah, it's probably like, you know, you know like Max Weinberger or something invented the printing press and Gutenberg's getting all the pub. You ever wonder about that? No, I actually mean that. So I think that I think really we need to kind of and I think we probably agree upon it, or maybe that we don't, as to because because that matters whether or not you you made a comment earlier that I didn't so much agree with in the sense of you felt that you had seen some parents not be successful at the outcomes for their children as homeschool parents. Yeah And and what did you mean by that? What did you mean they weren't successful? What what did you see in that child that to you was not successful That's me like a cliffhanger question. As I'm seeing because we're running out of time. As I'm seeing the progression of our discussion, we're going to have this panel back again for next week's show. I think we'll spend some time talking specifically about homeschooling, what successful homeschooling looks like or doesn't look like, and you can debate whether there is such a distinction to be made. uh and we'll talk about some of the characterizations or caricatures of homeschooling and homeschooling kids. We'll talk about some of that. Uh and then maybe we'll progress uh when we feel like we've covered that. We'll talk about religious private school, maybe non-religious private school public school. We'll kind of work our way through. Good. So next week. We should also talk about charter education. And charter education. Very important in Freddy County. Yeah. We'll we'll we'll sneak that in there somewhere too. Here we go. So uh that's a way I'll start next uh next week's show. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, thank you. Angela Phillips, Director of Development for New Life Christian School, thank you. Thank you to our sponsors, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Cruise Holiday, Sending Bob on that big old cruise, and BMC Insurance, proud supporters of New Life Christian School. What have I been reading lately? Do I have time to tell you? I guess I do. Book called First Peter by Karen Jobs. That's about Paul's episode. Exactly. Till next week. God bless.