We affirm that identifying marks of local churches are faithful confession and proclamation of the Word of God and responsible administration of baptism in the Lord's Supper. We affirm that churches are subject to the Word of Christ in their order as in their doctrine, and that in addition to their commitment to a local church, Christians may properly involve themselves in parachurch organizations For specialized ministry. We affirm that Christ calls the church to serve Him by its worship, nurture, and witness as the people in the world That Christ sends the Church into the whole world to summon sinful humanity to faith, repentance, and righteousness, and that the unity and clarity of Scripture Encourage us to seek to resolve doctrinal differences among Christians and so to manifest the oneness of the Church of Christ. And there are the majority of the affirmations from Article 4 uh on the uh church and its mission in the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application which came out in the nineteen eighties and we started talking about it last week and we're continuing to talk about it this week on the Faith of Eight. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here I'm Froy Skinner. You can find me and uh everything I'm connected with, social media, all that sort of stuff at householdofinchrist. com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week on the panel again by the Razvis. Got Daniel Razvi and his proud papa, Imran Razvi, known as Raz, to his friends. And they have a church in Therma and a ministry they started many years ago called Conquered by Love Ministries online at Conquered by Love. So we got off onto some tangents last week that slowed us down in our progress, but hopefully they were edifying and helpful and I don't know if they're clarifying or muddling. I'm not sure which, but I will listen back later and see what we decided. Uh but the church and its mission. I just read all the affirmations uh that we didn't read last week on Article Four Uh and we have the denials still. Let me just read those now and then we'll deal with this whole section uh as a group. So the denials for the church and its mission. We deny that the church can grant canonical authority to Scripture. We deny that the Church is constituted by the will and traditions of men, that the Church can bind the conscience apart from the Word of God, that the Church can free itself from the authority of the written word of God and still exercise valid discipline in Christ's name. We deny that The church can accommodate itself to the demands of a particular culture if those demands conflict with scriptural revelation or if they restrain the liberty of Christian conscience. And we deny that differing cultural situations invalidate the biblical principle of male-female equality or the biblical requirements for their roles in the church. That's more relevant today than it was at the time even. Yeah. Um but I want to go back. I want to go back actually a little bit higher it says We deny that the church is constituted by the will and traditions of men. I agree, and I think that's a contradiction with what they said earlier, which is We affirm that identifying marks of local churches are faithful confession and proclamation of the Word of God and responsible administration of baptism and the Lord's Supper. I think that it's a Catholic tradition that the church has to administer the Lord's Supper in a proper fashion. And I don't think there's such a command from scripture. I think we should have the Lord's Supper. Um but the the idea that it has to be organized or approved. Because they're saying it's the mark of a church. So If if there's a church that never has the Lord's Supper, doesn't ever baptize somebody, never proclaims the gospel, is it really a church? I agree with that. Baptism, yeah, when uh but then the Lord's Supper Yes, believers should be doing that, but the local church doesn't need to necessarily organize it. Or they don't have to. Um, but believers should be doing it. And also I mean, same with baptism. Anybody can baptize and be baptized any place. It's a confession to uh to the to the world that Yeah. I th I think it's a sleep very slow because you start to end up doing what the Catholics did, saying the priest has to be involved in everything. The priest has to decide if you can he can give you the Eucharist. The priest has to take your confessional. The priest has to uh baptize you, and the priest has to marry you. None of those things, especially the last one, have any basis in scripture. the priest doesn't marry people in in in scripture. The the fathers get together and negotiate a marriage and then they have a party. That's the biblical marriage, right? So uh that's a Catholic tradition. I think a lot of the Catholic traditions are still in uh our churches today. I I've met met and talked to a lot of pastors who I have very high respect for that are adamant that the elders are responsible for ministering the Lord's Supper. It must be done a by order and purpose and and properly organized by the elders. No, the scripture doesn't say that. It just says do this as ofty as you drink it or eat or eat it, it being the Passover, so once a year we said Again, I I'm uh I don't think I'm disagreeing and and I don't think the article is disagreeing with you. 'Cause it's saying that we affirm this is uh the one, two, three, this is the fourth affirmation under Article four, for those reading along at home. The affirmation that I uh we affirm that Identifying marks of local churches are faithful confession and proclamation of the Word of God and responsible administration of baptism in the Lord's Supper. So they're talking about these are the identifying marks of a of a of a faithful local church. It doesn't even say anything about pastors. I would say that those are our identified marks of believers. Yeah. And I would say the first one may be uh of a church, but the second two are not necessarily of a church What's the church? The church is a group of believers that are uh led by uh elders that they've that they've appointed. Um or elected or whatever among themselves. So if a if a somebody if if a group of believers gather together uh to form a local church and they irresponsibly administer baptism in the Lord's Supper, then that would be a mark that they're a mark of a bad church. Correct. I agree with that. Well the that's but that's the negative. This one is is is the positive saying that um this is how you'll tell if it's a if it's a church, if they're responsibly ministering the word Well, yeah, who's they? Who's the you know, the church when I hear the church I use I I understand them to mean the leadership team of the church, the p the elders and the organizations of the church doing this And so it's possible that's what they meant, but they don't actually say that, so I'm I'm willing to give them uh a wide berth there for for what that's worth. So was another one you said or no? No. No, that was really the main thing. Uh and again I d I don't disagree. I don't think you know the elders shouldn't have anything to do with the war supper or anything like that. I just want to be careful. to not make it that exclusive. You have to be ordained by the leader of your organization. You have to be going to Bible college to be an elder. Then you you have to be there to marry people and to baptize people and to do this and that. A lot of i in this in scripture is just any believer in the right. Um it does have practical applications you have to think through like when it comes to some sort of church discipline. You know, if you're going to treat someone as an unbeliever, you know, who makes that call, how is that how is that done? And that plays on, you know, you're not going to welcome to the the fellowship table if they're not in fellowship if they're to be treated as an unbeliever. So th there are some practical and I think that over time part of it could be the Roman Catholic connection. Part of it could just be practical considerations. How else do we do this? You know, how do we enforce some sort of spiritual discipline in somebody's life so that they will recognize their need to repent and turn back to the faith kind of thing. Right. Uh so it might be because of echoes of the Roman Catholic positions and it and a lot of our stuff is probably still affected by that at some level. Uh but it also might just be Yeah, but I I think practical concerns. This can also lead to unnecessary um judgment from an elder or pastor saying, you're not saved, or you you didn't repent enough. And we're not able to discern what's a man's heart. Only God can. And uh that's why it says let a man examine himself and then so let him eat and drink, right? The church doesn't discipline regarding the Lord's Supper the church disciplines from general fellowship altogether in the church if you s can see open sin in somebody's life. Yeah. And you're right. I don't I don't think the statement necessarily means they're disagreeing with me. But I I've again I'm reading into it because I've I know a bunch of pastors that would would dis disagree with me on this and uh and so that's why I wanted to bring it up. And we like to be disagreeable Absolutely. Yeah. from the other side of uh i the uh ideological spectrum, but you know, we we want to create a safe space where we can you know and really go after it. So to manifest the oneness of the church in Christ. Seeking to resolve doctrinal differences, as they said in this uh we're agreement there. That's what we should be doing. Now the denials are interesting, right? Uh we deny that the church can grant canonical authority to scripture. That's a definite shot uh at the Roman Catholic uh uh tradition for sure. Um the deny the church is constituted by the will and traditions of men. Again, I think another shot uh at the Roman Catholic tradition Uh and that many established Protestant denominations, they're very traditional, as in we do these traditions this way because we said so and because we've always done so. So and the church is not over scripture, but scripture is over the church is kind of what they're trying to say with some of these other things. Um When changing culture doesn't change God, you sore accommodate different cultures because uh it when you can, but if it Difference from what God's commands are, you have to follow God's commands. Particularly with male and female. It's interesting that was the one thing they included in this um thing and and if they had ha if they had drafted this statement another thirty years later they probably would have uh felt further need to clarify that there are only male and female, um and then nothing in between. You can't switch back and forth between one or the other. Um so uh uh but definitely uh the b biblical requirements of men and women are different in the church. Now the next one, Article Five, um they have a lot of words there and and uh it almost feels like they shouldn't need that many words for this one, but we'll see what they say. Article five, yep. We affirm that God the Creator is sovereign over all human life and mankind is responsible under God to preserve and protect it. Amen. And we affirm that the sanctity of human life is based on the creation of mankind in the image and likeness of God. That the life of a Human being begins at conception, fertilization, and continues until biological death, thus abortion, except where the continuance of the pregnancy imminently threatens the mother's physical life. Infanticide, suicide, and euthanasia are all forms of murder. We affirmed that the penalties. Right, yeah. Health of the mother. They said life of the mother is the only exception to abortion being called murder. Yeah, and even that parenthetical state I was gonna come back to a little bit since we pause. That parenthet parenthetical statement, it almost doesn't have to be there, it seems to me, but or I don't know. I I I like to think in terms of if a if the life of the child um is threatening the life of the mother I don't think that the Christian biblical view is that okay, well you kill the baby to save the mother. Uh I think the biblical view is you do your darndest to save both. And if in the process of trying to save both, one of them dies, you're not guilty of murder because you're trying to save both. That's the thing. It's a false uh uh uh argument Because there is no situation where the continu where uh where the the baby is threatening the mother's life. The baby's not holding a gun to her head, right? You can deliver the baby and attempt to resuscitate it That's right. There is no situation in which killing the baby actively saves the mother's life. Right. No situation. Has never been To my knowledge and I I I've got to be a good thing. I think the argument the most common scenario would be where the baby doesn't fall all the way and it gets caught in the fallopian tubes kind of thing, right? And then it's uh there's the what's the fancy word for that kind of pregnancy? Entopic. Entopic pregnancy. And so if if the baby continues to grow mature, uh the mother's not going to survive. Well in those cases, okay, y you might have to go in there and get the baby out, but you go in there and get the baby out with the intent of doing everything possible to try to still somehow save that baby. Right. And if it's not viable, okay, well God will decide whether it's viable or not. You do your darndest and if the baby dies, you did your darndest, you're not guilty of murder. But if you go in there and and and then you know take the baby out and and and crush it And throw it into the, you know, in into the garbage disposal or something like that. Yeah. So anyway, we affirm that the penal view of social justice is compatible with the sanctity of human life. We affirm that withholding food or water in order to cause or hasten death is a violation of the sanctity of life. We affirm that because advancing medical technology has obscured the distinction between life and death, it is essential to elevate each term of case. Evaluate. What did I just say? E elevate. Oh, sorry. Evaluate each terminal case with the greatest care so as to preserve the sanctity of human life. These have been since this was written There have been some big news stories on some of these topics. Uh-huh. Right? Terry Schivo case comes to mind down in Florida about probably ten years ago maybe. Yeah. Right? This is in the eighties by the way, for those those listening. Nineteen eighty six when this is written. Yeah. Yeah, so uh let's go through the denials before we talk talk more about this. Okay. So we deny that the quality of human life has priority over its sanctity. We deny that the sanctity of prenatal life uh negates the propriety of necessary medical procedures to preserve the life of the pregnant mother, which we were just talking about. We deny that killing is self-defen uh in self-defense in state administered capital punishment or in wars justly fought is necessarily a violation of the sanctity of human life. We deny that those who reject a divine basis for moral law are exempt from the ethical and social obligation to preserve and protect innocent human life, and deny that allowing death without medical intervention to prolong prolong life is always a violation of the sanctity. of human life. Boy, there's a lot of mouthfuls in all that, but uh basically they're saying capitalist punishment's fine, self defense is fine, wars are fine. That's not what God meant when he said thou shall not kill But abortion is evil and um you can just not get treatment at all if uh i you know that that would prolong your life, but you can't say, well, I'm refusing to eat. Um, you know, so that that that'll be what there's the I I I don't know. Allowing death without medical interven intervention to prolong life Depending on what that is, I guess, because sometimes you can be just on a ventilator with no consciousness. Um but they're trying to leave room for that. Exactly. We did what we can, there's n nothing else we can do. We're not gonna kill you, but we're also not gonna artificially keep you alive. 'Cause it would be artificial at that point. Yeah, a and at that point y you almost have to d are they even keeping them alive? Are they just artificially keeping the motor running? Right. But The person's dead. They're gone. Yeah, they're gone. It's just the the b the mechanics of the body you can keep them going for a little while, but they're gone. And I was happy to see that the these uh people all signed the statement that capital punishment is not A I because I I hear all these politicians lately, even conservative politicians, I'm pro-life from birth till death. Therefore I'm also against capital punishment No, no, no, no, no, no. But that is an argument you'll hear in conversation with people, right? Well the Bible says you can't kill, so no capital punishment, no m no war No no not no self-defense, no nothing you can't kill. Yep. Well the same Bible that says thou shalt not kill also commands stoning for certain crimes. Right? So Yeah, we understand that what is really meant there is you shouldn't murder. Correct. And we define that. And um were you guys paying attention to what John Piper said a few years back about, you know, if uh If uh somebody broke into his house and and a rapist and was uh was raping his wife that and and he had a gun, he would not shoot the intruder because he shouldn't kill I mean that's insane. And I a and I say that as somebody for a lot of years has had a lot of respect for his wife for John Piper. I think John Piper has actually been a blessing to the church. A lot of what he's written and and and he's one of the one of the great preachers of his generation. I mean so much passion and You know, is he he's great, but boy, he he couldn't be more wrong on that particular question. The husband's job is to protect his Mm-hmm. Yeah. All right. Well Jesus even Jesus said, right? If the strong man knew what time the guy would have come out, he would have protected the house. It's only uh presumably it was okay for him to protect the house, right? Now this next one speaks about the husband protecting the house in a sense, right? We'll we'll find out anyway. Article six is about marriage and the family. We've talked a little about this issue quite a bit uh the past year or so on the faith debate, so we'll see how many of these things have already been touched upon in recent months. We affirm that the purpose of marriage is to glorify God. and extends his kingdom on earth in an institution that provides for chastity, companionship, procreation, and Christian upbringing of children. We affirm that since marriage is a sacred covenant under God, uniting a man and a woman as one flesh Church and state should require faithfulness to God's intention that it be a permanent bond. We affirm that in the marriage pattern ordained by God The husband as head is the loving servant leader of his wife, and the wife as helper in submissive companionship is a full partner with her husband. We affirm that loving, nurture, and discipline of children is a God-ordained duty of parents, and God-ordained obedience to parents is a duty of children. We affirm that the church has a responsibility to nurture the family, that uh to honor par uh that honor two parents is a lifelong duty of all persons and ex and includes responsibility for the care of the aged or aged And we affirm that the family should perform many services now commonly assumed by the state. I'm gonna pause there because there's a l anything that you've there's a lot of stuff there that's countercultural. Yeah, there's a lot of things that are countercultural. Um and i you know, it is a permanent bond. That's God's intention. to death. Divorce was not at God's ever uh ever God's attention. That's why Jesus even said about well Moses said that because the heart is of your hearts, but from the beginning it was not so. It was one man and one woman for their entire lifetime. That was the design of God. Now we'll see in the denials they have some exceptions to that and they they say, well what if, what if but I think that's important. Now one uh comment I would make says church and state should require faithfulness to God's intention that it be a permanent bond. And I agree, I think this is going a lot farther than a lot of Christians would go today to say, Oh the government should just stay out of it altogether. Well no, the government should should say that it punish ad uh I mean adultery is a crime in the Bible And so uh adultery would be a violation of this marriage bond and that should be a crime that's prosecutable by the government. That's the only uh institution that can really prosecute such a crime. But with That said, church and state should not uh officially start a marriage. I think that's actually not a biblical concept. We talked about that earlier. I think that's between the families. or the two people that say we're married now. I mean you c you should be able to go rent a house or buy a house together with a woman and say, We're married now, publicly, we are married and that's it. That's all you need to be married Now society at large should hold you to that. Well you're married, then you need to act married. Only be with each other for the rest of your life. But Yeah, the state getting involved, you know. Or the church, you know, getting involved. uh the institution of marriage predates the existence of the church. Um but the state getting involved, you know they have these little fees and these requirements, these paperwork processing things and anything that the government can can have that kind of control over They have the power to destroy it. And they have. Right? Yeah. And so I don't think I don't like the state being involved almost at any level, but But I do agree that the state should require faithfulness in marriage. I think that's that is a su uh a duty of the state is to punish certain crimes. There's very few crimes uh biblically that the states should be punishing. One is murder, we talked about earlier, and w uh rape you talked about that a minute ago. Adultery is another one. Um all fifty states as as far as I know still have laws against adultery on the books, and none of them are enforced. But I mean what is the purpose of government? Government is to you know protect the civility and the orderly of of society. And when there is adultery that is breaking down the civility of society and breaking down the the bonds that God created and so they should be responsible for that. And other things are counter cultural. You know, uh uh to honor your parents means that you should take care of them when they grow old. But that's not the way things are now, right? The the the social safety net that the government runs uh is responsible for that. And it ends with, you know, the family should perform many services now commonly assumed by the state. I mean that the truth. Education comes to mind, by the way. Um we deny that pleasure and self-fulfillment are the basis of marriage and that hardships are justifiable justifiable cause for breaking the marriage covenant. So they're they're denying if that's the case. We deny that the biblical idea of marriage can be fulfilled either by a couple living together without a lawful marriage covenant or by any form of same sex or group cohabitation. We deny that the state has the right to legitimatize views of marriage and the family unit that contravene biblical standards. We deny that changing social conditions ever make God ordained marriage or family roles obsolete or irrelevant, and we deny that the state has the right to usurp biblically designated parental responsibility. Again, this is the nineteen eighties. It's really interesting how hyper relevant this feels ever since the Obergefeld decision and uh every all the nonsense that's followed from that. Yeah, it it's it's definitely um A timeless document here. Still still super relevant today. But I would I would uh Clarify again here. We deny that the biblical idea of marriage can be fulfilled either by a couple living together without a lawful marriage covenant or by any form of same sex or group cohabitation. The last part, sure, same sex does not count, and group uh cohabitation uh to cohabitation without marriage, no. The question is what is a lawful marriage covenant, because again they don't define it. They don't define it. To me a lawful marriage covenant is two people that publicly say that they're married, that's a marriage covenant. You don't have to have somebody else approving of the covenant to make it a covenant. Um because the covenant's between the two people before before God. Um and then the quest about the question about the group cohabitation, I don't know if that's dealing with polygamy and things like that, which while never explicitly condemned in scripture, is is clear that's not God's intention. Um but that would be multiple wives, not multiple husbands. Um and uh a lot of the modern stuff that you see on the news is like this four four way or eight way type of multiple husbands and wives type of thing. And why not? It's very Very happy. As long as they're happy. Love is love. Come on. So let's you want to move on to the next one? The next one is ties to some of this. Article seven is divorce and remarriage. We affirm that the marriage of Adam and Eve as a lifelong monogamous relationship is the pattern for all marriages within the human race. We affirm that God unites husband and wife in every covenanted and consummated marriage and will hold covenant breakers morally accountable. We affirm that since the essence of the marriage covenant is lifelong commitment to the covenant partner, uh action in relation to a marital breakdown should at least initially aim at the reconciliation of the partners and restoration of the marriage. We affirm that God hates divorce, however motivated. We affirm that although God hates divorce in a sinful world, separation is sometimes advisable and divorce is sometimes We affirm that God forgives repentant sinners, even those who have sinned by s uh sundering their marriages. We affirm that the Local church has a responsibility to discipline those who violate the biblical standards for marriage, compassionately restore those who repent, and faithfully minister God's grace to those whose lives have been scarred by marital disruption. And actually this is awkward, but we're gonna pause there. We've read these, but we're not gonna talk about them until next week's show, so it's a cliffhanger episode. This next week on this same bad channel. You'll find out what our answers are to that and we'll go through the denials. There's only a couple of denials actually for this section. So anyway, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Daniel Raz the Imran Razvy, thank you uh for participating on the panel again this week. Thank you for listening, spending part of your Sunday morning with us if you're listening on the radio or Part of your day with us if you're listening to the podcast. I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.