In just over a year, We will be selecting the next leader of the free world. So this week we're going to talk about leadership from a biblical perspective. Welcome to the Credit Faith Debate. Process by putting the plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? And Deer Valley, hardscape, landscape, masonry. I know I mix up those words every week. I'm sorry, I'll get it right someday. Randomly, one of those three ways I say it must be right. Eventually. Anyway, kinda like evolution, you know, it's eventually give you give you enough time you're gonna get it right. Wow. No, we've given evolution plenty of time and evolution has proven that it's a theory and On life support right now. No, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Ch uh Chapel who does not support evolution for the rest. Yeah. Well we'll talk about that later. We will. All right. And uh Tom Cooper, who is the uh is the principal, a principal, how do I say that? The principal. The principal. With their vice group. Absolutely. We do. We do too. How about He does not? I don't No. We did for a while with my son. That's right. For about three years, I guess. And it was very successful. It was, I must say. Alright, so yes. Rick Perry, Michelle Bachmann, Looney as long, right? Because they uh they believe in God. They they believe in public prayer. They hear voices apparently, God speaks. If only we had WFMD's Frank Mitchell on the show right now. Where's Frank in the basement? And uh and there's been charges that uh that Governor Perry is a uh an a a new apostolic uh Reformation guy. That's right. He's been accused. So apparently he's a Dominionist. Apparently it sticks. He is that. So he is? What do you mean he is? I think he comes from that background. Oh I'm not well okay. So are you saying somebody who has a an overt or passionate faith uh should be excluded from public service? Uh yes that's the question. That is the premise that the Washington Post has been pushing for the last how how how long ago did he ever since he Forever. Ever since he announced pretty much they've been going after Bachman too. Now here's the issue. Everybody has faith in something. And everybody's committed. Thanks, Oprah. Right? Everybody's committed to that faith. An atheist has a position on God and they are convinced that they're right. But Troy, they're right because they follow the facts of science. Not because of some ethereal mythical uh imagin imaginary friend that they have that talks to them all the time That was pretty good. Didn't I do that while you've been hanging out with those guys a little too long? Oh but I could. Oh but I could. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But we're gonna be making a decision. Uh in about thirteen months. We're making what kind of a leader do we want. What kind of a leader do we want? So what kind of a leader do we want? But did you want to go down the Dominion ist thing? I think that well I'm thinking that might come up, but Okay. You're chomping at the bit though, aren't ya? Well there's a lot to go down. I'm gonna give you behind the planes. You can sneak behind the curtain if you want to. You know, a little bit of uh filet mignon we should have a little bit of uh shrimp. What do you want to use? Yeah. Before we walked in to to do the show Frank in the basement. 'Cause we actually do the show in the basement. And Frank in the basement uh bumped into Jonathan and and gave him a hard time about uh Rick uh Perry and uh his being a a a Dominion guy. Yeah And uh he expected a different response than he got from you, Jonathan. He thought that I was going to renounce any uh any relationship with demand. And instead you said what? I said Frank I come from that background, and I have never met somebody in that entire background that is of the opinion that we should set up a theocracy. The Washington Post and everybody else has been setting up straw men again and again and then they've been turning around and knocking those straw men down and thinking that they are protecting the nation from uh wackos and it's just not the case. Everybody that I know is of the opinion that our nation as it was founded with freedom of religion and freedom of speech is the best possible way to run a society. Well look at the alternatives. I mean, you know, if you if you look at uh how much religious freedom there is in in theocratic societies, yeah you know, there's there's none. There's none. Right. I mean how many how many synagogues are there in in Saudi Arabia? You know, how many how many mosques and synagogues are there in the United States? with the liberal democracy that we have in the United States. They're not comfortable with it. But fundamentalist Christians We don't have a liberal democracy, we have a democratic republic. The term liberal from in in the original definitions, the classical term liberal, does not mean somebody that is is left wing, but it meant somebody that that was for freedom of religion, freedom of speech, somebody that was for free markets and all of those kinds of things. And uh and so my point is there's not A egalitarianism? Yeah. But oh, because I'm I I'm not I don't I don't think egalitarianism is a good way to go. I I don't feel like that's a good descriptor of uh the United States. I wasn't suggesting that it was. I was saying that that from a from a a liberal kind of perspective perspective that there's an egalitarianism of people, that that we're on the same plane as people, that every person has has you know this equal value. Yeah, okay, I'm with you on that. Yeah, it's been taken other ways by people in the term and so that's important to define those terms because the communication is very different from the nation was founded So the nation was founded on the idea that uh that a king that no easy egalitarianism going on there. But the anyway, there are significant problems with that. And I I think that that's one of the challenges we've we face as a nation is the history of saying that Well, some people are three fifths of a person and some are not. And and yet the founding documents say that all people are created equal, all men are created equal using the generic term men. Um and I think we found that there was a correction over time in our view that that made our implementation in society match what we said our ideals were from the beginning. Now let me make sure that we swing this into the area that we're trying to talk about leadership. Tom's expertise. Yes. And you know, John I knew that Jonathan was gonna end up going back to the Founding Fathers. Yeah, okay. Because that's John does that. Okay. You know, because he's a good American who a good conservative American, right? So he's going back to the Founding Fathers. Last week You went to great pains to take issue with this idea of, you know, we want to put too much emphasis on leaders and leadership and almost like an idolatry. of leadership, right? Yeah, go there. And yet we keep going back to our founding fathers who what were they if they weren't leaders? Right. Right. And we're left following in the Ben Franklin. He was a he was an excellent leader. He's an excellent influencer of men. First first postmaster Excellent inventor, uh tremendously successful as uh an ambassador. He was uh you know, he was a terrific leader. And the reality is that the direction that they led us to uh was um was profound and was good but direction was key to what was going on. The leadership of France when they had the revolution led in a direction that was anti-God and more uh and and as a result, uh it was anti law and order, it was anarchy, it was a mess, and so they chopped everybody's head off And it was ugly and it was brutal and it led to within a good twenty years the rise of uh Napoleon, uh, who whose ideas of leadership were again misplaced and he had a he had a wrong s he had a wrong vision of where he was going. And so our founding fathers weren't in it for the power. They weren't in it just to lead people, but they were in it to create a society that could lead itself, that could sustain itself And that would not require um uh a tyrant, somebody to be at the top that would have to be the king, but instead where uh where somebody uh somebody like Michelle Bachman could come out of the business world and could rule for a couple of years to serve, to play her part and then go back to doing uh what she was doing previously. That's why George Washington would not accept uh uh being president uh for more terms. He he he wanted this idea of Everybody had a chance. He tends to have been the king. But I and I think it was his personal commitment, his faith in in Christ that really caused him to relinquish that power. differences in our society, uh into uh instead of there being a vision, this is that this is a better way to put it, that everybody agrees is the vision that transcends all of our differences and pulls us together. There instead of having that vision, we have differing visions. And and you could lead all you want in the direction of what is best for the United States. But there's at least half the nation at this point that would disagree with your very vision and that that you'd be incapable of of winning leadership unless they unless those that that have the other vision could be influenced. Well so the question is uh from your perspective, is the vision from the left or the vision from the right the correct vision? And I would argue that That I mean if you want me to go political, I'll come out and be you know, a and and say where I stand. My sense is that that the guys on the right are attempting to lead us back to the original vision for the United States and that that generally the Tea Party guys are attempting to lead us back to uh the principles that that were uh grounded in the original. And the problem is that we're founded on two major foundations. One was Judeo-Christian uh ideology and worldview, but also on a political science worldview. Well political science found its its expression in Marxism and socialism uh where all the p political science guys went when they threw God out and we still have those guys there in the United States today. And so whereas our founding fathers thought that political science and a belief in God were compatible, we have at least half the nation today that is of the opinion that political science and a belief in God are incompatible. And as a result of that we have division that is is is brutal. Well I I think that the problem is putting our hope in either the left or the right. I I think that that both the parties are tremendously corrupt as a result of the influence of money and the just the the div the way it's devolved. I'm in agreement with you on this. And so you know, I think that the idea of placing our hope in getting one candidate or another elected is probably not wise. You know, we we need to be looking for people who are going to lead us well and ultimately leading well is going to be in line with what God says. Right? That's that's the the only way you're gonna have good leadership. And yet uh on the left that would agree with you. I'm not I'm not sure that I would I'm not sure I would agree with you on that point. And I think it's a matter of of understanding what it is that we're talking about because You know, when i it I I had this debate with my uh my cousin not that long ago who is who is on the far, far left uh sp of the spectrum. And and I said, Look, I believe very much that we need to care for the orphan and the widow and the homeless and you know, and I need to be taking money out of my wallet, I need to bring in people into my house. Yeah. Uh as I've done to be able to to take care of those people And he f he said, Well, that's exactly right. So we we're in agreement that we're supposed to do that. However Until you go to do it. And he wants the government to lead the trust. That's right because you think the government is ruining the effort to do so. Well I yeah, don't put words in my mouth, please. I I said I I think that he he said I'm assuming where you're coming from. He said, uh, look, you know, I just fundamentally don't believe you'll do it. And so I think I need to compel you to do it. Um and and fundamentally, do you agree with that statement or not? Do you think government is not the best tool for handling that? I think the government is particularly ineffective at almost everything it does. So I wasn't putting words in your mouth. You do believe that. I was summarizing it in John's way of summarizing it. But I think a lot more gracious and circumspective what you say. Who isn't? Yeah. Either you or I. You're only a pastor. So but I think the the fundamental question is do we believe that that people are good or do we believe people are are not good? Do we believe that people will do the right thing or not do the right thing? And is it the role of government to compel us to do what's right? Well that's interesting. Do you believe people are basically good or basically bad? I think the Bible is very clear that the heart is evil and desperately wicked who can understand it. Well that's interesting because that's the that's the counterintuitive part. We believe that that that you can't trust humanity to do the right thing. And so therefore we need we need church. We need God to train us. We don't need to lead us. We don't need church. We we need we need the power of Christ in our individual lives to conform us to that. I'm in agreement with that. I was saying that poorly But he's of the opinion that the world is basically good, but that you can't trust them to do what is good, so government has to force them to do it. Well I think that's a good thing. Which is so counterintuitive. Well the the the funny thing about that is if the man's inhumanity to man is the most documentable and yet most denied concept in the world. And that's not my thought, that's Rabbi Zacharias, but I think it's it's true. You know, we we're we see this inhumanity evidenced everywhere we go, and yet we say, No, people are basically good. And I I think that the Christian worldview says no, people are not basically good, that they are basically evil and and save the redeeming power of Christ, we're done. And so this is my point. If you don't believe in a God The only answer it it's logically um inevitable that you're gonna believe that the state has to make it happen It makes total sense to me that that those people in the United States that are wishy washy in their faith are of the opinion that they gotta look to the state. Right? And so that's because of the failure of the church. If the church had been doing its job of caring for the needy and the homeless and the and the fatherless, then there would not have been a need for anybody to step into the gap. But this is this again is a leadership question where I disagree with you. The church, we are told, is overseen by Christ. and is made glorious because Christ himself is both putting gifts into our midst and he is washing us with the water of the word. He is seeding us in the heavenly realms. He's blessing us with every spiritual blessing. And so the church, the bride, is glorious. The question is is not whether or not the church is failing. The question is is whether or not at the end a whole large group of people in the world is going to choose to reject Christ. And we're clearly taught in scripture. The majority will reject Christ and that it will not be based on whether or not the church was effective, but it will be based on their choice to reject the one who is is I would say that the vast majority of people who are in the the church within you know quotes people who are attending worship services on a regular basis are not Falling on their face in front of front of Christ to confess their sin and to worship the spirit and truth. Amazing is that Jesus Christ has chosen the weak and ignoble things of the world to confound the wise. And he's chosen a church that will always be as ineffective as you're saying it will be. To confound the wise and to accomplish the uh salvation of the world. And yet, Christ Himself recognizes that that all that being the case Not cracking the whip saying you guys have to be perfect, you have to just like our uh happens so often in in uh in the world's mindset. We just gotta crack the whip. We just gotta work a little bit harder. We just gotta be a little bit better. And then we'll get everything done. But the reality is that Christ has chosen the weak things of the world to accomplish and influence the world. And he's and he's doing it very well. But I and I think the church is glorious. It's amazing to me when I look at the church and I see what's happening. Well, I think that we do overlook the good that that the church does in the world for sure. And I think we we think that that we act like that doesn't exist. But my point is, you know, Jesus said uh in that day you many will say to me, Lord, Lord Then we cast out demons in your name and do miracles and and I'll say, Depart from me, I never knew you. No, he's not going to say that, but I I think the the point that that I'm making is there are plenty of people who would call themselves religious who say that they are say that they're followers and they are not supposed and and And even I mean I you know, to to say I think even in my own heart, there there are times that I want to pursue what's honoring to God and other times that I don't. So the challenge is when I said earlier the church is failing, what I meant to say is the the people that claim to be religious are failing in the same way that the Jesus called out the Pharisees for failing so much, because Revelation clarifies that there's a beast, those people that reject Christ outrightly. And there's a whore, those people that claim to be the bride but are really uh um sleeping around with all the other religions and and and filling their lives up with the idolatries of the world. And then there's the bride that is pure. And yes, you're right, there is still the whore Babylon that is out there, that has always been out there, and that is always going to be out there, but they are not somehow causing Christ to be less effective. Christ's effective that they would have power over Christ and Christ is infinitely powerful. And this is my concern about the leadership movement is that they they regularly take to us as the church If you guys would just get your axe straight, people would not be going to hell. And it is a lie and it is a burden that you're putting on our shoulders. that that's unacceptable and I'm I'm vehemently against it. Well I think that's unacceptable. I I agree with you that that's unacceptable. I think far more often the the the so called leaders in chur in the church are saying that if you follow my teaching you'll be healthy and wealthy. You know, I think that's also a problem. Because far more people are going to be attracted to the idea that they would be healthy and wealthy than than to say, well, you should do more. Right. Because it is true that those who teach those things will be held doubly accountable. And it is true that those that those people are wrong, but it's also uh uh you I I think we could say that in the New Testament Paul, our great leader, uh clarified uh Two main problems. One big problem was the Judaizer orientation that we would say that if only we were better to fix our own world. Right. And that was a lie, the Judaizer lie that he exposed. You know, it's not true that if we were better, that less people would go to hell. That's just not the case. God knows the heart, Christ knows the heart, but it's also, I don't think it's true Um it's also true that uh that those teachers that are teaching the lies are going to be held accountable by Christ. Jonathan Sweisser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Tom Cooper, who's uh the principal at Bright Hill Group. Um, we kind of shifted a little bit though because the original right the the original comment that Tom made uh was in response to a question, John, that you asked about the government's role. Yeah. In social services and meeting the needs of the poor and the widows and the orphans and all that sort of stuff. And he was saying how, you know, the the government is is trying to do that and doing a horrible job at it. And they're trying to do that and doing a horrible job at it because the church didn't hold up their end of the bargain. And so I don't think he was saying that the church is failing because people are going to hell. He was talking about the church has failed in the so social service aspect of things and the government has tried to step in. And the government isn't the one who's supposed to be doing that. The church is a very good thing. Back in the day when I was hanging around people that were emphasizing the leadership orientation, I think that I carry in my heart to this day uh a measure of unforgiveness towards that that I'm taking out on you that I have both last week and this week that I think is wrong for me to do I want to apologize for that. Um I don't know if I'll be able to stop myself, you know, the rest of our discussion here. Because we're supposed to keep talking, but Uh, but I I d I I guess I I just wanna come clean about that, that I I feel like that there were significant failures by those people in my life that emphasized what what you emphasize and it's not right for me to take it out on you, it's not right for me to live in unforgiveness, but I think it I I think if I'm honest, it drives the intensity of my concern that we that we be careful to not uh allow a leadership orientation to get in the wrong place. And so I just want to be honest about that. Oh, I apologize. Oh, absolutely. And and I I take no offense. I think it's a matter of of of looking at the abuses that happen throughout the church, and there are plenty of abuses as there are plenty of places to abuse, you know. Uh but I think that we do have a calling to serve. And if we're gonna be effective in service, we've got to coordinate and organize people. And so we've got to develop leadership qualities in the process of doing that You know, I've said often on this show that I feel like those people that are most concerned about doctrine are always those people that have been hurt by bad doctrine. And then they and then they recover by the grace of God. They're healed, but they're like, Okay, well let's make sure that we don't let that happen again and and uh I can see that I have uh also fallen into that. But I agree that you're right. We've got to serve and we gotta go for it. So Well we started this by talking about the presidential thing and you know I'm reminded I I don't know if either one of you have seen the HBO series uh John Adams back when it was out. I would recommend it, and I think it's interesting because it's it's all about leadership, right? It's about these founding fathers as they're trying to lead the nation in its form formative Years and all these different personality types and all that sort of stuff. The discussions we're having now were discussions they were having then. Isn't that amazing? The role of the federal government versus the role of the states. Are people basically good or basically bad? Can they trust her or not? That's why John Adams was so strong about having a government found that having it be a republic based on law. Because you couldn't trust the people. You couldn't trust the leaders, you couldn't trust the masses. Right. So you needed law to keep everybody in check. Well not only that, I may I'm sorry to interrupt here, but I I think that one of the things that's amazing is When you look at the weakness of the the nation as it was founded when the when the constitution was written, their biggest concern was limiting power. Yeah. They they put in check after check after check to limit power of the executive, to limit the power of of the judiciary. power without it getting out of control. That's right. But they had nothing. We had this huge debt. We had very little opportunity to tax to raise money to pay off the debt. We had we had just war wiped out a great deal of the healthy and productive men who were going to be able to make the nation succeed in the Revolutionary War. And so we were very, very, very weak. And the primary focus for the leaders and the founders was not how do we accumulate power, but how do we keep power from being accumulated. Although at the same time if you watch the miniseries and if the series is is based on reality, and I think it's a very important thing to do. Yeah, but I think the guy who wrote the uh the book that the series is written on, I think he really tried to be as authentic as he could. And there were power plays going on then Yeah. You know, Hamilton's fighting for a strong uh federal government and uh and there's power plays that cost Adams his reelection, almost cost him his initial election. Right. You know, so Well and I have to say, I mean I I spent a good deal of time uh looking at uh Team of Rivals, which was about uh and uh fascinating book and what I found the most fascinating about it was It was today. I mean you you could have written that today about the power plays that go on in that model. Well I'm surrounded by Jonathan Slicer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads White Chapel, and Tom Cooper, who is principal at Bright Hill Group. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to the Faith of Eight brought to us by Pum Plumbing and Heating, How We Make You Smile, and Deer Valley Landscape, Heartscape, and Masonry. Till next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Pop and plumbing, how can we make you smile?