Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Product Faith Debate sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of interesting things, including apparently a video. I've noticed something. Jonathan likes to shoot video of the opening sequence to the show. I'm not sure what it is, but he likes to do that. We could just use the same clip every week. What you know? I'm gonna turn on your mic so you can respond. It's funny to me that you're thinking that as well because I was just thinking the exact same thing. Oh, say it's not true. If All we do is record the beginning every time, then they get the same thing, and so we gotta figure out a way to mix it up a little bit. I'm I'm sharing a thought with Jonathan. This is a sad day Anyway, it must be love. But now it's a happy day because I want to introduce our guest this week, the author of the Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You, Barry Robert Scarliffer, and this is round two Last week we tried to uh define what we mean by apostle and apostolic, and I don't know that we did a particularly good job of that. I feel like we were kind of unwilling to define it uh because we didn't want to go too negative on some things and so Maybe we just gotta stick with it a little bit. Yeah, this is the faith debate. We go negative on things all the time. So uh but I do wanna w I'm sure we'll continue to flesh it out as we go, but I do wanna uh pick up on a couple of things that were brought up last one of the things uh immediately and something else maybe next week's show. Okay. But we're talking about, you know, uh some people have responded to Barry's book saying, you know, why do you dislike the church so much? And we talked a little bit about that, but I wanna unpack that a little bit more. uh this week. Um what how we want to define those terms? What is it exactly you're opposed to? It sounds like something I picked up uh when we were doing the show last week that I didn't I'm not sure I picked up when I was reading the book Seems like you are you're kind of pushing back against the institution of the church, the institutionalized church Uh when I was reading the book I felt like you're pushing back against any form of organization and you might be. But I'm wondering if there's a this distinction there. Uh here's a here's uh that's a good question. Here's a quote or pretty close to a quote anyway. Religion in any form is not a god idea. So Are we defining re religion? Are we talking about religion as it represents an institutional organism? Are we talking about religion as it uh as it relates to the practices that people of faith do on a regular how are we defining that? Right, 'cause the Bible actually uses the term religion, James 126 being you know the key one that religion that God our Father accepts as pure and faultless is to look after the widows and the orphans in the distress. Right? And I don't think you're referring to that. Well actually um and it's interesting you would quote James. Yeah um yeah by the way I'm gonna I was gonna maybe bring this up later but I quoted James. No well there's a quote in Barry's book he says I think it's Three words long. James is wrong. Yes. And and see and I hope I almost fell over it. Wait a minute, what? Yes. You know, and and and so I can respond to the other thing that you started with I chose James. And I I don't want yeah, you you chose James. But first Timothy five also, you know, these uh widow should learn first to put their religion into practice by caring for their own family and repaying their parents, you know, that is pleasing to God. Now i you're not in in uh totally You know, ill company. I mean Martin Luther wasn't a big fan of of James. And he shouldn't have been. proven that Martin Luther was wrong and so we'll prove you're wrong in the next twenty seven minutes. Well here's here's Zelda. But but I want to s I want to Quit quoting James over there, John. John Okay, do the original question. Let me do the the original question. But I will I will bring it back around to James and my problem with the question. I trust you. Okay. Because I you know now Guarantee you a lot of people that are listening right now already are starting to believe you have brought a heretic to the microphone. But I don't think that all the time. A hairy tick, is that something like a channel? Yeah, it's a disease your dog and cat mixes that with different types of mercy. Anyway. Let me let me get back to your question about what it is that I am, quote, against. Um I am really against the same thing Jesus was against. Religion. Well we can't argue with him now. So because look at look at what look at what's going to get a little bit hard here for me. Look at what happened when Jesus arrived on the scene Now let's keep the perspective of what was going on when he arrives. And when I say arrives on the scene, I'm talking about when he began his active ministry at thirty. And he was simply seen as just another rabbi that was teaching in Palestine. That was it. There was no recognition that this was the Son of God. There's no recognition this was the Messiah. Matter of fact, quite the opposite. There were there were meaning what phase? They did know that he was doing miracles and so that was definitely a part. But my point is when he arrived on far well matter of fact it really never changed I mean it didn't matter that he was doing miracles. I'd like to submit that right after he resurrected Lazarus from the dead, they started to scheme to kill him, the religious people did. So the question is why you know there would play. Okay. At some point. Maybe not right in a second, but any any kind of set uh beliefs that people have established about God in any way, shape, or form. I I am I am definitely anti-religion and I submit that Jesus was anti-religion He argued with the religious people all the time. Yeah, but I think he argued because they had their religion wrong, not because they were religionists Yeah, in in fact I feel that I feel like your definition, if I'm honest, uh right off the front and of just you know, then you know where I'm coming from. I feel like your definition of religion is a definition that might possibly come out of some of your Pentecostal background that that uh has always been a reaction against the parts of the church that are too much in their head and too much you know not not letting you know the Spirit of God move But by your own definition, uh as we were talking ahead of the show, uh you had said that oftentimes Pentecostals didn't bring as much of their uh intellectual ability uh into the discussion and my sense is that when Jesus came uh he was not um speaking against everything that Moses had established, which was very organized and was clearly a set of beliefs, but that in fact he was calling those that were claiming to be uh of biblical mosaic religion back to uh Moses uh and that if they believed Moses they would believe him, but because they rejected Moses, they rejected him. So it wasn't religion per se, but it was religion that is based on man-made um uh teaching as opposed to based on God's revelation to Moses. All religion is man-made. Religion is Mos was the Mosaic Torah, was all that man-made? Yes. Okay, so so that helps me to clarify because that's why dis what that's uh that's why I would disagree with you that all religion is bad. God instituted the mosaic uh system. No, he did not. God established uh the tabernacle in the wilderness. I wish I had the video camera with just Don't look on John's face right now. Can you do it again? I don't know if I can, but it was it was it it was what? Did I do it right? Was that good? Yeah, it was looking how happy I made Troy. Classic. Okay. Let me see if I can help you with this. By the way, for the video in context, I got I mean it's destroy it destroying the show for the stupid video, but uh by the way, children do not use the word S T-U-P-I-D It's not a good word. That's right. But uh did you use it or did you just use it on it and I apologize. Uh Jonathan said, you know, the the Torah, you know, that's the the establishment of a religion by God. God established that religion. And Barry said no. And then John said, No, he didn't. Give me that look. I said What? Okay, I'm sorry. Okay, video's done. Okay. That was fun. So let me see if I can uh help you understand something. The tabernacle that God instructed Moses to build in the wilderness. Forty days, forty nights up on the mountain. That tabernacle laid out with the blueprints that God gave to Moses was really for one purpose. The tabernacle was to show Christ. Clearly. And so what happened was though the Jews eventually made it a religion. Right, but but therefore it lost its It's that's what I'm asking at the beginning about the Torah the Torah was um an establishment of men. I mean it wasn't So you don't believe that God gave all those six hundred and thirteen laws to Moses to give to the people No, I didn't say that. Okay. That's what I'm hearing. So that's what I'm saying. than just that. Sure. So you know, but but that's what I'm that's what I'm getting into because it included special days to worship. Including the Sabbath each week and and and uh uh special days once a month and then you're making my point from the very beginning officials that Jesus came to destroy that religion. He constantly did it. He did everything to fulfill it. No, wait a minute. But he came to destroy their idea of it. He broke all those laws of the Sabbath, and they condemned him for it. Well he claimed what's going on. He didn't claim that he had broken them. He claimed that he was fulfilling the laws of the Sabbath because he's the Lord for the S. They didn't see it that way. I understand that, but they didn't see it at all. They're being uh unclear about what Jesus was saying doesn't mean that Jesus was unclear about what he was doing. And and so this is this is my d the distinction. Exactly because what he was doing was saying to them very clearly. You have made this a religion. This was not a religion. I am the fulfillment of those laws. So I just want you to know that the way that you just use that word religion, I don't think is accurate to how Scripture uses it. And and and the way that you're using it I can get behind your meaning and I can actually agree with you because I I think I get what you're trying to say, but I feel like your language says something, at least from the background that I come from, different from what you're meaning And so so when I understand what Jesus originally set up, he set up something that was corporate in nature, that was uh mandatory for all those in Israel. that also pointed to Christ and was intended to be fulfilled in Christ, that people like Mary, Joseph, Anna Um and uh and even uh John the Baptist and others uh seemed to understand that Christ wa uh like when they saw Christ they're like, oh this is what everything the Torah was pointing to. Right, they got it. Even the prophets, Elijah and Isaiah and Jeremiah, all these guys got it, that that the the Torah was pointing to something, and they got the right meaning behind it. But I would say that there was a right religion that was behind that, that was okay, that that called for heart circumcision And and you're using the term religion as as a derogatory term that could never describe anything positive whatsoever. And and I'm just not in that place. I think I I th I think I might accept that and say that I'll I'll be guilty of that because I I really don't care. What's amazing to me, Jonathan, I'm just meeting you for the first time. But I can't imagine anyone being so right and so wrong all at the same time. Troy can. Only because you are and I show 'em all the time that that's true about it. You are you are uh absolutely amazing. Um Now let's go. By the way, the amazing one over there is Jonathan. Yeah, get that on tape, right? Jonathan Slicer, senior pastor of Cross Rose Valley Church. Uh Barry Robert Starlipper, the author of The Apostle Jesus The Kingdom Among You. I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Faith Debate on Friday's News Radio, 930 WFMD. As we continue this, I want to broaden it. Stay on topic that we're on, but I want to broaden a little bit because uh if I recall, it's it's been a little bit now since I've read the book. But I think you also make mention, uh at least at least allude to, if not make the direct point, that even the New Testament is a product of the church Kind of indicating that it's a man made kind of a thing as opposed to God's word. And it is so it's not just the Torah or the writings or the poets or or the prophets. It's it's the New Testament as well. So the entire what we would call the the canon uh generally speaking, you know, in the in in this kind of context, I think people know what we're talking about. Uh you're you're not really You don't understand that as the canon? As not authoritative, as not from God, as inspired, blah, blah, blah. Because then it's not just James that you that you're not a fan of, but you wouldn't be a fan of almost any of it, right? Uh no, no. That's not true Uh let me c see if I can quickly define this for you so you at least know where I am, where I'm coming from. Uh people say that the Bible is the word of God. Yeah. No, it's not The Bible is a gathering of 66 books that could be and sometimes is about the Word of God. The word of God is Jesus. Now let me ask just a quick question. Would you say that that the people that you um associate with in terms of the body of Christ? are primarily in agreement with you about that definition? Meaning like uh w uh you were Pentecostal for a bit, you were, you know, Assembly's God for a bit you were kind of out of that for the people listening. I I gotta make this clear. I was raised Pentecostal. I have not been uh a practice of Pentecostalism for I I am nowhere close in in what people would call theology to Pentecostalism. uh agree with what you just described about the word of God that that you would look to kind of as as your authorities you know, and uh the you know, your your fellow believers in that particular understanding of Scripture. Like the guys that go you go to church with right now, do they all agree with you on that that that the other thing is? No, I'm sure I'm I'm sure they uh don't. I'm sure there's a lot of people that uh don't. Sure. But they like him anyway because he's so darn cute. Yeah. That's what it is. That's the whole thing. Your wife dresses you up real nice in the morning makes all the difference. I'm telling ya little word for the wise, if you can be cute with your wife Scores you a lot of points. Uh-huh. You can get away with a lot of stuff. Yeah. That is the inspired word of God. Okay, so coming back then to So so coming but I I want to get back to the religious issue for this reason. When when we talk about being against religion, I am against all religion because all religion is man-made. It's not God ordained. None of it is. So my point is I don't care whether we're talking about Christianity, I don't care if we're talking Judaism, I don't care if we're talking Muslims, I don't care which one you're talking about. Look at what religion has done on this planet. So let me ask a quick question. You went to church last Sunday? No, actually I didn't. Okay, so uh because I I don't I don't attend any particular church on a regular basis. I do go. Do you think people should attend church on a regular basis? Um Should I dunno. I I don't even know how to answer this is the proper expression of The body of Christ. Is there a proper expression of the body of Christ? Again, Paul when Paul wrote to the Corinthians, what's the proper expression of them being the body of Christ? Being the body of Christ would be fulfilling what Christ came here to talk about and do, which is which is love, which it w well love is included in it certainly, but it's a part of the second subtitle of my book. Jesus came preaching the kingdom. That's what he was obsessed with talking about. And that's what his body is to fulfill Word the prim meaning the reign of God, the reign of heaven. Well, more specifically, the domain. Kingdom is the domain of the king. Yeah, where the king reigns. I mean uh the the the broad definition you gave of that Greek term is is just that that's that's too broad, particularly in the understanding in which Jesus taught the kingdom. You know, there believers should be out proclaiming the kingdom. Yes. That's the message. That was the message. Again, Jesus didn't come to establish another religion. He didn't come to say to the Pharisees that you're wrong and therefore now there should be Christianity. Christianity was established by men later on after he left here. People say Jesus came and established a church. No, he didn't. He didn't come to establish a church. Not in the classic traditional sense of what we now call church. Yeah, I th I think we're um I don't want to get we'll we'll be talking of circles forever, I think. I I I think unfortunately this sort of big idea that it that it I think that I I'm going to speak for Jonathan for a second. I've known him for a long time. I think that Jonathan and I would both be comfortable agreeing with everything you're saying if we would add a caveat. Right? Well the caveat would be all of the false religion, all of the the the bastardization of true Christianity, those sorts of things. We say, yes, absolutely. We've lost our way and we need to get back on center. We need to get back on the in in line with with Plum. Uh and but you're not you don't seem to want to add that caveat, so I think that's where our Yeah, is there a plum for the church? Like for example, first Timothy three uh fifteen. If I'm delayed, you will know how people ought to conduct themselves in God's household, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and foundation of the truth, right? That's pretty uh profound passage. You know, is there a way that we're supposed to conduct ourselves in God's household? See, now we've opened the new can of worms because Again, there you go. If we are going to all go eat worms. We are going to establish establish doctrines based on the pastoral epistles of Paul. With uh no understanding of what it was he was talking to Timothy about and why This is this isn't my problem with religion is theology from your point of view. for the sake of his body, which is the church. I have become its, meaning the church's servant by the commission God gave me. Yes. But again, the usage of the term church there is ecclesia. Th there was a diff the problem here is if the moment you hear the word church, another connotation comes up. Because when when we say church and you read church in that Colossians reference, people think about church as they know it. Not the church he was talking about. The body of the church he's talking about. The body of Christ is the church in the sense of the ecclesia. Okay. So I agree with you on that. Is it true that we should not give up meeting together as some are in the habit of doing? That that there's a it was not first of all. Let's let's get this clear. It was not meeting. It was a matter of assembly. That's what that Greek word there means. The difference between an assembly and there is a difference. The the b because again that you're quoting that out of Hebrews when he's trying to talk about bringing that type and shadow of the tabernacle into the existence that's going on. Yeah, but as he's done that, in that passage, he's turning to some practical reality that some of the people that he's speaking to are losing hope and they're not doing some things they should be doing. And one of those things is that they're giving up meeting together and some are getting in the habit of doing that, right? So he breaks from the the revelation of heaven into some practical matters. And when he does so, he seems to give an indication that what the church does is Gather together one of the things they do is gather together regularly. Like 1 Corinthians 12, 13, and 14. When you come together, three Prophets should get up to speak. Yes, and you know, all the people. See again, this is where we get into a problem when we try to create theology out of some of these letters. It has been well said that if Paul Would have had any idea that we were going to build theology over his letters, he would have been more careful about what he said He was writing I think he knew that he was doing that for the entire Gentile world. He was the apostle since we're talking about apostles called to the Gentiles. Both letters. That was sent to the Corinthians is because they were playing church and they were playing organized religion and there was a lot of problems in there. Turn it around and then to use some of that language and create a theology out of it, that's where I see the problem. Because one of the greatest definitions of love in all of Scripture is there. So why would we not also think that in the midst of them being so unloving, Paul came up with this definition of love? that was the highest. Why would we not also say in the midst of them being a bad church that he was going to come up with a definition of the ideal church. Now we're into the second problem I have with theology and with discussing it this way. If I keep at it, I'm going to hit number three and number four. Do we have time I don't know if we have time more right and more wrong than anybody that is everything in context. And so when when you're talking about 1 Corinthians 13, the that great love chapter, people misunderstand it because it's so poetic that we really miss the whole point he's trying to make. He's talking about love bringing us to maturity. Which is why at the end of that chapter he talks about when I was a child, I spake as a child and I did childish things, but when I became a man and and the word that is used there is talking about the mature man with like the man child of Christ. I put away those children. Sure. Love brought me to that. But he's not referring to getting together and prophesying. Here's my point. My point is that Chapter 12 of 1 Corinthians was dealing with how they were a misusing, quote, the gifts of the Spirit. And same uh chapter fourteen follows in the same way. Right. Chapter thirteen is in the middle there for a reason. His whole point was You you all are acting like little children because you have missed the point. One of you speaking in tongues and the other one wants to say that he interpreted and this one wants attention for that. And he's he's saying, listen That's not what Christ is about. You think you're so spiritual. But he didn't just identify what you should not. He said I'm telling you. He's identifying what you should be. Yeah, but my point is he wrote that letter to correct them and to get them back to the course of so you can So does this better define the course or no? If you're saying he's looking to correct them and get them back to the course, then there's a thing that he's trying to get them back to. Does his letter effectively do that or no? Well, that's debatable because the Corinthian Church never did pay a letter. Okay, so let me say it differently. Is his is his letter considered um uh a inspired. Yes, it is, of course it is. I gotta graph I gotta jump in and make that the last word. The people John Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, Barry Robert Starlipper, the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. What have I been reading other than Barry's book lately? Interestingly, I think, Interpreting the Prophetic Word by Willem A. Van Gemeren. I don't know. That's per that's uh sounds like you're speaking in tongues. Anyway, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours away, we start all over again. God bless