We affirm that valid ooh, is that my m is that what my mic sounds like? Does this sound tinny to you? I I don't have a point. That sounds really, really, really, really tinny. Wow Wow. That's the worst these headphones have ever sounded. That's a heck of a way to start a show. Hello, good wording to you. This is the um the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, uh host of this show for a long time, pastor of Household. the faith in Christ and joined by a fellow pastor of a of a house church in the area that meets at I don't know three, four, five, six different places, uh David Forcy. And uh his his church uh at one point we're gonna call it the uh the Potomac House Church. Uh Um the uh we also are calling it the multi location house church. I don't know if we really maybe it's the Potomac multi location house church and we'll blend those ideas. Maybe it's the multi name house church, right? Oh multi name Yeah. Hey it seems to be what's happening. You know we're we're all into diversity these days, so you are. You are on time. Alright, well I was gonna start by just reading these affirmations uh stuff, but then I got thrown off because my I I still sound strange to myself. Ah hey, no wisecracks. I know I sound strange Anyway, let me read uh we're we're working our way through yes, we're jumping back into the Chicago statements. Uh we did the Chicago Statement on Biblical Litrancy, we went all the way through all of that We did the uh Chicago Statement on Biblical Hermeneutics. We made it all the way through that. And then we started the Chicago Statement on Biblical Application and we didn't make it all the way through that. And we paused and we've done quite a few shows since then. So uh fortunately we live in a podcast world, so if this topic is of interest to you, you can listen to the ones we did and then you can jump right into these podcasts. If you're the uh radio listener Come on. Tell the truth. You don't listen to every single fate debate show as it airs my radio station. You know, I I know you don't, so don't act disappointed that we didn't do things exactly in the order you would have liked. Come on. In fact, for all I know, the last time you listened to the show, we were talking about the Chicago State. Yeah, we are we we're gonna finish up uh um if not in this show uh uh soon Very soon. So we're talking about economics. There's a number of articles and we're up to thirteen for the application one. Now let's read the first one and we'll we'll we'll see what we think. We affirm that valid economic principles can be found in Scripture and should form an integral part of a Christian world and life view. We affirm that material resources are a blessing from God, to be enjoyed with thanksgiving, and are to be earned, managed, and shared as a stewardship under God. Sounds boilerplate to me, what do you think? So far so good. Yeah, I don't see anything to put out. I'd have to define some terms, but maybe they'll get to that Oh, like what's a term you'd wanna define? Uh integral? Maybe. Maybe maybe economics. I'm pretty simple, Troy. So how are we defining economics? We'll we'll we'll see how they uh Let's see if the next couple flesh that out for the resources to support the work of God's church. We affirm that the Use of personal and material resources for the proclamation of the gospel is necessary both for the salvation of lost mankind and to overcome poverty. Where that is fostered by adherence to non-Christian religious systems. And I got some things we probably want to talk about there, but what do you think I'll let you go first. Uh let's see, you said uh the we affirm that the use of personal and material resources for the proclamation of the gospel. is necessary both for salvation of lost mankind and to overcome poverty. Is that what you're talking about? Yeah, now they might say it because there's a few more affirmations obviously. But the the the the very first one I just read a second ago talks about giving sacrificially, which I agree, we should give sacrificially, but I sure would have liked the idea of being a cheerful giver. To cheerfully give sacrificially, I think I would have liked that better. Okay. And then the the the use of personal and material resources uh for the proclamation of the gospel um is necessary both for salvation of lost k mankind and overcoming poverty. I don't know that I agree with that word necessary. Right? God's gonna say who's gonna save whether I give sacrificially or not So I don't know if I like that word. I know I'm nitpicking, but that's that's what these things are about, right? They they they argued about every word in these statements. And so I'm like, why'd they put the word necessary in there? Did was it necessary to put the word necessary in there? So personal Yeah, so material resources I mean if you were to take out a few things, would you just say th are they saying that material resources are necessary for salvation. I would say is advantageous or is useful to the purposes of God for the sal like something like that. But i it it seems like Saving the lost and helping the poor is something that God can't do if we don't give of our resources. And God can do it without us. And I'm not diminishing that's not a get out of jail free card like we shouldn't be giving, and that's not my point. I just don't like that it seems to diminish God's ability because he is dependent on it. I just don't I don't I don't love that. Is that uh I don't know. Either way. I mean Saul on the road to Damascus was saved without anybody giving of their personal material resources. these statements are supposed to do. Like they're supposed to be clarifying and ironclad and the language, you know, should be crystal clear in its specificity. And I I I'm just not liking this. Did do they mean Does that make me a jerk? No. No. No. So other things make me interact. Probably. Yeah. Uh so uh my my my last last question about it is do by necessary do they mean that uh that that God God doesn't work apart from the the material resources of this world in order to Bring about salvation and the overcoming of poverty. If I just take the words on the page for what it seems like they mean, it seems like they're saying that it's necessary that we would use our personal and material resource. For the salvation of the lost and to overcome poverty. And I have a bit of a you know Uh there's a bit of a sticky wicket with that too, because uh Jesus himself says the poor will always be with you. Like we're not gonna completely overcome poverty until Christ returns. Right, right. And so I'm just not a fan of that one I in large measure, actually. I th that's one of the sloppiest affirmations of the three statements we've done so far. This is one of the sloppiest sentences. And and do they mean by material resources, are we talking about money or are we talking about time? Is time a material resource? Is time is time a piece of that feels like an immaterial resource to me. Right. Like that wouldn't fit under economics necessarily. Yeah, like although time is money, right? That's what they that's what they say Right. So yeah, so I mean I it seems like by economics they they're talking about uh money stuff things. Yeah. I think I th one of the things we can learn from this is these statements with a bunch of smart guys. Right? And and heroes of the faith actually. Come t come together and they craft a statement that is supposed to like s you know, weather test that you know handle all sorts of storms thrown at it over time. And they still don't get it exactly right. You know why? Because these sorts of statements are not the word of God. And so some pe that's I'm not uh I think the confessions and all that and these statements are helpful, but th uh they're not as authoritative in my life and in my uh pastoring as they are for other pastors that I know. And and even if they are supposed to be sort of timeless statements you can you can almost see how uh present current issues or have seeped into into some of these statements. And and maybe they are they're not supposed to be timeless, maybe they are supposed to also be timely. But it's hard to hard to have both at the same time. And you're smarter than me, so I don't know what the last six, seven words even mean. It talks about Uh overcoming poverty where that is fostered by adherence to non-Christian religious systems. What the heck are they talking about? I don't even know what that means Do you know what that means? Um I'm working on it, so I I I might I might be smarter than you, but you're much quicker than I am, so it'll take me much longer to get there. I I mean I'm gonna read it again for context and then we'll move on if we can't because we'll just get bogged down. We affirm that the use of personal and material resources for the proclamation of the gospel is necessary both for the salvation of lost mankind and to overcome poverty where that is fostered by adherence to non-Christian religious systems. Poverty is being fostered by non-Christian religious systems. So it's it's It's Marxism or something. Right, yeah. That is the cause of poverty or if Christians throw their money at Marxism, it'll solve the problem. That's one way of understanding that. Right? And I would disagree if that's what is meant by that. I no, I th I think it's saying that Marxism is the cause of a lot of poverty or Uh you know, I mean you see many other religious systems that cause a lot of poverty because of by nature. Well, a couple of very wise men suggested it would take an entire show to try to work through these affirmations on economics and they might have been right. Let's go to the next couple. All right. We affirm that active compassion for the poor and oppressed is an obligation that God places upon all human beings, especially on those with resources. We affirm that the possession of wealth imposes obligations upon its possessors. This was written pre woke nonsense, right? So they're not using language in the same way that they might use it over the last half a dozen or dozen years even. This goes back to like the nineteen eighties, eighty seven I think, something like that. Uh so yeah, but that there would have been still the beginning of the With the social justice sort of movement at that time. Yeah, but it wasn't dominating the world like it is now, right? So I wonder if they would phrase it differently if it was written today, don't you think? Because this heads right up to that line. So it doesn't get conflated, yeah. Yeah. Because we should have active compassion for the poor, sure, absolutely. And we should be worried about the oppressed, although that's a buzzword in the right lately. Uh is an obligation that God places upon all human beings. Agreed. Especially on those with resources. Yeah, I guess. Whoever's giving much as is required. So yeah, okay. That's where they're going, I guess. Yeah, I think that's where they're going. That's where they're going. I agree. I wish that was written a little differently. Um all right. So we let's move on. We'll do the next three because they're kind of short. We affirm that the love of money is a source of great evil. With we affirm that human depravity, greed, and the will to power foster economic injustice And subvert concern for the poor. We affirm that the Bible affirms the right of private ownership as a stewardship under God. So The first one, right, we affirm the love of money is a source of great evil. Okay. Uh it certainly can be. Yeah. Right? Absolutely. It's a source of all kinds of evil. Right. A source. Not the source or you know Not the exclusive source. That was fine, I think. Human depravity, greed, will to power. That that catches my attention a little bit. Foster economic injustice What does that mean? Economic injustice? What does that mean? Does that mean like stealing? It could, and if so, does it mean like taxes? It could, if so. But in today's parlance, it could also mean you have more than me, and that's not just. Talk about these things today. Yeah. Right. But that's the whole social justice, you know, thing that's is born out of this. Yeah, yeah. So uh that could have been written better, I believe. But who am I? I'm Troy Skinner, by the way, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, host of the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD, and joined this week by Um David Forcy, who is also a pastor in the area, and if you'd like to connect with him, he's like in the stone age on connectivity, but you can get in touch with him by getting in touch with me. I'll I'll I'll hook you up. All right. Alright, wanna move on to the next couple? Yeah. All right. We deny that scripture directly teaches any science of economics. Although there are principles of economics that can be derived from Scripture, we deny that Scripture teaches that compassion for the poor must be expressed exclusively through one particular economic system. I'm not loving some of this either. I don't I I feel like there needs to be a study on economics before we can dive into this. What do we mean by science of economics? Right? What do we mean by that? Is that like capitalism, Marxism? That's how I'm understanding it. Scientific systems of economics. I mean the scriptures what does the scripture teach about economics. We know that it talks about private property and a right to have your stuff not taken by somebody else against your will, right? Stealing's bad. So that's an economic thing. Sure. And we shouldn't be um uh altering our relation with others because they've got more than us and so we're jealous and we're coveting their stuff and it impacts the the connectivity of the community because of economic disparities. No partiality rich or poor. Right. Right. Bible talks about both. Either way. So if Does any of that fit within the science of economics? It feels like principles of economics that they're referring to? Yeah, see I don't know. I uh this feels like it could be them saying, Look, we're not just saying capitalism is the only way. And that's true. That's fair. That's fair. But I don't know, the it it it's been in vogue most of my lifetime. Hasn't it been in vogue to kind of diminish capitalism to frown upon capitalism, the greedy capitalists and you know, capital is not perfect, but it's the best listener we've got so far. And I think it's way more important than than people who who write things like this. Uh uh I think we're seeing that. What we we've we have come unmoored from good capitalist principles over the last uh at least decade longer than that, but really over the last decade. And boy, we're seeing the impacts of that. And I think what gets conflated is um well, what I call fascism, what the rest of the world calls crony capitalism. Because that's not capitalism. Crony capitalism isn't capitalism, it's fascism. Right. Yeah. So fascism bad. Marxism bad. Communism, bad. Socialism, bad. Capitalism when it's actually what capitalism is supposed to be I think it's pretty good. When it when it isn't being twisted and misused and essentially altered into something different. I would have liked that in this statement better. Right? Capitalism when properly understood and applied is biblical. Maybe they're just trying to not uh not promote any uh any human terms for Any non-biblical terms for economic systems. Right? There that's part of what they're talking about here. So are they saying, okay, yeah, capitalism is pretty good, but we're not going to say it's the only way. There's the other systems. What are the other systems? What are they going to be okay with? Are they going to be okay with Marxism? I hope not. Right? I hope not. People have died because of that. Sure. You know? And people, oh, people died because of capitalism too. No They got because of fascism, crony capitalism, corrupted capitalism. Right. Right? I don't know. All right. You have anything else? No, no, no. Uh Uh uh yeah, I just I I think they're they're steering clear of using any particular the names of any particular systems that are are names that wimpy are are outside of the Bible. Wimps. Well if they if they included capitalism they would have to then biblically defend it. Or or at least define it so that it would be clear that biblical prints it's built on biblical principles. I I guess, but isn't that the point of a statement like this? Is to define these things? Well I don't think they advanced the ball. I think they just left it muddled. I don't know. Maybe so. Now let's do the next three in short order. Here we go. Rapid fire. We deny that the scripture teaches that money or wealth is inherently evil. We deny the scripture endorses economic collectivism or economic individualism, we deny that Scripture forbids the use of capital resources to produce income. Alright, so Scripture teaches that money or wealth is inherently evil, they say no Uh okay, I agree. I agree with that. That's uh scripture endorses economic collectivism, economic individualism, we deny it. uh as uh as exclusive systems unto themselves? Maybe they are they saying that that they deny that scripture endorses only one or the other? you see sort of uh economic principles in the Bible that apply to how the individual is supposed to operate and how the collective is supposed to be operate. Or maybe they're saying it's not the Bible doesn't just go for Just doesn't just talk about one or go for one. Did they write some of these after like a four tiny four martini lunch or something? Come on, what's going on here? They're they're trying to trying to cast uh A big net hit the hit the big things there. You know, this is the first time really since we've been w working through these statements that we've hit in my mind a a roadblock like this or I'm like I it's interesting because the first one was in the late seventies, the second one th that was biblical inerrancy. Okay. Yeah. The next one was the early eighties And this one's on the Cusp, I think it was written in I'm going off my memory here. I should I could look it up real quick, but I think it was written in eighty seven and maybe released in eighty eight. So this is like at the end of Reganomics era. Right. Yeah. It's it's entering into the whole like I mean don't look now but here come the nineties kind of a thing. And I feel like you c there's a drift. Interesting. This isn't as strong as what they had written, you know Uh, ten, eleven years earlier. Is it uh is the totally the same group each time? It's the same entity and a lot of the same voices. Like I'm pretty sure I'm almost positive like somebody like R. C. Sproull and John MacArthur and those guys were involved in the in all three of the Chicago statements. Yeah. So it's a lot of the same core guys. They they were younger pastors when they started, they were middle aged pastors by the time they were done, right? But it was kind of the same guy. And some other guys in and out I I'm I'm sure, but a lot of the same uh power players would have been involved and w were they giving ground to to accommodate maybe they getting push back on their hard stances on the earlier statements and so they thought let's soften it for these were they mellowing out in their old age Older age, middle age. I don't know. Uh I think we're reading about the the the beginning of the end what this says. Oh no. Uh the last one that I read when I put there is uh they're denying the scripture forbids the use of capital resources to produce income. I don't even know why they put that in there. That it's okay to produce income? Yeah, like who says it's not? I don't know is there somebody out there saying it's not okay? Uh Uh communists? Yeah, like uh I guess. Well they they they want to produce income just not for the the people doing the work. Right, yeah. Yeah. All right. So let's uh the we have three more. We deny that the proper focus of a Christian's hope is material prosperity. Well, absolutely. We can we can we can just say we agree with that one, right? Yeah. It's not the focus of our hope, that's for sure. No prosperity gospel. We deny that Christians should use their resources primarily for self gratification. The word primarily is important. I don't I don't think John Piper participated in this. Oh, because of his uh Right. Everything everything that we do should be uh we should find self-gratification. Yeah, but the word pri that's why the word primarily I think is important, right? Because everything that Uh Christians should use their resources primarily for the glorification of God, right? That should be the primary only for the glorification of God. And God is glorified when we en enjoy things. Yeah, and but but we get some gratification from glorifying God, right? So it's not completely selfless. I would argue, right? When we worship God, we're worshiping and glorifying his name, but we feel good about that. We find some self gratification in that, don't we? I I think we do. Yeah. Yeah. So That's why I don't know if I like the word only that you threw in there. Tried to sneak in there on me. Sneak in uh I see how you are. Uh we deny that salvation from sin is necessarily uh sin necessarily involves economic or political liberation. Ah. They say no to liberation theology. Yeah, but We deny that salvation from sin necessarily involves. Why even put necessarily? It just we deny that salvation from sin involves economic or political liberation, right? There's no no no need for necessarily, is there? Interesting You're not gonna be saved from your sin because of economics. You're not gonna be saved from your sin because of politics. You're just not. So you don't need the word necessarily. I I feel like it would be m more helpful if they were specific about the things that they were responding to in these statements. Yeah. But it it seems like they're they're sort of vaguely hinting at what they're responding to. It's easy for us to stand here and throw a bunch of stones at them, right? 'Cause I mean uh who knows how much better or well probably worse that we would do if we tried to tackle something like this. But so so this last one, does it mean that uh that they would say salvation from sin could involve economic or political liberation. Sounds like right, because they put the word necessarily. Yeah. Well and and maybe that goes back to saying, okay, uh b and maybe they they would say because um Operating under Christ Christian principles uh gives the the most opportunity for flourishing. Right? And so just sort of go connecting it back to that statement they made earlier about um you know, other other religions uh potentially causing, being the cause of I'm unless you have the last word because you're you're you you're able to pull this together in a way that's that's more coherent. You know, you're asking good questions, thoughtful questions, you know, better than I could do. All I'm doing is throwing rocks. You're asking questions, so good on you. Next show we're gonna talk about Article fourteen. Work and here's a question for you. Is it leisure or leisure? That'll be the debate question next week on the Faith Debate. Uh David Foursey, uh thank you so much. Um doing the show solo with me this time. I'm Troy Skinner, uh pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of FaithInChrist dot com. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio. 9. 30 WFMD online, of course, at WFMD. com. We'll be back next week, same time, well actually 167 and a half hours from right now. Until then, God bless.