Welcome to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy's Skinner, you are you. He's Daniel Rasby and he's I don't know, I'm punchy. I don't know, I'm just I I'm totally punchy. Anyway, so you rescue me. David Forcey is the closest to me. He can rescue me if I get too punchy. So let me start and tell you why I'm punchy. So uh we record this show in advance and so this is a week night when we're recording it. I went to the dentist today. And these dentists I don't think they use Novocaine anymore. I I I think I think they use something besides Novocaine. Uh and actually I went online to look and see if that if I my suspicion is correct and it seems I'm correct. It seems like Novocaine's still out there, but there's this new thing. I think it starts with the letter I, if I'm not mistaken. That's like a replacement for iconic. Ivocane? Is that a thing? I I I'm not sure. Well, anyway. I know Iokine is from Princess Bright. Oh well maybe it's poison that's the poisoning. That's what they're using now. They're poisoning me. Iokane powder. But anyway, I'm telling it it you know, it kinda felt the same going in, except I will say you guys have had Novocaine at some point in your life Both of you? Um probably. Yeah, they think it needle they jab it in your mouth. You'd remember. You wouldn't forget this. It would be a long time ago at this point. Anyway, it hurts, right? They're sticking a needle in your mouth, it hurts. Well, we'll say that either the dentist was really good at being gentle, because it didn't hurt anywhere near as much when he jabbed me. So that was so I'm thinking either he's really good at this or maybe this isn't Novicane, maybe this is a different product. Well Novocaine, my experience, I've had Novocaine shots I don't know how many times, but a number of times over the years. And I'm telling you in the past My face would be numb. You know, that Novocaine, your face is numb, it starts to tingle and come back to life over time. And that tingling come back to life thing usually Hour and a half, two hours later, like you have your face back. Right? And then you can eat. Because you don't want to eat when you're loaded up with Novacane because you're gonna chew the snot out of your nose and side of your face and your lip and stuff, you y y the chances of you biting yourself are pretty high. So you want to wait till it wears off. Well this other stuff they stick you with now that I'm pretty sure I was stuck with, it lasts longer. Mm-hmm. And if it's the stuff that I think I got stuck with that I think starts with letter I, it says online that it lasts for three to six hours. So that's pretty significant. That's like four times longer maybe than the old stuff, or at least twice as long as the old stuff. Well thankfully your speech is is pretty clear. It doesn't seem inhibited. Yeah, well that's because I'm so unclear usually you can't tell the difference. So anyway, on top of that, I was dead tired. I never was dead tired after a novigaine shot. So I think one of the side effects is is causing drowsiness. And I had a massive headache for like an hour and a half And I never had a headache with Nova Cain before. Well you could take a nap and we'll finish this uh you know the show ourselves here. So I'm um I'm drugged. I've been drugged. You've been drugged. Yeah, the guy in the wilderness got the little blow dart hit me with the blow dart and I am loopy. So I'm a little bit crazy right now. So Um but I'm I'm not so crazy that I don't want to tell you about this. This is me in all sincerity. I l ended the show last week, but I'm going to make sure we do at the beginning of the show this week. And you're going to start to hear this as a habit. Either beginning of the show, end of the show, somewhere in the middle of the show. Uh time is sure. I think time is short just globally speaking generally. We don't know when the end is going to come. And by short, i it could mean a thousand years, it could mean a year, it could mean a day. I mean we don't know. But in the grand scheme of things, short Right? We're not it's unlikely that we've got billions and billions and billions of years ahead of us, so time is short. But even for you hearing my voice, your time is short. Because even if the planet continues to exist for another hundred years, you won't be here to see that in all likelihood. You might not be here to see the end of the next decade. That's possible. We could leave here today, the three of us, on our way home, it's lights out. Like time is short. We only got so much time And so, shame on me for not making this a more urgent part of the show in the past, but uh given the climate of the times and my uh the the the current strength of my convictions I want to make sure that people hear what the gospel is. So you guys had kind of a heads-up warning that you might be asked to kind of just share an elevator speech version of the gospel, you know, 90 seconds or less if possible. Would one of you want to step forward and for the uninitiated or for those who need to be reminded what they feel like they already know, what the gospel message is? Well uh the gospel is good news. And it's there's only good news if there is uh something bad first. Uh right, and the the bad news is that um that that we're all imperfect and we have all uh offended the God who made us. And uh and so because of that, because of our our sin, uh we we deserve uh well y you were talking about how time is short. Well There's also a an eternity ahead for each of us. You know, our time here is short, certainly, and even, you know the the length of that shortness we don't know. But uh but there is an eternity ahead and uh and our our offenses against God um Those uh those mean the bad news that we uh we cannot be with him in eternity and we uh we have to suffer uh uh uh eternal judgment for for our sin. Um so the good news is that uh that God has made a way uh for us to be um cleansed, made right, um for us to be forgiven uh of our sins. And uh and that way is Jesus Um and by faith in him we can spend our eternity with God uh by faith in uh the perfection of Jesus um and in his power over uh over sin and uh and over death uh proved by his by his resurrection. So So repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. That was the voice of David Forcy. He's the pastor of the house that meets at David House David's house at the House Church on the southern end of Frederick County. And on the other end of the county, it is a house church that's connected with Concord by Love Ministries. I'm not sure if that church really has an official name either. Not really, no. But their ministry has a website. It's conqueredbylove. org. And so you can find out and it's a it's pretty cool resources. It's mostly focused on child rearing kinds of things, like how to raise your kids. Uh and to conquer them with love. You know, to uh uh conquer them unto obedience, conquer them unto a successful life, conquer them unto all the blessings that God would have for them. uh through uh biblical principles applied to everyday lives in a particularly in a parenting context. I'm not sure if that's how they would say it, but that's kind of the way I understand what that ministry is all about. They've written a number of booklets several dozen booklets I think. Right. Um uh there I mean I say booklets because books can scare people. Basic the booklet they're like long articles. Yeah, they're really long articles that are bound together that are focusing on this. So you can kind of check some of that out and they're their stuff is is pretty darn Pretty darn good. And then I I Troy Skinner am the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, that's kind of uh equidistant between these other two house churches uh as it as it turns out. And so last week we started talking about we all do house church. We all lead house churches. And so why? And we began to ask that question by looking at advantages and disadvantages and we decided to start with looking at the disadvantages. So after last week's show Nobody would ever want to join a house church if you cover all the disadvantages. But now we're going to try to really back in So some of the advantages. What are the what are the I I I I could go on forever. I'm gonna let you guys go on forever. What are some of the really cool, nice, ext attractive, beneficial things about being a part of a house church. I would say the number one advantage is a aside from it's the biblically prescribed method and everybody should be doing it. I didn't say that. I didn't say that. Um no, but but the the number one advance I w I was there, at least really up really far up there, is the much tighter and close fellowship you get with other believers. for being in a house church as opposed to a church that meets together in a building someplace. And you get them every every once in a while there's there's a church that I'll go and visit at they are a really close group of people. But the larger the group gets and that and that's function of being in a house church is you don't get a very large group. I mean some there's some mansions that could fit a hundred people in their living room, but that's about the most you can get Um a and and so if it gets much larger than that you have to be inability and and suddenly you don't have a close relationship, how many best friends can you have? I mean maybe you could have it for me none. But how nobody likes me that much. How many people can you really have a strong relationship with outside your immediate family and you you the smaller that group of believers is, the the deeper that relationship is and I think that's that's a very wholesome experience. Yeah, I I guess to to add to that I would I would say or just to to build on that, right, is um You know, larger larger churches will uh will try and still accomplish those close relationships, right, with Bible studies small groups, you know, that have various and sundry names. Um you know, but always these very clever marketing names, right? Uh so uh You know, but the I guess the advantage of the the house church, the way that I would say that is uh is that right well then then you have your small group. And then and then you also have you know, which probably meets at your house, you know, or or your friend's house. Uh and then you have your your larger gathering which then meets at a building. And and so uh so now your your your time, your energy, your attention is sort of divided. It's not a good idea. just focused on that smaller group. It's also focused on the larger group and the building where the larger group meets and and everything that goes along with that as well. And so uh All that all that to say the uh the advantage isn't just of the the closeness but of the um the amount of time and energy that you can put towards those relationships. And how much you uh each member of the congregation is participating in the the main functions of the church. Right. Instead of just going I I think I think sometimes people go to church like you go to a movie or you go to a concert and you go and sit there in the pew and you listen and then you go home. And unless you are one of the people that's heavily involved in all the church activities and ministries and all that, which by percentage is not very many in in a normal church. Right. Um then you don't have to do it. Right. You are there. Yeah. I love doing this show. Uh David, you talked about the the administrative concerns not being there. And having been uh Yeah lack of distractions. Yeah, having been a pastor of a church with a building. You know, uh I've been three different places where I was, you know, i in a pastoral role where we had a building. And it never occurred to me to think about it this way, but thank you for this. Whenever we would have our leadership in our elder meetings, um well one of the churches wasn't elder led, it's something I was working towards changing Uh it was uh board led and not an elder board. You know, the uh kind of the civil board model, if you will, the secular board model. The trustee board. Exactly. Don't get me straight. Anyway So uh so much of our time in those meetings were addressing building issues. Mm-hmm. You know, the right the HVAC is on the Fritz. It's gonna cost us seventeen thousand dollars to replace it. What are we gonna do? Or who wants to sign up to clean up next week after the case? Exactly. And people are upset about the color on the walls, so we need to form a committee to figure out what paint color to choose and what carpet would be a good complement for that. And you start talking about all these issues that have nothing to do with what elders are primarily called to be dealing with, right? Which is the the spiritual health and direction and you know praying for the people and and and discussing how you're gonna invest in somebody's I wouldn't I wouldn't just say elders though. I mean I'd say you know these are should not be the primary concerns of anyone in the church. Elders are specifically tasked with the spiritual well being of the church and and teaching and leading, you know, the church as the church and you're spending all your time worrying about It's and the nigger churches, they had to create an extra-biblical uh pastor's position called the executive pastor. Mm-hmm. I mean, but that's not their pri their role is to handle all the building nonsense and all those infrastructure issues. Well there's an example in Acts 7, right, of the church getting too big. in uh in Jerusalem and the and the elders, the apostles, came together and said, Look, we're getting too bogged down with all these Unnecessary details about, you know, how to care for this thing and that thing. Yeah, unnecessary details like caring for the orphans and the widows. That's true. That's true. But it but But it it's in that same vein, right? Is that there is the i it was the church was now so large that the apostles could not do all of those things at once, so they p they delegated and they appointed different people. And then God actually took care of that problem in the next chapter with the the death of Stephen and intense persecution and he spread everybody out and now they had to meet in houses. And they didn't have that issue anymore. Um well they still have the issue because they still have deacons. I think I think even on a house church, let's say we could, you know, somehow poof. You know, Puff the Magic Dragon shows up and poof, there are no more uh institutionalized churches with buildings anymore, and every Christian is gathering in a house church. In and around Frederick County. So that's the new reality. And that will you'd still need a diaconate because the people who are Preparing the messages, leading the teaching, dealing with the pastoral counseling issues, those sorts of things. Still But the deaconate would not be worried about The carpet and the walls and the lawn with a diacitative except at their own houses, right? And at the houses of You know, of the widows. Right. You know, and and so so all of the resources and energy uh would be going directly into serving people. Now one of the advantages, I agree, but for somebody who's not thinking in terms of it being an advantage, it could be seen as a disadvantage is Wait a minute, like I can't just go to your church and hide? Like I have to be involved and I'll be seen and people might expect me to maybe like say hello and and participate and share a meal afterwards and and grow in my walk with with the Lord and actually be able to contribute something. Like I I I that doesn't sound good to me. Um but just seriously it might not you know, in your fleshly nature might not sound like a good thing, but I'm telling you, if you're going to a church because it's safe and you can kind of hide and disappear, you're going to one of the bigger churches in Frederick County, for example, and there's several from which you could choose or you could easily hide. Uh you could you could go to that church for three years and then stop going and I don't know that in some of these churches they would ever notice. Right. Where if somebody comes to one of our churches for three years and they stop coming, they miss a week and we notice. It's like, where's so-and-so? I hope they're okay. Um they normally would have texted me or called me, said they couldn't make it this week. Like, what's going on? And You see you can't hide, but that's a good thing, right? Do you want to be invisible? Do you want to be have an all lack of accountability in your life? You wanna ha do you want to have no opportunities to to uh exercise certain muscles and get good at, you know, uh providing a defense for the faith and getting a reason for the hope that lies within and being able to share the gospel with people and be comfortable praying in front of other people. You know, somebody's at the hospital and you I be well, I don't know, you guys have kind of grown up immersed in the church. So you might not have uh con uh be able but I can promise you there are people that they're at the hospital visiting a loved one or a dear friend, you know, family member, dear friend, something, and they feel they're a Christian, you know, they go to church. They feel it, I I want to read a passage of the scripture to them or I want to pray for them, and they can't. They can't muster it up. They're just not comfortable. I've never prayed aloud in front of somebody before. I can't do it. Do you want to be that person? D listener, do you want to be that person, the person who feels this compunction to pray and that but I can't. In a house church setting, you're gonna have an opportunity in a in a in a safe environment to begin to develop that sort of comfort level and And and practice those sorts of skills, if you will. Well so that when you're out there in an unsafe environment, it'll just be a matter of course. Like of course I'm gonna pray with you. I pray in front of people all the time If you're if you're a Christian and if you're actually saved, you need to be ready for the three P's at any moment. At a moment's notice you have to be able to preach, pray, or perish. Without any warning. And I I think that's that's important and and stop and think about that. That's that's what we're called to do. My wife post pregnancy would add a fourth P to that. All of our wives post pregnancy would add a fourth P to that. Actually go PP. You've got to be ready to go PP. Whether you're whether you're ready or not it might happen. But I I I think that maybe leads into another advantage of uh right with Troy, with you talking about the the disadvantage of being able to hide and the disadv you know in a larger church uh be you know be not known by other people very well. Um or the uh the disadvantage of not feeling comfortable praying or not being practiced, you know, at at praying. Those are so the flip side advantage of of a of a house church or a smaller setting, right, of believers gathering together is Those those things have to be done, and so people uh have to do them. Uh and so the advantages uh Is is putting those those those things into practice. And and you may find that people are a bit more authentic in that setting. You can get a feel for who people ac actually are. uh in in a larger church, you don't really know any of those people. You don't know how strong of a believer people are, and it's harder to find someone that it's that you can feel comfortable having a deep conversation, asking for prayer about a very delicate, intimate situation that's happening in your life. Whereas at a at a home church you would presumably have more than one person that you know really well that you can go and ask for a prayer on something. And it doesn't happen immediately. It's not like if you've never been to the house church before you go for the first time that That very first week you're going to feel this authentic connection and automatic comfort level because relationships are built. But I will say this, I've been to churches where I was a member for many, many years. And you get to recognize faces, you get to have the happy talk moments with, hey, how was your week? Good to see ya, you know, that kind of stuff. And it's all very surface level. It doesn't even oftentimes rise the level of small talk. It's just merely those greetings exchanged and that's about it. And that's all you really know of the person. And then you find out that somebody's having a hard time. Their mot their uh you know their mother's uh had cancer for the last four months and you and you just find out about it or a marriage is in distress and you had no idea and you're like, wow what? I thought everything But in the house church context, if you spend a period of time in the house church It y it I'm not sure how long it takes. It's different for every personality type. But inside of months you begin to turn that corner and it's no longer the small talk, uh it's no longer even the cocktail language talk, it's no longer even just the surface level I'm pretending to have a conversation with you. It gets to the point where you actually have real conversations about real things that matter. Um and you might never get to that place in a more traditional setting. I and I and I think a lot of that uh comes with with sharing a meal as well. And I think that's common. I don't know if you do it in in in in your gathering, uh David, on a regular basis, but uh most of the house churches, if not all the h home churches that I've either visited or been a part of one of the core things they do is either before or after the church service, whether it's on a Saturday, on a Sunday, in the morning, the evening, everybody does it differently. But whatever it is, there will also there will also be a meal around that and it'll be every week. So you'll get some churches, some mainstream churches, that'll have a fellowship meal maybe once a month, every couple months And those are usually the mid sized churches, a couple hundred people, you know, they'll get together for a fellowship meal like a potluck. Or a a as some of the mega churches they'll have a cookouts every now and then for v at various places. But Which is something that you see the early church doing in the New Testament in this example of if you come together to break bread and you're you're you're ha sharing a meal together, that's a That's a a place to build relationships and you have some of those deep conversations. All right, believe it or not, we've reached the end of another show, Graham. Daniel Razby is involved with a house church, leadership in a house church, and a ministry connected to that called Conquered by Love. uh ministries and conquered by love. org is their website. Uh David, I don't think you have any sort of hip website thing or even social media presence for that matter. He's like invisible on the internet practically. I think I post once a year. Once a year Oh, okay. All right then. That's more than I post. Somewhere. Somewhere out there you might be able to find David Force. Uh actually the largest presence he might have on the internet is on uh my church's website. If you want to get a hold of me, call Troy. So Household of Faith in Christ uh dot com. And um I wanted to make a note to do this. I don't have time 'cause I got like twenty seconds, but Remind me, next show, we're going to talk about one of the benefits and reasons why uh our church actually went through the the the hassle. of building a website because it it connects to some of the things that we're we're talking about. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMB. We'll be back next week about 167 and a half hours from right now. Until then, thanks so much for listening and God left.