Good morning if you're listening to News Radio 930 WFMD and good whatever time of day it is, if you're listening to the podcast via stream on some other day or time of the week. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner. You can find me online at WFMD. com and also at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. A second one is probably the The best one as far as overarching 'cause you can connect with everything that me and my church are involved with, including the Faith Debate, through that one hub, that central location of Household of Faith in Christ dot com. But if you're only interested in keeping up on the Faith Debate show, well Certainly WFMD. com is a good place to go for that and all the other things on this radio station. I wouldn't want to discourage you from checking that out either. Daniel Razby and Imran Razby are back on the panel. I keep trying to chase them away, but they they they put up with me. So I I I haven't found a way to chase them away. I I'm I'm I'm being as rude and obnoxious as I know how and they love me anyway. That's the kind of guys they are. You can find them online at conquered by love dot org. See they've been conquered by love. That's why they they put up with the guy. like me. And they co pastor a church in the Thermont area and uh it's called the Church that meets at Imran's, although I'm gonna playfully maybe start calling it the Church That Meets at Daniel's father's house. So w last week if you were listening to this show, we were talking about marriage uh because we pivoted into talking about marriage after bringing up the uh Defensive Marriage Act on the previous week's show. And we didn't finish all the thoughts that I uh that I was hoping to touch on. There's at least two or three more and I really in the context of if your chur church teaches this or your pastor teaches this It's either a an up or down like you should should attend or not to to attend. Right. This is all within the con the the larger umbrella, the last several weeks we've been talking about, you know, what defines Christianity or more specifically what defines a biblically faithful Christian. church and the kinds of questions you should be asking of the of a church if you're thinking about joining. Or if you're already attending a church, you're like, well I don't know where my church stands on some of this stuff. Start finding out and um maybe you'll be surprised. Hopefully you won't be Um so at the end I kind of threw out as we ran out of time the idea of uh about being unequally yoked. Do you guys have anything more you wanted to say about that or should we move on to something else. No, I mean just don't get discouraged if you find yourself already married and then you're realizing this whole unequal yoke thing. There are some passages that really describe w you know what you should do and how you should act with that and I I think uh um Uh Corinthians talks a lot about that and here's here's the steps to take and and strive if at all possible to stay together. So we're not tr trying to break up a marriage because of that. But going into a marriage you should be very confident that you are of the same faith And I unequally okay, maybe we should define what we're talking about. That's kind of uh Christian ease, right? Christian Bible readers and Christian people would know. Or farmers. And far farmers in today's days I'm not even sure if they know. Right, but once upon a time farmers they would know 'cause they'd have the the team of oxen uh plowing the fields and stuff and if you had one big strong healthy ox and one that that uh wasn't doing the job. Uh they they w they weren't good partners. Uh they go in circles. They would not go circles. They wouldn't have they would not navigate uh the field well. Spiritually, the most important thing is to make sure that, you know, if one spouse is a Christian, well the other one better be. Uh or they're gonna be unequally yoked. and it's gonna their their life path will be circular, it won't be linear, it won't go forward, it won't but it's not just that. I think uh I don't want to turn this into a Pastoral counseling kind of a show necessarily, but there are other things. Like you guys are financial planners, that's your and advisors, right? That's what you do for a living. That's an important thing. to have similar ideas about what financial situations should look like. Like if one's, you know, um wants to buy all the fanciest stuff and the other person they have the means for it but they prefer to buy all the generic stuff uh that's going to be a source of problem. You want to make sure you can work that out before you're two years into your marriage and you're just at each other's throats all the time. A big one is, you know, how many kids do you want to have? You know, if if one wants to have seventeen kids and the other one doesn't want to have any, well that's going to be a source of constant tension and trouble in your marriage You need to figure those things out maybe before you get itched. I would say if you're young and of childbearing years and you don't have some significant health issue, not wanting to have kids is probably not a biblical desire. That probably not that God ironic desire. And I think that would be a tell for y let's say let's say it's the woman doesn't want I'm just saying 'cause we're men, right? Say the woman doesn't want to have any children. That's a tell like hm What else is going on there, right? What's going on in that in that heart? Because you're right, that's particularly women I think should want to have children, but even men, they want to have have descendants and have the their name live on, their last name carry on. I think ultimately God should be deciding the size of your family, but I don't think it's reasonable to go into a marriage uh with the plan that we are never gonna have kids, it's just not gonna be an option, it's not on the table. God should be the one choosing that and in fact the whole purpose one of the main purposes of marriage is to propagate the species, to be fruitful and multiply. So that that is kind of important. And you were like, I will go one step further if uh you know one of the um potential spouses says, Hey, I d I want to send my kids to public school. Yeah, that could be a very big problem, especially in these days. I I don't think public school even most private schools are have a biblical worldview and what you're doing is throwing your kids to the wolves where your responsibility is to make sure that you're protecting and training them Yeah, so if you're you know thinking about getting engaged or you're engaged and you haven't had some conversations about these things, I would encourage you because they're bigger de You know, classically it's which way does the r do does the um tooth you know uh toilet paper roll go, over or under? Where do you squeeze the toothpaste tooth in the middle or the bottom? Those are annoyance, pet peeve kinds of things. You can work through those, you know, i uh unless you are looking for excuses to not work through things. But these worldview kinds of questions, these major life decision questions They can be a problem. And somebody they might change their mind, like you brought up this the the schooling. Somebody might be totally opposed to homeschooling, but over time they change their mind. But in the meantime you've been married eight, ten, twelve, fifteen years during the childbearing portion of your marriage and your kids are now going to school, by the f by the time that person changes their mind, there's all this baggage that you have to to work through. What are some other ones? I mean, we don't have to get into it, but I I guess since I'm uh on this train of thought. How do you guys I'll ask it this way, how do you guys when you when you're approached as pastors, somebody think about getting married and they're like, How will I know if I'm sexually compatible? 'Cause hopefully they're good Christians and they haven't had any sex. What what what kind of uh response do you give to that? Are you a man and she's a woman? You're compatible. I mean th i it's it's it's true. I mean you you can look at all these secular guides and determine, oh, I think this will be better than this. Well no. God designed one man woman w woman If this is who God has for you, then this is the perfect person for you. And there's there's a lot of uh you know you know, there's a lot of learning uh ex and experiential things that can happen, but you experience it together You're not trying out lots of different other wives before you choose your wife. It's just not the biblical way. And so I don't really care if the world says that you need to be trying out a lot of different uh things before you get married. It doesn't matter, even if you could scientifically prove that that makes you happier or more pleasured or whatever, too bad, because God commands it this way So that's what I was saying to that is is you start with what God desires and he will make it uh it's it's not that there there is a Um there is a compatibility there. The compatibility really comes from you both desiring to love each other and starting with a desire to love, not being in love necessarily, but to choose to love each other. And that's where it uh i it comes from and and growing in that direction. And politics can be important too, particularly if you're if if each partner is hardcore. Yeah, if one doesn't really care that much about politics, it's not as big an issue, I would imagine, but y you don't want to have a hardcore leftist and a hardcore conservative you know getting married. They're gonna be at each other's throats all the time So that would be something else to think of. So yeah, money matters, political, biblical worldview things. And family relationships also. To me a big red flag would be look at the relationship the person has with their family their parents, especially if they're younger, um, their siblings, their cousins. If they don't get along with any of their family members, then that's should be a major red flag. Right. And for Daniel personally, if uh the spouse doesn't like guns then that's a big no no. Well areas of interest can be important too. They're they're more secondary, but yeah, if one person likes the golf, the other person hates the outdoors. One person likes to go on nature hikes and go fishing and hunting, the other person would rather be needlepointing and reading a book. Like being able to spend time together naturally can be important, but You can work through those those things relatively easily. But uh I mean you bringing up the guns thing that the that does play into the your your ideas and expectations of the role of the husband as a provider and protector, which we talked about last week, protector, and many Christians would be of the opinion that the husband should defend his wife from any sort of attack physically as well as spiritually and if somebody's coming in to rape her or to kill her then he should kill the person that's doing that. And the the there's a whole branch of Christianity, several the large denominations that are very much of we should not fight back for any reason, even if they kill us, even if they kill our wives and kids in front of us And there uh while I don't hold to that uh doctrine, I I know there's some very well thought out reasons behind those that doctrine and you should definitely discuss your opinions on that and probably have similar opinions on the d on that doctrine before you get married. because you don't want to come in uh w you don't want a wife expecting her husband's gonna be defending her physically and that he's not, but because he has some valid biblical reason that he thinks that's that's there, that should be discussed beforehand Right. Um and and not not to make that doctrine invalid because I think this that may be one of the more secondary issues if you've really uh uh thought about it and argued through it, um which maybe we'll have somebody on the show discuss that at some point. Yeah you were talking about somebody you know that might join the show uh in the not too distant future that could talk about some of those things maybe if he's if he's willing to Well let's say you don't have these conversations, you don't figure this out, you don't do a good job vetting the other person, and now here you are years later, and you want to get divorced. Too bad. Not allowed. Hmm. The Bible d the there's different doctrines that different churches teach on the on divorce, um and there's a few different ones that I think are have some biblical valid valid uh um foundation. One that would not be is that you can do get divorced for any reason you want or just get divorced and remarried for for any reason. Um there are churches that teach you c should not get divorced at all for and no no matter what the reason is, you're not allowed to ever get divorced and if by chance you got divorced before you got saved, you definitely can't get remarried again And then there's other churches that will say, well, it's acceptable to divorce and maybe even to remarry in certain circumstances, specifically if there was adultery Um and and and th those would be w either one of those two schools of thought I'm very sympathetic to. I think you can have a good biblical basis for those arguments. But but what about hey, I was divorced and I remarried and God forgives all, He forgives sins and I I'm repenting and uh now I'm gonna fight again and if I sin and divorce again, you know, God will forgive my sin anyways. Well, I mean the Bible says don't don't uh uh d uh don't be divorced except in specific circumstances and and the the two exceptions that uh are talked about in the New Testament would be adultery as one and abandon abandonment of the marriage would be a uh another reason why bec and particularly in that context if the woman was abandoned she had no provider And so she needed a husband so she could eat, you know, th so that was probably part of it. But what about abuse? Yeah, so well yeah. So so I think abuse is grounds for separation for sure. I don't think that God commands a wife to stay with an abusive husband But that doesn't mean she gets to go divorce and remarry somebody. And I think this is where pastoral care becomes a a a big thing that you know, I don't I I think generically or or academically or you know in a conversation like a faith debate, it's easy to say, you know, this is what it is, but then there's the the the difficult real life situations. You have to help somebody navigate and it's it's really messy and it's complicated and you're like, okay, we want to be biblical, but we also don't want to be We don't want to be umbiblical to the licentious side, right? The the everything goes side, and you don't want to be unbiblical in the really hard, legalistic, you know, immovable side either. You gotta and so the abuse Um I had to weigh in once on a situation like that. It really forced me to wrestle with it a little bit. And the way I kinda came down on it was If in this case it happened to be the husband, women can abuse their husbands too, but in this case it was a husband abusing the wife. And the husband, um, I think if The abuse is unrepentant, ongoing, no light at the end of the tunnel, life maybe is in jeopardy, kind of kind of thing. I came to a place where I felt like that could be a way of of defining abandonment. Because he's abandoned the marriage of his role as husband. He's supposed to be the protector, but he's the abuser He's supposed to provide safety and security and and a good life for his wife, and he's doing the exact opposite. They're still living in the same house together. But they're no longer married. He's abandoned his role in the relationship. And so, one, practically, yes, save your life and save your kids' lives, get out. And two I don't think because he's completely insane in sin that you should be forced to raise your kids alone for the rest of your lives, I I think that you have biblical grounds for divorce and we can navigate what that looks like for you moving forward. But I think and so that's how I w that's how I came down on that one. That's why when you said it's not a loud I couldn't do it. But then there's then there's different you and I would disagree with the advice they gave somebody on that one. But but it's I mean there's Uh there may be a difference between separation, which I I think every pastor should definitely um uh uh uh agree with. You should not be forced to stay with somebody who is putting your life in danger, right? But whether that means He and the and of course that probably will lead to divorce. He's gonna divorce you probably if you leave it. But yeah but the question is then can you remarry? And there's different opinions on that and that's that's something I think that's that's reasonable to have a conversation. But then the question will come up, well what qualifies as abuse? Is physical abuse the only kind of abuse? What if it what about mental abuse and emotional abuse and manipulation and and this and that? And that's And again that's what comes in at the end of the year. There's definitely traumatic things that can happen, but you want to be very careful and not run into the what the abortion people like to say, well, it was The life of the mot no, it was the health of the mother. It was their emotional well being of the mother that killed the baby. Right? So i for my emotional and mental s uh sanity I had to divorce him. Th I'm not I'm not trying to discount real uh awful, traumatic um i you know, experiences But you want to be very careful, I would say, as a pastor be before you just give a blank check to say, Oh yeah, you were uh emotionally manipulated and and and and and uh uh abused that way. Yeah. Everybody could make an argument they're abused. By the way, things get defined these days, right? Somebody calls you a bad name. He abused me. He called me a ma n name and hurt my feelings and made me feel unsafe. He violated my safe space. Like we can So I'm not talking about that. That's why again the pastoral care is so important. Really getting involved, knowing the situation. And you know but I don't know if this is the best rule of thumb, but kind of a rubric for me is if I was giving the advice to my son or my daughter What advice would I give? And if I had reason to think my daughter's life was in jeopardy or my grandkids' life was in jeopardy, my advice is you know what? Get out Get Out And you know, and if you need to rebuild your life and part of that means moving forward in a as a divorcee We can talk about that, but first get out and then we'll figure it out. Right. And if she ends up and I would give probably in that situation, like the p person's completely unrepentant. Why should a you know, let's say a twenty five year old woman have to spend the rest of her life trying to raise her kids on her own because she's got a s a psychotic husband? You know I I I just gotta be careful because again compassion has to come in. Because so many people who are divorced would say that their spouse is psychotic now these days when it really was just Things like they didn't discuss these worldview uh ideas before they got married. And they didn't come in with the thing. I I don't want to give the impression I'm talking out of both sides of my mouth. I'm trying to give a broad picture here. Ultimately I think what I would say to that young woman though is you made a covenant. You went uh eyes wide open, you should have anyway, and it ended up being a horrible mistake, but you still made a covenant. So you can move on, you can be separated and you can behave as though you're not married anymore. But in God's eyes, you're still technically married. And so if you go and marry somebody else, even though you're divorced, he's still alive until the day that he dies. You shouldn't remarry because then you're kinda committing adultery against the original covenant you made before God, even though he's a jerk. And I know that's a hard stance to take, but I think if you get for me anyway, if you get there by saying, I I Bill Clinton, I've mentioned him three times in the last couple of weeks, I feel your pain Uh but if you can get to understand I'm I truly I'm feeling a pain. I'm just not being hard to be hard. I get it. But still you want to be obedient. And so this is God's plan for your life. This is the path He's got you on. It's a hard road. It's like, well I don't love him anymore or you you And I I would argue that that's usually what's happened these days is that I just don't have the feelings for them anymore. And that's why people get divorced. But the main thing is is your purpose on earth to be happy? And that that came off God want you to be happy? Yeah. And and a lot of pastors say God wants you to be happy, He wants you to have all the things that you should have, and you should be happy, you should be happy. And even kids will say, Mom and Dad, don't you want me to be happy? I want to live with my boyfriend, I want to live with my girlfriend. Don't you want me to be happy? You know? No. That's the main reason that uh what what Daniel was talking about earlier, the people that are of child bearing years, their age, and they're married, they should be being fruitful and multiplying, but they don't want to have kids, that's why, right? It'll interfere with their perceived happiness. I want to be able to go on vacation when I want, I want to be able to spend all my money on myself. I don't want to take care of kids. And the proper argument to fight back against that is not To say to point out all the reasons that kids would actually make them happy and they're wrong about this and they really will be happy. The argument is who cares if you're happy? You need to follow God. And you should be fulfilled and joyful, and you will learn to be joyful in all things that God has for you, but it needs to come from a place of desiring what God wants for you. And you know, you I know you had some things you wanted to say about kinsm or something like that. Yeah, but it occurs to me, uh you know, we're Protestants and we have a tendency to think of things only from a Protestant point of view, but uh There might be a stray Roman Catholic who's listening. Uh Roman Catholics think they uh have a position on marriage and divorce and separation and stuff. And and uh they they have a practice that's called annulment. Okay. And they will basically go back in time and say, Well, you know that covenant you thought you made, you didn't actually make it You were never actually married, so you don't have to get divorced because you were never really married. Do you guys have any pastor thoughts on that? Absolutely unbiblical. The only time you can go back and change a vowel is if a husband hears his wife's vow for the first time that day, he can change and cancel that vow. That's the only time in the Bible that says that. Or or if she's not married, if her father So you could make the argument that these two people eloped and they didn't have the father's permission. The first time he hears about it, immediately he could annul the marriage. I I think that would that may be a biblical case you could make. But only the father of the bride could do that. Um and not the husband, he can't annul it. Or the father's husb uh husband of the father, that tha that can't um uh be annulled. And there's traditionally annulment would only be if the marriage was not consummated, so they could say, Well, they didn't complete the act of being married. Um and so it didn't really happen whether whether they made vows or not. Uh honestly the the the practice of making like outward vows in a certain order, like I promise to do this and this and this Biblically what you do is the parents agree, the families agree, and then you take her into your tent and you're married. Like that's the but the whole uh it came with that consummation part. And it's taking into the uh yeah, the consummation part, taking into the tent is really important because you know the covenants um In in in the Bible it it it would be referred to as you you cut a covenant. Well what does that mean? Cut it's it's it's a blood covenant And so not to get too descriptive and graphic here, but if if the the the woman has preserved herself for her wedding night you know, the consummation, it makes it a blood covenant. And so that's an important aspect to the you know, to the vows then being Finalized. That's an important thing. Now in today's world where I don't know how many people getting married are um still virgins anymore, but uh They're not. They're all living together. They don't have any any desire to get married. I mean I've got talk about that real quick. What what advice do you give to somebody? They come to you, they want you to to officiate their their their wedding ceremony. They say they're believers, maybe they can start visiting your and attending your church, but they're living together. What do you think? So so they can't attend my church if they're living together and not married. Yeah, so you have to separate. You made a mistake. Or if they're a friend that knows you and they uh They but they might not even claim to be staunch uh Christians. So they want to get married and they would like you to officially write. So I would say first of all that it's not the job of a pastor to officiate a wedding. It's the job of the families to say that this wedding should happen. And I think the church should not be the one that's sanctifying the marriage. God is the one that sanctifies it. The Catholic Church got involved many years later for the purposes of controlling marriage and getting money. It was never n it was not so if you want to me to give my blessing on your marriage as your pastor, well you need to be f uh showing me that you have fruit. So you need to be i you know, a member of my church in in this standing and uh certainly I I'm happy to bless you, but I'm only gonna bless people that I'm I'm seeing are outward outwardly at least showing fruit and one of those would not be living together. Um so separation is the first thing and we can talk about marriage someday if you want, but I need to see that you're actually living not in sin. Um and and you made a commitment to hold yourself for marriage. Whether it's this person or somebody else, but it's it's gonna be held for marriage. But just r some random friend or whatever to officiate their wedding, no, I I don't think that's the job of a pastor Uh nor do I think that it it's it it should be. Uh but it can be. I mean the pat right the pastor is not prohibited from officiating the wedding. But officiating is the is the I think officiating is the problem Oh really? Oh, okay, gotcha. I think the church wasn't tracking the church should not be officiating weddings. That was started by the Catholic Church and is not biblical. The the priest or the or the pastor can certainly bless and give his blessing uh saying, Look, I'm I'm so excited that God has created this union, but the families are the ones that negotiate and get involved in that wedding. And the two the two fathers agree that we're gonna get married and they make sure they get the kids permission. Yeah, you think it's a good idea, okay, I think so too. Now you're married. All right, that's going to be the last word. This is the Faith Debate. That was Daniel Rasby. The other voice here was Imron Rasby, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find me online at Household of FaithInChrist. That's Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Never actually got to the kiddos question. We'll start next week's show with that. And then Daniel wants to talk about some uh some um what do you call it? Red flags, right? Borderline red flags. You might want to talk to your churches about it before you Commit to attending on a regular basis. So that's next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.