Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. We're so pleased that you're spending part of your valuable time with us today. I'm Floyd Skinner on News Radio 933. 930 WFMD, also online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. Joined this week by David Forcy. He's pastor of a house church that uh meets in a variety of locations based on the week. out a variety of locations all at once. And uh we wanted me to clarify it in the past a few times so I'm clarifying that. He's not a multi campus house church. He's he but he kinda sorta is, but not the way you think. Anyway, and uh Daniel Rasby is also on the show. You can find him and hit their ministry online. at conquered by love dot org and uh he co-pastors a church called the church that meets at Imran's house. If you were listening last week you heard us talking about uh marriage questions of whether pastors should officiate the ceremony and we talked about how we were gonna get into this week whether or not m o only married men can serve as pastors. And we're gonna just start right on that topic until in between shows you realize there's a lot more to be said about pastors officiating wedding ceremonies. And so maybe we'll try to you know, put a bow on some of those thoughts. So practically speaking I can say this. I have been asked to officiate weddings in the past, and I have. I have said no, by the way, as well. Um but um Or after talking at they asked me and then after talking to me they said no. Because I said, well I think the most valuable thing I can bring to the table for you is the premarital counseling Uh I'd be happy to officiate your ceremony, but I really feel like you guys should spend some time, you know, in some serious study about what it is you're getting into, and I think I can help you facilitate that and lead that and they were just more receptive and I said, Well, then I'm not so sure I'm real comfortable moving forward with this so And there's a number of pastors I know that would refuse to officiate until they've they've personally done the counseling sessions, a number of sessions with the couple. No, I'm now I waffle on that a little bit because I wonder Is that biblical? If a man and woman come to you and say, Hey, we want to get married, is is it biblical, is it reasonably biblical to say, well, yes, but only if you jump through these hoops first. So I Well see that that's the thing is I don't think as a pastor your role is to give approval or blessing on the marriage. Um I think that's the family. And so the question came up in between recordings here Um, because this is a good segue, I think. What do you do though, even if we accept the premise? And I'm not sure we all agree with that premise, but let's just say we do all agree with the premise. that it really needs to be the past the fathers and the families that are that are giving this their their blessing and approval and and organizing this whole thing. Well what happens when you get a fifty year old or a sixty-year-old who wants to get married and maybe his parents are dead, maybe he doesn't even have a have much of a family at all, or maybe it's somebody that's the only one saved in their family and their family doesn't want anything to do with him And they may maybe a little younger but but it's it's still there there's no family involvement. There will not be any family involvement. That's definite and there's no going back from that. So now what do you do? And my answer would be well look at what happened in the Bible. Look at Isaac, he was gonna go get a wife and he didn't have his father there involved. He said, I'm gonna go get a wife. He sent to you know, the uh the st um Servant servant out and and the servant went and said, Hey, here's a good wife, let's bring her back and Isaac saw her, took her into his tent, they're married. Like that's it. That's all that's required is publicly living as a married couple is the only thing biblically that's required to be married. And I think that's where it comes it comes down to. And I I w so I would counsel if I if I got asked, I I think yeah, some middle aged person or the younger but no family involvement type of person and no no possibility of reconciling if maybe attempts have been made and there's no possibility. So then I would I would probably counsel them, well you you you too need to make a public Profession of marriage and I would suggest that you make a big celebration and invite a lot of people and say we're not a party, we're married now Um and if you need to get some legal document that says you're married too, just to come to get some tax benefits or whatever, sure, go for it. But that's not the marriage. The marriage is you telling all your family and friends we are married. 'Cause there's a number of people that live together and even Jesus said Uh you know, see people say, Well, if you're co cohabitating, isn't that the same thing? Well Jesus said to the woman at the well, Well, you're living with somebody you're not even married to. So clearly she wasn't making some kind of uh, you know, public profession of what this is my husband. Um so I think that's where I would fall fall on on that category and and and maybe you guys can disagree or hopefully disagree with another. Thought there though. Uh think about the woman at the well, Daniel, because uh you know, uh uh uh according to your you know, your understanding of Eastern marriage practice and even during biblical times uh that that might have some you know, maybe she's maybe the woman of the well uh w wasn't actually Maybe they weren't living as if they were married. Jesus would have known that. Well, right. And that's what I'm and that that's kinda what I'm getting at. I mean he says, Look, you've And she said, I have no husband So clearly she's not proqu per she' not professing to be married and he's like, Well yeah, yeah, you have had five husbands and this guy's not even your husband and you agree with that, so So yeah, I i that's that's true. Thank you for being honest with me basically is not in so many words, but that's what he was he was saying. And So I think there was understood at the time there's a difference between living together as a married couple and then just happening to be in sin. Um And and she was admitting that she was not married and not treating it like a marriage. Um, so it's more like a prostitution, I guess, in that case. Um but uh I would encourage if you're gonna be married, then that needs to be a public profession. It doesn't you don't need to put it on national television or anything, but it it needs to be reasonably published that you're married. Your your family, your friends should know. Exactly. Yeah. So in that scenario, uh I'm trying to think how practical uh how this would play out practically speaking. You know, you're out in the business world, you're out in the you know, real world, you know, rescuing trees and all that sort of stuff. Saving the environment. Yeah, mine is only just fake numbers on the screen. His is the real world. But you run across different people and they find out that oh you're pastoring a church, you know, uh actually I'm I'm gonna make an honest woman out of my uh girlfriend. We want to get married, uh would you know, would would you officiate You have no reason to think that either one in fact you have lots of reason to think neither one of them is actually a Christian. Would you officiate or would you not officiate, but you might say, well, give me your documents, I'll sign them for you so you can be Yeah, on the up and up with the government or get your tax benefits. Uh would you draw a line there as a like as well? Well, because I don't I would say use it as an opportunity to explain the gospel and how marriage is and what marriage and what marriage is and it and what it does And because I don't I I don't see anything unbiblical about two people who are not followers of God becoming married to each other other than the fact that they are not followers of God, that's the main thing. Right. Um I don't have a problem with that necessarily, but 'cause I'm not seen as doing it in a church setting. There's a lot of ha pastors that would say, Well, I would only officiate for a member of my church that's in good standing that I've done the counseling. And honestly A lot of them are now adding these restrictions that they didn't have before because they don't want to get caught in the trap of well you you said you married anybody, so what about me and my my uh other male uh friend, they're gonna get married. Right. Yeah. Um so and then you say, no, now you got all these lawsuits and a lot of people are afraid of that. Um get out of that Sticky wicked I guess if you're not actually officiating the weddings in this church building at all. Ever. Do what they're gonna do what the the importance of the family, particularly in the point of view that David advocated had more time to advocate strongly last week and is now alluding to again this week. What about eloping? Is that an uh are they being sinful? Is that unbiblical because they're excluding the family? Um n no, I think I think Daniel would say that's the other thing. Fine as long as they come back and tell everybody, hey, we're married now. Uh it it's not uh like the ideal situation would be I mean, they're not really fully involved in the same way. Eloping implies that the family does not approve of this. Sometimes the family doesn't actually know better, you know, especi particularly if there's the maybe an unbelieving family or some other um i history or background that's unique in your situation, but Many and if not most times, if your parents do have a lot more wisdom and and uh and experience to share and and their counsel should be extremely valuable. Um, but I understand in many cases it just it doesn't work out so Uh a lop a loping seems to be used a lot these days to refer to o older people. Yeah, well these days also loping tends to be 'cause we don't want to spend money on a big wedding ceremony or we don't have the money for that. We gotta use money for other things. If we did have it So we wanted to get it over with. And that's kinda what I'm saying is hey, you don't have to have a big, you know, buy an expensive wedding dress and rent out a big p uh uh a place and ship everybody in and then serve, you know, this nice plate of dinner and all that. You don't have to do that You could gather all your friends together and say, Hey, by the way, me and my girlfriend we got married last night. Saying, okay, great. will be a wedding in my in my opinion. Now the bigger of a celebration you can make, the better it is. I think that's God honoring. Um but but it doesn't have to be as as big of a deal as as I think it's you were talking about this Troy last last the week where You know, people make it into such a clinical thing, almost uh procedural. It has to be everything, every dot uh every eye has to be done, every T has to be crossed, it's h this day has to go one hundred percent perfect, otherwise the bride's life is ruined. And that's just that's not really, I think, a biblical way of thinking of it. Yeah, I used to playfully joke with my daughter before she got married, obviously. I said, you know, eloping can be very romantic And I w that was my playful way of saying, man, this wedding's gonna be expensive, isn't it? Not uncommon for for people to spend six figures or more on a on a wedding serum that's not a destination wedding. Um i it you know, it's it's they can be really big because You're often inviting not just your family, like all of your family and all of your friends and acquaintances and feeding them for multiple days and and so on. So it can get very expensive. But It is a very happy time, it's a very celebratory time, and I like to think that it'll only be magnified an infinite time more when Christ comes to get us for the actual wedding ceremony that we're all preparing for. Yeah. You know. Just don't have the party for the wrong reasons. Yeah. So the one telling you not to have the party for the wrong reasons is David Forcy. The one saying yes is Daniel Rasley, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. And so we finally get into your controversial topic. So last week I asked the question, can only married men serve as pastors? And Daniel said, yes. End of discussion. And then that was the end of the show. So let me turn to uh let's go to the next topic now. Let me turn to David Forcey here. Can only married men serve as pastors? You say yes or no Uh I I say that that's the ideal situation. It's the ideal situation. Yeah. So I I mean I'm I'm But suboptimal is okay, it's just suboptimal. Well I I'm not even sure I would I don't uh I think I don't agree with either one of them. I I I I I think a lot of it is um I think uh it depends on a lot of things. Uh one I think like I want to know what Daniel m means when he says a married man, like we need to define that. Like c currently married? You know? Ever been married? Ever been married. Only only once married. Okay, so are there are there some clarifying caveats that need to be throwing? Strict definition of marriage of of what qualifies as being married uh and and divorce is not an option and all that. Um I I'll just take you back to the scripture. There's two very clear lists of of qualifications for being a bishop or elder, and both of them, as far as I remember, clearly state must be the husband of one wife. So I don't know any other way to read that other than must be married currently. Currently and not to more than one woman. Um I mean 'cause and and this this goes back to the wheel. I think his children that that he does have should be should be uh um in in control. I think that that's that's not as as specific in the wording there. Um but I I I do think it's it would be I will be on the more on your side of It's ideal if he also has children that are in subjection. Um if if he has children they are in subjection. Um I mean we talked about Uh, briefly on the show a few months ago, somebody brought up polygamy and whether there's any teaching in the Bible about that and we've we've kind of all agreed that whether you could point to a specific verse, it's very queer that every single time anybody tries it it ends very badly. And I think the but the scripture does say, and it also said this about kings Kings do not won't multiply wives to yourself or whatever. So the same thing in the New Testament. The leaders, the elders, need to exemplify what's the godly life, and one of those things is to have one wife. Um and I think that uh for that reason Paul was not And would not be qualified to be an elder. Hmm. So here he disqualified himself by running that that uh list and he would not uh be be an elder of a church He was called himself an apostle. He could be an evangelist, he could preach, he could do all sorts of things, he can teach and exhort and use be used mightily for the kingdom. But to pastor or elder be an elder of a local church, I think he will be disqualified. Because by his own, yep. Now, I actually personally believe that Paul was married and then his wife died, uh or potentially left him because he became a Christian. Um Because I find it very odd that a very that such an honorable Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee from a good family and very well educated, would not have gotten himself a wife by the time he was you know, old enough to be able to to do the things he was doing. Um so I I I find it very unusual that he would not have been married ever in his life. So if you want to make the argument that well he was married once therefore he's qualified, I think that that could be. Um he d he does he does say he was not married at the time when he was writing some of these books. If you were to apply that same logic though. Couldn't you make the same argument about Jesus? Find it very odd that a man in his early thirties, as respected as he was as a rabbi, a teacher of God's truth, wouldn't have had a a wife and family Right. I think we gotta be careful. That's true. Here's the passage or one of the passages. Well that's why I don't I I don't know. There's no nothing in the Bible that says Paul was for sure married. I just I just assume he was and I assume Jesus was not because he was God. Um but there's a lot of things Jesus did not do that men do there's a couple of key places people would go on this subject and and and Daniel alluded to it but let's just read it real quick of this one anyway. First this is From 1 Timothy chapter 3, beginning with verse 1. It's a trustworthy saying, if any man aspires to the office of overseer, that would be the pastor, the elder, the under-shepherd, he desires a good work. An overseer then must be above reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, sensible, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not addicted to wine or pugnacious, but considerate, peaceable, free from the love of money leading his own household well, having his children in submission with all dignity, but if a man does not know how to lead his own household, how will he take care of the church of God and not a new convert so that he will not become uh where's the line here? Conceited and fall into the condemnation of the devil and he must have a good reputation with those outside the church, so that he will not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. And then it goes on to talking about deacons and that sort of thing. So that's one of the key passages and it does say Right, the husband of one wife. But to David's point it also says having his children in submission with all dignity. Um so again if we're gonna be intellectually consistent, we almost have to say that he would have to have children, it seems to me. I think in answer to the I don't know if it was meant to be a rhetorical question or if it was just a comment. I can't remember if it was a comment or a question, but Daniel said, I don't know any other way. How uh how what other way would you understand those words? Sure. And so within that fuller context, I I I start to think about, okay, well, how do we understand what is meant by that? I would Take it to mean clearly no polygamy. You can't have like a bunch of sister wives running around because I I think that's probably and that fits with the commandment to kings in the Old Testament about kings should not multiply wives Or horses, I think it says to themselves. Um Or gold. Or gold. Yeah. So I doesn't it does not repeat the gold in the horses if it's in this one. So I think that's the point Uh because we start to get into some really interesting conundrums if we try to make it something other than that point. So this is where m my view, like um I'm not even sure that it's what what was the word you use? Not ideal, optimal David said that it's the optimal. I'm like, well, I don't know. If somebody's been given the gift of singleness by God, has he now been excluded from being a pastor? I mean, Paul seems to make it sound like the gift of signalness is like possibly optimal. And yet that person can't be it. So I'm not even sure it's optimal. And what happens if the guy's a great pastor and his wife dies? Well now he's no longer the husband of one wife because she's dead. Like is he is he all of a sudden is he procked? I think it is optimal for a couple of different reasons. I think it's one because uh he can be observed uh and in in in his life, right, in his marriage, in his father. In a leadership role. Right, yeah. And so you can Y you can then you can vet him much better that way. Right. When when you're faithful in the little things and God gives you more than a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Yeah, and ending. And then also uh the majority of uh of other men that he's going to be pastoring are most likely going to have wives or a wife, right, and children. And so for him to set an example, for him to, you know, in life, in the way that he lives, for him to then also give give counsel. Right. Um he will be much better equipped for that if he is married and has children. And so So that's that uh that's why I think it absolutely it's it's more optimal. I see value in that, but the person who's never been married uh has a better perspective on how to give counsel to those who aren't married. And maybe never will be married. And so right that'cause we've now run the risk of of w running smack dab into the wall of standpoint epistemology. Like you only have a special knowledge if you've lived that reality. Everybody has been not married at some point. Um so you know, I mean, I'm not sure. But I think Troy Troy makes a good point though. That's that's a lot of that's the the expert fallacy that's a good idea. um th that that the the left in in this country has has really pushed in recent years is uh you know, well you don't know my experience, you never been Such and such and so you can't you ha you like you're not a woman, you can't speak about abortion. Well you're not this you know, that's what we can't do. Yeah, but I mean I y you know, I can I can mm I mean to some degree that's You know, so yes, so that is a fallacy, but there's a fallacy on the other side that says, well, I can I can always tell you what the right thing is even if I'm not doing it, right? Like I can have a lot of wives and my children can be all disordered and I can still Preach the truth from the five years. Right. So that so that that would kind of be part of that following. I think that it's not a fallacy to say if Paul says married, his household is in order, date, why? Why does he say that? What is the reason that that's in there? I think the list that we're given there are uh th those are basically the things you should look for in a Christian. The Christian shouldn't be polygamous. The Christians be faithful to right? The Christian man should be faithful to one wife. He should have his house in order. His children should be Basically well behaved, he should have a good reputation and the right. But then why does it say if a man desires the office of bi of a bishop, he should be XYZ? Does it say if a man desires to be saved, he should be this or if a man is saved he will end up looking like this. It says if you want to be a bishop or an elder, if you desire to be that so it's it's almost like this person's applying for for the job, right? Well it's just say it's saying if someone aspires to the office, they desire a good work. So it's a good thing to want to do this. Be careful. Which you wish for, but it's a good thing, right? And then verse two, an overseer then must be above reproach. So basically I think it's one way of understanding is the overseer must be a mature Christian. That's kind of what's described here. And to Daniel's point before, I don't I think uh uh personally I don't think Paul was married ever and I I um we're given the reason in scripture to know for sure that he was. And so Just for the sake of argument, if he was not married, then Paul would be disqualified from ever being an overseer based on his own letter to Timothy. Like, that doesn't make sense to me. And in his humanity, Christ, I don't I I'm firmly convinced was not married, didn't have children. No Da Vinci Code here. And so He's the shepherd. The pastors are merely under shepherd, so the shepherd is disqualified from shepherding life. Jesus also only had one wife. But in the modeled he modeled the marriage relationship. But in his humanity he he didn't, right? In in his divinity he does. But in his humanity. On earth on earth here he was not leading the church for the first thirty-three years. He does now Yeah. I uh uh Jesus is a special case. Has a whole lot of complicating factors. But uh I uh it's a rhetorical point. But Paul's a s uh uh a a less charged point that makes the similar point. So I I don't I think it's just something basically make sure the overseer is a mature, solid, rock solid. It goes out of the way to say not a recent convert, right? A a a longstanding w every reason to believe that they are the real deal, they're qualified to be an overseer. I think that's the point. Yeah, I I mean uh yes, I I think Uh yeah, I I mean I And because of th that point and the fact that it's uh all about leading the family and having one wife And all those sorts of things, I I I think it precludes women from being a pastor. Right? No woman's gonna have just one wife No woman's the he the yeah, she's not the head of her of her family, the husband is. Right. Well b but then you're you're putting a lot of weight on that uh on the wife part again. Like, okay. So life is important. Able to teach the women aren't supposed to be teaching the men. But it but it's right down the line. Right, but it but if you if you're gonna say, well, it it's not all that important for the man to be married, then why can how can you use that same passage to say that the woman can't be the elder? 'Cause if that's not one of the important factors, she could be a mature Christian too. Yeah, I was I wouldn't center my argument on women can't be pastors on this verse. I'm saying this would be a supporting passage. I mean there are passages that say very specifically that women should not be uh teaching and having oversight and authority over the men in the church. And so I will go there first and then even a passage like this then helps to undergird and support that by extension. Like this isn't the the centerpiece of the argument, but it helps I was trying to p segue into something we were hoping to talk about today. Well I yeah, but but then uh you know, again, it's uh it he needs to be a r mature believer, but he has to demonstrate that he is good at overseeing. And how are you I mean, maybe Is he gonna demonstrate that through owning a business and having employees that he treats fairly and and reasonably? You know, uh so so I I I think Part of the key, again, yeah, and and not a new believer, right? So all of these are saying, you know, like he's demonstrating that he can do it. He's demonstrating that he has done it, um, already in his own personal life, in his household. And that's going to be the last word. We are plum out of time for this episode. That's David Forcey. The other voice you heard today is Daniel Rasby. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at WFMD. com or Household of FaithInChrist. com. We'll continue with similar topics next week. I gotta go through my notes and see what we covered and didn't cover because we're way off what we originally planned to be doing here. So we'll figure that all all out within the next one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours. Till then, God bless.