This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Kua, where Faith Community. TV leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run, boy! Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron here. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in is a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Is the book of science a valid source of truth alongside the Bible as a book of Revelation? What are the limits on the book of science? On the book of Revelation. Postmodernism has practically given up trying to find any truth in science. Or scripture, should Thomism or Thomism, the philosophy of Thomas Aquinas, be receiv uh revived to provide answers that postmoderns have given up hope of finding? Will Aquinas' negative theology of metaphors and analysis? Satisfy should scripture be interpreted figuratively, depending on the context? This and so much more is being tackled by a couple of stout gentlemen, Jonathan Sweitzer, founder of Bridges, Connecting Needs and Resources in Frederick County, and Hayden Booth. a self-described layman of the Roman Catholic Church, a Thomas or Thomas and a lover of Christ. By the way, a uh happy belated uh Halloween and uh Reformation Day and All Saints Day and all of that sort of thing. of stuff. Uh and oh, and remember that uh today is the day. If you didn't remember, uh daylight savings time ends. So check your clocks, make sure you aren't trying to like shut that down. They should have done it years ago, right? I don't understand. Why can't they just split the difference? Move it a half hour one time and be done with it. Just leave it there. What's with this waffling back and forth? Make up your mind. You want it to be eight o'clock or nine o'clock Let's make it 8 30, be done. Like every week. Oh, every week. Make it a weekly cycle. Yeah, that could work. That's a e th that was creative. This could work. You're a millennial, aren't you? Oh S number. All of which assumes A purpose, a meaning, a final cause that you're trying to maximize your weak. And why are you trying to maximize your weak? Because you want to live more. And why do you want to live? Because there's some reason and and that's at the heart of Thomistic uh uh uh uh thinking is that there's a reason behind everything and that when you lack that reason then it all just becomes you know like why did we we have uh daylight savings when we had it because we were an agrarian society and they had just gotten clocks uh clocks that were tied to the railroad, right? And so they realized that that every you know, couple hundred miles they needed to have a different time zone and somehow they felt like they were losing time in any given day because the way that was working out. But we don't live in that kind of agrarian society, so There's no need for that kind of thing. You like how I tied that in that. That was very good. That was pretty impressive. The railroad wasn't that cool. Yeah. Ben Ben Franklin, all those guys? Proof that uh that you know big changes can happen in our culture with or without the government wanting to make it happen. Because that happened Uh ye years and decades later the the Congress got around to uh standardizing uh the time zones and all that sort of stuff. But it was a practical reality for a generation. They had and they just they just recognized what was reality and decided to to codify it. But anyway. Uh so I'm very impressed by you right now. I knew there was a reason I had you on the show all this time. How nice. Um good to be here with you guys. So we We've talked about um uh the history, some of the practical realities, why it's meaningful to have the meaning uh and all of that sort of stuff. It's particularly interesting to me that we live in this postmodern era where people want to throw out meaning, throw out the baby with the bathwater. Which again feels to me why Aquinas, Aquinas and Thomistic thinking would be having a revival. 'cause it feels to me like rejecting Aquinas has finally kind of done its thing. It it's finally resulted in what it ultimately will will result in, which is a postmodern society where nobody can agree on what anything means. And that was Aquinas' whole point. They threw him out, it took a thousand years for us to get there. But it feels to me like that cycle of rejecting Aquinas was seven hundred years is kinda coming to a close and so there's there's a kind of a return to a point. our contemporary understanding of of uh Thomism or Thomism is. Uh if you're a if you're a Bible reader, a a churchgoer, a Christian, and you're not sure what to make of all of this Hopefully you can at least understand the importance of recognizing the end being important. What is the meaning? What is the point to all of this? And if you're not sure that you can agree with that then you're arguing with Ecclesiastes. Because that is the point of Ecclesiastes. Everything in life is vanity. Everything is absolutely meaningless if you don't have the end in view. And look towards the end of Ecclesiastes and you find out what the end that we should have in view is, which is God gives everything its meaning. And so Christians should at least agree with that part of Thomas Aquinas' logic because it's biblical for sure. Not that the rest of it's not. But if you're if you've been listening to the last three plus shows now you're like, I don't know what to make of all these highfalutin philosophical here splitting words Uh there's a bunch of you guys out there right now that are really enjoying these highfalutin words. You need to call us and like like uh send us an email and you know tell us give me some more. What word we used to do a word of the week on the show. Sure. Uh about five, ten years ago. We we did it for a couple of years. We did a word of the week. Uh we kinda fell out of that habit. But we had one last week. We did hylomorphism. Yeah, I know. So anyway, so we have um I don't know, twenty ish minutes left to spend together on the the subject of Thomas Aquinas. What are some things We might not get to everything you were hoping to get to on this arc of shows. So before we wrap up, what are one or two things you're like, man, I hope at the very least we end up talking about this that we haven't talked about yet. I think definitely we should at least touch on sort of how losing the underpinnings of Aristotelian to mystic metaphysics has caused a little bit of cognitive dissonance in our society and especially He just thrown together a half a dozen words of the week right there. Did you hear that? Nice. Sure. So so i in s in science, if we uh John, a couple of uh I assume a couple a couple of weeks ago you touched on the um Hume causation. Yeah. Which is uh that there's no inherent connection between a cause and its effect. David Hume. David Hume, a Scottish philosopher. Um That I think has been that was that was one of the prime rejections of of domestic causation errors to alien causation. um that came out in in kind of m modern thought. And uh I think that has that kind that line of thinking has been responsible for a lot of confusion in, you know, the you know, general populace, but in the scientific community and the philosophical community because it sort of p pulled the rug out from under us. Um to Thomas and to Aristotle and uh to Thomas um He kind of looks at it the wrong way. He says the brick being thrown as as you were talking about through the wind at the window is one event and the window smashing is another event too to a Thomas That's just a it's the incorrect way to look at it. Um the brick passing through the window and the window shattering are one in the same event. Yeah. And uh That seems to be th th they're just one event viewed at from two different sides of the coin. Brooks passes through the window, window smashes. Yeah. Uh because Through that, we have an understanding that there is an inherent connection between causes and their effects. When I am a scientist and I do an experiment. Tomorrow I do the same experiment, again exactly the same way. I expect that I'll get the same results. I mean that's in that's empiricism, that's science on face value. If we were to go on Hume's rejection of of uh domestic causation uh there would be no reason why we would expect an experiment run exactly the same way to produce exactly the same result. There is no reason to think that. I mean we should if Thomas is wrong about his his metaphysics, we should abandon science because there's no reason to believe what it tells us. Obviously that's false and obviously We should believe science and it it is correct. So all of a sudden I have in my mind Ferguson a couple of years back where where we had this this racial I thought you were talking about Craig Ferguson, I followed this. You know where Ferguson, Missouri, outside. this situation and and like you were just describing you could you could think about the brick in the window from the bricks perspective You know, and you can think about it from the Windows perspective, but ultimately if you want to understand what's happening, you don't separate out the two perspectives, but you you you you have a holistic appreciation for what's happening. And I feel like that's part of the reason why we we end up in these vitriolic uh you know racial uh uh arguments right now because you look at something like Ferguson and one guy looks at it only from an African American perspective. The other guy only looks at it from what they would claim is well, I'll just say a white perspective. Some people would say law and order perspective, whatever. But but the point is is that by separating out those two perspectives we lose what ties it all together. What ties it all together is that we we are We're all human. We need to work together. There's certain dynamics that play out in human relationships that are understandable, that we need to care about. you know, things like forgiving one another and uh loving one another and doing what's right and admitting when we're wrong, all of those kinds of things that nobody admits anymore. And so that's kind of a moral sociological application of the brick versus the window, you know, it's really unfortunate that the brick went through the window, but we don't just sit there and think about it from the brick's perspective or the window's perspective. We recognize that there's a There's a a bigger thing that ties it all together. That brick didn't go through the window, that's fake news. A potter's finger in clay is another really good example of phaser of causation. Yeah, he goes into the thing. Um so when you know uh a piece of clay is on the wheel The potter's finger touches it, it shapes itself simultaneously with the finger touching it. It's not like the finger is shaping the clay and the clays being shaped are two separate events occurring separately in time. They occur one and the same simultaneously. And I think having that kind of metaphysical and philosophical underpinning to understanding that things happen for a reason. There are you can trace the reasons back. Real is fundamentally comprehensible. That is something that we have It's something people I implicitly believe and I don't think it's something you could shake because i if reality isn't comprehensible, why does it dang flat seem that way? It really it does. It it And is that some of the reason why people would give up on life, you know, commits to suicide, fall in depression, you know, because there's something that they want, but life doesn't seem to make sense. And so they're they're they're feeling stuck. you know, as opposed to if there was a sense of purpose, you know, and a and a sense of uh, you know, explanation that was reasonable that that could allow them then choices that oh I could do this and get a better outcome. I could do this and get a better outcome, you know, that ties things together. It seems to me uh that the malaise that we run into in modern society from the technological re industrial revolution on uh is is a a loss of the purpose in lieu of the power. I think there is nice way to say it isn't it? There's a definite trend in moving towards unexpected. especially mu uh recently, that there is your truth and there's my truth. Right. And there's their truth and there's their truth and there's our truth. Yeah. I I think that is something that would come out of a rejection of Thomistic thought. Truth is truth no matter who says it, but that doesn't mean there's multiple truths. There is one truth. Yeah. Ultimately, I mean that's that's a very toomistic thought is that's even the heart of this show from the beginning, is that yes, we all disagree But we can have the discussion and in having the discussion we can at least identify where we disagree and the implications, you know, the logical implications and so why is it that we end up in such different places? That's the heart of kind of where we've been from the beginning on this show, the confidence that we can trace those implications. Absolutely. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, uh founder of Bridges. I'm Troy Skinner. Uh we're joined this week by Hayden Booth, a layman of the Roman Catholic Church. And uh uh self avowed uh tomist. Uh or on nine thirty WFMD. You know, it's interesting 'cause you're arguing for the for truth and and and how to understand reality from a a Thomas or Thomist point of view and those that would reject they they w might not walk around saying, I reject Thomism. Yeah. But they do they do reject the uh concept of there being an absolute truth or they re they they read ultimate purpose right they reject out of that and then so on this show you know we try to talk okay well let's take that to its logical end. Let's let's keep asking you know, questions that peel back the layers of the onion and where does that lead us? And it ends up being an unlivable philosophy. You cannot live a postmodern life in reality. Right, you you live with you know, I've seen people get hit by semi tractor trailers before and they all got squashed like a bug and died I'm going to assume that if I step in front of that Samurai Tector trailer, this is a good thing. Don't you go to the movies? Come on. So we all live we live as practical Thomists. Yeah. Right? We live as though things that we anticipate will happen because of our experience and experiments, if you will, are are likely to happen again. So we practically live out our lives that way, but we want to f philosophize and not be judgmental. And just because I think that stepping in front of that tractor trailer truck will be the the end of me doesn't mean that I should warn that person of against stepping in front of the semi tractor trailer truck because They might have a totally different experience than me. The truck might pass through them. Who am I to say? And that ends up being like nonsensical, right? It's like laughable and yet Those are the kinds of arguments. So literally this past Sunday, uh the pastor at my church uh kind of did this overview of of philosophy in kind of where Christ fit amongst them and he and he quoted a um uh uh philosopher from the nineteen hundreds, I'm not gonna remember his name, um, and he said that Life we we we need to imagine Sisyfus happy. I think it was either Sergeant Camus, right? It's uh I think it's Camus. Yeah. Um though he called it Camus, not Camus. You were looking at me when you said it. Sisyphus. So Sisyphus is the Greek um uh myth about uh uh in one of the gods that was judged by Zeus to push a rock a huge boulder up a hill every day and then it would roll back down and the next day he'd have to, you know, push it back up or Welcome to my world. Yeah. Right. And so so and so what Kim Camus was saying was that Ah, there is no meaning to life. We're all like Sisyfus. And so the the the way that you survive, you just imagine that Sisyfus enjoys that. The meaninglessness. the the you know endlessness of it and that's just not livable. You can't do that. You can't fake your way into being happy if there's no sense of real purpose. Well here's the thing you can fake it for a while. I think you can you can delude we can delude ourselves. But eventually it's gonna catch up. days, weeks, months, maybe, seasons of life perhaps. But eventually th we we the ruse is uncovered by ourselves. The the game we're playing, the mental gymnasts we're going through to pretend as though life really has no meaning. There's this nagging I would argue reality. Reality is nagging. It's the nagging reality of reality is nagging at us saying that's just not true. There must be meaning, but I can't find the meaning. And so I can't pretend to be happy if there's no meaning and then all these social ills. Sure. Camus the preacher, Camus the pastor, something like that. Albert Camus, right? Albert Camus. Yeah. And Timbuktu. Very he was a he was an existentialist rhyme from you. He himself, even as an avowed atheist. Yeah. In this book he m he met an American pastor and he had a lot of questions and he was obviously searching for truth in in Christianity and it's um It's sort of it's it sheds light on him, especially as I I would say Sartre and Camus, probably two of the most serious atheists that Christians have to contend with. Yeah. Um Of the nineteen hundreds. Sure, sure. Um we have to deal with the c their concept of the of the absurd. Um Yeah, that's what it w his uh philosophy was known as was absurdism. Yeah. So I I I I hope I'm not turning them into a straw man if anybody, you know I hope you y'all don't get hate mail from me. Oh that's representing their arguments, but basically it's so you can you add it to the file. Yeah. Troy! he if he goes and provides treatment to uh some very sick people he will himself become sick and die. And he knows that there's no meaning you know life and he knows that there's no reason to do this. It's completely stupid. Um but he f feels like he has to anyway, 'cause it's the right thing. Yeah. Um It that's absurd to to come in to to start. It's it's absurd that there's no higher meaning. There's no there is no but there seems like there should be, but there isn't. Yeah. So there isn't a there obviously isn't a God and because there obviously isn't a God, life is absurd. And so for the doctor to go give his life, sacrifice his life to care for others that uh ultimately are gonna cause his death is meaningless. And and so that's the point is that that kind of meaninglessness you know, choosing a philosophy that reads an act like that as just meaningless, uh, is very depressing and will undermine all of life and all of society, why do we bother trying to um live with one another, care for one another, you know, have a society that that, you know, has any laws or rules inside of it. If you forgive the plug, it's because Christ is alive and he loves you. There's a little there's my little Christian plug at the end. That's that's the reason we're doing all this. I don't wanna I don't wanna delve too deep into like existentialism, nihilism, and I don't wanna, you know, depress the people that are listening. Yeah. Because it is it is scary for somebody that's dealing with these questions and I myself dealt with them and I had It's it's scary looking down that hole and realizing oh my oh my gosh, what if there really isn't anything? We were just talking about a a philosophy that has real life implications and all of a sudden, Hayden, you're saying that that that just hit you because that's where you were living. at some point when you were kind of losing your faith and you felt what the uh the you know the sense of emptiness, the the sense of of, you know, maybe I should just give up. And so y just kind of existentially there, you were like, you know what, there's probably people out there listening that really live in that place. And so you wanted to give a plug just to say, hey Don't give up. Yeah, we're talking about this, but but we're not saying it's okay to stay there. We're saying that there's something better because you recognize that that people could really give up. Sure. And I and there's been suicides just You know, in the last year that have been very public of people that gave up and then others that give up as a result of seeing other people give up And it could be, you know, a real domino effect. Absolutely. And I don't want to characterize or caricature every I have plenty of atheist friends, I would say. Even the majority of my friends are atheists. Of course. Um they're not all suicidal angsty people. But I think And they'll have to forgive me if any of them listen to this, that's a little bit of intellectual dishonesty on their part. Because if d uh reality is ultimately meaningless, without God, without moral imperatives, without truth, without beauty, without all of these things, reality is objectively meaningless. I mean there's you can say, oh, you know, eventually humanity might get to the stars and we might have this beautiful civilization, but the universe is gonna fizzle out eventually. There's gonna be a heat out of the universe and everything will come to nothing. You have to wrestle with that if you're an atheist. And that was something that, A, made me profoundly uncomfortable, and B left me feeling You know, and all the work I'm doing in the opioid crisis in Frederick right now, uh, drives to that question, how is it as a society that we could have allowed our our children, our our sons and daughters to grow up with so little sense of hope that that when they get stuck into that addictive lifestyle, you know, they just end up giving up. And that's one a week in Frederick. that uh i it has been passing away so if you're we need to do something better than that we're gonna be able to do it. Jonathan Sweitzer, thank you. Hayden Booth thank you. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. It's been a pleasure. You can find these uh shows if you didn't catch them all on the Podcast at WFMD dot com. You can get there a couple of different ways, uh, the Faith Debate page by putting a keyword faith or finding the drop down tab and clicking on the Faith Debate down. Okay, so until uh Next week, hundred sixty seven and a half hours from now, God bless