This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the Master of Divinity from Mercury. Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. In recent weeks I've been sharing my social media feed with you, or more accurately, my post on Facebook. Um A number of weeks ago I I started sharing uh it took me three or four weeks I think to do it. I shared the the posts on Facebook that got the most likes, shares comments seemed to provoke the most response from people. In a couple of cases, you know, I was surprised, in other cases I wasn't, because they were interesting things to me as well. So then I transitioned to something else I did via social media last year. I made an agreement with myself to try to read more last year and so uh and I wanted to post on Facebook kind of as an accountability measure of what I was reading. And so I made an agreement to post fifty two books in fifty-two weeks. And I shared a number of those. In fact, the first seventeen weeks or so haven't shared already. And so now I'm going to pick up where I left off on last week's show. And hopefully, you know, if you're a reader, you're gonna maybe have read some of these books and you're gonna say, Oh yeah, I I agree with Troy's take on that or n uh yeah, I don't know about that. Or if you're a reader, or even if you're not and you're thinking about becoming a reader, maybe I'll say say something about one of these books that will spark an interest and you'll want to go out and get a book and start reading because reading is good. Uh as somebody once said, reader leaders are readers and readers are leaders. So if you want to be a leader, start reading. So fifty two books in fifty-two weeks, number eighteen. I said, typically my aim Typically, let me slow down and get the tongue squared away. Typically my aim is to post one book per week. But I'm on vacation this week, so I have time to get a little ahead on the curve for the moment. So here's a bonus post for this week. I've recently written a couple of times about Ted Decker. These posts referenced three books in Decker's four-book martyrs song series. Well, the final book in the series, and the one from which the series gets its name, is The Martyrs Song. Admittedly, these books do not fit together in expected series fashion or even in Decker's own unexpected series fashion. So I'm suspicious that the concept of calling this a series was created after the fact with marketing purposes as the motivation. This is really of no matter. The books are all very good. And for my money, Ted Decker is this generation's most consistently creative and captivating author of Christian novels. So that I was recommending Martyr's song there. Fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks, number nineteen. I'm just starting this book, so I can't offer a review yet. However, I'm reading it because my wife did, and she strongly suggested that I read it. If you are a woman who has a child, lost your mother, then it seems this book is for you, Ditto, if you are married to a woman who has a child lost her mother. Oh, I I jotted down these uh when I copied and pasted this to read it, I did not grab the uh the author's uh name or even the book of the name of the book. I'll try to post that I'll make a note here and I'll post it in the description on Facebook or on uh on Facebook too, but on uh on the Faith Debate page. If you go look for this podcast or the show description for today's show, the show airing on March 8th two thousand twenty. Look in the description section, you'll see I'll I'll make note of the book uh title and author there. My apologies. By the way, it is um the eighth of March. Did you set your clocks? Did you change your clocks? Did you spring ahead? Not too late to hurry up and do that, if you forgot. So 52 books in 52 weeks, number 20. Since the early part of the year I've been participating in a book study group that meets once per week to talk about the lessons to be learned from the biblical book Joshua, our discussion guide that's helped us to walk through this sixth book of the Old Testament, is Glory Days by Max Locato. If you're looking for a deep theological commentary with significant intellectual challenge, then Pastor Lakato is not the author to which to turn. However, If you're looking for insightful storytelling that inspires conversation about practical applications for your life, you'll be hard-pressed to find a more accessible, popular writer than Max. So glory days, Max Vicato. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 21. Shame on me for not beginning the year with this one. In my own defense, initially I was primarily thinking about posting a book a week as in the one book I completed during a given week. Yet even though I can't read the entire Bible in a week, it is something that I read each week or day. So much belatedly, I'm now posting the Bible as the 21st book in the 21st week of the year. As for my recommendation, this is a must read. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 22. Sometimes you just need comfort food. You know? Ted Decker books are for me comfort food. I've listed a few Ted Decker books already this year. Here's another. Blessed Child. It's not the first book Decker ever had published, but I think it might be one that really, really put him on the map. Co-authoring with Dr. Bill Bright of Campus Crusade for Christ will do that. Personal note, there's a blurb on the front cover that's written by Lowell Bud Paxson. He founded PAX TV and was also in the radio business for a while. I met Bud personally and as one of the employees at a radio station which he owned in Orlando. It was at that radio station that I met my wife, Dina. So that was a cool little connection to make off the cover of that book. 52 Books in 52 Weeks, number 23. Here's another good book. It's written by the author born in uh Kangami. Ya ko uh boy uh I'm butchering how to say this, but I think it's Yaukimo, Regency, Netherlands, New Guinea. Who is this author I'm talking about? Ted Decker He has a habit of creating story arcs that are sort of like television mini series, or sometimes he builds off the characters of one book to create a new book, sort of like a television spin-off. Such as the Jefferson's, Maud, Good Times, Archie Bunker Place. They were all spun off from All in the Family. Well last week I mentioned Blessed Child, so this week I mentioned his follow-up, a man called Blessed. Both books are co-written by Bill Bright and comprise what has been dubbed the two-book Caleb series. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 24. This one's a bit tricky. When this book was first released in 2003, the title was Blink. When it was re-released in 2007, the title was Blink of an Eye. However, this was more than a mere name change as the new version includes new content and a snappier storyline. This novel explores concepts that seek to unveil the all-knowing, aspects of God. by creatively following a character who has a completely unique perspective on the space-time continuum. As with several of Ted Decker's books, the plot unfolds in both the United States and the Middle East. He has a fondness for writing about stories that take place in the Middle East. Big uh let's see where we are. Fifty two books in fifty two weeks, number twenty-five. Ted Decker writes in a variety of genres. You can see I was on a Ted Decker kick as I was going through this part of the year last year. Despite the fact that nearly all of his books are novels, the first Decker book I ever read was a nonfiction work. At the time I didn't even know that Ted Decker had ever written any fiction. And then I enjoyed my first Ted Decker book so much that I went on a hunt for more of his books. And that's when I discovered that novels make up most of his catalog. And the first one I decided to read was a thriller called Three. It is still one of my most favorite Decker books. The book is so good that it was turned into a movie. Unfortunately, I've now seen the movie, and the movie is pretty horrible. Too bad. If it had been good, it might have been a success, which could have led to more Ted Decker novels becoming adapted to film I would like that. Oh well. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 26. The boss handed me the book as a gift. In fact, he handed everyone on the sales team copies of the same book. It was a rare moment when this boss was a good boss. This rare moment has made us all better for it. All these years later, Roy H. Williams has been dubbed the Wizard of Ads. And so he wrote a book titled The Wizard of Ads. And he did so and he sold so many copies that he wrote a second book and then a third. And then I gained so much from the Wizard of Adds that one would think that I'd have rushed out to get a copy of another Williams classic and devour it as I had the first book, but sadly I must admit I did not do so. More than fifteen years later I finally Have my hands on secret formulas of the wizard of ads, and this only because a generous friend and co-worker allowed me to borrow her copy. You know it's a strong friendship when a book lending takes place. I'm also reading the third wizard book, but I'll save the sharing of any details for a few days. In the meantime, I suggest that you do pay attention to this particular man behind the curtain. This wizard of isn't from Kansas, but rather from Texas. Regardless, his wisdom about communication feels to be from another world and from an ageless time. Thank you, Cindy, for lending me the book. 52 books in 52 weeks. Number 27. Off to see The Wizard, the Wonderful Wizard of Ads. Roy H. Williams. I read his The Wizard of Adds book, A Multiplicity of Moons Ago. I read his Secret Formulas of the Wizard of Adds less than one moon ago. And now, thanks to a friendly friend who, in the spirit of friendship, allowed me to borrow her copy, I have read magical worlds of the wizard of adds. Needless to say, I am now over the moon. Each book builds upon the others, yet each still stands on its own. Book one contains heavy emphasis on persuasive writing technique Book two contains heavy emphasis on the principles undergirding persuasiveness. Want to understand the Trump phenomenon better? Read this book. Book three has a heavy emphasis on the hocus pocus of persuasion. The scientific theory is fascinating, if a bit challenging, to follow in spots. For the curious who love minutia, here's a smattering trivia for you. Roy has also written, does your ad dog bite, or is it just a show dog? Accidental Magic, The Wizard's Techniques for Writing Words Worth a Thousand Pictures. Free the Beagle, A Journey of Destiny. Sundown in Muscogee. And then a book simply called Destine. Might be Destiny, spelled Destiny. I think it might have to do with his wife. Beagles, Visit the Seven Sisters, People's Stories Inside the Outside. And you can read them all or not, who might tell you what to do, but he's very gifted and so, you know. Roy H. Williams, very good. Fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks, number twenty-eight. Part fiction, part thriller, part character analysis. This book, which would t was Ted Decker's eleventh, I believe, is not what most would consider to be a Decker classic, but it is pretty good reading. Concentration camps, Nazis, bouncing between time eras in the forties and the seventies, a serial killer. These are tossed together into a glass and not shaken but stirred. This book provides another example of how Decker seems to be motivated to find ways of reinventing himself. Some of his books emphasize the supernatural, this one not so much. Some of his books emphasize fast-paced plots, this one more leisurely character development and clue hunting. Some of his books are pure fantasy, others are pure nonfiction, this one mixes a bit of both. If you're in a season of life where escape is valued, then Ted Decker offers many styles of escape and obsessed, that's the name of the book, obsessed. is just one of the many. This is the Baith Abate, I'm Troy Skinner reading through uh some Facebook social media posts I had last year as I archived and chronicled what I was reading for the year, one book a week for the year. And right now we're up to fifty two books in fifty two weeks. Number 29. This is an excellent book. I read a number of titles over the years by Dan Elender and Tremper Longman, and this one ranks right up near the top of the list It's a favorite that for years to come I will be suggesting to others when they ask me for something that I would recommend, something for them to read. Breaking the idols of your heart. Uses the Old Testament Book of Ecclesiastes to examine major themes of idol worship in a contemporary setting. Through the use of exceptional storytelling and exquisite scholarship the pages breeze by and yet fill up the reader with weighty anchors for the soul. If you read this book, you will enjoy it and gain much insight from it. That's a darn near guarantee. Alender and Longman. You can't go wrong. And particularly if you're reading Breaking the Idols of Your Heart. 52 Books, 52 Weeks. Number 30. The Faithful Preacher is a delight. Sabadi M. Annibilai, I believe is how you would say his name, provides historical context for carefully curated sermons delivered years ago. By Lemuel Haynes, Daniel A. Payne, and uh Francis uh Grimke. These men of God served the Lord's church during the late 1700s through the early 1900s. It's fascinating to gain insight into what was happening in the American pulpit 100 and even more than 200 years ago Particularly so because the three pastors were all African Americans. And by the way, the foreword to the book, it's written by John Piper, who is a longtime favorite of mine. Fifty-two books in fifty-two weeks. Number thirty one. What does one do after canceling one's TV subscription? One reads books aloud with their spouse, of course. At the recommendation of a friend, my wife and I read One Second After by William B. Fortune. This is another in a long line of books which prove that quality writing is not necessary is no necessity for becoming a New York Times best-selling author. This novel has become a contemporary doomsday classic for so I'm told. It's accurate and detailed account of what would happen in America if ever an EMP attack were launched against the United States EMP is shorthand for electromagnetic pulse. Basically, it's a gigantic power surge caused by detonating a nuke in the atmosphere. The theory is that this would make all electronics useless, including backup generators. Given that almost everything is computerized and or electricity dependent these days, are cars, planes, phones, air conditioning, refrigeration, etc. , the book makes the case that life would return to the Civil War days. One big difference between now and then is that today's population doesn't have the low-tech skills and or access to the low-tech infrastructure which allowed life to flourish in the 1800s. So that's a problem. One big similarity is the state of human nature, and just as during Civil War days, civil war breaks out across the continent in the story of the book. So that's also a problem. If you're looking for happy endings, look elsewhere. This is Dystopian from start to finish. One second after. It's the name of the book. 52 books in 52 weeks. Number 32. This is a book that I read a while back when my daughter was a young teen. I didn't read it this past week, but I recommended it to a friend just a couple of days ago and I thought it would be good also to recommend it to you. So if you have kids or plan to have kids Apparent Privilege by Steve Wright and Chris Graves is a very helpful book. I wish I had read it many years earlier than I did I advise against making my mistake. Read it sooner rather than later. A great parenting guide. Stephen Wright and Chris Graves are the authors. A parent privilege. Kind of a playing word is there. A parent could be like a pi it's a privilege apparently, but it's the word a, the word parent, the word privilege. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 33 Last week I shared a book recommendation because I had personally made a book recommendation during conversations that a conversation I had with a friend. Well, I actually recommended two books. And so, I think I should share both of them. Here's the second book, Age of Opportunity by Paul David Tripp. If you parent a teenager, this is must. Reading. Reading. Even better, if you parent a child that is soon to be a teenager, don't wait to read it. Read it now. Age of opportunity. by Paul David Tripp. Cannot go wrong reading that book. Number 52, or 34 rather, of 52 books in 52 weeks. Number 34. I've recently shared a few of the lighter books that I've been reading. Here's a heavier book, heavier in subject matter, not in number of pages. There are fewer than 150 pages in this particular book Evangelic by Light or some of the Ted Decker books and all that sort of stuff, not the parenting books necessarily. Evangelicals and Liberation is edited by Carl E. Armanding with contributions from Harvey M. Cone, uh Kenneth Hamilton, Stephen C. Knapp, and Clark Pinnock. It provides an overview of liberation theology and then proceeds to make arguments for and against this brand of quote-unquote Christian thinking. The merits of much of the dialogue depends upon how terms are defined. The arguments of the writers are frequently rooted in politics. This is sometimes subtle, sometimes overt. Some of the nuances in the book are particularly insightful and helpful. Some of the supposed biblical justifications for numerous positions are weak at best and mistaken at worst. What happens when Marxism, Christendom, class struggle, liberalism, racial divides, and economic policy are thrown into a blender? Read this book and find out. Again, the book is called Evangelicals and Liberation. Okay, got time for at least one, maybe a couple more, before we call this show to a close. 52 books in 52 weeks, number 35. Stephen Arterburn has written somewhere in a neighborhood of about a dozen books in what's called the Everyman series Actually, one of the books in the series is written by Fred Stoker, and there are a series of Everywoman books written by uh Shannon Etheridge. Uh this book is written along with uh Kenny Luck and Mike York. Many of the books in this series focus on different aspects of sexual sin. All the books aim at making people more confident, courageous, and sold out for God. That's where every man, God's man, fits uh in the in that pantheon, in that uh collective of books. The authors want to get inside the hearts and minds of men to give them hope. To challenge them to perseverance and to be an aid to them for living out lives which are built upon biblically informed spiritual insights. And now, 52 books in 52 weeks, number 36. Here's a book I cannot recommend. Why? Rob Bell tries harder to be cutesy in this book's writing style than he does to be cogent. One could not be blamed for wondering if there was ever an outline or any sort of organized principle for this book. In addition to rambling through a series of loosely connected thoughts, the author's thinking also rambles through a series of biblical teachings, quote unquote. biblical teachings that are often only loosely connected to the actual teaching of Scripture. This is all too bad, as the potential was there for more. There are more than a handful of helpful nuggets and clever turns of phrase. However, these are swallowed up in a sea of hot mess. If looking for a book that demonstrates the dangers of trying too hard to be relevant, your search can end here. When it comes to relevancy, this book jumps the shark so hard it ends up being mostly pop tripe. That is sadly true, I must say. Anyway, I'm gonna take a break there now. We're about to run out of time on this show. So I think we had four shows, the shows that comprise the February offerings of the Faith Debate, where I went through items in the news, uh takes uh on what's happening in the in the Christian world. In the political world and financial world, mostly from a Christian perspective, because that's the take I I bring to the table, uh unashamedly so So that's what I did sharing what I posted last year on social media in in those ways. And then we transitioned into March. And so during the month of March now, I'm sharing with you what I posted on social media with regards to what I have been reading. If you're a longtime fan of this show, you might remember way long time ago I used to share what I was reading just kind of off the cuff, like a uh a book of the week mentioned on the show. We had a word of the week and that sort of thing. So this is just harkening back to that. Uh only I did it on social media. So I'm sharing with you one to give you some reading ideas or uh like I just did with Rob Bell to give you uh a warning to not read. um what he has to say. Uh he's all over the place. Sometimes you can be so relevant you stop making sense. And then you're not relevant at all. So it's kind of self-defeating. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. I am Troy Skinner. You've been listening on 930 WFMD. You can find us online at WFMD. com. The quickest way to find the Faith Debate page on the website is to go to the keywords section and type in the word faith And then hit enter and it takes you there. Or you can find the on-air tab, click on it, it gets you a drop-down menu. You can kind of scroll down, you find where it says fake debate, you click on it there. Or you might be able to just Google WFMD Faith Debate. Probably will take you to the Faith Debate page or at least uh somewhere on the list of uh search engine results you'd see that. So you could do that There you'll find a description of previous shows, a description of the shows that are immediately about to be coming up in the near future, and you'll find links to podcasts. on the Faith Today page and then you'll find a link to the audio vault section of the of the WFMD website where there are way more offerings of podcasts that go back I think we go back a f uh a couple of months maybe on the Faith Debate page. We go back several years, I think, on the audio vault portion of the website. So and of course you can follow along with what we're doing on Facebook, the WFMD Facebook page. And even my personal Facebook page if you want to check it out there. Thanks so much for listening. I hope you've been finding these uh reading tips uh and suggestions helpful. We'll do it one more time next week. I think we're going to wrap up uh this cycle of shows next week. So that happens in one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. Until then, God bless.