This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. It's Frederick Brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I want to encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com. That's WF Mv. com. I felt like I said it too fast there for a second. Keyword faith brings you right to the Faith Debate page. There you'll find a a daily blog. It's act actually a weekday daily blog. Yeah, weekdaily blog No, that has a bad connotation. at least minimally suitable for children, I will post it. And everyone's well there's some pretty good you guys ever visit the website? Probably not, right? Uh I do on occasion. All right. I did recently Did you? Okay. Some of them's pretty good, someone's like, Everybody we invite on the show has to go check and just make sure that we're like above board. Yeah, as if having a web page makes you above board. Right, yeah, yeah. Anyway, what am I reading these days? Well, I recently read a book by Mark Deaver, The Gospel and Personal Evangelism. By the way, that's been on my heart more and more these days, a question of personal evangelism. I am uh horrifyingly guilty on many fronts as I meditate on it uh more seriously. And I think we all are, but I'll just speak for myself right now. Um Jonathan Swiss is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Hello, friend. Good to be here. How you doing? And Chris Jackson is the uh manager of the day program with the Religious Coalition and uh an ordained Uh Baptist minister. Good to be with you. Good preacher of the word, and that's what led him to be on this show, right? There was some sort of big confab with a bunch of Christian pastors gathered together and other leaders within the Christian community, I guess. And Easter Sunday morning. And a lot of people were talking about a bunch of stuff. And uh oh there seemed to be some some of the things that I've got to do. Building up people in faith. Hmm. And I don't know. How dare you do that, Chris? I I don't I don't know that I agreed with them, and so that's why I wanted to you know, to speak up 'cause I didn't feel like Chris was doing that. He was just offering a you know a nuanced view of Isaiah fifty three. Nevertheless, the weight of the room was In case you missed the last couple of weeks. The way to the creek. We were at Carroll Creek that morning. The way to the Creek was uh the Christians should pray expect uh expectantly that God heals today by the stripes of Jesus. We are healed. We Christians are healed by those stripes and that means physical healing. So we should expect to be healed. And in particular, I think the way that it plays out that makes it uh uh prone maybe to caricature is that they want to build excitement along with your faith. And this I think is is where where things get confusing because if you build excitement, that doesn't mean that somebody's faith has been built. But I think sometimes in some circles there's a sense that if you're not excited about it and you're not saying the verses with with passion in your voice and with a sense of I know that God's gonna heal me. Amen. You know, that if there's not that intensity, then maybe you don't really have faith. And unfortunately emotion does not equal faith. But I would say in general that joy, you know, arises out of a confidence of the salvation of the Lord. And so it i you know, again there's just this question, what is You know, what is emotionalism and what is a true, you know, thing that God is is uh working in our lives So perhaps wondering if maybe the majority at the Creek could uh it overemphasized to a certain degree this expectation of physical healing for us in the here and now. I I g you actually preached, I guess, a sermon or a sermon? Okay. Chris preached and the the the the gist, I guess, of the message was Isaiah 53 is primarily speaking about spiritual healing. You know discounting the possibility or maybe even the probability, who knows, of ph of physical healing. But it's not that's not the be all end all, that's not the primary thing. It's mostly pointing to a spiritual healing. Right. Correct. Okay. And uh Paul goes on to say, uh, Ephesians chapter one verse three, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ And he goes on to say how God chose us from before the foundation of the world and predestined us, redeemed us. We have forgiveness of sins through his blood. Um we are we we know the mystery of the gospel and you know we have the power of the resurrection and all these are spiritual blessings and not once does he mention uh a car or health or wealth or Or anything. Well Paul doesn't there, but he clearly argues and and uh ar doesn't argue, he just proclaims in First Corinthians chapter twelve. uh in Romans chapter uh chapter twelve, they're both uh twelves, uh, that God gives gifts to the body, and some of those gifts are gifts of healing. You know, that that there are some people that are gifted to heal the sick. You know, and so uh Paul Paul is not And his life message opposed to, in fact, there's uh times that we're told in in the book of Acts that uh that people heal. And so I guess I haven't asked you this question yet. I think I know where Troy stands on it, but uh are you of the opinion that the gifts of the Holy Spirit uh have passed away, that they're no longer in In um uh certain gifts I do believe have passed away, like the sign gifts like the gifts of healing, the gifts of the apostle, uh huh, prophecy. Um and why do you think there's a pass away? Am I taking this in the wrong direction here? Well that's the whole argument in the internet tied to the the healing thing unless Well it does because I think it drives what he believes is. How about if we try to keep it within the context of what the subject matter is and thus just just talk about the sign of gift of healing? Right, 'cause you're a charismatic Pentecostal approach, sometimes they can here's where I think you're going, they're going to get militant to somebody who suggests that God's not healing today because they feel like they're speaking against the sign gifts. And so it becomes about defending their theological approach to the gifts as opposed to a theological discussion about what God's doing at work in the world today. So but I to I guess this will be maybe a point to c try to clarify and keep us from drifting into the whole gifts thing uh as as a general thing. In fact we got into talking about this as well though in our emails back and forth about this passage whether or not there are punctuated moments in the history of the world that the Bible refers to where there are more miracles, you know, that that therefore the gifts were given as signs that there's a an important thing happening, you know, and then there there wasn't other uh times when that was happening and and so I so I disagreed with you. I felt like there was that we see more sense that Chris is holding his view because he thinks the sign gift of healing is no longer active today. Because God could choose to heal without healers walking around, right? Because he's right, absolutely broader So let's ask directly. Do you think the sign gift of healing that that there's not people that have a gift of healing any longer? Do you think that's a good idea? I don't believe that a person with the gift of healing a longer. I do believe that God can heal. He can but he heals according to his will, not You know, not necessarily because of our faith. And w and what is it is there any passage in Scripture that you can point to and say, say this is why I believe that that gift has passed away now? Yeah, there's actually uh a story in uh Joshua chapter five. Where the people had wandered in the wilderness for forty years, and uh this is verse twelve, it says, uh then the manna ceased on the day after they had eaten the produce of the land And the children of Israel no longer had manna, but they ate the food of the land of Canaan that year. Um and you say, How can I relate that? Well Basically God had done the miraculous for forty years for the people, but now they moved into a different situation, a different era, and it was settled. And and God stopped providing the manna, stopped doing the miraculous. Now He was letting them eat off the land, uh uh sow and reap and all of that. And so um Except for the fact that he did fabulous miracles at Jericho, the walls falling into the ground, walk uh walking around. uh in in uh giving them victory over people that were more powerful and more numerous with them. I mean the miracles were ongoing. Gideon's life Samson's life, Samuel's life, David's life. I mean to argue that that somehow manna stopping was a was was all of the miracles stopping stopping, I feel like is a huge stretch. I mean there were miracles Basically there were miracles every time people were willing to say, we're going to trust God. And then God would come through, because some trust in horses and chariots. But we trust in the name of the Lord, and when they trusted in God, then God would do miracles on their behalf. One miracle after another He would he would do on their behalf. And so um Well I'm saying when they live from day to day you didn't see necessarily the miraculous. You saw the crops grow and the uh babies being born and all these things are are wonderful I'm comfortable with that. Even i in the book of Acts when the when the apostles are doing miracles, it's not happening every single day. Right. It's happening on occasion. Nevertheless, uh that doesn't give us the impression that that somehow it's not happening or that somehow it ceased. You know, there's a sense that that it's ongoing. These are gifts. Christ ascended on high. He led captives in his train, and he gave gifts to men. And so uh there's no reason for us to think that those gifts have stopped. And I w when I think of the places where the miracles seem to happen happen the most, it's in places where people have not been following God. And then they're returning to the Lord. Even George Whitefield and and uh John Wesley uh referred to miraculous things that were going on and and and great emotionalism even because people were returning to the things of God in the context of the return, this is even your argument. In the context of the spiritual healing, there was physical healing that was happening as well. In the places where I see people with gifts of healing uh most effective is in the context of the preaching of the gospel where people who have not been with God are coming to God. And so it it happened in the past. I see no reason why it shouldn't happen today. I've I've uh I've seen it happen. Uh in in my my time. But there have been long periods of time where God has not done the miraculous between the Old Testament and the and the New Testament. Which was a silent thing. Which makes total sense. Because God was far from them. They rejected God. But it was when they came back to God that God began to do the miracles again. The principle is is that there's times where God's not moving, but it's not because God's not willing to move. It's because we have removed ourselves from God and are no longer trusting Him to move. I don't necessarily agree that they were far from him during the silent years. Uh they were back in the land, they had rebuilt the temple, they had started up with the sacrifices again. They were worshipping God. Wow, that's very interesting. He was he was just silent. Uh not only that, but it says that uh in John chapter ten that John the Baptist he performed no miracle during his ministry But everything he prophesied about Christ came true. Except for the fact that he was a prophet. I mean, that's a miracle, right? The fact that we have the Bible. I mean, isn't that one of the things even that that you guys uh that that you guys teach that now that we have the Bible we don't need to sign gifts? I mean the Bible is the is miraculous in and of itself. He was prophesying and he was a prophet in that day and age and so um I guess I'm more talking about the signs and the wonders that kind of you know, the parting of the Red Sea. I'm not sure that I mean this is in a a nice like almost rabbit trail. But is it more than a m rabbit trail? Let's see how it directly connects to the bigger question of whether or not Christians should expect healing today, whether it's at the hand of a f of a faith healer or at the hand of God directly in answer to their prayers. It seems like it's still the bigger question. So i i is it Is it a rabbit trail or is it somehow intimately connected? I'm missing the intimate connection. Well, the connection came up because in the context of us talking about this particular passage The question is, do we expect healing? When do we expect healing? Um uh what I hear Chris arguing is that we can uh that they could expect healing at the time because it was a time a season of of the miraculous. But now that we're not in the season of the miraculous, we shouldn't expect it so much. That's what I'm saying. But I still believe that So whether you're arguing it or not, Chris is. But I still believe that, you know, God is sovereign, God does as he pleases, and the person prays and it if it's God's will He will heal that person. But if it's not God's will, I don't care how much faith you have, that person will not be healed. But they will learn something through that. Right. Uh we're told that it is God's will that none should perish, but all come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. Right? Uh but apparently not all are going to get saved. Correct. We're all in agreement about that. And so it can be the will of God for something to happen, but it doesn't happen. Why? Because Will can be a word that expresses God's desire. God desires it to happen, but for whatever reason, it's not going to happen uh, you know, uh in that time frame. And God's uh God's reason for it not happening in that time frame is, you know, is his realm of responsibility. We'll trust him, you know, to make those decisions. I'm willing to trust him to make those decisions. But at the end of the day, uh for us to say that it's not God's Will to heal somebody, I think is is is not the right way to say it. I think we can say God has not healed you. Like like Paul said that I prayed many times and and uh the Lord did not take it away uh and and so he accepted it. He was willing to accept it, you know, as it to help himself to be kept humble. But his accepting of that was not him saying that it's God's will that he should suffer or that it's God's will that he should but that God has chosen not to for whatever reason it is. I think we need to be careful to not say God's it's God's will that you be sick. Well but I don't think that's the case. It's God's will that we'll be healed. By the way, that's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossers Valley Chapel, joined this week by the Manager of the Day program with the Religious Coalition, ordained Baptist minister Chris Jackson. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on Projects News Radio 930 WFMD. If you uh if you're sick like me, not physically sick needing healing, although probably at some level that's true. Uh but you uh are reading lots of stuff that, you know, is y you you can only understand every fourth word of what you're reading, reading that kind of stuff. Theologians will make a distinction between two different types of of meaning assigned to the word will. One of them is God's permissive will. Can you help me with the other one? God's perfect will. God's perfect will. And so Uh in that sense, if you keep in mind that we'll take it from Romans twelve where it says his good pleasing and perfect will. So you're saying you know they could have his good will So so on the one hand, I mean anything that happens, it's certainly not happening because God couldn't have stopped it. Right? So if somebody is sick At some level you could make the argument, what was God's will of that person be sick? Might not have been his his desire But the way things played out is that damn it nothing happens outside of God's sovereignty, I would hold. I think the Bible holds. The Bible definitely holds that. Except that we're told that the whole world is under the control of the evil one Right? And so God is sovereign over that, but God has chosen to not act in opposition to, well, he gave Adam Uh authority and Satan gave his authority over to the other. Would you be comfortable saying that it's God's will that Satan still is the ruler of the air right now? I would say that it's God's will that the that the defeat of Satan happen in the context of the church against which the gates of hell will not prevail. And so it's God's will that He s that that He send his Son, that He work redemption in the context of the church, uh and that that that uh in the context of that happening that we be In fact, it said in Romans 5, it says, we reign in life through the one man, Christ Jesus doesn't say that we're going to reign in the future, but that we reign in life. And and before that it says that grace reigns through righteousness. And so the point is is that is that we're a part of bringing that to pass on the earth. And so God's will is that Satan would be defeated. He was defeated by Christ on the cross, and there's an ongoing winning of that battle as we're preaching the gospel and people are coming to Christ. And the final victory will be when all the world stands before. that spiritual warfare game would be played, right? God wasn't blindsided and surprised by that. It was his will that Satan would have this exercise of control over today's world. Right. It's God's will that we choose him. So we've circled kind of into even a broader rabbit trail of it's we're kind of almost addressing the problem of evil now. Like why does evil exist? Why does God allow that? Does God allow that? Is God in control or God w he's not a big enough God to handle that. Well, this is the ultimate question that I think has to be dealt with for people that are that are sick when they're sick. Why am I sick? Am I sick because of my sin? Am I sick because uh because God's punishing me? Am I sick because I don't have enough faith? Uh am I sick because Satan is attacking me right now? And my, you know, why is it that we are sick? And it seems to me like at various levels, each of those answers have been uh given in scripture as as part of the reason. Part of the reason is that it's because people rejected God and so sickness and illness came upon them. Right? Part of the reason is that people don't have enough faith. And so so Jesus says to him, According to your faith, let it be done to you. He recognizes that he could do no miracles in Nazareth. Because the people had no faith. In another place, you know, he talks about uh Job, Satan came and afflicted him with the disease. Right? And so Satan was was a was a uh uh an immediate part of the equation. And so my point is is that I think we need to help people, and this was the context when we're teaching on these issues, to understand the algorithm of sickness on the earth. Otherwise people go away believing what the world says. Well those guys teach that God makes people sick. And the God hates people because, you know, if God was a good God, why would he let that happen? And the world is actively attempting to confuse us on this issue. And Satan is actively attempting to w to confuse the world on the issue to to stop us from believing that God is a good God and that that He has good things for us. And so how you go about answering those questions, I think, is why why we deal with this in the first place. Now just add that uh again the traditional view uh that's held by myself and Billy Graham and many others uh teach that at the fall When God said to Adam, For dust thou art, and to dust thou shalt return, that's when physical illness and sicknesses came into the world. Yeah, I agree with that. It it came from the fall from Satan. Probably Martin Luther and John Calvin. And all all those wonderful folks. Um but and the uh funny thing is even though I'm not Uh I I don't identify myself with those guys, but but even you know the extreme faith healers say the same thing. Right? So far, you know, we're all in the same place Well they would go far as saying that it primarily comes from Satan. Sickness isn't illnesses and disease and disability. It is true that they go that far and I have had that discussion with some of them and I've Just just not a week and a half ago there was somebody that was trying to push that in a Bible study and uh and so I had to call him on it and say, Well you're gonna have to help me with that 'cause I see several places in scripture where we're told that God himself sent the disease So you gotta help me to understand, you know, how Satan is doing that if God says that he himself said it. I go back to that passage that Troy quoted in John chapter nine. The disciples asked Christ about the man born blind, Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind? Jesus answered, Neither this man nor his parents sinned, but that the works of God should be revealed in him I must work the works of him who sent me while it is day. The night is coming when no one can work. As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. And then he at the end of uh chapter nine, he says, For judgment I have come into this world that those who do not see may see. And that those who see may be made blind. So there's a spiritual significance to a lot of the physical conditions that we see. Always. And and again, primarily Jesus came to heal uh men of their sin-sick souls, is what I believe the scriptures teach. I would say primarily he did that. It's it just happens that he did it while he was healing everybody that came to him that was sick. Corinthians, Paul's talking about all this thing in that church and he goes so far as of all this nonsense you guys are doing, all this sinful behavior. Exactly. Many of you are falling sick. Some of you have even died. So obviously there's a component, but even that I think points to the the point of view that Chris has tried to emphasize that it was about the spiritual condition because the Christian isn't called to a life of luxury. The Christian is called to a life of obedience. God might choose to bless them with luxury But they're called And health. And health and all that sort of stuff, but they are called to be obedient and to trust God. Okay, now how and when they come to that Well, I think that the point we've had in these last couple of shows has been the Christian who's sick, they just gotta believe hard enough and pray hard enough and have enough faith. and examine their lives and see where they fall in short. And then you're not hearing that I'm not saying that. Listen to what I'm saying. Okay. I'm saying that faith is clearly a component For healing. Correct. I would agree. If God But there are those that God doesn't heal. But for those people that are sick in an ongoing way, it's appropriate for them to fill themselves with the scriptures that help them to understand what sickness is all about on the earth. so that they have a clear understanding of what it's about and that they don't find themselves confused, so that they can continue to walk in faith and not be led astray. All right. Did you hear that? But didn't you say also that it is God's desire that everyone be healed? Yeah, absolutely. I would disagree with that. It's God's desire for everybody to be healed. Some people are going to hell. He doesn't I mean how do you like that? Right. It's God's will that none should perish. And yet some do. Yeah, that's my point. That's precisely my point. It's God's desire that everybody be healed, but some people will not, precisely because they don't come to them. They d they don't come to him and the reason they don't come to him or because they don't come to him, they won't either get heaven or healing. Right? But my point is that God still desires to heal 'em. I would separate the salvation from the thing. Yeah, but not necessarily right. When they get to heaven, anybody that gets to heaven will be healed No, uh well yeah, I would go further by the way. You've heard me say this before I don't know if Chris has heard me say this before. I would go as far as to say that those who are in Christ right now are already healed Okay, good. One hundred percent healed. Right. That's what I'm saying. Sometimes we f Still feel kind of sick, but the reality is reality that will be forever. Right now is the blink of an eye. So you don't think God desires that for everybody? Not now. But later. Right. We're waiting for the redemption of our body. But he too is patient. Not willing that any should perish. So yes, some are not going to get it until later. And and and and the way that God works his will out in history either. And somebody Some people are going to hell. Right. But I'm not sure. But any Christian. But I don't understand why you don't hear me saying that. Like I've said it like thirty different times over the last forty weeks, four weeks rather That God heals but not everybody right away, and God desires to heal everybody, but that doesn't mean he's gonna do it right away. Now I'm I'm t you but you say in this lifetime. Before the grave. Yeah, yeah. I would say God desires everybody to be healed. But that doesn't mean it's going to happen because God doesn't do Uh God's will is that none should perish. God's desires that everybody be healed. But the way that He's working it out in history is such that some people will not be healed before the grave. and that many will not even be healed after the grave. And those are the final words. Jonathan Sweitz, your senior pastor of CrossS Valley Chapel, Chris Jackson and manager of the Day Program of Religious Coalition. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate brought to us with Putin Fleming and Heating. Help We Make You Smile. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pop and plumbing, how can we make you smile