Welcome to the Frederick Space Debate at Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host, Roy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor at Crosswood Rice Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst. Senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Show is brought to us by Putman and Columbia and Heating. House We Make You Smile in Deer Valley Heartscape, Landscape, and Masonry. And I know I let you down big time last week. The most important part of the show didn't happen. I didn't tell you what I was reading. Uh and it and and I had ample opportunity because Jace uh mentioned a couple of different times uh Doctor Uh John MacArthur, who pastors a church in Southern California and has written a whole bunch of books and Bible studies and he has his own commentary Bible out now and very well-known guy. I read kind of the the uh ministry story of his life uh uh recently called John MacArthur Servant of the Flock by Ian H. Murray And I found it I I didn't to be honest, I was like somebody gave it to me and said, Hey, you should read this. I was like, Yeah, thanks. I'm not sure I really would enjoy this kind of book but I actually did. It gave me an interesting insight into John MacArthur of a better appreciation for him than I did before I always appreciate him, but I always kinda took with a grain of salt, but I appreciate where he's coming from a little bit more now, so I would uh I would recommend the John MacArthur's Sermon of the Flock book. Other things I'm reading, by the way, to show you that I'm not just reading, you know, nonsense, because Jace gives me a hard time because I was reading lots of Ted Decker. So I've been reading stuff by uh by Nicholas Welterstorff Wow, nice. Philosopher. Okay. Uh Philip Reef, uh sociologist. Right. Christopher uh is it Lash or Lash? Cultural historian? Peter Berger, a sociologist, Archibald Alexander. Um uh Herman Bobig So you're reading like reading different books and lots of different articles and books and things. And you wanted to impress I have to impress Jace. When Jason's no longer on the show, I'll be telling you about you know my television viewing of the Simpsons and you know, things like that. Now I know what he really thinks of me. So what we're talking about uh the last couple of weeks and now this week as well is the Bible. Is it good for anything? Uh well, I'm s you know, I'm sorry to phrase it that way, but that's kinda how I can't get past the big picture question. If you can this is my problem with Thomas Jefferson cutting out the miracles and say, well, I don't want to believe those parts of the Dominic Cross and saying, Well, you know, I don't really know that Jesus really said that and you know, when you boil it all down, there's about one tenth of one percent that we can really probably have confidence that Jesus actually said and that's probably not what the apostles wanted us to believe anyway. uh all these different things. You start throwing out so much of the bathwater that eventually you lose the baby, I'm afraid. So I feel like you've that's the big question, at what point do you lose the baby? So I feel like you gotta try to hang on to all the water I think Jonathan for the most part agrees with me, although I don't know that I'm as firm as he is on, let's say, Genesis, uh for particularly the first part of Genesis. Uh and Jace is saying, well, you know what The baby in the water should not be confused, all right? Let's let's let's let the water slip out. In fact, a lot of that water probably should slip out. It'll help us to see the baby more clearly. So Should we is is that I mean yeah I would say a little differently. Just uh if I come to you as a as a as a member of your church and say, hey uh Pastor Jace, I'm is that what they call you Pastor Jace? They do, yes. Pastor Jace. Doctor Jace. Doctor Broadhurst. Doctor Broadhurst, sir. Uh I'm not so sure that I'm that I think uh Malachi is in Inspired, I want to toss that part of my Bible out, I've got some real problems with it. And you're like, Yeah, nope no biggie. Yeah, I would have a problem with that But why? Right? Based on what? Like what gives you what would cause you to have a problem with that? Well so the questions are how do we come up with our sixty-six books and the inspiration? Is that where we're going? Because that's a big question. Uh that Yeah, let's start there. Let's use that as a good starting spot. Okay. Um I would say the main reason that I have uh agreed with those 66 books, why I would hold to those is tradition. Tradition Tradition. I think it's part of the Christian tradition for a long time. I think it's even part of the Roman Catholic tradition, although they would question it um because they have thirteen well between nine and thirteen other books. But they didn't add those until about four hundred years ago. Right. So that now that was kind of my point. So we're we're kind of in the same place on those on those things as to what those books are. I'm not sure I would go with all the reasoning that everybody else seems to say, you know, they have to be written by an apostle, has to be somebody who's seen Jesus. Uh I I'm not sure those fall th Well, and they can't, right? Because we don't know who wrote Hebrews with any with with absolute certainty. Right. Well, and those scholars don't know who wrote half the epistles of Paul or P Second Peter or any of those. Well you would agree, right? A tradition is by scholars, but the name Paul is on them, so whether or not he wrote them with his own hand or created them. No, the epistles that come from Paul. No, there are thirteen and they're not all named by Paul not all. Not all said to be from Paul. And there are some fraudulent works out there that came along within the first couple of years. Right. Right, I'm talking except those. Romans. Corinthians, Galatians, Ephesians, Philippians, Thessalonians. Those are the epistles that claim to be written by Paul. Okay. Well there's thirteen though total, right? Of those? Of Paul. Paul's epistles. I'm just saying for different reasons. Epistle, Lord of the Week means letter. Yes. Different reasons. S scholars question a third of those. Um there are what are called the undisputed letters of Paul, Corinthi both the Corinthian letters, I think, Galatians, Thessalonians, Philemon. I can't remember exactly which ones. But you know, the pastorals like Titus, Timothy, those are those are can seem to be not Paul. I I'm not arguing that they're not Paul. I'm just saying We don't know for a hundred percent certain of these things. So th those reasons don't get don't matter to me. Whether Peter wrote first or second Peter, there's debate about that. Right, right. Yeah. Whether or not John of who wrote Revelation is the same John that wrote the gospel or the you know, whatever. So there's there's there's a whole question of pseudonymous letters. I get that. So we have nothing to go on books tradition, right, John? There's nothing to go on but the tradition of the church over the years saying this one's in, this one's out. I mean what else could we go on? There's no book of the Bible that says And thou shalt have sixty-six books of the Bible and they shall be called thus, right? That's the same thing. Well yeah, several centuries after Jesus, before we even have any kind of a canon at all anyway. Well it's man. Oh really? So this is you're saying the Bible is by man and not by God? Is that what you're not here? Yeah, walked into that like that. Yeah, you did, sorry. Which I did that hurt? No. If it hurts, I'll try it again, yeah, just for fun. Um the thing is is that Is that we are trusting not just that these prophets spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. but that the Lord also has has um managed the process of those books um uh down through the centuries and uh that and the the managing of the the process of those books has uh has you know passed down to us Moses Uh that at the time of Christ was trustworthy. You know? And uh trustworthy for what? Trustworthy. That it was true that it was infallible. Okay. True though is a big word. I mean this is kind of what we're talking about here. We can't just use words like true. Do you mean that it's historically precise in every single word? Vul verbal plenary inspiration? The Chicago Statement on Errancy actually has that exact thing, right? All of its parts down to the very words of the original were given by divine inspiration. The very words. Every single word is there. That's what I'm talking about. And if so Which are the words? I mean, because we're talking about an original. So we're back to that question again. If God didn't see fit to give us the autographa, That is the word of the week. Um that is the original manuscript. The original whatever that I mean, hold that let's even talk about that for a second. What what in the world does an autographer even mean? It means an autograph. It means the one that was written by Moses. But no scholars, evangelical scholars even, believe that Moses wrote from Genesis one to the end of Deuteronomy. They believe that we w s evangelical scholars at least would believe fundamental mosaic authorship. Because some of what is uh ascribed to mosaic authorship is talking about his death, right? So he couldn't have possibly written that. Well yeah, and there's plenty of little redaction That was from last week. Edits along the way that say things like, Well that was before there were kings in the land. Well apparently this must be written after there are kings in the land. Is Moses still alive after there are kings? No, he's not. So so which are is it the words that Moses came up with? And did Moses come up with the words for Genesis one through eleven? Does he did he know the story of Genesis of the Ark? Did God like dictate it to him? Well what does that mean? Is this dictation? Is God speaking to him or is he just writing? Well like I w uh which I did so irritatingly to you uh in our previous debate. I think that those words are are are what they mean. He spoke from God as he was carried along by the Holy Spirit. He said there's a human element. He spoke and wrote. Which one? I mean we're using that biblical text here, right? He spoke to God. as he was carried along by the Holy Spirit. Okay, so he's a prophet, so he's speaking. So now how does that get down on the thing? Yeah, I have no problem with somebody I have no problem with somebody writing down what he's speaking. Exactly. Yeah. What if they just just generally summarize what it is that he's trying to say? Um I've I've no I've I have full confidence that Moses was was reading it and that as he's reading he's like yes Yes, that he's that he's reviewing it, that he's editing it. So is Moses in some sort of a trance as God speaks to him about the Noah's Ark story, for instance? Uh no. So where is he getting this information? Is it coming from God? God's just talking to him? Is he making this up off the top of his head and God's approving it with a stamp? Or it's a tradition? Or it's a tradition of the past, maybe it's written down, maybe it's orally in his mind from hundreds of years before parents giving it to him? Yeah, again I'm I'm comfortable with It being information that was passed down to him with an oral tradition. I'm ch comfortable with there being a apostolic succession as you would uh if you would, from Adam all the way through Noah. down to Abraham all the way through to Moses. I'm comfortable with that being the case. I think it's likely that that was the case, and that there was an oral tradition that uh that was carried through that time that was um overseen by the Holy Spirit that was delivered to Moses and that in the context of Moses putting it down that it was overseen by the Holy Spirit. I'm comfortable with all that. Okay. So nevertheless, he spoke from God as he's carried along by the Holy Spirit. Okay, so is it that one that Moses spoke to whoever is writing it down, or maybe he's writing some of it down or whatever. It's that one. That's the autographa? 'Cause he w which by the way, of course, he wasn't alive for many of the things that were written in there No, listen I'm I'm comfortable with there being people that came in later years and that that gave us a You know, little redactive comments to say, okay, clearly this was before the kings of Israel, whatever, like you're saying. I'm comfortable with all that. What if there are whole chapters that do that? What's our presupposition for the thing? Again, the men spoke from God as they carried along by the Holy Spirit. So if the redactors are adding to or whatever in the various places I'm comfortable that that there is there is still the custodial work of the Holy Spirit Okay, so then those redactors become authors inspired by the spirit as well. Because the redactors and someone I'm of the opinion that the redactors are are uh doing minimal work in there. They're okay. They're making clarifying statements. You know, Moses died and you know went on whatever. You know, and and uh this was before the period of the kings. I'm comfortable with with What I would ask is what's what's the assumption what's the presupposition that you come with ahead of time that says they're only minimal things when we have thousands of manuscript streams that seem to show that there's some considerable difference. And we have traditions outside of our manuscript dreams that that are dealing specifically with the Bible. We have Samaritan Pentateuch, we have Targums that expand on these things. Granted they're much later. But their expansions based on oral things that are going on. Samaritan Pentateuch were clearly given the impression was uh was not to be trusted. By Jesus. Jesus clearly said, look, salvation is from the Jews. He's clearly making clarification that that that salvation is not on the Samaritan mountain, but it's going to be from Jerusalem. He's clearly clear clearly making distinctions that that the Samaritan Pentateuch had been uh th that that that was not the one that they were to follow. That there was um in fact uh Kings uh clarifies and Chronicles clarifies that that the people that lived in Samaria, the northern ten tribes that got taken up to Assyria and then the others that were brought in from Babylon to live in the area that they uh that they added their religions together with the worship of God so that they didn't just worship God but that there was other stuff added to it. Yeah, there's another group of people that did that pretty much all the way through the Bible. They're called the Jews. Syncretism was a huge major problem. Amen. But that's the point, is that is that the Lord didn't didn't carry on a Samaritan Pentateuch separate from a uh from a uh uh the writings of Moses, what he did was he maintained the Pentateuch with w uh down through the the kings of Judah. That was clearly the lineage. There was never a time maintained it how? There was never a time in the northern ten tribes. Never. And the northern ten tribes where they lived righteously for that entire period of time. They worshipped two idol gu idol calves. There was no king of the northern ten tribes. that that maintained uh uh the writings, the the Torah came down through the kings of Judah consistently. Alright, I I just don't know how we're gonna make the leap to saying that scripture for the thousand years before that time has somehow been maintained and and which one is the autographer. That's what I'm trying to get at. I've got all kinds of Concerns with the other thing. The question is what what uh when Josiah, Hezekiah, chooses to say they're external. That's Each one of these guys presuppositions we have. Right. Sure the presuppositions, 'cause what we're recognizing that there's a lineage of righteousness that is brought down to us that the Bible itself recognizes that that w uh w as you read through the King Kings and Chronicles it recognizes that these guys followed other ways or these guys came back to the Torah And they followed the laws of God. It happened with Hezekiah, it happened with Josiah, it happened with uh Esau, with Jehoshaphat, where they returned to the things of God, and God blessed them in the context of doing what the Torah told them to do, of living by the Torah. And so that was passed down. It wasn't just a text that's just floating out there. It's a text that was demonstrating Through through God's relationship with the people, and they're responding to what God had said in the Torah that was demonstrating that this is what God intended. And so then they were blessed, or they were cursed for not following it. Right? And so so that was passed down. There's a lineage that's passed all the way down through. But what you're speaking of are general big picture ideas. And what we've been talking about is the difference between an autographa inspired verbal plenary inspiration, individual words. I'm with you on the big picture. I I think. Well well, I'm not with most of your little details that you threw in there, but I'm with you on the big picture that you have that that God is maintaining his word throughout. I believe in the Bible, I love the Bible, it's everything to me. I studied, I preach it, I and and I think that it's right. What I have today, thousands of years later But I don't want to say You don't think that it's an error though. Well, I I just define the word a little bit differently. Yeah, which is very uncomfortable because once you start defining I mean I well there's a there's a guy I sat down with that he defined Christ Salvation, everything differently. And at the end of the day it was obvious he was preaching a different gospel. So so But inerrancy is not in Scripture. So all in the text that you gotta be. Yeah, at the end of the day technical words. Uh uh and so I'll just leave it at that. If you're signing a piece of paper that is claiming something and you're you're using a different definition from the way that the guy that wrote it intends, uh I I think I think you gotta be very careful. You get you gotta you you gotta you gotta sign it according to the way that the guy intends, otherwise you're you're playing with your own entirety. uh who that is that made up this word inerrancy. And then the hundreds well the dozens of years that have progressed since then as we discussed this topic here. hundreds of different thousands of different books on what inerrancy means. And I doubt you do too either. That this is inerrant. Which which version is that? Does that matter? Any version. This is the pr this is the NIV version. I do feel like the NIV But there's a couple places in the NIV where it where it's a very difficult time. Indeed. Poorly. But so are the original languages, different translations. By the way, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosswitch Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jay Sbroadhurst, the Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And you can go on to finish your thought, but I also want to I might not get a chance to jump in with this question. No, of course you won't. Jonathan's, you know, holding what you got. Closer to a more traditional conservative uh view Uh of you know somebody comes to him and says, Why should I believe that this Bible has truth for me? And he's gonna have a whole bunch of traditional conservative uh rationales and presuppositions that will help to support that. uh y you're on a in a harder place to to give somebody assurance that they can trust their Bible because of having some doubts about all these different presuppositions, right? So as a pastor, you know what After you make the point you wanted to make if you want to. Yeah, if you could address that question of you hold up your NIV Bible and say, I trust this, I believe in this, I preach this. Why? Well part of Jason's Why part of Jason's struggle is that is that as a scholar, the right way for a scholar to handle things is to find out what the questions are that need to be asked. And so when he comes on the show like this He really endeavors to ask the questions that that scholars are asking, you know, in order to push us. And so that means that he doesn't spend as much time saying where what what he believes on it because he's doing us a service by helping us to to uh think in a scholarly fashion. I recognize that that's the case, so that's harder for you. Yes. That that's a good way of putting that. I grew up under a father that was like that. But I I think there is a time to come down. Given all these questions, you gotta ask the right question. You have to, you're not being honest. So you've got to be honest and ask the questions. So now you're spending all this time asking questions that maybe me personally I'm not brave enough to spend a lot of time asking those questions, maybe. I don't know. But you are. And so you're still wrestling through it, right? You don't have answers to all these questions. That's very true. So then so what do you do with that? How why why do you believe that Bible with all these questions hanging in the air? Well the question would be w w What do you mean by w do I believe the Bible? 'Cause I can say yes, I believe the Bible, but this is another one of those I I don't believe that the Bible is delivered to us from God, from heaven, in in a sense that he is dictated or in some way given him this information. I believe Moses Smith he wasn't given golden I believe that what we call organic inspiration. That these men wrote based on their own personalities, what they believed about things. They brought these things together. They compiled things from people in the past, from oral stories in the past. They brought these things together. They changed over time. So the stories that they have, that there there would be additions, um that that certain traditions would would um For instance, i would have one meaning for um the Assyrian exile and another meaning for the Babylonian exiles and another one for Joshua uh uh uh you know uh at shechem. They w that they would add meaning so that these would be used a temporally more, so that they would have a bigger meaning than what their original meaning was. A temporally means outside of the immediate context where it was originally w written. So we need to ask questions like like if you're wrestling with Joshua What is Joshua written for? Is it written for the people of Joshua's time, or is it written for the people of the kingdom's time, or the people of the judges' time, or the people of the exilic time, which is where I would place it, much later in the time? So it means something very different. But I would say there are different strands, different traditions that have grown up. And so it probably had a meaning for an earlier time, because it was written earlier, but then They've they've ta taken that and they've said, here's a new way of doing it. It's kinda what preachers do. I I I give but it's old meaning. I tell it with I think its meaning meant for them. But then I say, but here's how it really applies to you. So for me, but that's a key distinction that you give the meaning that it originally meant. Well, I I didn't say it quite like that. That's the way you're saying it. Original meaning is is fluid. So if the question is who wrote this? I don't I don't know exactly what that original meaning is. For the original meaning for Genesis chapter one may have been some cosmogeny about um, you know, God's fighting or something like that. And then Moses took it, reworked it. Let's just say Moses, even though most scholars wouldn't say Moses wrote that. um evangelicals would. He reworked it in order to give a totally new understanding of this, that Yahweh sits supreme above all of these other ones and that he makes Adam in his own image. That's, you know, it and centering on the Sabbath day. So he has he had a different agenda for that original text. Can we define for a second cosmogen between a second of that? Yeah, that's that's the lady that works on your hair. She's cosmogen cosmetologist. That's what I was talking about. And an evangelical scholar. Yeah, I'm I'm just saying I feel like that's a very important distinction. It is. And can you do that in like forty seconds? Well sure. Uh I'm I'm simply differentiating the difference between there's tons of people that study the Bible. They're not all Christians. Okay There's and you might say there are there are secular atheists who study the Bible. There are Christians in the stream of the Christian tradition. They wouldn't call themselves Muslims or atheists. They would say we believe in Jesus. And then there's the evangelicals who hold to a more a more, I'm just doing this in forty seconds, literal understanding of that. That is, they believe scripture is inerrant in some sense. They believe in the Trinity. They believe there's a storyline that goes through here. And there's some historical Hell's geshifter going on. So I'm gonna I'm gonna hit that softball out of the park when we come back to the show. That's fine. Okay. That's so wow, that's a good tease right there. There you have it. You just referred to Jace as a softball and you're gonna hit him next week. That's what I heard. I'm ready. That's how I understood it. That was my fluid understanding and the odd temporal meaning of all what you just said. Caused the bombing. Jonathan Sweites, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. Um wondering about if I can say health stickta on the air and keep our S V C license. Um Apparently so, because we've said it twice now on this show. It means holy history or sacred history. Anyway, thanks to our sponsors. Put my plumbing in heating, help me make you smile, and Deer Valley Heartscape Landscape and Masonry. Be sure to visit us online. Wfmd. com Keyword Faith brings you right to the faith debate page where you'll Find uh pretty much a daily update blog. M usually that means things that you, the listener, have emailed me and I just, without any sort of editing or redacting, just post it. Unless it's like you know, offensive and children shouldn't see it. That that I that'll take out. Other than that, it's whatever you send me, I put up there. So email me troy at wfmd. com. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pubin Plumbing, how can we make you smile