Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Ridlock County, we're preaching within Impact, like plowing pavement, because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate we're brought to you by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page where you'll find podcasts of this show and others like it. Uh links to all sorts of religious traditions, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So just email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me. Eighteen posts a day, Monday through Friday, that's 90 a week. Encourage you to pop in and see what other people are saying. For the most part you guys just take it easy way like I am. You're just forwarding me things you think are interesting. Which is fine. Maybe it's like scary to some people that there's ninety blog posts you're gonna have to read when they come on. Maybe you could just say, look, pop on and You know, we just put one on on an hour before. Just read the one. You know, like like bite. You don't have to read them all. You're like this guy that like reads a book a week and maybe like people are like really scared of it. You don't have to read them all And by the way, there's lots of pictures. It's funny though how you make me out to be the anti-intellectual, you know, the anti-reader on the show. That's so funny to me. You're like the only guy in my life that that says that about me. What what do I play into it? It's all right. It's all right. I can only poke fun because there's a note of irony in it. Right? I need some iron with my B twelve and my So anyway, that's uh that that whiner over there is Jonathan Schweitzer. He's the senior pastor crossroads. She likes some cheese with her wine. I would. And uh the one offering up the platter of cheese is Dr. Carl Gregg, Minister of Unitarian Universals Congregation of Frederick Uh we've spent the last three weeks, and now this is uh week number four, talking about uh Unitarian Universalism uh kind of in general. We've begun to draw some distinctions between uh that and uh and conservative Christianity. I don't know that we've done a particularly good job of uh uh in drawing a stark contrast Um but if you look closely you can see the shadows. It happens often as grey as a shadows. He's dissatisfied. I'm feeling nostalgic. You always go towards you want the start distinction and I feel like the start distinction is clear in my mind, so who cares if anybody else sees the start distinction? I want to find the similarities and see if there's a handhold for influence and communication. Okay, that's boring. But anyway, no, I'm just kidding. Obviously it's not boring, so that's part of the motivation for us doing this show So, um at the end of last week's show, uh I made the point that uh our conversation had drifted into uh an area where a kind of recurring theme I thought we went boldly into that particular theme. Okay, we boldly drifted into a uh into kind of this recurring theme that you know the conservatives feel put upon to you know, be quiet, sit down, sit in the corner, 'cause you got 'cause you get your dunce caps ready, 'cause you guys are just idiots. You need to be out of the conversation, out of the public square square. Uh and it's the liberals that are doing that. And there's a there's not a one-to-one correlation, but there is a bit of an alliance between uh liberal Christianity and Unitarianism and uh and liberal uh uh theological thinking. So I wanted to give you a chance to to respond representing all the Unitarian Universalists. Who you know who I am not the spoken person for, but we're gonna but that must be a recurring weakening at the same time. is, oh sure, you're so open minded and welcoming to everybody except those who want to hold to an exclusive view of salvation Correct, yeah. So what do you say? w happy and within the Unitarian Universalist congregation which is theologically liberal if you are either politically liberal or politically conservative. It's easier if you're politically liberal, but it's also you know we have a But it's it would be very difficult if you were religiously um on the political state. is has gone in the direction of rejecting the exclusive. I think that's some of what you see with the the spiritual but not religious type, with so called nuns, right, in O N E S that none of the above Uh so I I do think there are ways in which our um our culture is going in that direction. Uh I guess one question you were asking. Yes, but only because that leads into what I'm really asking, okay? There's a cultural pressure to go along to get along and you know what's true for you is good for you and what's true for me is good for me and why can't we just all get along like Rodney King said back in nineteen ninety two or whatever it was Uh nice historical reason. But there's all of that pressure that then ends up showing its face in theological concerns. So people who go to church and say, Well, the Bible, as my pastor is teaching me, is you know, is an exclusive claim on the truth. And Jesus is the exclusive way to the Father, and it's the only way to salvation. And You know, but there's all this pressure in all these other areas, so then we begin to drift theologically more liberal because of the cultural pressures and political pressures. I think that there's a lot of that going on. So then just in a theological sense, at very early in our conversations on these shows, you made mention of you're not so sure that uh you were talking to Jonathan at the time you said, you know, you weren't so sure that Jonathan would welcome you you and people like you into his church But you'd be glad to have him uh into your congregation and and that you'd be welcoming and you'd expect the other thing. Christian tradition in a way that Jonathan's tradition wouldn't recognize is more what I was saying. I I think I think we're both clear that include Christianity but in a liberal way. But in a liberal way. Religious conservatives are not going to be happy in my congregation any more than religious liberals are going to be happy in your congregation. Right. In the same way that we don't embrace the totality of Islam or of Hinduism. That we we're go we are going we are okay with picking and choosing. You read the Bible through the lens of reason and experience and what we know to be true personally. So what would be the I don't want to ask this because I don't want to go off on a whole bunch of different uh dovetails again. Um this is gonna be our last program together for a stretch of time. We'll be on again hopefully somewhere down the road. Um When you're making your decisions of what's in and what's out, I know you've got all these different sources we've talked about, the different six main sources that influence uh things, but still there are judgment calls that have to be made. Absolutely. So you gotta pick a hot topic. Well this actually totally relates. Let me know how how you respond to this. So I would say one criteria that we use that is absolutely emerges out of our liberal Christian roots in the seventeenth, eighteenth, nineteenth century is what I would call um uh uh uh what call them a hermeneutic of love, but uh what I mean is an interpretive lens of love, using love as a criterion of authority. And part of where that came from is from Jesus, where that he s was asked What is the greatest commandment? And he didn't say, oh, you know, because traditionally there you know Jesus' Bible was not our Bible, right? Jesus' Bible he kept talking about the law and the prophets. If you believed Moses, you would believe me is what he said. Right. Only the first Two-thirds were the bond of the prophets. The writings didn't that that part of the canon wasn't closed for another century or two after Jesus died. So the um when so when Jesus said you know was approached and said, What is the greatest commandment? He said the greatest commandment is, he didn't say Deuteronomy 6. 5, but he said to love the Lord your God with your whole heart, soul, mind, and strength and which is Deuteronomy six five, is what Jews call the Shema, the hero of Israel. Uh so he didn't take it the summary. It's not just the greatest commandment, but it's a summary. Right, but he said but he did say and because he said then the second is like it, so that makes it the first. And he didn't say you know, so traditionally Jews have an understanding that there are th six hundred and thirteen mitzvot, six hundred and thirteen commandments. So he didn't say all the commandments are equal. He said the first is To love God. And the second is like it, to love your neighbor as yourself. And that he uh in one of some of the gospels he tells that in the com uh context of the Samaritan. Anyway, where I'm going with this is that liberal Christianity developed to use that, you know So does this passage lead to upbuilding, to love, to compassion? And if it does, then we're more drawn to it and more likely to pick it when we pick and choose. And if it doesn't, then we're more likely to sort of set it aside. Sure, absolutely. Is love just a feeling? Is love an action I think it's an action. Is love actually at some point I g I I hear that. Is love uh like when I discipline my son? Right. Tough love. And so then it's precisely the areas of tough love, you know, where the authority the one that knows more, that has a bigger perspective, is able to see down the road and say, you know what, you need to stay away from that because I know where that leads and you don't yet, so just trust me. Right. Right? But that's precisely the place where where our definitions are gonna diverge in the woods. Because I'm gonna say that that God who knows everything and gave a revelation that you and I could never discover on our own that had to come through through a divine gift to us that that revelation gives us insights that we could never get any other way, i. e. , that homosexuality is inherently disordered and will will not just affect the individual negatively, but will end up in the breakdown of society at large. Right. And so so that definition is love. Sure. No, I totally understand that perspective. And the difference um is that we're from where I'm coming from and my tradition is coming from is what I call the liberal turn in religion. That turn toward reason and experience where people are gonna we're more likely to side with eighteen hundreds. Right. Right. With people saying that, you know, I know what the tradition says, but I know in my heart and in my experience that I love this person that's of the same gender as me, as as I am, and liberals are more likely to trust that personal experience over against the how you how do you define that feeling of love? Because I love Getting high. Actually I've never gotten high, but I understand people love it. Right? I love getting high. Right? So there's clearly elements of loving things that are a rush that are exciting that at some level end up being not something that we should respond to. So how do we define that that experience is not loving? Right. It's actually um wicked and evil and is going to result in great evil. Right. So two things. One, to look through sort of a biblical lens that the liberal Christians would have used. Um before the sort of mid-twentieth century turn to more a more pluralism, they would have looked at things like Galatians 5, 22, and 23, sort of a classic discernment passage where Paul says The fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. So that that's a pretty good little list of criteria. You know, buy your fruits you will know them. And if the the tree bears good fruit, you let it live. And if a tree bears bad fruit, you cut it down, right? So that th and so the m modern correlate to that is like John Dewey, the American pragmatist tradition, where you say you know something by its cash value, whether it works, whether it bears fruit. And uh where this goes in relation to homosexuality is that liberals would say what is the actual fruit of same sex relationships? And whereas conservatives might see the breakdown of society, liberals may see, we see Happy parents and healthy children and Okay now there's an obvious distinction that you just like I feel like left it wide open for me to walk into. Come on. Uh probably unintentionally, and that is that you're saying that that the smaller unit is is the more important that is a liberal bias as opposed to its effect on the whole. Right. And that's a liberal bias that can be often an unhealthy one. How do you know when it's unhealthy and when it's not? It's certainly a corrective that the Unitarian Universalists are trying to make so that we so In the same way that you noted, we added that sixth source is is a later addition. Um in the same way we've added a seventh principle, so that it used to be our first principle that came out of humanism was the inherent worth and dignity of every person But we realized that we had taken that too far in a way that led to this sort of radical sort of and this comes out of Emerson, this sort of radical Emersonian extremism of individualism. And so we added a seventh principle of the interdependent web of all existence to say that we need to pay attention to that communal aspect. I think you could also see that on a global scale as the split between East and West that the West the whole Western tradition has had a bias toward the individual. I mean that's the declaration of um community? No, it's the declaration of independence, right? Of breaking apart. of what's life, liberty and the proof of happiness for the individual. But the but there's also that other strand of we the people, right But that's that communal strand has always been stronger in the East of identifying first with the community and not with the individual. So I do think that liberalism is an extreme form of that Western impulse. Wh which the Europeans tend to come from. We'll live in the tents of Shem, the house of Shem, and the House of Shem is the religious sh uh house, uh at least, you know, it seems to be a a biblical um theme that the house is is your religious uh house and so the major religions of the world are all Semitic, interestingly enough. And that being the case, it's the religion that ties us together, it's the people that are living inside of it that are trying to figure out their individual, you know, focus or whatever. Uh anyways, that ties together for me in a biblical, you know, uh sense where we you know, where there's differences between whole you know, uh parts of the uh uh human race. And so, anyways, um the question is what is the balance between You know, the corporate and uh the individual. And in the context of that balance, are we just looking at like our immediate situation or are we looking at generations. Right. It's that famous uh Iroquois wisdom from the American Indian tradition of seventh generation thinking. how will my actions affect even unto the seventh generation? But it's not just, you know, it's not just about you, narcissists. It's not just about what's good for you. that even unto the seventh generation to think of. For example, my experience and I've had several interactions with uh people in the context of homosexuality. One was uh where some guys were coming to our church You know, and they heard a message one time where homosexuality was listed in the list of other sins. They called me up and said, Hey, can we talk about this? You know. So I went and sat and talked with them and you know clarified what things were. And the and the word out of his mouth was, Aren't you judging us Right. And uh another time I was I was downtown, you know, d uh serving food at the uh at the soup kitchen. I asked somebody, hey, where do you go to church? And she immediately turned around with more vehemence than I could I I I I uh it was just totally unexpected and she says, Oh, you're so judgmental. I bet you're really gonna be frustrated to hear that I'm homosexual. Like she threw this judgmentalism in my face. just two weeks ago I was out on the street just uh meeting people, you know, down where our church is in downtown Frederick and and uh and you know uh was talking to one guy, I said, Yeah, I'm from that church around the corner. He says, Oh well go talk to somebody down there. I don't want you judge me Right? And it's interesting to me that in the Bible, that's the issue that is thrown at the angels in Sodom and Gomorrah These guys are here to judge us, that's a big concern to me, because in a society that has lost its ability to judge one another is a society that's going to break down. And all I'm saying is that that phrase, don't judge us It seems to me to be inherent in our society. The whole emphasis on tolerance right now is don't judge anybody, and yet everybody makes judgments. There's nobody that doesn't make a judgment. And all my point is is that is that how then do we discern what's right and wrong when an anti judging spirit will lead to the breakdown of society where we can't make any judgments and the result is we can't build any trust. Right? I mean judging something as, you know, what's right or what's wrong is inherent to a society's ability to get along with one another and to build trust. I I do understand that. At the same time, I especially when I was a um a Christian minister for many years, I lamented that people similar to what you experienced in the soup kitchen had come that when they free associated with the word Christian, the words that came to mind were intolerance and exclusivity and judgment. Where do you think that comes from Do you think do you think that comes from the fact that the church is like that? Or do you think every single movie that comes out of Hollywood paints us out to be that way? I think that I think both are are part of that. And that what I lam but what I love about your No. Well what what I lo let me tell you what I love about your story. I've met some, but there's there's there's like so few and far between. Where were you, right? You were in the soup kitchen You were doing exactly what I think Christians should be doing. Matthew twenty five. Right. You know, give food to the poor and give clothes to the hungry and avoided me. And obviously she had a sh I suspect she had been, you know, treated poorly. So what I think is important that there also though there there has to be a balance there too, right, between judgment and between acts of mercy, like you were doing. Acts of loving kindness because when you're justice. It it does. When you look at John eight, you know, uh this woman's being you know, had probably committed adultery, but Jesus said, let the one without sin cast the first stone. Yeah. And that I I do see and this gets into the political realm, that I do sometimes see uh and and and again I lament that Christians are known much more strongly for going into the political sphere to be like against same sex marriage than for alleviating poverty and homelessness. No, let me just let me just tell you from my experience. Sure. When I try to go in on those other things And they find out where I'm coming from, the issue is forced on me. Mm. I'm not the guy that brings it up. And as soon as it's forced on me I'm painted with it and I'm ostracized for it. Mm-hmm. And we c and and it's like we can't work together. Yeah, in fact this is why I was I was like walking a fine line trying to work with different people in the Frederick 48 thing 'Cause they knew where I was coming from and I kid you not, the two days that we were doing the fundraiser, people were on you can go blog it, you know, they're on the Frederick News Post blogs talking about the fact that this is Schweitzer guy. He is you know, he's against homosexuality, he's against, you know, he he's he's politically conservative. You know, he's a liar, you know, and all these kinds of things. Like they were painting me out to be all these things and you know, I just ignored it. You know, it was it was a certain group of people. There was enough good favor in other places, but the fact that I could build that favor here, like I'm just saying is is unique. Like I I at any moment it's like people are gonna where anywhere near enough liberals are coming from is that I want to work with conservatives, um a theological conservatives, I want to go as far as we can together in the public sphere for the common good. And acknowledging at the same time that I'm totally fine with going with you into the public square and saying We disagree about homosexuality, we're going to be here in the public square advocating for different sides of same-sex marriage, but we agree about We'd have to talk about what we agree about, about poverty, homelessness, immigration. And so we're here together to talk about poverty, homelessness, and immigration and to take that as f far as we can that's willing to be that clear out of our religio out of our religious values, which may be different. But I mean that I I believe and feel that strongly. So this is what I was getting at the first show, Troy This is the thing. We can either have unity where we turn the lights down just far enough that we all look the same in the in the pseudo-light dark. Or we can turn the lights on and admit that we don't look the same and find ways to work together the same. Where we agree. Yeah, where we agree. And also know that we're gonna be on different issues of same-sex marriage. But I'm okay with that And uh and I'm okay acknowledging that publicly and then still working with the context of Frederick Forty eight, the guys from the churches that are on the other side of the political divide. Uh man, it was it was funny to me. They were trying to do their best to support what we were doing, you know, like publicly. But they hated it and we ended up getting very little support from them financially or in terms of workers and that kind of thing. Like like they wanted to be there, like they kind of felt like they should be there, but At the end of the day they had no heart for it because Er Schweitzer and he's an evangelical and he represents everything that we abhor, you know, in society. And so, you know, you know, maybe you know It they it they just w when push came to shove, they didn't work together with it. And you're the first one that has come on the show and said, Yeah, let's admit that we don't agree about all these ways in public. Let's not talk about those things. Let's just talk about where we agree. And the result is when I step on your toes, I don't know that I stepped on your toes because I didn't even know that there was a line there because we're And then I get pissed off but don't tell you. So you're everything I've been hoping for. You complete him. That's right. That's right. The yin yang that is the United States is completed here That's the voice of Jonathan Sweiser. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads LA Church. We're joined this week by Dr. Carl Gregg, Minister of the Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. We have three minutes left in the show. So I'm going to give Jonathan um sixty seconds for a closing statement, and I'll give Carl sixty seconds for a closing statement. Clarification, it can be a kumbaya, it can be a whatever you want it to be. Yeah, no, I mean well here's a a a question I would have that would would also get to related to the Frederick forty A is that Do you I'm gonna guess, do you actually think that's a better way for poverty and homelessness to be addressed is for it to come through? the churches, whereas I would actually I'd be willing to partner with you on that, but for me it would always be a halfway measure because I would actually rather I guess I would rather both. I would rather government be doing it And the truth. I'm glad you asked that question. I would be happy with the government being involved, except that as soon as the government is vault is involved If they're gonna give me money to help the poor, I lose my freedom of speech and I can't bring up Jesus Christ. Right. And so because government is involved, Christ is rejected. That's that's what I've been trying to drive at this whole time. And if that was not the case and they would not muzzle the church for using the government funds, uh I would be I'd be always opposed to federal government being involved. They don't know what's happening locally. I'd be a little bit more open to state uh being involved and I'd be uh a lot stronger to uh local government being involved, right? The more local you get, the more you know it's it it's the idea of subsidiarity, you know, that you handle things at the lowest level possible. Federal government is going to be a blunt instrument, it's it's gonna be a failure. But if they would give us the funds, right? Uh Chuck Colson uh with uh prison fellowship was r running a fabulous program uh that that was kind of running a whole prison uh out west somewhere. I forget exactly where it was. And they shut it down because he's using the gospel. And these guys were the recidivism was like down seventy percent because the gospel's involved. And that kind of a bias against Christianity is destructive and it's it basically you're saying, look, let me rip your heart out and now that I've ripped your heart out, how come you're not motivated to serve the poor anymore? And I guess my bias would be toward having faith based things be bottom up and grassroots and funded by the congregations. Right. And then have and and to have the federal government be more secular. So I w I would be part of that. And there we go. We fo we've got the government to be secular and to shut out the voice. No, that was disagreement. No, there was a note of agreement. There was a note of agreement. He would be willing to participate in that. John F. Church and Dr. Carl Greg From the Unitary Universal Congregation of Frederick, our sponsors putman Fleming and Heating, Help We Make You Smile. I'm Troy Skinner, thanks for listening, God bless