Broadcasting from the West Of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridluck County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate Sponsored by BMC Insurance, proud supporters of New Life Christian School, Cruise Holidays of Frederick, thankfully sending Bob on a long trip to the Bahamas. And putman plumbing and heating, how can who make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts, news items, the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I will post whatever you send me, removing all the naughty words. 45 Forty five vlog posting? What does your wife check check you on that just to make sure that you're doing your your daughter probably checks you on it? I have uh Well let me finish this really quick. Uh forty-five blog updates go up there for a week. Nine a day, Monday through Friday. And there have been times when I wasn't sure because sometimes it's not English Uh I mean not most of it would be in English, but they'll send me words. Some of it's not not in English. Like I I'm not sure why it's in that quoting something or they're using a word that I'm just not smart enough to know what it is. And I'm like, I don't know what that word is, so I I I have to take it out. I had a French teacher in high school. that he learned French on the street and when he went to college and he started speaking it, they like almost kicked him out of the room because it was so dirty and he didn't know it. And uh so yeah. Well, on the faith debate today, Jonathan Sweitzer is the one uh speaking dirty French words. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, and he'll be speaking more dirty French words today in a couple of hours. There you go, trying to get 'em to come back to my congregation. That's right. And you'll have to wait about six days, but if you do so I hear that uh Uh Rabbi Daniel Sykowitz will do the same thing over and French not so much. Yiddish maybe? He is the uh rabbi at uh Congregation Colony of Frederick. Nice. And so this is f uh round four of uh of a four by the way, happy new year, a little early. Yes. Very nice. No, I don't know. It's not the Jewish New Year though. No, Jewish New Year this year was back in September. Back in September. So I'll be bored. I'm either four months late or nine months early, but happy New Year to you. Thank you. Appreciate it. What's the next big Jewish holiday gonna be here? Um our next holiday is Purim, actually, which will be in about February timeframe, and it is the celebration of In uh Persia, ancient Persia, the um uh Haman was uh Esther. Right, Esther who was uh the wife of the king. And she saved the Jews from Haman who wants you to kill all the Jews. Well I'm not much of a drink. I could probably get drunk on about one. Anything you need to know about Purim you can learn from VeggieTales Oh yes, right there. They have the Esther uh episodes. Theologically accurate it's fun for the kids. So last week we ended on a on a poignant note. We did uh imagine this. We have a Christian pastor and a Jewish rabbi. This is a bad joke. Keep going. Yeah. They walk into a bar and one of them doesn't drink. So And we did three shows, almost three entire shows, before the name Jesus came up. Yes. Well, no, it came up a couple times. Didn't it? Oh yeah you kept bringing it up. Christian pastor that you are. But there's been very little disagreement. We haven't really in dramatic fashion Because there's a lot and the reason I the Messianic Jesus But I was a little bit surprised. I mean normally you think you ask a a a rabbi, so can somebody believe in Jesus and be a Jew and they're gonna give well no not really. Oh although maybe there's this exception of this But that's not the answer we got. Anybody we would have thought maybe a reform. Exactly. That's why that's why I asked you the question. There's so much And yet you drew a very clear distinction. Reformed Judaism has so many uh uh so much latitude, so many different ways to experience the uh the faith That I thought, well maybe there's an avenue for that, but you've made it clear no. No. a Messiah as your personal savior, you're no longer Jewish. You have now become in this case Christian. Any Messiah. Jews, Hasidic Jews that have identified messiahs, and they also would be considered, but I would say that they're no longer Jewish And yes, that's one of the big things. In fact, the um the Lubovich world, which is an ultra-orthodox group, who believe that some believe that Menachem Schneerson, who is their rabbi Uh the Rebbe, as they would call him, died about in early nineties, I think. I don't remember the exact time. Some of them believe that he was the Messiah The trouble that they have run into is that they many other Jewish groups are now saying, That's fine, but you're no longer Jewish. And and their hierarchy, if you will, has decided this is a problem for us. So once the Messiah comes, Judaism ends? So good question. I don't know what's gonna happen once the Messiah comes. Um Right is a sense that the Messiah's gonna come. So everything we're now in the kingdom of God. And so I don't know whether anybody will have any religion. Now that would put you in a tough conundrum though, right? Uh not necessarily. I mean eschatologists. If you accept them, you stop being Jewish. Well but you know everybody does it at the same time. Right. If if we're all now it's sort of like you know, if we're all now past this to something else, we're all become Whatever the next thing is. It's really an amazing thing. I don't know what the next thing is. Yeah. Because I God knows what the next thing is, but I don't. So now for somebody who's not Jewish I've never I've never had an opportunity to ask this question of a rabbi before. I'm I'm excited about what I'm gonna hear. Okay. Somebody who's not Jewish, when the Messiah comes I mean as a Christian I think the Messiah has come, but for the sake of argument, the Messiah hasn't come. I don't know. The true Messiah comes, what happens to those who aren't Jewish? They are all part of it too. Part of it like they every year he sets up his throne in Jerusalem, and every year at the Feast of Tabernacles the nations come to Jerusalem to worship, and if they don't come to worship, then there'll be famine in their land because he will be ruling from Jerusalem. I mean this is a Ezekiel No, it's a Zachariah passage. There's no I if that ever happens, I I don't you know, there won't be religion the in the way that we think of it is today. The mess the we'll be in the messianic age. Okay, but but that Messiah won't be God. No, it won't be God. It will not be God. In your understanding. Correct. He will be a a A fully redeemed human a second Adam? Possibly. Well Christians describe it that way. Yeah. The return of Yeah, there's a belief system i the in ju uh Judaism that there are at any one time there are thirty-six people living in the earth that are righteous. That are righteous enough that Should the earth be ready for the Messiah, one of them will become will they don't and they don't know that they're the Messiah at this moment. But we'll only know after we have reached that and when it is the Messiah, everybody alive on the planet will recognize it as the truth at that point? Like that God will work God's massive will. I mean I don't want to be flippant. I don't want to be a good thing. So there wouldn't be anybody that says no, that's not him. Correct. Hmm. Because all nations will come up to worship. It does say come up to worship, but they'll come up to worship God at Jerusalem. Right. They're not worshiping the Messiah, they're worshiping God. Now In your uh strain, strand tradition of Judaism, whatever the right phrase there is, uh, is there a life after death? There is a whole set of beliefs about life after death. There's not like one dogma that says this is what you have to believe. So for instance, what I personally believe is that my soul survives and is eternal. Goes back to be, since it's the spark of the divine, it goes back to be with God. Um and but how that looks You know, I don't know whether I know that I'm Dan Psychowitz at that point. Now that happens to you as a queue or is that happened to everybody? Everybody believe you know, I I I don't force my belief system on other people. No no but what would you but what do you believe about other people? Oh I would believe that the same thing happens to everybody. Okay. But I I understand that your belief system is probably very different from the other. So what's the consequence? Well it's pretty similar. I mean it Uh we we do believe that there's gonna be a final judgment. So when the when the day of the Lord arrives in for us the Messiah returns uh to set up the kingdom of God on earth, which i uh you know, that that moment is very similar to what to what the Hebrew scriptures d you know describe about the Messiah, uh, you could say that we feel like our understanding of that is just an extension of what you know uh Judaism taught. Um but the um the key to that is that there's going to be a day of the Lord preceding that that will be a day of judgment. Mm-hmm. And is that true in a Jewish and your understanding as well that there is a day of judgment and then the new heavens and the new earth, uh the new covenant where he writes his law on our hearts and Now I'm really scraping going to the back of the rack here because I remember that So it's obviously not at the forefront of the floor. No, it's definitely not at the forefront of what you teach. I mean I uh my what I teach is that in order for the Messiah to hopefully come, we're the ones who need to complete the world. Kind of a millennial in a Christian eschatology worldview. Okay. Repairing the world more p post millennial. Yeah, yeah, probably post millennial where we're uh It's not that the world gets worse and worse and then the Messiah comes in judgment and then you know we go into the new age, but that that the people of God are in the world. And it's getting better and better and then the Messiah comes as a kind of a crowning fulfillment of the ages as it were. Which is c what you did with Treasure 48. That was part of Tukun Alam, that's repairing of the world. Takun. So if somebody is uh uh a Jew and then they believe that the Messiah has come and they're no longer Jewish, other than maybe some sense of I don't know if shunning is the right word, but uh some sense of loss of connection with their community Is that is that really the only consequence? Um y you mean here on earth, I guess, is that way. Or just I mean, yeah, uh on earth or just uh For eternity? Because like for example, in a Christian context, if if a if a Christian someone who claims to be a Christian then rejects Christ as the Messiah, then they're they're no longer considered a Christian. Right And they're considered to be under condemnation. They face, you know, eternal torment and hell. I see. So there's an eternal consequence beyond just a you know shunning from the Christian community. Right. In Judaism we don't have this uh quite the same sense of hell as you guys have. There's a sense of um Oh, uh what did uh Jacob call it. This whole gray head goes down to Gehenna, um goes down to no I don't think it's Gehenna. Ge Geheno. Geheno. Um it's sort of this nethery world. Um uh but we don't have this full sense of hell as you guys have. So no, we they wouldn't be damned to hell. Um they're just no longer Jewish. In in as as we often read in the in the Torah, getting cut off from your kin, from your community, that is considered the worst thing that can happen to you. And so they would be cut off from other Jews. Hmm. Now now the the truth is is that back in those days, you know, three thousand years ago, four thousand years ago, getting cut off from your your community was a death sentence. Because if you're a Bedouin, if you're in the i and you now no longer have a place to live and you no longer have other people to protect you, that was can that was practically a death sentence. It's not quite the same as it is anymore. Because you know, if you if the Jews of Frederick reject you, you can go to the next you can go to Hakerstown or the next place over. Now forget about the eternal question, because that's not something that is a focus of what you're you know, theological training was. I mean you've touched on it obviously, but it's not what you're teaching a lot of or whatever. Right. So more in the here and now Is would there be a sense of a lack of uh connection to blessing from God? Do you believe that there's a special blessing, first of all, on on Jews? uh because they're Jews and if you are no longer Jewish, do you then lose that blessing? So it's two questions I think. Right. Well I can tell you this. My personal belief is that um anyone who chooses to believe in the one God As a person is blessed by God. So for instance, Jews have chosen to believe in the one God. Those of us who do believe in God. Christians believe in the one God. So they also blessed. So any group that decides in that that it is the God and Muslims. If as long as they believe in the one God, then yes. They have a they have they've been blessed also. The one God. So it has to be the right God? Well, I believe that there's one God. And you know, who has You don't believe there's Other gods that are false gods? That are false gods? But so then they're not gods. I mean there may be gods with a little g, if you will. But if you're a false god, then are you really a god? There's only one god. Yeah. No, I understand. Sure. But that's an important distinction. I mean you're recognizing that there are others that claim to be God and attract worship but are not God. Right. Yeah, yeah. Right. Um we promised we're going to talk about some some topics that are and try to put some meat on the boat. So let me I guess I want to come back to uh let me reset really quick and we should come back to what you want and then we'll try we'll do our best to address some sort of contemporary topic. Okay. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer who's waiting, chomping at the bit right now to say whatever it is he wants to say, and I'm sure it's gonna be worth waiting for. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined this week by Rabbi Daniel Sekowitz from Congregation Colomia Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD three talk. All right, so go ahead. Right, so uh the The big distinction that I think that I know about uh in the definition of the the identification of the Messiah um has to do with with Christ coming as this suffering servant who doesn't set up the kingdom of God on earth but turns things inwardly and says um that he's looking for a people, you know, that will that will come to him by faith and uh in so doing Um, he's building a kingdom that is not of this world, you know, that is like yeast, you know, going out and um leavening the loaf, you know, to bring the nations uh back to the Lord. And um and so for us there's, you know, some key passages. uh like Isaiah, you know, where where it's talking about the suffering servant that my understanding is that Judaism sees sees itself as the body that is the suffering servant correct except for the fact that it moves into a clear description of like an individual that will suffer. You know, is there a sense that that the Messiah when he comes, that there will be a suffering part of him, that that he will be a a fulfilling of what Job represented, where Satan himself is attacking the one who was the righteous one to to uh clarify if he's truly righteous to test his mettle, you know, uh righteously and then uh and so therefore there will be, you know, that that he is you know, oppressed and afflicted, you know, is his his visage marred beyond that of any man. You know, all these uh things in Isaiah fifty three in particular. But then where uh I think it's right after it says that the Lord looked and he was displeased So his own arm worked righteousness for him, and he clothed himself, you know, and it seems like there's this moving from the suffering servant into, you know, the righteous king that establishes you know on the earth and it seems, you know, from our perspective, and we've chosen to believe that, that that it moves from being the the body of Judaism into being, you know, this individual that is the servant. Uh is there a sense of that suffering uh that would be identified with the Messiah? And if so, like what is what what do you see that would look like? I don't think we get no I don't think we have that sense of suffering though I will say that um I think Judaism has suffered in that. Right. Right. And I think but I do think that there is a sense that the if the Messiah is going or when the Messiah comes, it will probably be someone who um a very humble person who may be extraordinarily poor, that type of thing. So maybe they're suffering from that angle, but I that whole other piece that you were describing I think up our infirmities. carried our sorrows, we considered him stricken by God, smitten by him and afflicted, who's pierced for our transgressions, crushed for our iniquities, right? This is the classic one. So I uh apologize for being, you know, so obvious, you know, in my uh approach as a Christian. But this this is the one that, you know, we all like sheep have gone astray, he's turned his own way, but the Lord ate on him the iniquity of us all. You know, it seems like we've moved from a group of people to a person. Who is that person? Or would you say still say that that's referring to the group? Right. So often Um the Jewish people as a whole are personified by names like Ephraim or Judah or Jacob or Israel. So I think A bride. A bride. Whether good or bad. The to me that's the same. You know, that we're still being personified that the Jewish people are still being personified that way. So you don't have the sense that it moves from in those passages from the group to an individual. Right. No Sure. I mean that's that's so that that's such a significant distinction, of course, in a Christian mindset that that there was a Messiah that was going to come, that was going to suffer. And actually that has has led Gentile populations the world over to identify themselves by taking up their cross daily like Christ told us to do, that we too then are the suffering servant. And so uh so in terms of Judaism seeing themselves as the suffering servant, you know, like is there a kind of a uh an appreciation even that whatever Christ did, at least he got those Gentiles to be doing some things that uh fit with the fulfilling of what, you know, uh the prophets seem to call for, that all the nations would return. You know, to the son of David, as it were. Well having been uh um repressed for so long, it's hard for us uh I hear that you know um It's really hard to do that. It's very hard for him to do that. drove this wedge where he said Jewish Christians are no longer allowed to worship on the Sabbath. They're no longer allowed to be circumcised. They're no longer allowed to celebrate the feasts. And my impression is that that's the point at which the anti-Semitism uh pierced into Christendom and that it was precisely uh the unwillingness of the church to let Jewish Christians continue to be Jewish and many of my messianic Jewish friends would claim that that the Jewish community helped to drive that as much as the Christian community because the Jewish community didn't want them c want those guys calling themselves Jewish. Yep. But that the result of removing that perspective from the Christian worldview introduced anti-Semitism in a way that drove so many years of of repression in a way that it wouldn't have been had we had messianic Jews as a part of the discussion. And all the theology and all the whatever. Of course, that would assume that somehow we all would have been better if we just had the right theology, and that is a bad assumption. So I recognize that. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, it's you know, uh it's going back and saying if this had changed, who knows what so it's it's hard for me to make that that leap. Um you know, kind of what you were just talking about. Right. Um I don't know. Tap your mic again. There we go. Okay. Let me let me jump in. We've got about five minutes left. And let me let me throw out a big picture. Hot topic. There's a hot topic that's been a hot topic for generation for at least a generation. Okay. A little generation and a half now And uh it's not going away anytime soon. We've already alluded to it on an earlier show with this panel together, and that is the current nation state of Israel. Okay. In the Middle East. Okay. All right. So What are we to make of that? Is that nation state of Israel from your Reformed Judaism, or at least your your personal understanding of Reform Judaism, is it connected to Judaism? Uh Historically is nineteen forty-eight important prophecy? Yeah, is it important to your tradition, to your faith, to what you teach and believe? I'm a huge supporter of Israel. I lived there for a year from two thousand two to two thousand three with my family, my wife and kids. Loved the p loved it. It was wonderful being in a place where I looked at at every place I looked, yeah everybody was Jewish. Um all the road signs are in Hebrew. But Arab Arabic also in English too. Um so is it part of the core of who I am? Absolutely. Do I believe that Jews have been there as much as they could in Israel itself for the last two thousand years, actually probably closer to four thousand years? Absolutely. I think there's been an unbroken chain. Sure. Um the only times we've ever been had to leave, we're being forced for by both Muslims and Christians, have kicked us out at different times. Um so if you're asking me, could I give up Israel, the answer is no. That's you know, as a Jewish state. But do you believe that it was a act of God uh in fulfillment of Isaiah sixty six No sooner is Zion and labor that she gives birth to her children can a nation be born in a day or a nation be brought forth in a moment. Do you believe that was a fulfillment of that? I believe well, y in a in my way, yes. I believe that um God works through us here on earth. And so I mean there are a lot of Pardon me. Orthodox Jews who will say because God didn't make a miracle happen that we shouldn't be in Israel at this moment. But my belief is that God didn't come down and smite the people who were there and then said Jews come in. Uh I believe that we made the miracle hap we being the Jews made the miracle happen. Of course with the world. Do they believe Joshua's a conquering of the promised land back in the day was miracles? I mean that was the human agency? Uh they bel be because there were miracles involved, you know, with the how the sun stood still in the sky and how the walls of Jericho fell over, therefore that was God allowing them to come in. My feeling is is that for a small group of people, some of whom had just escaped the Holocaust and were here in Israel, to beat five or six uh Arab armies the way they did, that's a miracle. I mean I I can't see it not being a miracle. And uh and so if that's the case, um then like of course Ezekiel says that the bones, you know, stand up and then they're clothed and then the spirit comes in them. Is that is that what's happened there in Israel? That that the bones have stood up? And now he's clothing 'em in that the spirit has not yet been poured out? Well, metaphorically speaking, sure. Sure. Yeah. I mean obviously there haven't been You know, bones that act I mean, I think Ezekiel really thought the bones were g you know, real bones were gonna come up out of the grave, and that hasn't happened. But metaphorically speaking, absolutely, the bones of the Jews. Turn my mic off for a second. The rabbi mentioned that uh you know the stu the sun says stood still, but the sun is not standing still for us today. So we have to We have to go to bed. Well yeah, I guess. You gotta get it in your nap before you go preach. I do. Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Uh thank you my friend for being on the show again, uh co-founder of this show Uh Daniel uh Psychowitz is the rabbi at Congregation Colomia Frederick. Thank you so much. It's been an absolute pleasure. Thank you to our sponsors, Footman Flubbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile, BMC Insurance, Proud supporters of Um New Life Christian Church and Cruise Holidays sent him Bob on that trip to the Bahamas. What have I been reading? How true this title is, The Rare Jewel of Christian Contentment A classic work from Jeremiah Burroughs. Till next week, thanks for listening. God blessed.