Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB brought to us by Putman Clowing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Daryl Albright, owner of Frederick Mr. Bruder Uh Jeff Long, Regional Sales Manager, is that right? Branch sales manager. Oh, I got it wrong again. It's a mental block. I don't know what that is. Currently he sells branches Uh branch, your title regional sales manager by any chance? No. Okay, just wonder. It should be. Uh branch sales manager with Barnett Pro Contractor Supply and also on the panel this week Matt Thompson. And he's got a lot of jobs. We're only going to focus on two of them. He's outreach pastor at Calvary Assembly here in Frederick and coordinator for the Convoy of Hope event that's taking place in Frederick, uh just in a few weeks really now. Like a month from now Yes sir, you aced it, I'm impressed. So I got I can get his titles right. I can't he've got a zillion of them I get them right. Jeff has one title. I got it all wrong all last week and I'm getting it wrong again this week. I gotta tell you the coordinator title I don't feel like quite says it all. I mean like Matt's like the driving force behind it. He's like executive director, right? I mean he's call he'll call himself whatever he calls himself, but I know what he really is. He He is Frederick's convoy of hope, right? I mean if it weren't for him it wouldn't be happening. You guys are killing me already. I'm just starting. So if if you were listening last week, then uh this will make a little sense. If not, hurry up, go listen to the podcast, and then come back. Um at the end of the show last week, Jonathan was talking about the context of last week's show, Frederick Wisterruder, if you listen to this radio station, you heard we gave a water uh water heater away Freddy Mr. Uh Reuter gave that water heater away and then gave another one away to a family in need. And we were talking about that and the Christian responsibility, the Christi Christian motivation for for doing those sorts of things. And at the end of the show, Jonathan um had a kind of almost a throwaway comment really. I don't think he thought we'd we'd go anywhere with it, but talked about how people are oftentimes critical of conservatives, particularly evangelical conservative Christians, uh because they think we don't support the poor because we're against government programs for helping the poor, kind of thing. Yeah, in fact George Bush had to like change uh what republicanism stood for, just to add the compassionate to conservativism, you know, which basically meant big government conservativism wouldn't You know, when you look at his tax returns and you looked at John Kerry or uh Al Gore, he would give like thirty percent Bushwood of his income to charities and organizations like that on a regular basis. Like that was just a regular part of his tax return. Al Gore and John Kerry they gave like three percent on a regular basis. Why? Because they look at the government to do all their charitable work. Whereas somebody like George Bush is saying, no, I do it personally. I you know, I pull out my own checkbook for a specific, you know, cause and then I write, you know, to that specific cause. And so you know, if you're not doing it through the government, then somehow you're not compassionate. Whereas I kind of feel like that's backwards, honestly, sometimes. And you did it personally, Daryl. So, you know, what was going on in your mind and your heart or whatever that had you do that? Not stroke a check to some government agency for example. Well, the contest came to me heavy on my heart. And I think me and you kinda touched base on that when I was coming to you. Um I was really looking for a family in Frederick that was in need because of the economy. Um It actually took a turn for with the school, which we kind of wasn't expecting, but which worked out pretty good. Um then it was a few weeks later The attorneys talking to by the way, the winner of the contest ended up being the career in technology. uh program with Frederick County Public Schools 'cause they they build a house. I think they're building their twenty ninth house right now and they've had their funding cut because of economic considerations and they they couldn't install a water heater because they didn't have one. And so he felt like uh Darrell felt like that was a way to to help a whole bunch of people, help these students and help the eventual owners of that house. Uh would they finish the house without a water heater, you think? Um not well. You know, I've been thinking about that, you know. That means no hot showers. You know, have you ever taken a cold shower? I have. There's a couple times I was in Costa Rica and Panama and different places where there's nothing but cold showers. hours and I'll tell you what. Now it's that sort of heartbeat, that sort of motivation that is really what's driving the convoy of hope event, right? That's the kind of people you're hoping to get involved in your event. People who are have some means, maybe they're business people. Right? Yes. By the way, we already should take three seconds or three minutes and have you explain what is Convoy of Hopes event that's coming up on June eighteenth. June eighteenth, Father's Day weekend, uh Saturday at Frederick Fairgrounds. We will have uh Convoy of Hope, the first one here in Frederick County. It's gonna look a lot like a carnival kind of atmosphere. We'll have a big kid kid zone and And uh it's really targeted. Will Jonathan be there? Uh uh he better be. Oh so the clowns. He signed up. So so we're we're targeting as our guests Um primarily the poor and the working poor of Frederick County, which obviously uh as you guys often discuss is the the working poor is a growing segment of our of our community. And we just want to serve them that day as as the the community of faith organizations in in Frederick County, the the churches are kind of the driving force for this. We want to offer free groceries and free lunch and free health care, free the whole the whole gig is free. Uh show up, we we're not gonna qualify people, we're we're not gonna, you know, take any names or reservations. We just need you to show up and and the rest of the day is on us. And where this stuff is coming from, like you're gonna provide free haircuts and it's gonna be licensed hairstylists are volunteering their time to provide the haircuts, right? Correct. You're gonna have free dental care, you're gonna have dentists on site doing dental checkups. You're gonna have uh doctors and nurses there doing, you know, taking blood pressure or whatever, the physicals and that performing physicals, that sort of thing. Exactly. Um business people are going to be volunteering their time or if it or if their business isn't such that it makes sense for them to volunteer their time, they're gonna maybe write a check and and sponsor one of the stages or one of the areas or something, right? So this is what Jonathan's talking about. These people who are of means, they're they're professional people, they're maybe business owners or whatever. They're not they're the ones that are railing against taxes. Right? And uh you're you're penalizing me the small business owner. Exactly. This is the thing. And I and I don't want to have my taxes and people well you're t well if we cut the taxes that's going to affect you know, all these social programs. And they're saying, good. I don't want the government taking care of the social programs. I want to do it my own self. Well that's pr that's precisely the point, is that if we are truly conservative, then at the end of the day we want to do it directly and as directly as possible. We want to get the government out of it with any bureaucracy And we want to do it personally, we want to open our own checkbooks. And I feel like I feel like that difference makes all the difference. I mean, if somebody takes money from me to give it to to give it to the poor, does it really make me that much of a better person? Or am I not just inclined to kind of be resentful, like, okay, he's taking my money, or just ignore what's happening and just not even know. But if I see a need, like like uh Daryl was just saying, he just said, you know, it was just on my heart. That is a personal moral decision. He saw the need, he had extra, and he chose to give it. I feel like when we when we go the tax direction, we remove from people the possibility to be morally uh uh a part of the decision. And and and in the end if they're not morally part of the decision then they're less inclined to really be strong morally. And there's no accountability either for those that are receiving it. Well see and and here's my gig. I I Jonathan, I in some regard I agree with what you're saying. The other the other perspective that I take on this is the government's not going away. How it looks May be different every four years and may not. Unless you've been in like Egypt or Libya. Then the government goes away every day. But we're in America, so that could never happen here, right? But but in the near foreseeable future, the government is here, correct? So so Convoy Pope, the the neat thing that I like about this is we're not necessarily segregating. We can only this is only the churches or this is only private sector My heart and Convoy of Pope's heart is w we gotta figure this out together. We're I mean we're all in the same boat. If it's sinking, we're all going down with it. The the poor and the working poor, they're often j they're just trying to survive. Troy, they they don't have the means to go lobby Capitol Hill or to to do anything but try to survive. They're putting food on the table for the family. They're trying to get the kids health care. So Convoy of Hope's heart is to meet the needs. They're government agencies, like 'em or not, conservative or republican, or I don't I don't care, they're providing needs. They're providing goods and services to the poor and working poor So from Convoy of Hope's heart, I want to put those needs into the hands of those that need it. And we're driving the churches to that, which is what the churches should do. And I will take that stand firmly. We're driving the government to that, which is what they should do. I'm taking that stand as well. And private sector. That's what they should do. I I don't I'm not here to to to make a necessarily Republican, Democrat, Liberal Conservative necessarily. Um Jonathan is. But Jonathan, I don't think you can take a breath without doing that. Well the funny thing is is that actually uh I believe the White House has gotten on board to support Convoy of Hope and to um encourage all of their um the the federal local offices uh to uh to participate in it as much as they can. And so um interestingly enough. Yeah, I'm definitely uh more inclined to see the uh uh the government not making all that happen. But at the end of the day at the end of the day we got here in Frederick about two hundred thousand dollars that had been cut from the religious coalition and from Department of Services Services, all of which would go to helping people to pay for their uh to to to not be foreclosed upon or to keep their electricity on. That is two hundred thousand dollars. That's a lot of people in Frederick and there's more people that are being foreclosed on not less. And so, you know, where's that going to come from? If we're Republican and we voted in all these commissioners that we voted in to to cut our taxes, then that means we all need to step up, we need to we need to tighten our belts and to give personally as much as we can, whether it's You know, like what Daryl and and Jeff are doing, whether it's, you know, through something like Convoy of Hope, finding ways to be a part of the community and to help out. And I think uh when you look at the convoy of hope you guys are having a job fair, uh you go back to Daryl and w what he's donated to is going to train, you know, young men and women to grow up into a profession. uh in order to be a productive member of society. And uh, you know, when you look at it in the whole, uh, you know, I've been a conservative Republican my whole life. Uh but, you know, I'm I'm into enabling people giving them the opportunity um and and and putting it into their hands and I and I I really think that's what this is doing, you know, and and we want more people to work and you know I th I think the less you get government uh and and you let the private sector work. You know, Darrell start hiring people, uh we'll start training people and uh, you know, it uh that's the road to success. I I think the road that we're on to now is uh you know Uh definitely a road to failure. The last election showed that and uh you know we'll we'll see where we've been a conservative Republican your whole life, it means you have no heart, right? Because that's what isn't that what they say? I got I got more heart than any liberal out there. If you're not a liberal Democrat when you're eighteen, you have no heart, and if you're not a conservative Republican by the time you're thirty eight, you have no brain. Isn't that what they say? They do. They say it all the time. And they think that we're just supposed to sit there and take it, you know? As if we're some kind of a caricature, you know, that they've made up or something else. Now, I've said this before on the social Jonathan's heard this before. Uh the social programs that the government offers are there because there was a need, and I think there was a need because the church was derelict in its duty. So now if there's any I don't know that I'm completely agree with that. Well that's right, you can be wrong. So the I agree. So if these cuts are con like the um Christian coal or the uh religious coalition has these cuts Those are real. And people are going to feel that. Yeah, they are. Well now there's an opportunity for the church to say, you know, whether you agree that there was any dereliction of duty in the past or not, if they don't respond now, there'd be a dereliction of duty, right? The institutional church certainly should be a part of that, but the Christians, the real church, the the Daryl Albright, the Jeff Longs, the you know, of the world need to step up personally and meet those needs. And that was what I was talking about about five minutes ago about the accountability. I threw it in as just a quick line. But if the government hands out a uh a check, a welfare check or anything like that There's no faces going with the names. You know, you're a number and that's where you get all this welfare abuse and all that sort of stuff going on. You get people who don't really need it taking it, so they're stealing from the system and then those who really do have a need don't have their needs met because somebody else stole it. Yeah, but when it's Jonathan has a need, I know Jonathan, I know he really has that need, and I'm gonna give him money myself or give him help myself I know he really needs it. And I know he's not going to go waste it on something. He's going to use it for what he really needs it for. You have people that are starving and they get the money but they don't spend it on food. Well well and and here's the issue from that, uh I should say one of the issues as One of the other hats I wear at Calvary Assembly is I I oversee some of the benevolence. And one of my first questions is, are are you connected to a church? If you're not connected to my church, are you connected to some church somewhere? If you are, y they should absorb you as their family and take care of you. But so many of the phone calls I get, there's an excuse behind it, but no, I'm not really connected to the church. Well if you're not, then it's difficult for the church to understand the viability of that request. I don't if I don't know you, I I can't trust you necessarily and I uh uh times are tough, the giving is down, the you know, the heart is there, but the the money might not be. So so from a church's perspective I there's this fine line. And I don't know that this will be received all that well, even in this room I'm not sure, but surprise. But it seems to me that The church's responsibility in the New Testament is to take care of its own, to take care of the widows and orphans among them. to take care of those who are in the church. Not that you're gonna totally ignore other people, but the primary responsibility of the church is to take care of the church. Yeah, I'm gonna say yes and no to that Uh it is true. In fact, uh the first responsibility of a husband is to love his wife as he loves his own body. But then we're supposed to take care of the church and take care of our own, but then it goes beyond that and it says to love your neighbor as yourself. And and uh Matthew 25 certainly makes no distinction between the sheep and the goats, makes no distinction about whether or not you're only helping those that are in the church. or those that are not in the church. And so so yes, it's true that we have a responsibility first and foremost to take care of those in the church, but I think that the biblical model certainly goes beyond that as well. And you know, I uh the the big problem, right, if I can go super theological, is that pride And greed and selfishness stop us from caring for other people. And we get to thinking that it's all about me and what I want and my needs. And it seems to me like like the danger is that that Greed, with all of its ugliness, which unfortunately there's a lot of greed out there in society, drives us away from thinking that somehow I've got a responsibility to take care of my neighbor to help out with those that are that are next to me. And it seems to me like that's the root Theological, you know, spiritual issue is whether or not it's just about me, or whether or not it's about me and those around me Right? And so if I care about those that are around me, it doesn't mean that I just give them, you know, a free handout. Sometimes it means that I go and I walk with them for a little bit and I encourage them to to be a better person, you know, to stop stealing or to stop lying or to stop cheating on their wife or whatever it might be. You know, but other times it means that that I look at 'em and say, you know what, you need you need a ride you know, down to uh to to get your license or whatever it whatever it is, you know, that I can give them a hand personally. And so I I think that that's like the root spiritual issue. Maybe that's not a theological thing, but the root spiritual issue is is how selfishness and greed in particular drives us to not really care about other people, but mostly just try to take care of ourselves. It's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Also on the panel this week, we have the coordinator for the Frederick Convoy of Hope event coming up on June 18th, Matt Thompson, also outreach pastor at Calvary Assembly. Uh Daryl Albright, owner of Frederick Mr. Reuter, and Jeff Long, who's branch sales manager with Barnett Pro Contractor Supply. And uh Jeff had a chance to talk a little bit more last week than he's had talk this week, but something that's been playing in the corners of my mind since last week's show Um, you you do not own the company for which you work. If you had to persuade your boss, and you mentioned last week that your boss is a Christian, somebody that made it easier for you. to say, hey, there's this guy, this knucklehead, over in Frederick, who wants to give some family uh he raised his hand immediately. Knucklehead. He responds to Knucklehead. Daryl wants to give some family uh hot water here and I think we should. So how did that conversation go? If you can encapsulate it in thirty minutes, you know, and I call my boss, I explained to him about the radio program that you guys have and uh you know pretty much You know, uh you're reaching out into the community trying to find somebody that had a need. And uh, you know, um I would say you know, my company's a very good company, take very well care of us, and I'm a very blessed man. Um and uh, you know, when I joined my company my boss wasn't a Christian. He became a Christian shortly after and uh I'd witnessed to him a few times and Uh he came up here to work with me one time, said he got saved. So uh you know, of course, you know, God changes your heart uh when you get saved and it makes you a different man and gives you a different uh perspective on life. And You know, uh John here uh referring to, you know, the greed and the pride and everything and it's me, me, me, and that's the society we're living in. But you know, I'm just thankful that there's, you know, that remnant a small percentage of people that still have a heart for God still, you know, realize that there's people in need, you know, not only spiritually, physically, mentally um, you know, and uh personally practiced within my own life and I've seen a lot of different testimonies of uh, you know, um I won't make it along, but uh I had a uh friend of mine in church Uh he took care of his neighbor and uh went over and fed her and made sure he mowed her grass and she was older. Uh she passed away, turned around and and uh put two mil two and a half million dollars in his banking account She had six sisters, no none of them ever had any kids or anything, and because my friend, a Christian man, and he's used that money for the Lord, two and a half million dollars turned around and said and when that lady died everything went to him So, you know, and it it always you know, where much is given, much is required, you know, and uh I've I've always looked at that and uh you know, the more we know Um the more we should be able to give out and the more, you know, uh we're we're blessed, uh we should be a blessing to others. Now we have five professing Christians in the room. Actually I go so far as to say we probably would all be professing evangelical conservative Christians in the room, right? So I'm trying to think somebody who's not in that boat with us, listening to what we're saying here today, is gonna feel like you know You don't have to be a Christian to be a giver. Lots of people who aren't Christians are given all the time. So it's not really about Christ or the church or your faith or whatever. What sort of response would you have? Just somebody who's skeptical about the motivation behind your giving. To understand it. To ha to actually have that feeling That God has told you to do something and know that it's come from Him is completely different than just wanting to do something. Yeah, you know, um The motivation to give um and the recognition that people have needs that can't be met themselves. I feel like goes to the root of the gospel. The root of the gospel is that we don't have enough, that that we have a debt that we can't pay, and that somehow we need help to pay. And so If there's somebody that is not a Christian that uh has it in their mindset that they need help from other people, they've received help from other people. And uh and that they want to help other people as well. Uh I uh I almost feel like like that's the closest you can get to God without actually being a believer. Uh I thought about that, in fact. Um that that it it certainly leads your heart in that direction. And if there's somebody out there that doesn't believe in God but is that much of a giver I'm certainly not going to stand back and condemn them for it, you know, though uh i my my response to them I think would be, you know, you might not be as far from the kingdom as you think you are. Yeah. You're nodding your head a lot there. What do you think, Matt? I I immediately think of a friend of mine here in Frederick County that that attends a different church than I do and and their doctrine is significantly different than mine and he always jokes about Heretic heretic. He's an awesome guy. Can I just tell you that? He he's a giver in the community his lifelong, his kids are the same way. And uh he always he always jokes about me being an evangelical Christian. He says, Well Matt you you got hell to threaten your congregation with. Our church doesn't have that So I I enj I enjoy that comment. It makes me laugh and I tell him maybe you should try it, because guilt is a great person. But I know him and I know his heart and I know The what are our what are our two commandments? Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, right? The second, love your neighbor as yourself in that order. And I think as a as an evangelical Christian, a lot of times we think I'm great. I I'm good, you know what I mean? And I love the Lord the God my God with most of my stuff, but not all the time, and I love my neighbor as much as I can most of the time. And that's not what we're called to do. And I and I think there are other people, just like you said, Jonathan, that Maybe they don't profess the same doctrine that we do, and maybe they don't believe the Bible in its entirety as I do, but they they've got a lot to teach us. Yeah, I think that for for me and I gotta be careful not to come across as like, you know, the uh the legalistic harping on, you know, it's all about Jesus, but it's all about Jesus. And there are there's common grace and special grace, to use a couple of you know theological terms and you've gotta set things up and again this is this would be my view. You you're free to chime in if you disagree or heartily agree. Uh but uh God has set things up so that even those who aren't trusting in Him for eternal salvation are going to do some good things from time to time so that we can have a well functioning society in which the church can grow. and people can be called to faith and come to know him and have salvation. But the ultimate goal is for that to be the case. So you can have people do a bunch of good things, but the Christians in this room I like to think that I do some good things. I know Matt's doing good things. I I bust his chops all the time, but I know Jonathan's doing good things and we've heard this week and last about what Daryl and Jeff are doing. They're doing good things. But they're not going to heaven because of that Has nothing to do with it. So you have a bunch of people who aren't Christians doing good things too. Good, to Jonathan's point. Absolutely. We applaud that. Do lots of good things. But at at the to use a phrase from Jonathan, at the end of the day Yes, yes That is not going to save you. At the end of the day, that's not really going to be what matters. What's really going to matter from a Christian biblical perspective is that you put your trust, your faith, your hope, everything rests on the finished work of Jesus Christ. So having said that and getting back to our conversation about, you know, is it the government's responsibility, the churches, I go immediately to James 2. Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by my deeds. And I think for me as m as a church, as a pastor of my congregation Will my deeds get me to heaven? No. Hare I profess my faith and have no deeds to back it up? And I think therein lies the issue for for so many of us. Absolutely. I agree And y you know, you go to, you know, the rich young ruler, uh, you know, and Jesus said unto him, you know, he basically said, I tithe, I do this, I do that. And uh, you know, he and then he said, you know, go sell all that you have and give to the poor. And uh you know Yeah, he went away sorrowful. Absolutely. And uh, you know, it's you know When when it really comes to giving, you know, um and uh there's a lot of, I'm sure, unsaved people out there that are listening that are give and and that's all good. Um, but you know, um getting back to the, you know, responsibility of the church, you know, and and a dereliction of the duty, which I think, you know, is is quite neglected these days and it's good to see, you know, uh pastors like we have here that are, you know, willing to to get something together for their own community. And uh, you know, be a blessing to 'em because you know that there is a lighthouse to a dark world in which we live. And uh, you know, you get back to the point, you know. I I just say uh it's it's it's easy. Admit, believe, and confess. you know, uh you can be saved from your sins and uh you know that's a whole different topic, but you know, you put it well. You know, repent and receive, you know. Since he agrees with me, we'll let Jeff have the final word on today's show. Jeff Long is the branch sales manager at Barnet Pro Contractor Supply. Daryl Albright, owner of Frederick, Mr. Reuter, Jonathan Sweitz, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Matt Thompson, outreach pastor at Calvary Assembly, and also the coordinator for the upcoming Convoy of Hope event uh on June 18th at the Frederick County Fairgrounds. I'm Troy Skinner. This has been the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putin Fleming and Heating. How could we make you smile? I encourage you again to go online Now WFMD. com, keyword faith, we'll bring you right to the Faith Debate page where uh Monday through Friday anyway it's updated with at least three blog posts And then the weekends I decided to take off most recently. And I realize now we haven't had a word of the week the last couple of weeks. We've got to fix that next week And uh I also have gotten in the habit of telling you what I'm reading like you care. Uh but I didn't do that last week. So I'm gonna give you two. Uh recently finished Uh Chosen by Ted Decker and also actually read uh Infidel by Ted Decker as well at part of uh the Lost Books series. Uh um I love Ted Decker, but I'm not loving this series as much. So I'm not I'm going to give it uh a a a slight recommendation, not a hearty recommendation. So anyway, thanks so much for listening. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now.