Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Elijah Dirksen. He's a seminary student. He lives in Iowa but goes to school of Florida and here he is on a show in Maryland. Don't ask. Oh, say that again 'cause I had your mic off. Very strange guy over here. And Daniel Raz Daniel Razby is uh here as well. He's one of the pastors at the Church at least at Imran House. You can find him online at uh conquered by love. org. The best way to connect with the show with me and most of the guys here all uh is all my contact information everything is at my church's website that's Household of Faith in Christ. I know it's a mouthful, but it's kind of easy to remember, right? Household of faith in what? In Christ dot com. And there you can connect all the stuff that has to do with the faith debate, all the stuff that has to do with the church. There's great resources on there that have been vetted by by me and others that are trusted uh resources for for crit now just because they're trusted doesn't mean I agree with every single jot and tail of what somebody says. But on the whole The ministries that we connect to on the website are uh are are solid. Uh we might disagree on eschatology, we might uh you know disagree on some political matters that are lesser importance, uh things like that. Um But might disagree on baptism questions, but I think you can uh be in good fellowship with people that have a different different view on some of those kinds of questions. So that's not a knockout blow. But if you're woke If you preach a false gospel, uh if you're insanely leftist and liberal, like you're not you don't believe the Bible is the word of God, stuff like that, I'm not going to recommend you on one website. So anyway, you were mentioning between shows. Last week you were talking about Harry Potter And this would have been a nice thing to mention last week. But so a lot of people will listen to this sh the shows like on podcasts back to back maybe. So welcome to let me Uh five minutes ago as you were listening to the podcast and heard us talking about Harry Potter. Uh we should have mentioned then and I and I said at the time, just for a little bit of context As a parent, you should always be previewing everything your kids watch, whether it's hairy powder or anything else. And you should be very careful on what you let them consume. Not just because everybody else is doing it, everybody else can see it. It's okay. They will not die if they don't see the latest and greatest movie with all the bells and whistles. So one thing that you can use as a parent, there's some there's a service called Vid Angel VID like video vid Angel and they have an app and they have a website. Basically it's a subscription. You pay ten or fifteen bucks a month or whatever they charge you, kinda like Netflix. Outrageous! And then it sounds like we're sponsored. We're not sponsored by Bed Angel. It's not. I'm not sponsored by them, but it's it's a really, really great service because what happens is they'll connect to your Netflix or your Amazon Prime or your HBO or whatever it is And you can watch anything that's been that's on there that they've that they've gone through and they've done filters. It's a filtering service. But it's not just their pre-programmed filters. You get to choose the filters. So it'll tell you uh in XYZ movie, you know, there's three sex scenes and there's eight uses of the F-word and there's this violence scene and that violine and it'll it'll describe like it they'll have a sentence about you know each of these things that you could skip And you can check, check, check the box to skip certain parts of the movie, whether it's sound like audio for language, or whether it's video for violence or nudity or something like that. So if it's sound like the video's still there but they mute him. Exactly Um unless it's m uh sometimes they they go so far as to like if there's profanity written out in a book, like they'll skip that section of the like. And how precise are these ethics? Extremely precise, like to the millisecond. um before and after so you don't miss any other part of the movie and you can choose h what level of of filters. So you can say, Well, I'm okay with violence but I don't want to hear uh profanity and or I'm okay with profanity but I don't want to see nudity or whatever and you can choose some of those filters. It's very, very useful. I highly recommend it. Or even levels of violence like Some mild violence might be okay, but then like gore and that kind of stuff could be could be. They there was a big lawsuit against them by Disney and by Warner Brothers who were mad that they were filtering their content and so due to the settlement there is no content owned by Disney or Warner Brothers that can be filtered on this class. Well yeah, I mean I would think except for Warner Brothers and Disney, which is half the movies out there. Yeah. But the other half, there's actually quite a few things on there so I highly recommend look at that, especially if you have kids that might be watching things I mean how many times have you planned to fast forward something and then missed it and then oh now my kid saw whatever. Now can you like filter it for heresy Because like I you know, I if I were uh if I were to watch the chosen, I could watch the whole episode in about three minutes maybe. Unfortunately, it might not be that advanced But you can take out like that. It would just come to the end. Right? I di I did uh as a test, I I loaded up Game of Thrones into there in one of the episodes and I and I checked off all the filters and it was really like for instead of forty-five minutes, it was like five minutes or something. But anyway. Sounds like a hundred and fifty bucks a year to spend, you can have uh some s some s some security that your kids aren't gonna be watching. I mean you don't you might wanna you might wanna see stop yourself from war. Yeah Rem I remember way back when, like it's probably back in the nineteen nineties, um Eddie Murphy was still kind of popular as a stand-up comedian back then. And I was in involved in um sports radio and I wanted to pull some bits that uh for comedic reasons in in the show that were from Eddie Murphy's stand up. Well if you've ever seen or heard Eddie Murphy's stand-up, I mean there's lots of foul language And so I had to edit out the the file language and make use of stuff, and then the idea hit me and said, maybe I'll just go through an entire album and I'll edit all the foul stuff out It's like a forty-five minute album and it ended up with like a, you know, thirty-two-minute album or thirty-five or whatever it was. And I gotta say Probably eighty five percent of the time it was just as funny, maybe even funnier 'cause it wasn't so distracting. Oh yeah. Uh in some cases Y like you had to just take the whole joke out because the punchline was the foul word and so without the punchline there's no joke. But um anyway, so I did that. I actually still own on cassette somewhere I'm sure uh Eddie Murphy uh two of his stand-up albums, Curse Free. And then the way that you did editing back then is you actually physically cut the tape with a razor blade and taped the the the the the oxidized tape back together And so I took all the the stuff I cut out and I taped that together and it was like seven minutes of nothing but curse tape. With different inflections and stuff, you know. And I gotta say right here, we're all laughing at it. It is it it's it's Morbidly funny, you know. Anyway. Other things that are morbidly funny are casting lots. Okay. So what is casting lots? So uh it's going to start with a Gomorrah. Grabbing uh a a guy named Lop by the scruff of the neck and throwing him and casting him out of the city. Something like that. That's what that's That's how my children's Bible tells it anyway. Uh anyway, so yeah, that's one of the questions. Well, what are casting lots? Uh the the the Scheduled topic for today, what are we to make of casting lots in the Bible? So part of that is what are they? And then once we've figured all that out, should we still do it? Should we still cast lots? So who wants to tackle what casting lots is Unless I was right. Is that right? It's about grabbing a guy with a scrap of the neck or something. I think it has to do with with some kind of game of chance in order to make a decision, right? So so it draw like drawing straws or whatever, you know, you get you get uh Correct. From my understanding i it was a a casting lot, so you you take some straws or I guess talisman, I'm not sure, but you cast it. Kind of like throwing the dice. Yeah. Rolling basically like a dice. And when one of them lands a certain way, then you then that that points you to one decision and when a different one lands a different way, that's a different decision. It's a determin it's a determination governed by chance And by the way, you can't talk about throwing dice without saying, roll the dice, move your mice, nobody gets hurt. Anyway, you gotta hear the watch of vegetables. I weren't allowed to. You were way ahead of your time because now I'm not sure we can trust anyone else. No, I'm I'm serious. That was That w that was an actual serious conversation we had as a family saying, you know what, we can't watch Freddy Tales because the pirates are singing catchy fun songs and we're gonna be glorifying piracy. The i the issue I had with vegetales was that it wasn't biblical, it wasn't Christian, it was moralism. Correct. And so it's it's an insidious kind of a thing and it's not the gospel. It's it's it's works based. And yeah, you want your kids to be immoral and so it's certainly better than ninety-eight percent of what's out there. But it wasn't it wasn't presenting. There was a lot of show a few weeks ago I think. Um and that was a similar type of thing. It was a whole bunch of kids uh Sunday school type um songs and then they weren't really that deep theologically. But anyway So, um casting lots. It's kinda like throwing you know i you're flipping a coin, you know, calling heads or tails the same basically If it's this way then I'm gonna go this direction, if it's this way I'm gonna make this decision. And in the in biblical terms, there's a lot of examples of people casting lots And then praying to God to say, God, please make it end up a certain way to show me a decision. So it's like instead of having trusting that God's gonna actually audibly speak to you what you should do You're telling God, I'm gonna abide by whatever this lot says, so make it happen the way it should. Right. If you get snake eyes, I know I'm supposed to buy the house, and if I don't get snake eyes, I'm supposed to not buy the house. And so It has been used in the Bible a number of times in a positive light, I would say. There's um other times and I would say, well maybe this wasn't actually commanding God actually commanded to give lots, I think, a couple of times. And then is there any place that God actually says mind are Joshua dividing the promised land in Exodus or excuse me, Joshua 18, I think. And there God doesn't directly command it, but it seems like God approves of it. And the other instance is the choosing of Matthias as the twelfth disciple. Which that that was that one's one that I I've heard a number of sermons about. Maybe maybe that was a really bad idea with the twelfth apostle because it doesn't It it it never really hear from him again, but I I don't think there's anything in the passage that reveals that it was a bad decision. It just it feels like to me in the in the uh the Matthias like they got two people they're like, well God pick between these two Um, not God show us who it is among all the people. Well and that's why many people say, Well God really actually he chose Paul and Paul is the twelfth ap uh apostle. Now there's the whole bunch of I don't know, arguments you can make about that. Um Anyway, so in my understanding it is it's decent to shoot to to cast lust to decide something when making a decision co would prejudice a a particular group, like the the twelve tribes with with Joshua dividing up the land. If Joshua were to show favoritism to one tribe over the other and say, hey, you guys get to pick first then it would create infight infighting, um all that the strife among the tribes. So I think that would be an example of one one area where it would be okay to cast lots. What's the difference between that and just asking God to show you and then waiting for him to respond in some way to do that? But is is that so is that how you should make decisions as a believer s today? So should you say, Well, God, should I take this job or not? So that they call me in the next ten minutes Then I should take the job. If they call me in twenty minutes I should not take the job. Okay, God, you do it now. T and then that's kind of the the tricky thing. Every example in the Bible was done before we had the full revelation. We didn't have Everything from the Bible, yeah. Except for M Matthias. Oh, you're talking about we no that we didn't have the New Testament. We didn't have the entire canon when Matthias was chosen. We just had the Old Testament. But they did have the uh the Holy Spirit by that time. Pentecost had already happened. They did. But They they were still receiving revelation organically through talk the Holy Spirit working directly in them, speaking directly to them, things like that. So now you're sounding like a cessationist. You're saying that that you're kind of implying that now we no longer receive revelation that way? No. That God does not speak to people or give them audible commands. I'm saying that we have a complete Bible. So if we're looking for advice on, hey, should I take a job? I'm gonna look to the Bible first before I unless it and God gives me a direct Yeah, but the but but but i if it's uh assuming you're not in an in an immoral career, you're not joining a strip club or something or whatever, then if you're choosing as a lawyer, whether to work for one law firm or another law firm and they're both seem to be reasonable law firms but there's nothing in scripture you're gonna find that's gonna speak specifically to that. Not specifically to that, but I can make applications from scripture to every area of my life. W you can. And you should always do that, but there's gonna be plenty of decisions you make that it's not gonna be uh easily clear from scripture. You're gonna have to have the Holy Spirit's leading. For sure. And the question is, should you as the believer, should you wait for that reading by the Holy Spirit? Or sh uh d is it ever appropriate to just make a random choice? Well and my my and trust God my thinking is that the the casting of lots was used when it was done by a pr person in a position of authority like Peter or Joshua. And they were doing it so as to avoid favoritism or any appearance of favoritism within it. They're just leaving it completely up to the providence of God. So they're they're not saying, well, I choose Matthias over them or I choose Nepali over the rest of the tribes to get the the best pick. Alright, so Troy, your turn. You haven't said anything yet. Yeah, so I didn't do like any special study for the topics we're tackling, you know, last week's show, this week's show. Well, last week was very political. So I I'm doing this off the off the coffin so i if I'm saying something that's really horribly wrong, you know forgive me in advance. But to the best of my memory I don't think there's an instance in Scripture where any of God's people are commanded or instructed to cast lots. I think it's always in the context of a narrative passage where it's describing what happened. So the narrative is tell or somebody's saying what they're going to do, like Joshua says, I'm going to cast lots and figure out a divvy up the land. But it's not God told me to cast the lot. It's just he just makes a declarative statement. I'm going to cast the lot. And the in the New Testament you talked about Matthias in this lecture here. That's in the book of Acts, which is a a narrative, it's a descriptive uh book of the Bible. It's not a prescriptive book of the Bible, meaning it's not law, it's not legal code, it's not these are instructions that you must obey. So they're just I part of me wonders, is it possible? And I and I'm this isn't this is me off the cuff, so you guys can walk me off the ledge if I'm an idiot. Is it possible that this is an example where the Bible doesn't come out and say this is wrong But maybe there's an inference that that wasn't the best way to go. Kind of like there's no explicit you know and David had a billion wives and Sam and you know every king had a billion wives and it's not specific and this was condemned by God. Like that doesn't follow. And yet if you read the full narrative, it's clear that, yeah, they really shouldn't have been doing that because you can look at the consequences. All of these I would always say that I would only say that in that particular case that may not be a great example of it because there is uh some passages in the law that says kings may not multiply wise themselves. It's a specific command in the in the Torah that says kings may not have multiple wives. Um so so what would be the specific consequences you're talking about? Certainly other types of uh activity. Well, I've got a big brother. I agree completely with the wives thing. So the the casting lots of like Joshua. What were the consequences of him casting lots to divide the land? Yeah, I haven't thought it all the way through, so you're talking about but m if if the before I really tried to connect the dots on the the adulterous relationships that these kings had with all their wives. I wasn't noting all of the consequences. And then when I went looking for it, like there's You're s it's a command. You can't do this. And yet they're doing it. There's uh it it and g the silence in the Bible almost seems to be sanctioning it. So then you I studied it deeper. I was like, wait, he's not a sanctioning. If you know what you're looking for, you can see there's a consequence right down the line. Every single example of polygamy in the Bible has negative consequences specifically because of the polygamy. If I were to take the time and do a deep dive study on lots Would we see that maybe the allocation of the land wasn't without its problems? Matthias is like, never heard from again. Maybe there's some message in that for us. You never hear of Bartholomew again either. You know, I mean I'm not saying it's necessarily wrong, but it's not they're never commanded to do it But Joshua also eighteen. It's And the one thing I would say is that this is Joshua after he has received a vision from God to go and do this, after he's been rebuked for not dividing up the land, and he's saying we're gonna cast lots before the Lord So it's that it's not them doing it without God's approval i it's not them doing it without God. They're doing it before God, they're doing it with God. I guess to your point they may not God may have not have directly sanctioned it or may not have directly approved it, but it seems like they were doing it in conjunction with God or at least attempting to. Yeah, so that's that's me trying to see 'cause I I felt like there was some pushback from Daniel possibly, like, maybe we we shouldn't be doing this. And it's like, okay, that would be my thinking. I would want to do a a study and a deep dive and try to see if I can make connections to see if There's some strong valil validity rather than just perhaps some surface validity what Daniel's saying. But on the other side, like lots These are good guys. Joshua's a hero. You know, the the the twelve um the eleven remaining disciples who become apostles, they're good guys. And they're doing this. So, okay, what's the good thing? You know what We still do cast laws. We just don't call it that anymore. We flip coins, we draw straws. We go een meeny miny mo, right? We we do we do that and we d and we're We're not putting up the chance per se, but we're allowing for a random drawing because to the best of our wisdom, I can't decide if I'm the host of this show and I need to ask one of you two a question and you're both, you know equally capable of answering the question and I don't know who to go to and in my mind I'm going to make a a judgment call but if I'm just frozen because I feel like this is too important of this question to just pick the wrong guy. And I don't want to offend. So I'm going to say, look, I don't want you, Daniel, to be offended. I don't I don't want you, Elijah to be offended. So if it's okay with you, I'm going to flip a coin. Heads, I'm asking Elijah the question, and everybody feels good about it. So I think that's all it is. It's up to God. So should we use different like instead of let's flip a coin list, let's cast lots. Who's got a quarter? Should we use different language? Maybe that I think uh an example where it is somewhat negative is Gideon. He's questioning God. I don't want to do this But if you really want me to do it, I'm gonna set this fleece before. Right. But God actually responds to it. Yeah, and yeah, and and it's not called casting lots. It's but it is some type of random test. Maybe not e even random. He he was it the first uh thing was i it w it was weird. Yeah, it is different. But it's different in this regard because the casting lots like heads or tails. It's going to be heads, it's going to be tails. Everybody knows it was on the up. That's not random. Yeah, that's not random. Probably say, Well give me a sign and then Isaiah said, Okay, you'll have a sign, it'll be this. But Gideon is saying, Well give me this sign If you really want me to do this, then show this. If you really want then show this. But then he gets to sound and he says, Show me again. He doesn't want to believe it. Right? But and and then god How big of a God are you really? Can you do it twice? Just so we're really, really clear. Right. And so so that's that you know, that I I think that's a little different with Gideon. Probably. Then I I think my my hesitation with casting lots is trying to put God in a box. That God can only pick one of these two or three or ten things that you have on the list. It's kind of like something I you know, my my um Uh my mom tells this story about how s w as she got closer in her walk with God, it's it's it's very different. So she used to get up a long time ago, she would get up in the morning and she would say, God, please help me get these things done that are on my list today And that that was one stage in her walk with and with God. And then later she got more mature and she said, Well, God, please help me get the things that are on my list that are of your will, please help me get those done today. Then She got more on uh in her we're trying to walk the audience. She used to get up and say, You know, God, this is my list, but if you want me to do any of them, some of them, none of them Just get down what your your will is. I even if it's none of this stuff you show me and so that becomes more maturity and recognize that sometimes what God has for you isn't even on your list at all. Right? So in the case of that guessing lost If we're doing that, then we're telling God we're only going to choose one of these things, not some other thing that you might have for us. That's that's my only hesitation. That may factor into our biblical examples here, because it w clearly was God's purpose to divvy out the land between the tribes It clearly was God's purpose to have a twelfth apostle, according to Peter. Pete Peter cited scripture and said it should be twelve. They they'd but have his have his place. twelve of these tribes to have a and these are specific ones. Well and they have a specific general geo g geography. So here the with with the twelfth apostle it wasn't commanded which of these people should be. They picked two that they thought would be good. My my own my argument is How do we know that God actually wanted one of those two people? Because if they cast lots, the lot wasn't gonna fall on some other person. It's gonna be one of these two people. Well in one thing they was they were qualified. Those are the only two people who were qualified. But are those the only two people that were qualified? Well they in their determination. But here's something that's different about the casting lots from the trusting God to help you make your decision. I I buy again, I'm doing this on the off the cuff, so but I think all the situations where lots are cast, it's like group decisions. And right? It's the they the They don't agree necessarily. The disciples weren't a hundred percent sure And so they weren't in agreement. They did they decided among them it's one of these two equally qualified people who were gonna pick. And the people were maybe unsure of who was supposed to get what part of the land and they were disagreement and he's like, Let's cast lots Uh there's a story about where it's they're not God's people, but the uh the sailors with Jonah, they cast lots to figure out what to do in that situation. They were in probably in disagreement that okay, let's see who Who's gonna win? But God still revealed the right answer through it. I found a place where casting lots was was commanded for the scapegoat. You cast you have two goats, you cast lots, one goes for the Lord, one's for the scapegoat Um and and so then you sacrifice one and you send one away. Even the people on the show are learning things on the Faith of A show on the fly. Yeah, okay. So it's clearly not a sin if it's commanded. So it's it's an allowed thing. For certain decisions anyway, it ca it has to be so that makes it different than but polygamy. But that's kinda like saying Well w like we said a few a month or two ago, oh, clearly war isn't always wrong because God did command it sometime, but you could easily make the argument that that might be the only time that war was ever justified. So there could be a a situation to your point where, you know, y you're you're not going to exercise wisdom, you're not going to do the the right thing, you're going to leave it up to quote unquote chance. By the way, I'm losing time on the clock. Elijah Dirksen, Daniel Rasby. I'm Troy Skin. This is Faith Debate. We'll continue next week, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from right now. Till then, God bless