Hour low sixty six, clouds and sun Tuesday with a thunderstorm possible high eighty-nine. With your accuweather. com forecast. I'm Kevin Snyder. Good morning, I'm Troy Skinner, and the Frederick Faith Debate is up next on Fredericks News Radio 930 WFMD. Putman Plumbing and Goulds Pumps have teamed for over twenty-three years to bring Frederick County homes clean, fresh, reliable water. Putman Plumbing and Goulds Pumps share the same values, pride, ethics, and extra-mile service. School's Pumps and the Putman Plumbing Way because you deserve it. It's a great day at Putman Plumbing. How can we make you smile? This is the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMB brought to us by Flipman Swimming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, wfmd. com keywordfaith. There you will find all sorts of links to all sorts of religious worldviews. You'll find a link to Jonathan Sweitzer's blog, which he updates about once every uh blue moon And uh also you'll find to the right hand side of the page the Monday through Friday daily updated blog. My blog is your blog. Email me Troiskinner at clearchannel. com Again, if you email me something that's even remotely related to the things we talk about in this show, I will post it up there. Nine postings every day, Monday through Friday, guaranteed unless of course I come out sick or on vacation or something like that, because I care about the blog, but not that much. Join this week Jonathan Sweitzer, G uh Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Mark Braverman back for a third go-round, author of Fatal Embrace. Uh what am I reading? In addition to Fatal Embrace, the uh The right doctrine from the wrong text. Good stuff for those who like more serious subject matter, like to really wrestle with the grist of their of their religious underpinnings. Um who is Mark Braverman? Well, Mark Braverman. Grew up a Jew, is a Jew, and he wrote a book about it. Rabbinic Judaism. And in this book, he charts uh an overview of the Christian Jewish uh issues, he presents his own personal rival at his present perspective, he looks at the impact of anti-semitism both past and present and tackles the topic of Zionism. His proposed cure is a univer universalist view Whereby the Abrahamic religions focus on social justice in the Holy Land rather than on their core religious beliefs. And that's kind of where we left off on last week's show we were talking about the idea of exceptionalism and uh a f whether we should have a focus on uh on social issues, social justice in in Christian circles that would be liberation theology. Uh we were talking about that. Um and I think Emphatically the point was made multiple times in a dramatic uh with dramatic effect. Mark made the point at the end of last week's show that he is not exceptional In the least. We are not special. You can get it. We're not special. So Jonathan wants to take issue with him and say, no, but Mark, you are Okay, are you familiar at all with Romans? I reject the eighteen and following where Paul says that the wrath of God is revealed against men because although they knew God they never neither gave thanks to him uh neither glorified him as God nor gave thanks to him. Uh my sense is that is that the the pinnacle that that that the Lord calls us to And this is where, again, the liberation uh theologians, I feel like, end up missing it, is is that the prophets always called for social justice and a return to the Lord. Like a relational return to the Lord. And those th they're they're closely connected. But if you do the one and you do all the all the uh all the the social justice things but you don't return to the relationship with the Lord that's where I feel like then they get stuck in the victimization instead of the intention of reconciliation and blessing one another. You never come into the reconciliation because all the emphasis is on on uh the victimization and everything that went wrong and that needs to be corrected. Instead of, you know, the tabernacle was designed to bring us into the Holy of Holies where there was intimate connection with God, where there was intimate relationship with one another. My sense is that um is that what happens is Is those saints that rise to that level of social justice and prophesying to issues that need to be dealt with and genuine relationship with the Lord, when they step away from that The first step away, they they step away in the context of having walked in blessing and having walked in the kind of blessing that They've got money, they've got power, they've got influence. And when they step away, their first step away is into ingratitude. It's an attitude uh that that is that is less than good enough. And according to Paul, in in that passage in Romans 118 and following, then the next step after that is idolatry, which we know is greed. Greed is idolatry. And then into sexual immorality and perverse sexuality and and all the way down the line. You're right that some of the some of the the biggest barriers to doing what is right is those that that believe that they're exceptional. But the problem is that they don't return to God Which is the ideal, and in returning to God, then they're walking in humility. They're saying, God, like it says in in uh Moses said, we need to remind ourselves that God didn't chose us choose us because we were righteous. He chose us because because of Abraham. He didn't choose us because we were special. In fact, we've been nothing but stiff-necked and and broken. The same thing is true about any Christian. Paul says, I was a violent man. There was nothing special about me, but God chose me according to his divine purposes to do what? To preach. the humility of recognizing that God wants to be wants us to give thanks to him and a a gratitude. The question I ask myself is what is it that God wants of us? And I'm with the prophets on this. Micah chapter six, what does the God require of you? This is what I love. Love justice. Love justice, do mercy, and walk humbly with God. What's the prophet saw over and over again they rail against the people, they rail against the leaders, they say, Don't give me your sacrifices. Yeah. You know, do Justice. That's what God wants. And that's what Jesus was saying. Paul addresses this again in Romans chapter six. He says, shall we sin so that grace may abound? That's the same thing the prophets were saying. You sin and sin and sin. Then you come bring sacrifice and think everything's okay You need to stop sinning. I hate your sacrifices. That's what God says in the mouth of Isaiah. Because they didn't use the sacrifice as an opportunity to repent. But the thing is an opportunity with God. I mean I think we have to keep bringing it back to here. To hear this idea of a personal God, this idea of that that we have a personal relationship with God I think that it's the ultimate in hubris to think that we can define what it means for an individual person to experience God. You show me a room of a hundred, two hundred, a thousand people, I'll show you a thousand different experiences. The question is, what are we doing together as a blessed community, as a as a brother and sisterhood of humankind to try to understand what we in our writings And in our puny human understandings, try to understand about what it is that God wants us to do in relationship to our fellow human beings and to the planets that's been given to us. Okay, so I'm in I'm in agreement with all that. I gotta tell you, I think that it's an exceptional story. It was written and codified But in a particular time in history, with a particular political agenda. Yeah, this is where you and I can can can we try to uh clarify like how it is that we approach the scriptures differently real quick. Uh the there's a phrase that I've used that that I've found progressive uh divinely inspired Christians recog uh seem seem to agree with. Like I feel like I approach the scripture uh I approach reason and science through the grid of the scriptures, and I think that you would say that you approach the scriptures through the grid of reason and science. Well no I wouldn't call it reason and science. I would say what is your you're you're i you're proposing a sort of a false dichotomy Okay. I approached the scriptures. Well but there is a major dichotomy. There's a watershed living in the world. Yeah. Okay. I think I discovered the true meaning of the Bible. And the true meaning of what Jesus came to teach us. When I stepped over that line into the West Bank, experienced this oppressed people. grieved for what was being done in my name, which was s sin. And I realized I had a direct experience, I think, that Jesus came to teach. Just like with the pro with Jeremiah staying over Jerusalem, just like Jesus, he wept. Okay. He was having an experience of God because he knew that what was happening was wrong. He knew what was right. Yeah. Okay. And so he was Totally. My heart broke for it. And my heart broke for it, just like Jesus cried, just like Jeremiah cried. Okay, but but in terms of the way that we approach the scriptures, like you're you're of the opinion that there's a lot of stories in the Old Testament that are very inspiring, but that weren't actually true They're just inspiring stories that help people to uh to s to to learn a lesson so that they can uh get get what it is that is most important. Whereas I would argue that that David and Goliath was a true story, that the Exodus was a true story. They really walked through the thing. you know, who doesn't believe in the Bible is the word of God, and then people can discount everything else I'm saying. Okay, I'm not meaning to do that. I re I really listening to this show, they'll say Oh, he doesn't believe the Bible is the word of God, so we're not going to listen to anything he says. Although ironically, those who hear Jonathan say he does believe the Bible is the word of God won't listen to a thing he says. What the word of God is. We try to know. Like I gotta tell you, when I was thinking about our show tonight, I was like I was like, you know, Mark doesn't know anything about Troy and I. And and I was like, you know what, I'm not sure once he finds out that we really believe certain things about the Bible and and sees how conservative it is a direction that we come from. I was worried that you would even stick around. I mean I mean literally Um though there there are those uh in Frederick that that won't have discussions with me because Because they know that I come from that kind of standpoint and we're the ones that are trying to say, come on, can't we at least talk with one another? Can't we at least have the discussion? And and and so All I'm saying is that I feel like it's helpful to understand for those that are listening that that there is a difference about where we come from. I I say it this way. We can have unity that is based on turning the lights down. So that we all look the same in in the dark. Or we could say, let's have unity where we turn the lights on, we know exactly where everybody's coming from, and we respect one another one one another anyways. That's the kind of unity that I want. Look, I think and to do that we gotta be honest about some of these kinds of things that end up being being watershed divides between people. I'm convinced I can work together with you even though that's a major watershed divide, but we can work together to make a difference about an issue like this in the past. I believe the same thing that brought you that that that called you to be the pastor of your church is the same thing that has called me to uh preach and write about the the oppression of the Palestinians and the imprisonment of the Israelis in a in a sinful system. And the same thing that brings somebody who claims they would never go near a church and never talk to those crazy Bible thumping Christians who goes and sits in a tent in the Occupy movement and screams about how uh our society is unjust to the poor. I would submit that we are all in the same camp and we are all following God, even though we would talk about it in different ways. If you are the real deal If you're the real deal and you're not just up there to make money or to have or to feed your narcissism standing at that pulpit on Sunday mornings, right? If you're the real deal, then there's there's no blue sky between us in terms of what we really believe in and what we're up to. See I'm not sure that I agree with that. Faith and reason uh or there's uh science and reason on one side and then there's Exactly or Bible on the other. I think there's a yeah, there's a false dichotomy because I think it's it's more of a triad. I think there's a third piece that we make our decisions understand the world by. Part of it is our reason, our intellect How do we think about things? But the the Mark was speaking to, he had an experience. Yeah. He went over and he experienced something. I think that that's a grid also. People don't just look at the world through reason. They look at the world through the way they ex through an emotional center, through the way right, they experience things. So we've got our reason and we've got our emotion and we've got o emotion's wrong word really, but our uh uh experience experience experience. But how do we understand either one of those? How do we know that our thinking is right? How do we how do we properly approach our experience to know that we're putting the right take to it? And my reading of Nietzsche should have set me out for appreciating that that difference a lot better. And I think experience is a better thing. I think you would say experience is important. Absolutely. I mean your charismatic science is important. So but you're going to say that those things need to be grounded in and understood through a prism that is grounded in inspiration of scripture. Yeah. And that's where we have a disconnect because you wouldn't share that grounding. And I'm not sure that we would have maybe we do well, I mean look. You should yeah, I should send you this I I preach the sir I preach on Pentecost. On the Island of Iona. Yeah, okay. Okay. Fascinating. I'll send you my my Pentecost sermon. On Iona. Yeah, and preaching Iona in the eleventh century Abbey. I mean it was Wild. It was amazing. Yeah. And the message was The Message The Message was, what was that about? This what's this amazing story about the Holy Spirit comes down on the apostles? On the day of Pentecost, right? And they start speaking in all the languages of the known world. Right. This is not what they no 'cause Jesus said, just hang on, you know And the Holy Spirit's gonna come to you. It's gonna be really soon. Right? So they get together on Pentecost basically 'cause it's Shivuis. It's a Jewish holiday, right? Shavu It's trouble wrote, right? It's been fifty days since we're going to be able to do that. Yeah, okay. I mean, you know, first thing in the morning. Yeah, and we're waiting for the sky to open. This is when I was a kid. Okay. And they're there. They're like, okay, the Holy Spirit's gonna All of a sudden they fall down on the floor and they're speaking in these languages. What kind of a story is that? Why would the Holy Spirit come in that way? What's the message? The message is you all have to speak the same language. You all have to talk in a way that is universal. It's not about Judea. It's not about Samaria. You will go to the ends of the earth. Here's the language. It's the language of every person. That's how I understand Pentecost. It was it was revolutionary, it was radical it was political. Well similar, except I would say it's a reversal of the curse of of uh the reversal of Babel. Yeah, I know. Yeah. But and yeah, so So this is the whole argument whether or not the Old Testament is universal or not, whether or not there's a universal. Listen, we're we're almost there. We're almost there. We got the right values. Except it's not about a particular land. God does not live in a house. God is not a real estate broker. Go out to the ends of the earth. Make disciples of all nations How much clearer can it be? Yeah, Jonathan, how much clearer? I don't see how that is not in the Old Testament. I see it in David. David talks about all the Gentiles coming to to worship the Lord. Uh uh certainly everyone could be a light unto the nation. Every single one of them, Hezekiah, Josiah, um all all the Jehoshaphat, all the kings that were righteous kings. Talked about all nations of the world coming to worship the Lord. Yeah, totally. And so but even if you go back to Noah, you know, in the seventy nations The whole point there is that the Jewish people were one of seventy. He didn't tell the Jewish people, okay, I want you to create an empire of the world. He gave them very clear boundaries. He says, I'm giving you a spot, and that's it. I didn't give you the whole world. I don't want you cr I don't want you to be Babylonian. I don't want you to be Egyptian. I don't want you to try to conquer the whole world. I give you a spot to steward. And you're going to do it according to what I'm calling you to do. And and I'm going to expect all the other nations to do the same thing. You talk to the settlers and say, oh we want is this one strip of land. God wants us to have this one strip of land. Sorry about you guys, but this is ours. That's where you're at. They're using the Bible. They're pointing to Deuteronomy. They're pointing to Leviticus. Right, but the point was always, all the way through the Jewish history. Those that claim came and attached themselves to righteousness, to God, became a part of the covenant and inherited the land along with the Israelites. There are countless ones of those. There were Egyptians that left uh that left Egypt uh at the Exodus. There were there were the uh Jebusites that became a part of the covenant. There there are ones all through the ages that joined the covenant and said, I want to be a part of this. And during the time of Solomon Solomon wasn't trying to set up a world empire. He maintained his boundaries and he developed relationships with everybody else. David, once he conquered those that the Lord told him to conquer, set up the boundaries, then he developed relationships with everybody else. Shortly thereafter, they all fell back into idolatry and greed. And the result was that they lost their own boundaries, you know, and all these other nations came in, but but when they returned to the Lord, they didn't return to empire. They returned to just just being responsible with their part of the world. And so my point is that that's a universal orientation. We have our part of the world, you have your part of the world. You need to deal with God, we'll deal with God, and everybody takes care of their part of the world. And the Jews weren't out to make everybody else uh uh Jewish. But there was an orientation that everybody needed to deal with God on their own. And once Isaiah and Jeremiah and all these other guys came along, they encouraged the same orientation. that that's what they need to do. You know, they prophesied to Babylon, they prophesied to Edom, they prophesied to to to Cush and to all the different places. They prophesied to them, saying, look, you guys need to deal with God as well. And so I it it's hard for me to to not see the universal No, it's definitely it's all through scripture. It's definitely there. But I think we never quite stepped out of the tribal orientation of this is still ours and it's our job to bring it to the rest of the world. And the guys that did were dated Solomon, Isaiah, Jeremiah, the guys that that got it about what Israel needed to do internally, that got it about how they needed to live with social justice, they also got it about the universalistic stuff. Like whatever it was that was in the Torah, whatever it was in their in their prayer and their study of God, led them both to social justice and To the universal written and then reading the reason. Read the Palestine Cairoso, read the liberation theology of the Palestinian Christians. They're saying the land has a universal mission That's what we're doing here. We need to share this land with the Jews and the Muslims. That's right. And the land has a universal mission. So you can't call it the Jewish state. You can't have the Jews say Jerusalem is the Jewish. Okay, but we gotta deal with the Muslim question differently. What kind of time do we have here? Uh you've got about um a little less than ten minutes. By the way, it's that's Jonathan Sweitzer asking that question. He's senior pastor of Crosswitz Valley Chapel. We're joining this week by Mark Braverman. You can find him online, markbraberman. org. Right, his book, Fatal Embrace, is available at Amazon. I guess you can buy it straight through his his website as well. Do you I y Amazon probably takes a cut, so you probably prefer people to buy it from your website? Go to MarkBraverman. org and buy Phaeal Embrace from there. That's what I suggest you do. I'm Troy Skinner. This is a short time. Right. So the Muslim question, right? I've been studying the Muslim question for some time. Actually that's what brings me to the Middle East really is the Muslim question because I I I I feel that God has called me to Northeast Africa up into Arabia to to bring the message of Christ. And so it's become abundantly clear that if I'm going to do so it's in the context of of Islam. So I've studied Islam. I've I've I I've studied some people think we just need to go and and tell them that they're wrong. Other people need to we think we just need to bring in you know, Western democracy and then you know, and then Islam will weaken. Other people like Colin Chapman think we just need to sit down and have a discussion and it'll be okay. But it's clear to me And that there's no nation on the earth that is Muslim that is willing to embrace any kind of liberal democratic values. None of them have ever been able to do that. In fact, uh the the Muslim nations that are a part of the UN have embraced the Cairo Declaration of Human Rights, which you and I would never accept as being a legitimate standard for raising our children underneath. And if that's the case, then then there's some significant changes that have to be dealt with. Uh they they call it bloody borders. Why is it that that every border that Islam has around the world is a bloody border? Where they're fighting with somebody. Well, you know what? I'm just saying that it has to be dealt with. Sure. Just like Christianity had to deal with its own bloody borders stuff in the ages. Yeah. And just like the Jews have to deal with it now, because we've got our own bloody borders. It's called the iron wall Yeah, I know. So every every society is capable of doing that. It's a historical phenomenon. This is where the Muslim world is today. You would talk to the to Muslim leaders and they will say, absolutely we need to catch up with the rest of the world. There's nothing wrong with our religion. It's just where we're at with it. Okay, but but you can take the you can take the New Testament and turn it into crusades. Would you agree that there were that there were fundamentalist Christians there at the birth of the first liberal democracy the world has ever seen that we're speaking to and applauding and encouraging the birth of the Declaration of Independence and the the first ever Presbyterians? You couldn't give that to the Presbyterians? They were there. And they were encouraging it. Right? And so my point is is that is that Creoso encouraged slavery, right? Yeah, yeah, but well all of them recognize that that it had to be. And who who was it that that dealt with that? Edmund Burke led the led the charge over in England? And and the and the Jews my people were at the at the fr have always been in the forefront of progressive liberal politics. Right. And so my point is is that is that you can be A fundamentalist Christian like I am, and celebrate the values of liberal democracy. You can also be a progressive liberal Christian uh not like me and celebrate those things. But you cannot be a fundamentalist Muslim and celebrate liberal democracy. You can be a liberal Muslim and celebrate liberal democracy. But nowhere on earth can you be a fundamentalist and so people say fundamentalism is the problem and I'm like well. Okay, well that well that's not a Christian. Okay. Well so would a fundamentalist Christian embrace uh equal rights for uh homosexual couples to to get married and and have the same rights as as uh heterosexual marriages? And if they don't, then how liberal and progressive is that? Um the yeah, the the question there for for all of our African American uh brothers and sisters that were that that grew up in the civil rights movement of the of the United States is that blacks and it's a question that I know that you're gonna probably scoff at, blacks were born that way. And there is no proof No scientific study anywhere. They claim that they're born that way homosexuals do, but there's no study that that has any definitive proof that's the same. Um but you would contest that. You'd say that. But we shouldn't go there, but we don't have time to get into that issue, although I will say that from from my take on that, one of the big problems is we have a confusion of church and state there The state shouldn't be sanctioning marriages. If it's a covenant between a man and a woman be before God that has a religious institution that defines what marriage is, the state had no business getting into it. We wouldn't have these problems if we're not sure. Okay, so the question that we're coming back to is the question of of are there uh are there some religions that that do seem to fit with liberal democracy and are there some religions that do not, even the fundamental elements. And so can we come back to that question on the next show because we're running out of time. We'll we'll come back to that on next week's show. Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Ellie Chapel. Mark Fraverman is the author of Fatal Embrace. You can find that at markfraberman. org. You can find us at wfmd. com, keyword faith. Our sponsors Putman Twelve and Heating, How can we make you smile? Until next week that would be about Oh I don't know one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from now. Thank you for listening God bless. Putman Plumbing and Gould's Pumps have teamed for over 23 years to bring Frederick County homes clean, fresh, reliable water Putman Plumbing and Gould's Pumps share the same values, pride, ethics, and extra mile service. Gould's Pumps and the Putman Plumbing Way because you deserve it. It's a great day at Putman Plumbing. How can we make you smile?