This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Kouwa! Where Faith Community Readers wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run ball! Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweissner. Now, I'm just getting warmed up. This week we are Sam. And John Schweitzer, that means he's not here. Or if he is, he's not the big bridge builder. He's so small we can't even see him. But we do have here Clement Mboue, he is uh pastor of International Tree of Life Church in Frederick. Back in two thousand eleven they began reaching people through a weekly prayer line. Then in two thousand twelve they held their first service at Emmanuel Bible Church and the uh built the building there with just seven members. Church has grown to about four dozen members as I understand it. Um Pastor Neila Chempong is here as well. He's the pastor of Covenant Family Chapel uh here in in Frederick County. Uh but they weren't always in Frederick County. They were close down to DC, then in northern Montgomery County. then on the west end of Frederick, then in downtown Frederick, which is where they are now, but not for long, because beginning next month, they're going to be in Woodsboro And so this week we begin a conversation with uh Pastor Clement and Pastor Neil about the progression of development for young church plants and what are the challenges, the motivations, the strategies that are involved in such things. So right now we're gonna begin with kind of their stories in brief. Set the stage, give you a chance to uh find out who they are, let them get their feet wet wet on the Faith Debate show. So I'm gonna begin with uh Dr. Neil Achempong because he's been on the show before. He's uh a number of times. I'm not sure how many altogether he's been on, but and you can of course hear him on uh Sunday mornings right here on WFMD uh right after the faith debate. You'll be hearing Pastor Neil's sermon here in about a half hour or so. So um Neil, what is it that brought you uh to the place Where you decided long ago that I'm going to lead a local congregation one day. How did you get to that place? Um I believe it all has to do with uh God's calling on a person's life. Um leading a local congregation as a pastor is actually not just a vocation, but it's more of a calling. Uh that's something that God has called you to do. Uh to do his work. But you can't do the work by yourself and you obviously need quite a lot more people to work with. And so uh God's structure of sending his message out to the world uh is through what we c call the church structure. The same way that God's way of raising the family um raising an um uh a spiritual seed or uh an offspring that comes from us to use the family structure. And so that's how um it came about. um forming uh in Covenant Family Chapel. Now how long ago in your life, uh approximately what age were you when you kind of knew I think I'm gonna be a pastor? Oh, that was pretty early. Um I don't know if I shared this story with you before, but um when I was nine years old I felt sick. I have slept on a hospital bed for about a year. And um I think right about my tenth birthday, um I was told by my mom that I actually passed. And I know I did because when I opened my eyes I was in a morgue And um I had to close my eyes and wait. Yeah. And wait till people would come in the next morning because morks here in the States are a little bit different from back in Africa. It's Dak, fish Dak, until somebody shows up early in the morning and then um I screamed and yelled that I'm alive and then they got me. During those moments were the moments where I would say clearly I had a voice that says, I'm giving you a second chance that one day you will declare my word. So that early I knew that I was called to preach. How to do it I didn't know how. So that began your path and then you've had confirmation from others probably along the way. Yeah, some of my mentors, my LE mentor who's past Um he was one of the people who kept telling me, anytime you led worship you preached, you taught. And you couldn't teach an entire sermon in five, ten minutes That's there's something extraordinary with you and I need you to pay attention. Uh until the day we got training and out of universities and finally responded to the call. It took many years before I finally And you founded Covenant Family Chapel. Yes, I did. So what what what uh and then I'm gonna turn to Clement and ask you the same kinds of questions. How did you get to a point where you decided to plant your own church, you know, from scratch, basically, rather than step into the pulpit that of a church that might have already been there. Yes. Um I was actually I got saved in the Sylvia of God I was raised in it and um I spent many years when I relocated from Africa to the United States, I still served in an Assembly of God Church. uh for about six, seven years. But after a while I realized that the the vision I had and the things I wanted to pursue, the church structure was going to stifle it. And um I did not want to stay in a system where I was just becoming a problem. Not to say that I was creating a problem, but I did not want to become that because if you ever want to do gosh work uh you have to be more peaceful than anything else because that's the only way you could send a message to people And so I decided to start a whole new um ministry and I started praying. I said, God, give me a name, give me something to wrap my hand around so that I can proceed. And that name came to me that I wanted to raise a group of people who are like a family but have a covenant not with each other but with me, Jehovah. so that they can um fulfill my purpose. And our focus is just one simple thing. Matthew 28, 19, it says that we have to make disciples of all nations and basically that's what we're all about. So how similar is your story, uh, Pastor Clement? Did you when you were very young did you kind of know or was it older? Like how what was the progression like for you? Yeah, for me I will say uh at very young age. I was actually uh one of the child in my family who very how they give my parent, you know, difficulty. I was kinda somebody who was very lonely. I would go to school and come back, do my homework, stay home pretty much. Didn't want to be involved with too many people. I was very quiet. person and mostly when my my parents friends come over, my parents always refer to me as the priest of the family. So that's our kind of it started that day, you know. It's uh just for them observing the way I was conducting myself, behaving. So they would always refer to me as the priest of the family. That kind of like started until I reached uh age thirteen and then I give my life to Christ and I start serving the church. So we were basically the first one to come at church and prepare the place and the last one to leave. So basically most of my life I kinda grew up in the church in the environment and I think God was preparing me for something that I'm doing today. So it kind of starts back there just like uh in the book of first Samuel as Samuel started serving in the temple at young age until he heard the voice of God. It's interesting your parents were probably joking what they were speaking into your life in ways that you know Yeah. God knew. God knew, yeah. Yeah, so I mentioned at the beginning that you started with a prayer uh call. Now did you start that prayer call uh imagining that okay, we're gonna start with a prayer call and we're gonna and we're gonna transition into planting a church, or did you do the prayer call and get some traction and and then Or maybe get uh some sort of move of the spirit and say, you know, a prayer call's fine, but I think I'm called even more than that. So how did that transition happen? Uh the way you transition was uh basically prior to that I went to uh it was a camp uh for some who live in Virginia called Ashland. I went there for seven days to really fast and pray and seek God. It was during that time when I was fasting and praying Up even prior to that when I was fasting on the three days, you know, God revealed himself to me and you know I saw myself in the vision pastoring a church. So I didn't know exactly where that was the only vision I had. And then when I went on that seven-day fasting and one day I was uh it was around almost midnight, everybody went their room, I was just there in uh the sanctuary and I was just praying and I was praying tongue and then this lady came to me and just hold my hand and we start praying. And then you start also confirming what God has revealed to me three years ago from there. So showing me pastoring a church in Frederick. At that time I was not even living in Frederick, I was living in Gettysburg. So it was only the time when I got married in two thousand six and then we decided to move to Frederick. That's kinda how I started the prayer, you know, online You know, and then in just he go you went from there. Okay, so same question I asked Pastor Neil. Um there's different ways to become the pastor of a church. You know, there's a church that already exists and the pastor moves on to another opportunity or passes away or some there's some reason for transition or the church gets so big they have to hire on more pastors or things like that. That's one option, or the other is to say there's a need in a particular community and I'm gonna try to fit that need, 'cause I feel like God's calling to me that I'm gonna plant my own church. And I that's what you did, right? You started from scratch with seven people. Yep Right. So is there a reason that you t uh uh Pastor Neal mentioned that it w the uh he didn't want to get into any sort of bickering with some of the structures that would have been in place for him. Did you have anything like that as part of your reason? Uh for me I will say You know, really pastoring or opening a church was not really uh I always tell people I say it was not something that was in my plan, you know. I always thought when God called me, say, you know what, I'll just do maybe mission trip, preach here, and just serve and come back with my family because, you know, planning a church is just a a lot of work And you have to deal with a lot of things and different people, different behaviors, something that I was not ready, uh, you know, based on how I kinda grew up. So but you know, when God called you you can't really fight with it and that God was just urging me, you know, to start something and uh also just being able to uh help other people in the because we deal a lot of time uh we help people in the spiritual you know as far as deliverance you know ministering deliverance to people you know fasting with them praying with them you know, as uh some of them deal with some spiritual things. So that's kind of that work area that God has called me to do. in the process. So um you're saying that whilst you were uh in the process of trying to be of help to people in terms of ministering to them, and that's how gradually you ease into standard ministry. Okay. Um the voice you just heard was that of uh Neil Champong, the pastor of Covenant Vam Family Chapel. Uh the voice speaking more extensively right before that was that of Clement Mboui. He is the pastor of International Tree of Life Church. Uh both of the churches are in Frederick. Although that's about to change because you're gonna be in Frederick County, Neil, but you're gonna be in Woodsboro, not Never City. On top of mine road Yeah, and that's something I want to talk about uh generally and we're gonna build up to the progression that churches go through. But yeah, you you have a brand new building, I think October fifth is the date you're targeting to have your first Sunday service. Yes. Yes. So Copper Mine Road in Woodsboro, you can uh uh is it uh nine o'clock, ten o'clock, what time's your service? It would our service is not going to change from nine to ten, just to make up for the distance. Right. Okay So uh l little over a month from now, uh you can sh you can go visit. Yes, sure. Yeah definitely. But that speaks you there was growing pains obviously and so he had some need to to to move. Let's go back in time to when you guys first started your church plants. Basement? Living room? I began um The first service I had was in my basement. And then um I realized the that same day that um the second service couldn't be in the basement. Oh. Because I had too many people who showed up but they were not there to stay, but they were there just to um give me some form of moral support. And so I thought that they were gonna stay. Sixteen. Sixteen? And sixteen people in my basement wasn't uh and how many were there for the second week? The second week was like uh I think it was uh half the number about eight or so. So I moved it From my basement the following week we were in a hotel. I think now they call it the Clarion Inn. Oh yeah. Yeah, that's where we went to the first week. Yes, the second week. Oh you waste no time. No, I don't. And most of them most of them used to say, Why don't we go into a classroom? And I said, No, we're not doing that. Uh I'm the type if we're gonna do something we do it and do it well and do it big And so we moved into the hotel and built from there. And then we moved from there later on I think after a year or two. And then I rented out the storefront on the Stone Gate Center and then we purchased a building downtown and now it's paid off and then we bought a new building in Woodsboro and where about to move. Now Clint where w did you meet in your house in initially? No we didn't meet in the house. Basically I started with uh Kind of prayer online. So we have a conference line. Yeah, call where we share the word of God and we pray. And then after some time, after some time of fasting and praying and I was saying, God, okay, I need a place, you know, to go. And uh I was driving down on Westpatrick. And then uh I drive I drove to this church, uh Hispanic church down in the complex of uh Albi The basket Hispanic I just walked up there and say, you know, I'm looking for space and then he took a piece of paper and wrote a number and a name and then sent me to uh the place where we are now. So I went there and met the deacon because there is another church that meet there as well. So I met the deacon there and I said I was looking for space and then we just went from there and then we had our first service on Sunday and we were about maybe I'll say maybe fifteen or twenty people. And then you know, not all the people that came the first day stay because some like Pastor Neil say they come just for moral encouragement. Right. And then the next following Sunday We're about five people and then just we continue to persevere. So your very first gathering as a congregation was in a building, not in your house, and your very second one was in a building, not in your house. Uh I'm wondering that's interesting because uh a very stereotypical story here with church planners is they meet in the basement, they've got a core group of families, you know, two, three, four other families that are going to join them and and and they kind of uh make some sort of a an honor commitment that we're gonna stay with you for at least a year or two years or three years until you can you know after that no promises but we're gonna be with you for the beginning stages and and then they kinda outgrow the basement and uh they they move into uh a hotel or a uh school school or something like that. And you guys skipped that step, like completely. By chance? Or do you think uh um and does it matter? Like would you give it if you gave advice to somebody, would you say, you know what, you should do it the way that these two guys did it? I wouldn't say that. Um I believe that the path that God works through every individual is always going to be different. And uh you would have to look at your circumstances and then act accordingly And they're also based on the person's faith. Because um in my case it was not so much about the fact that the those spaces were just available. I simply step out of faith. Because to have say, okay, I saw twenty people and I'm excited. So I move into a hotel And then find a later on that it slashes down all the way to about six, eight. All of a sudden i if somebody was in my shoes then they would go right back. to the basement. But I didn't. I just stayed there. And And you had to pay rent for the hotel. Yes. And did you have to pay rent at your building to so with a half a dozen, dozen people max, you're paying rent. Yeah, that's that's uh Yeah. Well for for me, I mean it's kinda different. At that time I did not hone a house, so really meeting in the basement was not a option for me. Gotcha. You were like complex. Exactly. So I had to step out. and just trust God and I remember that time uh you know I wasn't really working and I was kinda going through uh some financial difficulty. And when I was sitting there with the man and I was saying to myself, I say, God, you know, you you convinced me to start this so You know my situation, what am I gonna tell this person? And then the person saying, Okay, you're gonna pay this first rent and then you're gonna make a deposit And then you're gonna start and I was sitting there, I said, God, you put him in this tough situation. And I told the man, I say, You know what, when I have the money I'll come back And that was the first sign that I knew that God, you know, started something. And the men look at me and say, You know what? Come. And then he began to show me different rooms in the building and then gave me the alarm code and gave me the key, say when you have it. Bring it. And we had our first service in that building and we didn't pay a dime. So that is a emanal insurance. Wow. So that was that was very uh nice of them to have. Yeah. Because when I when I met Pastor Neil, I was actually helping an apostle that he met. That's uh kinda how we met. So but things didn't work out that time. So we had to move from the place. Okay. Because of uh certain circumstances. Well one of the things that I hope is noted uh by the listener right now is there's there's a cliche uh among people that I would argue are uninformed that think you know churches are just you're just taking baths and pools full of money, you know? Uh and they and in some cases there are churches that have lot millions of dollars flowing through them. That those do exist and there are some churches that have these multi-multi multimillion dollar complexes, uh you know, i immense structures and and they're uh and and and they're sending a message, you know, we've been blessed exceedingly well by God financially. So they do exist. But the vast majority of churches are really struggling actually, right? They're barely getting by Uh I think in your case, uh Clement, you're you're uh a tent making ministry right now. You're working uh uh a a non church job because the church hasn't gotten to a place yet where they can afford to sustain a pastor's salary, right? Correct. I mean that's a high percentage. Yeah, full time by not paying me full time. Well yeah. Okay. Yeah, okay. So Because you have the benefit of some other resources because of your family situation and stuff like that that you can make that work. Yeah. Um did you early on have a job outside of the church? Yes I did. I was working all the way up in Washington DC. And I'll wake up at three AM just to skip the traffic, get to work, come back in the evening, prepare for Bible study and visit people in the hospitals and all that. By the time I'm done it's about eleven PM, get to bed, wake up three A. M. go. I did that quite for a while before Um, when we start having a first child between myself, my wife, and having to take care of their kids, we realized that Uh I think on a couple of occasions I was uh the traffic stop on uh on M Street in DC and I was asleep And the light was on and the emergency crew, the police came and they were banking on my glass door and I wake up and they say, You're having a heart attack and I said Officer, I know you'll kill me. I'm sorry. I am not having a heart attack, I'm just asleep. And he pulled me aside and He gave me one of the best advice I've ever heard. He asked me why what is your routine? And after I told him he said I'm also a Christian. Can you believe your God to help you rather than doing this because you will kill yourself one day? And when he said it the first time, I didn't give it no thought. It happened a second time. Interestingly. You fell asleep the second time? Yes. Interestingly, the second time it happened, it was the same police officer. And this time he gave me a ticket. It wasn't just a warning. And then he gave me the same advice again. And he said, Believe your God. If he's recalled you, he will take care of the f of you. And um so I walked home with advice from that police officer. I'm ever grateful to him. And then Because he saved my life. And ever since I came home my wife make a pledge, listen, I'll work more than one or two jobs to hold the family until Such a time that a church can actually um take care of pick up where we left off in next week's show. So this is round one of what we hope to be a uh four round heavyweight bout Uh I my story isn't anywhere near as i as interesting, but it's somewhat similar. When I was going to college and I was working like three or four part-time jobs, I was working at the college radio station, I had a full load of classes and I was going all over the place and On my way home from one of my jobs, it was like, I don't know, midnight, two o'clock, three o'clock in the morning, it was late. Uh and I Didn't I don't think I fell asleep, but I all but fell asleep waiting for a traffic signal. And then the left turn signal green arrow went and just out of reaction. I just went forward. Through I didn't turn left. I went straight. Police officer was right behind me, pulled me over, gave me a warning, gave me some advice, said you need to get some sleep, you need to change something about your life, or you're gonna kill yourself And uh I didn't get pulled over a second time, so I'm obviously, you know, a little bit smarter than Pastor Neil. Anyway, thank you both for uh being on the show, Pastor Clemen, Pastor Neil. I don't have enough time to wrap this up the right way. So until next week, 167 and a half hours from nine. Now, God bless