Broadcasting from the West Side, a big brother city in the hearts of Greglock County, where preaching with impact. Is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfied things. Why do we do it This is the Product Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? You can check us out online at WFMD. com, keyword faith You can link to podcasts of this show and others like it. You can find links to all sorts of information about various religious traditions. Pretty much all the religious traditions that I'm familiar with are on there. If there's one missing, let me know and I'll I'll add it And the Faith Debate blog is there, updated Monday through Friday, eighteen times a day. That's ninety postings a week. How can we generate such volume? Well, because our blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Whatever you email me, I post. It's as simple as that. If you send me something really rude and nasty, I might clean it up just a little bit, but For the most part, you send me garbage, I post garbage, you send me great stuff, I post great stuff. It's how it works. So if you were to get more than ninety, would you up your postings? Well we the reason I chose ninety, yeah. Or really more exactly, the reason I chose eighteen a day is because the way our s software is set up on our websites The maximum number of blog postings that will show on uh the Faith Debate page at a at one time without having to cycle through to a second page for the faith debate is 18. So that's maxing out So if I added more, you would have the inconvenience of having to h click the See More Posts button at the bottom. And the fresh. It's a whole new page. So every day you come to that page and boom, there's eighteen new ones. And you haven't missed anything because it's all there for that day. But if you miss a day, then you miss a whole day. But you can then hit the scene more and you can go back and if you're really so inclined, you could catch up. You could li you could read hundreds of posts, I'm sure, if you had nothing better to do with your time. So I'm not recommending that. I think you'd be if you had that much time on your hand, listen to the podcast. Based on your comments last week, maybe I should send you some uh cartoons. There you go. Yeah. Yeah. So for for like minded individuals like you, people that can't handle the meaty stuff. That's right, I'm telling you. There are a lot of us out there. If we need help. That's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer, a cartoon enthusiast, and also the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. My kids are the cartoon enthusiasts. No, okay, and by so by default I end up and wisely uh exercising discretion and staying out of the conversation so far with Father James Hamrick. He is a priest at or the priest, I don't know. All priests, a priest The priest and pastor. At the at St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church. linked uh member of Frederick County. I mean he goes back to the nineteen sixty three Frederick County. Yeah, yeah. My first my first home in Buckystown. I wonder what the population of Frederick was back then. Probably under thirty thousand. Oh, for the whole county probably. Yeah. Yeah. I I'll but I wouldn't be surprised. It's like ten times that now probably, right? Probably. Thereabouts. Okay. So last week we ran through Western civilization, early church history, uh the history of Methodism in the state of Maryland. Touched on the history of Roman Catholicism in the state of Maryland, uh got a family tree uh from from James, uh had some personal anecdotes from John Schweitzer, and we packed it all in and still had some time for James to share some of his uh uh pastoral odyssey, his journey, his trek. He his father was a United Methodist uh United Methodist Church pastor for thirty-two years. So James grew up in that tradition, became a Methodist pastor himself. And then felt like the the they weren't as liturgical as they once were, weren't as biblically conservative as they once were and weren't as open to the uh giftings of the charismatic as he found himself needing them to be. So he left and ended up um through an accident of of fate. No, by God's providence, I tell you. Running into somebody who introduced him to the evangel uh to the uh charismatic episcopal church, which I was sorry to say uh the the letters Last week I noticed you were saying C E C a lot. So I'm going to say if you hear henceforth C E C Charismatic Episcopal Church. That's what we're talking through. That's the alphabet soup there. So if they're charismatic? Meaning they're open to the spiritual gifts. I want to talk to you about that in a second. Um they're episcopal, which is not to be confused with the mainline episcopal church of the United States. It's It's merely a uh style of government. An episcopal form of government. It's merely a description, really, right? Like a a Presbyterian church. It means they have a Presbyterian style of government. Comes from the Greek word episcopas, which means overseer or bishop. And so w churches that are governed in that form of government um are tend to be called Episcopal, just like the Methodist Church used to be called the Methodist Episcopal Church. But after about I don't know three ish years, I think I'm doing the math right, if I remember correctly, in the uh in the Charismatic Episcopal Church the the church went through a bit of a disruption. Right. There was a big rupture that had occurred and I'd as I'd said last week, uh thirteen bishops including my bishop had left and and ultimately uh bishop Zampino had retired which left us um in a quandary searching uh for where God was leading us next. And so um in September two thousand eight we had a Clericus meeting in Towson where we invited a number of continuing Anglican bishops and leaders uh uh to come and talk to us, basically to pitch us on coming into their brand of Anglicanism. But in addition to that, we had uh a priest, a former colleague of mine that I had never met, who was from Warrington, Virginia, Father Patrick Cardean, who had left the CEC at about the same time who became Orthodox. He and and the specifically in the Antiochian Archdiocese of North America. So it was the branch of Orthodoxy under the Church of Antioch. Uh Father Patrick Hardeen, along with a former Anglican bishop, uh Father Albin Wagner from Lynchburg, Virginia, came up and gave a very compelling presentation. And it really confirmed what I had. Lynchburg, Virginia is the home to Liberty University. That's right. He is very following backyard, right. And which by the way Probably to the chagrin of Liberty University is picking up a lot of students uh at Holy Trinity Orthodox Church in in Lynchburg. Um but In any event, the their their presentation, it really confirmed what I had discerned about two or three years earlier when I was going through seminary and had read Timothy Ware's book, Timothy Ware's now Metropolitan Callistos Ware, uh over in England, who ended up converting to Orthodoxy As a young man. So there's all these guys that had converted that you were kind of following in their first book called The Orthodox Church. And when I finished reading this book, I thought, my lord, I think I'm orthodox. And I was in I'd just come into the CEC and and so I wasn't sure what I'd would do with that. What were some of the aha's you're reading this book and Holy Cow? Right. I'm that. Holy cow, I'm that too. What were some of those? So some of those things were You know, what is it what is it that truly connects us and and makes us the universal church in the sense that what is it that um how is it that we view salvation? How is it that we view um works versus faith? How is it that we um continue to present and to enflesh the ongoing presence of Christ in in a concrete way, not just in a spiritual way, but in a concrete way. And there were other theological things, especially as it related to m my conversion into really um what I would call a sacramental worldview. That is uh the idea that God's grace is not just operative in a spiritual way, but in very in very real terms through very earthy things such as the case. So it sounded like it wasn't a series of points of minutiae These were big foundational kinds of things. Yes, exactly. Right, and and our relationship with Christ. And how does the authority of Christmas salvation? I mean these are big issues. And a lot of these things I had wrestled with for for many years. You know, I I had drifted toward a reform view at one point in my journey, uh, you know, reading and listening to guys like R. C. Sproul and um and others, John MacArthur. uh but but was was you know I I was I continued to struggle with some of the those reform kinds of views and I and I was really in many ways tortured in my soul over a lot of these issues. And um and so in reading this book, the Orthodox Church about three years before my conversion to Orthodoxy, I began to realize that, you know, this the patristic church, that is the church of the fathers, the church that this the church that From one generation to another, the the faith of Christ and the Apostles had been handed down and had been preserved was a compelling, compelling not only a proposition, but something that was being opened wide to me. And so At that clericus meeting in September of 2008, I ended up um felt absolutely in the same way that I felt just as compelled and convicted in my move from the Methodist Church to the CEC, I felt the same level of nudging by the Holy Spirit. And so again, once again, not only this time, not only did my wife and my children confirm this in their own spirits. But at that time I had already begun to pastor this small mission in Lewistown. At that time we were called Lamb of God. I'd been pastoring that uh since Christmas of 2005. So the next step would be in that confirmation would be to see if the people who I'd been pastoring at that time for about three years, if they also confirmed this call. So we had our um our bishop, our local bishop, Bishop Thomas, come and give a presentation. And it was um and prior to that Father Patrick Cardean had come. And by the time Bishop Thomas had come, the whole congregation, except for um one family, we had one family that was very committed to Anglicanism, they left. uh the church, but we ended up as a result of making the commitment to become Orthodox, we actually picked up uh a couple of additional families as well. And so that was in a nutshell, that was my journey to orthodoxy. I was laid-wanna dig into some of these different areas like uh that that stood out to you as being uh you you you read it and you said, wow, I'm Orthodox You know, uh is that where we go now? Yeah, but I want to ask you real quick so I don't forget, um in last week's show, and I l alluded to it in this week's show, uh you talked about uh charismatic gifts and last week you said that uh you you feel like you have at least one of the biblical uh list of gifts. But you didn't say uh which one or ones. Are you comfortable with the Well sure I you know uh and and from from our perspective we would never say I I know in charismatic circles they talk about possessing gifts, that kind of thing. And and And as as an Orthodox priest, I would never presume to say that I possess any any gift, uh except to say that there are times by God's grace and his providence that he may uh allow me to exercise uh certain charismatic gifts. And I certainly believe, for instance, that I have the gift of of preaching and teaching. There have been occasions where God has enabled me um to uh be an instrument of miraculous healings. Um there even as a Methodist pastor, uh we had uh a young boy in our congregation who ha was already confirmed as having a faulty uh heart valve, he was going to be um was going in for consultation at uh I believe it was Johns Hopkins Hospital. And as so as his mother was telling me this that that day I felt I felt wed of God to anoint this boy. And when I did so, I really sensed that there was something divine that happened in that and um she came back to tell me to share with me that when they got to the heart surgeon because they were looking at probably either major valve repair or maybe even a valve replacement. And all the tests had already confirmed this. They ran more tests and to their amazement could not find anything wrong. with his boy's heart. Um there was another instance in which um I had a woman in my congregation. This was when um I believe the time w we were still in the CEC or maybe in transition between the CEC and the Orthodox Church, uh, who was uh going in for knee surgery and she had so she had to have some cardiac work up because she was uh upper middle age and to find out that she had blockages. And so they were not going to do knee surgery until they could go in do stents or possibly even bypass surgery. And she said that that morning at the Eucharist when she came up to receive Holy Communion, she said that in looking at my eyes as as I was administering uh Holy Communion to her She said, I Father James, I didn't see your eyes. I was looking into the eyes of Christ, and I knew that he had healed me at that moment. So she went back to her cardiologist and said, I want you to run tests again because um I honestly believe that God has healed me. And in fact they ran tests to find no evidence. of any blockages in her arteries. And and so I you know we praise God. That's that's not my gift. It's uh it's a gift that God uh gave me at that moment, um I become a vessel of his. And in fact, in the or in the Orthodox and even the Catholic uh understanding of the faith uh we talk about the priest as being in persona christi, that is in the person of Christ. And so um so it's Our our our understanding of the operation of the children. Yeah, it but in and all of a sudden. In in those particular cases, um we w we have this understanding that liturgically speaking, and this is really restricted to the liturgical actions of the priest Um which by the way that doesn't mean that that laity can't can't have or have uh like the gifts operating with them them. They certainly do. So it's not restricted. We don't have the understanding that it's restricted or limited to the priesthood. But in a liturgical setting, especially within the actions of a you the Eucharist or what we would say you know the divine liturgy or as in the Western tradition, the Mass, um the the priest stands in the person of Christ r recognizing that it is not The priest himself who is the chief celebrant, rather it was Christ. It is Christ who is the chief celebrant. It is and and so our guess is something that is that is just a mental reminder or is that something that that there's a sense that in that moment it's it's a it's a mystical it's a mystical reality. That's right. It's a mystical reality. That Chr Even in preaching, even in preaching, um I'm having a book published which actually came out of a master's thesis on orthodox preaching in which I uh talk about this whole idea of Christ in the midst of the assembly. that the preacher giving voice to the word of God, there's an incarnational reality at work, that the person The word, the Lagos, the person, the second person of the Holy Trinity becoming mystically mystically manifest in the presence of the assembly, in the in the proclamation of the word, in the hearing of the words whereby uh lives are transformed in light of the gospel. Uh let me jump in real quick. I see that John's got a string of questions lining up, so let me jump in here and then we'll let John ask those questions and we'll go from there. Uh Father James Hamric from St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church is on the show this week. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Frederick Wake Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And so your question is? All right, so and Troy, I'm probably farther farther from this some of these kinds of viewpoints even then maybe you tend to be, um, y you know, the the i it has to do with the sacramental worldview, you know, in the sense of you know what's happening in terms of the means of grace on the earth, you know, through the work of the church. And so what are the the the you know, the passages of scripture that that you would say undergird this this sense that what that that there's something mystical that is going on, that Christ is showing up in the service and uh when you're you know uh Performing communion? What's the term you use? Holy communion or a Eucharist. The Eucharist. And when you're preaching that there's that there's some kind of an ontological shift. Is that the right term? Well, uh you know Meaning that that something is different in the room. There's there's there um The whole idea of a sacramental worldview, and that's one of the things that that I found compelling in my journey into the ancient faith, into the CEC, and then subsequently into Orthodoxy. It's one of the things that really defined was probably at the heart of my journey. And and so that people understand um what what I mean by sacramental. The word sacrament itself comes from Uh the the Latin word which which means from s the Latin word sacramentum which means oath, um it was usually associated with taking like an oath of office for a soldier. or an official. But it uh but it's this idea of and and that comes from the the the Greek word for sacrament is mysterion. which is that we can translate mystery. So there's both the idea of oath and mystery at work here. And when I when I mean oath, I'm I'm talking about a covenantal grace whereby God's actions are becoming manifest. And it's really based, this whole idea of a sacramental worldview is ultimately based upon the incarnation It is God who became flesh. He became So Galatians talks about you did you did God um Fill you with the Spirit and work miracles among you because of your works or because of your faith by believing. Uh is is that an idea that you're dealing with here that that the presence of the Holy Spirit comes because of an oath by this believing in your heart, by this, this choice to say that he is Lord and He's my Savior, and I place my trust in Him, that there's a oath that that then opens up to the fullness of his presence being manifested in the person. Is that what you're getting at? But it goes beyond that. Because you're referring to miracles coming from that in in something happening spiritually. I've just recently been kind of preaching through some of those things and so I'm grappling afresh with with the fact that okay it's not that we're perfect that those things come, but it's something that is more mysterious. It's this this choice, this oath covenant, you know, with God in but you're saying it's not quite that. Well it's i th there there is a sense in which that that is all sort of wrapped up in this idea of sac of sacramentum or mysterion. But more fundamentally, it really flows out of the reality of the incarnation. that you have a ch uh the utterly transcendent God outside of time and space and and the material world suddenly breaking into um time and space and matter through the person of Jesus Christ. And this was a radical a radical departure from the the the monotheistic understanding of of the Jewish people and the word, the logos, becoming flesh. And it is on the basis of that, the incarnation, the basis of the incarnation, that the rest of the sacramental worldview of the church is based. that that it's not our faith is not just lived out as spiritual ideals. It's not it's not lived out as just some esoteric confession, but it is manifest and operative. in real and concrete ways, such as in the Eucharist, the body or the bread and wine, common elements becoming the body and blood of Christ. um the the uh anointing oil, common olive oil that's been blessed, becoming a vehicle for healing. Uh the w water, ordinary water being blessed, suddenly becoming the regenerator. the uh Martin Luther passed the Reformation back into a world view that was Catholic And then at some level or other, um, I think the charismatics uh have uh have kind of reached back toward uh but it seems to be like on the other side of the Reformation. You know, the this whole sacramental worldview, there is some of that in Lutheranism and in in in Calvin, but but this whole, you know, this mystery of things being being manifested in in you know the the healing oil you know that that we're actually expecting uh real change to happen in people's lives as a result of uh these things. I'm not saying that that's not there in uh and I'm trying to put words to it, but it feels to me like like all of a sudden we're back on the far side of Luther Well, uh and and I would say that, you know, Luther and and Calvin, these guys certainly held at some level to the sacramental world view, which was, of course a part of their Catholic past. The the Catholic Church has never relinquished um themselves a sacramental world. where the real difference is. It must be in a significant nuance that is escaping me because taken a certain way, there's nothing that you've said, unless I missed something along the way. There's nothing you said that um Reformed Presbyterians wouldn't agree with. That that Jonathan, if he understands it a certain way, and I know Jonathan pretty well after all these years, wouldn't disagree with. But it must be you're saying it taking it in a slightly different way. Otherwise why would you have left Protestantism behind for the Orthodox? So A good Reformed Presbyterian, for example, is going to say, yes, there is a spiritual reality and mystery involved in the administration of the Lord's Supper Well um and you're calling it the Lord's Supper. Um one of the things I think that most Protestants You did call it the Lord's Supper. That's that's not a typical term in Orthodoxy. We would say either the Eucharist or Holy Communion, but um that it's not just uh it's not a memorial It's not, um, we're also not, it's not just that Christ is mystically present, and that and probably most reformed or Lutheran people are going to say He's mystically present. But what we would say in Orthodoxy and my Roman Catholic brethren would agree with me is there there is a real presence. There is there is a mystical transformation of those common elements such that it is, it is. the body, it is the blood of Christ. And this and and uh Pastor John, uh to to answer your question on on one of the biblical Verses for that, just for the Eucharist, for instance, in John six, when Jesus says, unless you eat my flesh and drink my blood. And there's no c question about because the word in Greek for eat is actually like to gnaw on something. So it's it's very, very carnal. So you'd be in the same place on this with the Roman Catholics with transubstantiation, is that what you're saying? Transubstantiation has to to do with trying to define how and when that happens. We in the Orthodox Church, we would say we would agree with the Roman Catholic uh Catholics in terms of the real presence of Christ in the Eucharist, but we would we would leave off in terms of transubstantiation that because that involves a very specific dogma in terms of uh when and and how the means by which that happens. And we would rather leave that as uh to to mystery um in the category of mystery And we're going to end with a category of mystery on this show. Uh thank you so much, Father James Hambert with St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church, Jonathan Schweitzer Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, I'm Troy Skinner. We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Our sponsor is Putman, Putmick and Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading lately? Perseverance by Mark Tressman A Jewish guy who happens to coast the Chicago Bears. Life lessons from his uh years as a NFL football coach. It's actually very interesting the way he's pulled it all together. Till next week. God bless.