And we're in the middle of talking about biblical inerrancy and the Chicago State Line Inherency. I have gone through I'm going to just touch on some of the things you already just in case as a review, in case you've joined us. It's radio too, so people jump in and out of the radio all the time So the uh Chicago Statement of Biblical Erinerrancy was uh written back in nineteen seventy eight. Um and it uh in its preface it says the authority of scripture is a key issue for the Christian church to stray from scripture in faith or conduct or conduct is uh disloyalty to our master. So it's an important thing. We've got to take this seriously. If we reject the Bible, we're rejecting God's word and that doesn't come without consequence. So th they begin with a short statement of five bullet points. One of them is talking about uh how God is the truth and so he reveals himself in the Holy Scriptures. They are therefore truth since it's his word and it testifies to who Jesus Christ is as a Creator, Lord, Redeemer, and Judge. And then it goes on to talk about the word. It's written by men, but it's superintended by the Holy Spirit as these men write it. Um and because the Holy Spirit is involved, we are to believe it. It is it it is uh it is for our instruction, it is to be obeyed, God is making commands in it, uh, and it makes promises that we can trust. And then it talks about the Holy Spirit, that it authenticates his word by illuminating the minds and hearts so that those who are believers, who are Christians, followers of Christ, can understand the Scriptures. Um and it talks about uh being holy and verbally God given, that it's without error therefore. Might want to talk about some of that. Um There's no fault in its teaching. Everything that says about history or about geography or those kinds of things uh are accurate. There are certain things that wouldn't maybe touch upon. It might be silent on those things, and we're not going to try to make a biblical argument about those things over which it is silent, but where it does speak, we need to take it as authoritative. Holy and verbally God given is a phrase in one of those bullet points that we uh did not talk about. Um the verbal plenary inform uh inspiration of scripture is sometimes a phrase that's used. Um anybody want to comment on that so I'm not just doing this ill okay. Peter says, right, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and it's profitable, not only for doctrine, but but for reproof and instruction in righteousness. So it's it's very important. All of Scripture is inspired by God and it says um the holy man moved by God wrote down the scripture. That's in Hebrews I think, right? And in Timothy chapter three is uh a a noteworthy passage along those lines as well. that the Bible is inspired by God. God told what to write. In fact, in the Old Testament, it's quite explicitly stated many times, and the word of the Lord came to so-and-so saying, write this. Right, so Ezekiel, Isaiah, Jeremiah, all these prophets, even Moses. And the Lord spake and said unto Moses, It all this uh it's very clear that God is the one talking. In almost the entire Bible is i i it's that explicit, and even the parts that aren't specifically stated there, they're covered by Peter and and the apostles saying all the scripture is inspired by God. Now, this final point on the beginning, opening short statement before they get into the articles of affirmation and denial, is really kind of the crux of the matter here. This is why it's important. The authority of Scripture. So the statement claims, is inescapably impaired if this total divine inerrancy is in any way limited or disregarded. or made relative to a view of truth contrary to the Bible's own. And such lapses bring serious loss to both the individual and the church. That's strong It's it's very academic and uh scholarly and uh winsome and at the same time very strident. Right? There there's a line in the sand drawn here. If you're gonna say the Bible has errors You just lost the baby and the bathwater, right? You lost everything. Even one error, because even if even one iota is wrong or untrue in the Bible, then God is a liar, first of all, but also imperfect. And that cannot be uh true and the and cr uh Christianity be uh b be a faith. But why can't there be like just one mistake? I mean everybody, everything is entitled to at least one mistake. What what do we mean by a mistake? I think is also also a good question to ask. Okay. And and how are we You know, how are we uh are we able to demonstrate that it's a mistake using um If it is a meaningful mistake, right? Are we are we able to demonstrate that it's a mistake because of a of a higher authority? Right, 'cause th there's differences in translation which you could call a translator's mistake, but no one's arguing that the so-and-so translator in nineteen twenty-six was inspired by God He may have been a very godly person of whatever translation he's translating, but that can still have an error or a mistake. That I think is not what we're talking about, Troy. We we discussed differences in translations a couple of months ago. Right. Yeah, we're not saying that those men uh who were involved it's almost all all men, there might be women somewhere along the line, but it's pretty much all men involved in the translation of the Bibles that we read in English today. Uh they could make a mistake. But that's not what we're talking about, because they're not God. We're talking about what God wrote directly through men, that being without her, because God doesn't make mistakes. Right. I mean it's akin to having a clear cup of water. You drop a d a drop of cyanide in it. Would you drink it? No, the whole thing's com contaminated because it has poison in it. If the Bible has any error, any mistake, then none of it worthwhile or anything. It's just a f it's a fable and a f and a fiction. That's what the culture has been trying to do for hundreds of years or even thousands of years. trying to disrupt and say this cannot be true because that's the devil's play. The devil is trying to discredit the Bible, showing that it is not true by whatever means necessary but Throughout the history it's been proven over and over again, all these people that said, Oh, this is not true because of this, they've been the one that have been discredited and shown that this what they said was not true. The Bible was in fact true. Let's talk about the uh where hair splits might happen when we're defining terms because David said, well it depends on what you mean by mistake. So what could we mean by mistake? What do we mean? What you know when we might use that word So I I mean there's the right there's a a big kind of mistake which is something as uh is not as it says it is. So if there are um you know if if there are no such thing as miraculous happenings. Right, then that would that would be a mistake. That would be a a huge mistake. Right, if if things only happen naturally. Uh meaning the Bible claiming that they're supernatural. Right the big biblical mistake. Correct. Yeah. Yeah. Um Or if if the world was not in fact created in the six days, that would be a mistake. The Genesis says the earth was created for the in the six days. the earth and everything in it. And if it in fact took him six months or six years or six millennia then Yeah, but we start to get into But there are but I'm I'm just saying For people maybe who wouldn't be in the room to defend themselves, and I'm uh uh to be honest, uh I don't stake a hard claim on that particular issue because I have too many brothers and sisters in the faith that are inerrances. inerrantists. They believe the Bible is the authoritative word of God. They trust everything it says. But they're more uh they w have a more open view about how to interpret the Genesis passages. And I would argue that if they interpret it differently, then they are not in line with the inerrancy of cr of the Bible. See I would disagree with that. Because, you know, what about because they would make arguments and again I'm I don't stake a claim on this one. I'm I'm And bivalence is strong word. I I think somebody can also I'm not gonna die on that hill, I guess, is what I'm I think someone can believe in errant in inerrancy and Well you can bully that the scripture is an errant and be wrong about something that scripture says, you can believe it to say something that it doesn't actually say. Um what what I'm saying is that doesn't contrary to passage like Revelation, which is very widely different interpretations and it's also a prophetic book and is very explicitly said to be symbolic in many ways. Genesis is not such a book, it's a it's a historical record. And so you have to be able to say this is what happened and things like the Adam and Eve, the the fall, the flood, everything that happened literally happened. Yeah, but those who would disagree with that view And I'm uh appreciative of the arguments that they make. I'm not sure if I fully agree. Like I said, I I haven't staked a claim for sure on it But there is an argument to be made that the first couple of chapters of Genesis are a hybrid of of prose and poetry. Uh that there's that there's a structure where the days correspond, where one corresponds to four, two corresponds to five. th three corresponds to six, which just echoes that poetic instinct. Um there's day age theory, so they're saying six days, but they would argue that each day could be an age and they would use a scripture that says to the Lord a days of the thousand years. Yeah, but I would ask you, if there was no such thing as evolution, then what you just said would never even come up Because of the big push of evolution, people are trying to justify the Bible. Say, well, I believe the Bible is true, so because I I believe you know science and evolution, then it must be this way. S but if you use just the Bible to translate the Bible, the Bible to you to um to prove the Bible You would never come up with that situation. Ever. But if that enters your field of vision, somebody brings it up because they have a motivation to try to defend evolution. And and they put that thought in your head, like it could does the day have to be twenty four hours? And you're like, huh, now that you got me thinking about it, let me examine the text afresh and say, you know what? It could. Or it could not. It doesn't explicitly say. So anyway, I but that's a this is a good practical example of uh where lines sometimes can be drawn and how we are trying to define our t we well you started with your what is a mistake. It's your fault, David. I'm so sorry. So So I think I think the heart of the matter is the There's uh there's a difference between uh we make a mistake in our interpretation and God makes a mistake in his writing. Correct, yeah. Yeah, whatever your interpretation of Genesis, what God said is in fact true, the way that he said it. That is that that and that would be Yes. That's the heart of it. Okay. So let's move on to the articles of affirmation then. Because we'll get into hermeneutic. Maybe the genesis thing will come up again. Or maybe that could be a whole lot. So I'm going to do a couple at a time because there's uh there's like nineteen or twenty articles and so in the interest of time we'll just try to tackle a couple at a time. And if that seems like it's too much, then I'll I'll slow down. But uh Article one, we affirm that the Holy Scriptures are to be received as the authoritative word of God. We deny the scriptures receive their authority from the church, tradition, or any other human source. We affirm that the scriptures That's very important. I want to pause for a second on that. Well, I think the second one actually echoes it to some degree. We affirm that the scriptures are the supreme written norm by which God binds the conscience. and that the authority of the church is subordinate to that of Scripture. We deny that church creeds, councils, or declarations have authority greater than or equal to the authority of the Bible. All of our uh all of our Roman Catholic friends are uh are are not happy with that part of the articles. Yes. And I've had discussions with Catholics, including very recently, where, you know, that is one of the One of the two most important differences between the Protestant Church and the Catholic Church. One is the inerrancy of Scripture and and that Scripture supersedes the Pope and and Church tradition, and the other one is justification by faith. But in this case Yeah, yeah. If other people can change what Scripture says, then s these people are more important than God. And that's the problem. Church tradition is made by people. And i a and people are fallible. So that's really, really important that the the church is not more important than God. Um I am not a cessationist. I don't believe God has stopped speaking to people or uh giving prophecy. But if and when and and this you know many people are I do believe that when the canon was closed there are no other prophecies, there are no other other um inspired words of God. I'm not gonna rule out that there couldn't ever be any other inspired words by that God s says But if and when those are shown to exist, they cannot contradict Scripture, because if they do, then they are wrong. Scripture does not contradict itself. Um and any and then that would just be a tradition of the church that, you know, you could say this is a good thing you do, but it's not scripture. And just along uh you know, in reference to prophecy, like there's a there's a difference between uh You know, uh and uh with the Holy Spirit indwelling us, right, God uh God does work through believers. right to uh to accomplish his his work in the world. And so uh we may say things that are from God for the moment for the people who are present. That doesn't mean that it is a word for all of God's people for all of time, which is what the biblical scriptures are. Right. And I think what what's not being said here is that um church councils or creeds or you know authority structures within the church, traditions within the church have absolutely no value whatsoever. They're not saying that. They're just saying whatever value they have and I think that the men who are involved in the writing of the statement would have a high view of those things They're under scripture. Subordinate. Right. Everything has Scripture at the top and everything else is underneath that. And yeah, I I understand nobody in this room is a Roman Catholic to defend their position. Uh and I'm not going to get bogged down in the in in the textual transmission questions and all that sort of thing. If we can get a Roman Catholic to join us, we could have a debate specifically on that perhaps 'cause that could be a series of shows all by itself and I don't wanna get bogged down on that. We got bogged down enough enough on the um what's a mistake question that David threw out there. I'm gonna let him wear that one for a while. All right. Article uh three and four three says we affirm that the written word in its entirety is revelation given by God. We deny the Bible is merely a witness to revelation or only becomes revelation in encounter or depends on the responses of men for its validity. And then four, if you can pe you want to stop there? You you want to make I'll go into the next one real quick. We affirm that God who made mankind in his image has used language as a means of revelation We deny that human language is so limited by our creaturiness that it is rendered inadequate as a vehicle for divine revelation. We further deny that the corruption of human culture and language through sin has thwarted God's work. of inspiration. I think these two actually kinda go together uh to to a certain degree as well. Uh it speaks against a very common practice in American church quote unquote Bible studies. Right? What does it mean to you? Yes. They're kind of speaking against that, aren't they? Yeah. What else do you think they're speaking for and against? Well you we have heard in and many religions practice this thought, and this is again the the Catholic Church. Um to some extent, uh uh Islam as a religion also believes this, that God is because God is so great and so perfect, that even our own language is insufficient for him to express anything to us. Which is a different thing. I what they're not saying here is that our language uh, you know, doesn't limit God at all. Uh obviously God does have to fit whatever he's saying into something we can understand, uh so there's a lot that we don't understand still. But what he does intend it to convey to us is conveyed. the way he wants it to be conveyed is not changed or diminished by just because he accommodates us. Well I feel like the essence of that is God is not limited by our limitations. Right. We're limited, he's not, and he accommodates our limitations. Yeah. Yeah, and the other thing I think I might be talking about here is postmodern reading, where it's uh it's it's it's reader response. It's it's uh authorial intent isn't what matters. It doesn't matter what the author thought it meant, I as the reader get to decide what it means. That's you know, that's uh we see that politically with the Constitution as well. Right, that whole I think they're speaking against that too. Well and It would be good if people understood that in terms of the earlier conversation on mistakes. No, to to put our own interpretation or come up with our own idea of what the scripture is saying is to is to make a mistake. All right, Article 5 and 6. We affirm that God's revelation is the Holy Scriptures, in the Holy Scriptures, rather, was progressive. We deny and I don't I don't uh don't don't confuse political labels here. Progressive being one after the other. It didn't happen at once. We deny that later revel of revelation, which may fulfill earlier revelation, ever corrects or contradicts it. We further deny that any normative revelation has been given since the completion of the New Testament writing. Now this talks about what you were talking about before. So the first thing in uh in that Article five is uh like there's no law of abrogation in the Bible. You know, if if Paul wrote uh something uh in First Corinthians, he doesn't then correct himself in in Second Corinthians to say, Oh, I got it wrong. This fixes that mistake. There could be a progression in thought. Building upon itself but never to the point of having to go back and fix a mistake. And then I would actually agree with that second uh statement. I don't think it actually just uh it speaks against what I was saying. We deny that any normative revelation has been given since the completion of the New Testament writings. Meaning we deny that there's any Taking the meaningful that actually applies to all of Christians that God has spoken specifically that we should be keeping and and treasuring and reading and memorizing and all of that. Um but what it does not say here is that that couldn't ever exist. Right. God might actually write now. God might actually write a third testament. That's what they're saying is is if he hasn't. Nothing that's been written to date qualifies as that, but we're not going to limit God just by under our understanding that He won't do that. I mean we we don't think He will. Based on scripture seems to be completed. Um but the God is able capable and and may in fact speak more And they go out and article six they go out of their way to make the point that it the very words themselves. So it's not just the concepts or the or the overall moral teachings or the general historical Presentation of things that's true, those are true, but each word is right So it does get down so you can't just be well, generally speaking I believe the Bible to be true, but some of these details here and there, they're they're arguing against that. I would agree with that argument. All right. Looks like we're maybe ready to move on to seven and eight? Alright. Uh we got a couple minutes left, so uh we'll see how quickly we can do seven. Maybe we'll just do seven. Might not have time for seven and eight. So seven. We affirm that inspiration was the work in which God by His Spirit, through human writers, gave us His Word. The origin of Scripture is divine. The mode of divine inspiration remains largely a mystery to us We deny that inspiration can be reduced to human insight or to heightened states of consciousness of any kind. And yeah, we got like maybe Couple of minutes. So who wants to talk about uh needing to have some sort of heightened state of consciousness in order to really interact with uh the scriptures? Right. Except for that by the Holy Spirit. Okay. Yeah, they didn't have to go up high on a mountain necessarily to be able to uh to understand what God was saying that they should write down kind of thing, right? Right. They didn't have to eat mushrooms to find out what God's saying. Right. Alright, yeah. So we'll we'll put a rep. So there are let me just make sure. We made it through seven. Uh and we also made it through some of the opening statements as well. So we probably made it through the equivalent of let's say eight or nine or ten things. There's nineteen we might have to do maybe the next two shows finishing these out, so we'll see. And we'll see if if we we can give ourselves some room to to to argue a little bit of hermeneutics, uh some practical applications of some of these debates, I suppose. You're right. We don't want to get too far afield, because we can talk about those things uh later on. So let me uh Um I'm just all discombobulated now because of that uh technical concern earlier. I think we're back on track. So this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. a panel this week, uh the the two Razby gentlemen, the Daniel Razby and his uh proud papa, Imran Razby, also known as Raz. They have uh a website that you can go to and check out some of the ministry things that they're involved with. It's called Conquered by Love, and their website is conqueredbylove. org and they uh pastor a church uh up in Thermont. up. You might be listening in Pennsylvania like that's down in Thurmont. Uh and uh I've been saying for a long time that David's uh church that he pastors is um in southern Frederick County, but it's not technically true. It's more like Southeastern Washington County, right? We met we met over in Harper's Ferry last Sunday. Oh, West Virginia. Wow. You're like multicultural now. Anyway, and uh I'm Troy Skinner and the church I pastor is Household of Faith in Christ and we are uh smack dab in the middle of Frederick County in uh based in Frederick City. Um Household of Faith in Christ. com is our website. So we're going to tackle biblical inherency some more next week. I know you can't wait. Until then. Wish you all the best. We'll be back about 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.