The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. If you've been listening the last few weeks, I want you to uh Step into your vehicle, set it for 88 miles an hour, buckle up, and transport yourself from 1978 to 1982. If you get the back of the future reference there with the 88 miles an hour. Yeah, no? Right? Alright, so we're all in our delivery. We are not conducting breaking the speed limit laws here on this show, are we? It's gotta be legal to go eighty eight somewhere. Within reach of this radio station? I would think this radio station works for reaches around the world. It's on the World Wide Web All right. So um this is the Faith Debate. I'm Froid Skinner, pastor of uh a church uh in the area called Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. You heard uh Daniel Razvi's voice. You're going to be hearing Imran Razvi's voice as well. Uh they pastor a church in Therma and uh have an organization called Conquered by Love Ministries. Their website for that is conqueredbylove. org. And David Forcy, uh someday he's gonna have a website, DavidForcyCool. com, but it doesn't exist yet. So he's just plain old David Forcy, pastor of a church uh South. of Frederick that meets at multiple locations. So if you want to track him down and figure that out, reach me and then I'll figure out to connect with him and he'll tell you. It's it's like Wackamole, I mentioned this before with his shirt. It's like play it's like playing a game of whack-a mole, you never know exactly which mole to whack on any given weekend. So uh we spent the last few weeks working through the Chicago statement on inerrancy, on biblical inerrancy, um which was put together back in nineteen seventy-eight. And this same basic group of people might have had a few players change, but the same basic group of people got together four years later and put together the the Chicago statement on biblical hermeneutics. Now this doesn't mean the people in Chicago are smarter than everybody else I think it ended up being kind of a centralized location for a lot of people to get to and they've got a big airport that's easy to fly in and out of at O'Hare. And so I think they just they all met there and so they called it as that. In fact, it was called the uh summit of the International Council on Biblical inherency and blah blah blah. So they have a opening couple of paragraphs on their biblical hermeneutics um statement. And part of what it says is while we recognize that belief in the inerrancy of Scripture is basic to maintaining its authority, the values of that commitment are only as real as one's understanding of the meaning of Scripture. Thus we herewith present these affirmations and denials to clarify hermeneutical issues and principles. And we, practically speaking, already experienced that, right? We're talking about inerrancy and hermeneutical questions popped up recurringly during our discussion. So they do kind of go hand in glove a little bit. So when it comes to uh inerrancy and hermeneutics, if it doesn't fit you must acquit. But it does fit. So They go together. Well uh right, the inerrancy is a uh the sort of a basic assumption about scripture. And then the hermeneutics is Okay. How do we how do we m make fewer mistakes? God has not made any mistakes. Right, and we're gonna make some mistakes. But hopefully not too many. And when we do hopefully we learn from them and we're correctable in those mistakes and don't keep making the same mistakes over And over again. So maybe this is the point to bring something up. Uh uh I wasn't sure if I was ever gonna find an opportunity to s to bring this example up or when the right place is I think this is the place for it actually. We talked about last week on the show, and if you missed that, it's available on podcasts, go go check it out. Um about the danger of saying that God spoke to you and so I've got this word you know, some people in church uh I've got a word from the Lord for you. They might Or they might not. Right? But when they say they got a word from the Lord, God spoke to me and I've got a word from God for you, that's a big deal. And if they prove to be wrong Like it says, Daniel, I got a word from God. He spoke to me last night. He told me you need to buy a lottery ticket this week because if you do, you're gonna win the megamillions. You gotta go buy the ticket. Daniel's like, I don't typically play the lottery, but if it's a guarantee, God said, I better go buy that uh uh that that uh dollar or five dollar uh gamble of the roulette wheel of the lottery And he buys his ticket and he doesn't win. Daniel Daniel should really ask, what did God tell me to do with the money? But in that case where they say something that's not right that person saying that they spoke for God, we just got done spending three shows. God doesn't make mistakes. God is inerrant. His word never fails. So that person be bore false witness claiming to speak for God when they provably did not. That's a huge deal. And I bring that up in this context of hermeneutics because some people would want to make an equivalency, I would argue, is a false equivalency. One of us as a pastor is is preaching through a passage of scripture and we get something in our hermeneutics not exactly right, and so we're trying to expound God's word, teach the truth of God's word, but we get something wrong. And they're going to say, you're just as guilty as the person who is claiming to be a prophet from God, saying, I got this word from God. No, the one person is claiming to be like the voice box for God. The pastor, the preacher, is merely saying, I am applying hermeneutical principles to give you my best understanding of what God's Word says. There's a difference. And so it's a higher level of responsibility. Somebody's going to say God said Wow, they better be right. If I say preaching that in this text, you know, God says There's a lot of times a lot of my wife says it's my understanding that it says this, other times I'm more emphatic than that, but there's an implicit understanding that when you stand in the pulpit To deliver a message or you're giving a teaching of a Bible study, it's your opinion, your understanding, your interpretation. That's kind of implicitly there. We went a couple months ago we talked about how many churches Don't subscribe to that. They'll they'll say, you know, you just just trust whatever the pastor says. Um and that's insofar as it agrees with scripture. And you know what? I think that we should have a default to to want to trust a believer pastor, because if you don't have that relationship and trust level with your pastor, you probably should find a new one. But you should go in feeling like my pastor's probably gonna get this right, but you still check everything against the Bible. The problem is it's really hard to find another one. That is true. It's one of the reasons I'm a pastor. No other pastor was good enough for you. No, but realizing there's there's not enough There's not enough catastrophes. We need more good, faithful men who understand the truth of the Bible, who will teach it and preach it and take the accountability that comes with that. We need more of that. We don't have enough. Anyway, so Article I in their articles of affirmation denial in the hermeneutics statement says, we affirm that the normative authority of Holy Scripture is the authority of God Himself. And is attested by Jesus Christ, the Lord of the Church. We deny the legitimacy of separating the authority of Christ from the authority of Scripture or of opposing the one to the other. And I'm going to do the second one as well. We affirm that as Christ is God and man in one person, so Scripture is indivisibly God's word in human language. We deny that the humble human form of Scripture entails errancy any more than the humanity of Christ, even in h in his humiliation, entails sin. So this is where we get into some of the mysteries of what this all means. We touched on this uh a little bit here and there in our previous conversations on inerrancy. But just because men are involved in writing it down, so well to err is human, right? So there must be some mistakes of no, no, no, this is superintended by God in such a way Because if you were to apply that same standard to Jesus Christ, you would have to say, well, if heir is human and Jesus is human, he's God and man, so he must have sinned. No, it there there are unique exceptions that prove the rule kind of thing. Uh you know, Christ is that exception. Um person because he was fully God as well as fully man. Exactly. That's the difference. And I think that's what we I think that's what we're kind of saying about the words on the page that we read in our Bibles, at least in the original autographs. I think that's kind of what they're saying here. Yeah. So I I don't know there's a whole lot of that this is uh some of this almost feels like we've touched on it a little bit in previous shows. So let's go on to three and four and see if that gives us some fodder for some back and forth. We affirm that the person and work of Jesus Christ are the central focus of the entire Bible. We deny that any method of interpretation which rejects or obscures the Christ-centeredness of Scripture is correct We affirm that the Holy Spirit this is Article IV. We affirm that the Holy Spirit, who inspired Scripture, acts through it today to work faith in its message. We deny that the Holy Spirit ever teaches to any one, anything which is contrary to the teaching of Scripture. We touched upon this a little bit, I think, as well already. I mentioned it last week how the whole Bible is about Jesus and that's what they're saying in Article 3. Anything that you picked up on there that you want to talk about before I go to the book. No, no, the Bible is about Jesus. That's the whole point. Then Jesus is also God. And it's like a joke, right? In all the Sunday school classes, whenever whenever in doubt, just say Jesus, right? Or or I don't know what the answer to the question is. Must be Jesus. Well it's it's about Jesus because the Bible is about uh God and man. Together. Right. Right. Not as equals, right? As creator and created in image. And God's plan for man which centers upon Christ. Yeah. And I mean we have uh in a lot of church traditions there's this uh Christmas time you have the Advent, right? The four Sundays of Advent and the first Sunday you're supposed to read especially the scriptures about the prophecy of Je about Jesus. And some of my si uh younger siblings, uh, you know, would ask, Oh, well, which prophecies are we gonna read this week? And sometimes we c kinda half jokingly answer, Well just open the Bible any any spot it's all prophecy about Jesus. Um you know, I mean obviously they're they're specifically talking about the prophecies of his birth that they want to talk there. But it's the whole the whole Bible is about Jesus. So yeah. And then then Article Four Um is kind of what we said earlier as well, that the Holy Spirit will never teach anyone anything which is contrary to the teaching of Scripture. So if and when you do get a word from the Holy Spirit It will not contradict scripture. It may not be found in Scripture, but it will not contradict scripture. Yeah. Because he m he might tell you to go move to Virginia or Arkansas, like he said, and that's not in scripture at all, whether it's contrary or not, but if he tells me something like to go uh get married to another man, for example, that will be contrary to scripture. I I would say that also that that scripture will will affirm it, right? So it will be uh in alignment with you know so if uh You know, if uh if someone, you know, gets a word that they should move their family closer to their parents and scripture says, Well, you should take care of your own household and That's something that is need you know, needs doing then sure. Yeah. And I know of people who have actually said to me, They're not married. It's a woman. God told her that she should get pregnant with this guy and live with him, you know, not get married. God told her. No, he didn't. I can show you. You you heard maybe you heard from somebody, but it wasn't God. But uh I've heard that from more than one person. You know, so you maybe you have too. I it's pretty common these days for people to claim to be Christians and they do things and you ask them well why are you doing it? Well, yeah I I feel like the Holy Spirit or God told me or I feel like I have special permission from God to do this because of this reason. I can marry somebody A cr somebody who's a believer knowingly marrying somebody who's not a believer and saying that well God told me because this is how they're gonna come to be saved. That's not what it says in Scripture. You can't you're not gonna you can't be in disagreement with scripture like that 5 and 6. Articles 5 and 6. We affirm that the Holy Spirit enables believers to appropriate and apply Scripture to their lives. We deny that the natural man is able to discern spiritually the biblical message apart from the Holy Spirit. We affirm that the Bible expresses God's truth in propositional statements and we declare that biblical truth is both objective and absolute. We further affirm that a statement is true if it represents matters as they actually are, but is an error if it misrepresents the facts. We deny that while Scripture is able to make us wise unto salvation Biblical truth should be defined in terms of its function of this function. We further deny that error should be defined as that which willfully deceives. So looking at defining what we mean by error and How do we how do we uh define our terms? That's part of fermentics is defining terms. So Article five ties back into four, which is interesting, right? It's saying that uh That we need the Holy Spirit in order to understand Scripture. Yeah, because the b the Bible tells us that those that that don't have the Holy Spirit, you know, they haven't been given hearts of flesh, they still have hearts of stone, and so they're the the truth is they're right in front of them and they they can't see it because they're they're well They see it but they don't take it in. They don't understand it because they've hardened their hearts so that they're they they're self d self-deceived, that they choose not to see it. Um So that they have a a moral inability or a spiritual inability to uh to recognize uh and appropriate the truth So that's not an excuse. That's that's what I'm trying to get at, I guess. It's like, oh well they can't know any better. They can, they should know better, but they can't because of the rebellion against God. So they need the Holy Spirit to get rid of the rebellion so they can actually see the truth. Anything on Article uh six that I read? That's a kind of a long that's one of the longest articles in the whole whole shebang here. No? I can move on. Alright, I'm gonna move on. We can swing back to it if uh you decide to later. Article seven. We affirm that the meaning expressed in each biblical text is single, definite, and fixed. That's an interesting one. We deny that the recognition of the single meaning eliminates the variety of its application. True, what does it mean to you? Yeah. We talked about that a couple of weeks ago. So how is that different than you were speaking against the the common Bible study phrase? What does this mean to you today? Um but here it seems to say well there could be a variety of applications even though its primary meaning is is one thing. Would be how how does this apply to you? How does this truth work out in your own life? It says what it says, but how you apply what it says could fit a variety of situations. Uh but it's interesting because I think that sometimes in its saying what it says, it's actually saying more than one thing. For example, there are some uh prophecies in the Old Testament that are pointing to something that's more proximate. Like it's it's it's it's pointing to Christ as an ultimate fulfillment, but it's also pointing to something that's going to happen before the cross. That's also f so there's like a double thing that are both true. A great example is Passover. Passover is both an actual event that happened and also pointing to Christ. Another event is is talking about the virgin birth of Christ, where shortly after Isaiah had a son and God talks to him about say some of these things are actually fulfilled in your in your son, but really we're looking forward to this. Virgin birth of Christ that's coming, you know. And it was a couple of weeks ago David brought up Revelation as an example of parts of Scripture that can be difficult. Revelation, you read a passage in Revelation and it means something. It means something definite But we sometimes, through our limitations, aren't exactly sure what those definite understandings should be. So we have to be honest. Right? So if we're teaching or preaching a revelation, I say, you know It seems like it could mean this, it could mean that. I'm not saying it means all these different things, but really smart people have disagreed over these things and it it seems possible it could mean that and out of humility, I don't know I'm going to share with you what those possibilities are, and none of them would be heretical, but are any of them exactly what it's intending to convey? I can't say with certainty. I think that we have to admit our frailties on some of these things. Sure. All right, Article 8. We affirm that the Bible contains teachings and mandates. Ooh, mandates. I'm tired of that word. Which apply to all cultural And situational contacts and other mandates, which the Bible itself shows, apply only to particular situations. We deny that the distinction between the universal and particular mandates of Scripture can be determined by cultural and situational factors. We further deny that universal mandates may ever be treated as culturally or situationally situationally relative. So who wants to simplify that in like regular English? So maybe a good example then. So there there are some things the Bible says which are true and and requires that the Christian obey it at all times. W you know, for example, don't kill anybody uh or don't murder rather. Um or even more basic, love God. That's a command, it's a mandate for everybody in all time not for a specific Jewish people or whatever. Um and if there are certain commands which God said, you know, whatever, like he told this person to go wash yourself in that pool. That doesn't mean every Christian everywhere always goes and washes in that same pool in Jerusalem. You know, and we have to all make a pilgrimage to to wash no, he was specifically talking to a person there. And it's very clear from the context that he told this one guy to go wash in the pool, not he's commanding all my followers go wash in this pool. And it's not that God like well uh I'm thinking like circumcision. It's not that God has abrogated his word, but the the purpose and reason for circumcision has met its end. It's it's been fulfilled. The reason that that they had to be circumcised uh i is no longer relevant. So God didn't change his mind about that. It was it it it it was in place for a time for a reason, and that particular time and reason is not the practical situation. The uh the particular situation uh had changed. So God's word didn't change, the situation changed. I disagree with the circumcision as an example. But uh You think we should still be circumcised? Yes. Not to be saved. And you never were to be saved. But I think it's a good thing to be to be doing. Wow, that's interesting, because Paul is pretty strident ag against Nope. No. He specifically said it for being saved. As Daniel said, it has nothing to do with being saved. Okay. I don't see any reason for it then. Well there's a lot of medical reasons for it. Oh. Oh so a wisdom issue, not a moral issue or an obedience issue to God. the is command to to everybody. Yep. That's that is something. I'm gonna have to write that down as another topic. So write it down. So we had Genesis from a couple weeks ago creation. Right? And now we got circumcision. Okay. Alright, we're gonna read that later. Alright, whatever. Alright, that's interesting. So that's why I was using uh because because I anticipate there is there are doctrines and maybe not as um you know, rare as a circumcision to be disagreeing on, but there's other ones that, you know, people could disagree on whether this one still applies to everybody or not. But that's why I was giving for our listeners a very clear example. Jesus goes and tells this one person, Go wash yourself in the pool Well that's a that's obviously a specific situation and he's not commanding everybody to do that. And he and he told one specific group of people to be circumcised. Those that follow God. Those that are followers of God. No no no no no no no no no importa. Staying true to the day. Yeah. Right. It it does not say here, right? I I think then that's part of the point in this article that it says that it we affirm that the Bible contains teachings and mandates. It doesn't say which ones those are. It doesn't say all teachings and mandates in the Bible. I'm gonna try to quickly do Article Nine and then that'll be the last one for this show. I'm not sure if we'll have time to give it a whole lot of treatment, but we'll see what it says. We affirm that the term hermeneutics, which or historically signified the rules of exegesis, may properly be extended to cover all that is involved in the process of perceiving what the biblical revelation means and how it bears on our lives. And then the denial is we deny that the message of Scripture derives from or is dictated by the interpreter's understanding. Thus we deny that the horizons of the biblical writer and the interpreter might rightly fuse in such a way that what the text communicates to the interpreter is not ultimately controlled by the expressed meaning of the scripture You can't just pick your own meanings. Yeah, and a lot of people do. And uh and uh even high pollutant like you know, lots of credentials behind their name uh theologians do that sort of thing. And that's part of what they're speaking against here. is uh people with fancy approaches will try to change uh through their own understanding of what they're allowed to do, um Yeah, we I wish we might have to pick this up on the uh oops what I just do. I gotta get my music going here and Uh we're running out of time. We've got at least a minute and a half, two minutes left. So we're gonna have to cut this short. Do you have anything you want to say before we wrap up this Yes, no? No, I mean the it's really distilled in that that you can't just choose your own interpretation. It's It's not based on I mean, you you can use your judgment to t try to figure out what God's saying, but it's not gonna be based at all on what you think. Um, you know, you can pray for guidance by the Holy Spirit and and he'll guide you, but there's not gonna be any Uh and that's really what the church today has done by culturally assuming that the means have changed because the culture has changed and because it is not appropriate for today, the woke culture. And that's what this is against. Yeah, so we're going to uh wrap up there. We did the first nine. We'll pick up with Article 10 next week then. And um I don't make a big deal about it, but maybe you do, and in the spirit of uh being friendly to you, enjoy your Valentine's Day celebration this week. With your little cupid dolls and whatever you do, your box candies and There you go. Yeah, read about uh somebody who was in the faith and and and learn about that. That's a good idea. I like it. That's David Forcey with a good idea. Um the guy Judiciously smartly being quiet on this issue, the Razvis, Daniel, and Imran, I'm sure they have a lot to say, but they're they're gonna hold that for another time. Um And I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith of Bay. You can connect with all of us through my church's website, Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's the easiest way to do that probably. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless.