Broadcasting for the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Bridlock County, we're preaching with impact like clear pavement. The people keep putting their hope in unsatisfying things. Why do we do it? This is the product Faith Debate sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating House and we make you smile. Faith Debate is online W Fmd. com keyword faith. There you'll find a whole bunch of really cool stuff, including the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Pretty much whatever you send me goes up there. 18 blog postings a day, Monday through Friday, it's 90 a week. So we got plenty of reading material. Even those of only read a few paragraphs a week, like Michael Halloran, our uh our our guest today. He he can find a paragraph or two he might want to read on that show. What have I been reading? Speaking of reading Um, every once in a while I I take a break from the um uh the really heavy lifting, densely, you know, old English or uh horribly translated German or French theological tomes and just read something to give me myself a breather. So I read a couple of books by Ted Decker recently. Uh oh. Uh Ted again. Blessed Child and A Man Called Bless. Uh those two books comprise the uh the blessed spheres. Yeah, what did you think of the blessed ones? He wrote those early and you can tell. I don't think he had completely found his voice as a as a novelist yet, and they were a little up and down and And had some super spiritualistic elements to it. Yeah, a little a little unsatisfying just from the the the writing standpoint. And then as I've read more and more of Ted, particularly the earlier ther the early half of his novel he's written like forty novels now. Th those that are in the earth first half of his n novels uh have a uh an ecumenical approach to God that I'm not so sure I would agree with at least where Ted was on that issue then, I'm not sure where he is on it now. But he has a tendency to equate the God of Islam, the God of Judaism and the God of Christianity as kind of one and the same in his novels, at least the early novels. And I I'm not sure I'm uh that he's still there. I'm not sure I've picked up on that in later novels. And I'm definitely not there with him on that. So I'd be we'd love to get Ted on this show one day. Anyway, I'm sure he's listening right now. Jonathan Sweitz is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church and Michael O'Halloran is the uh uh I don't know, is a member in good standing at uh Fourth Presbyterian. But he's been me he's been involved in missions and in in uh Christian school, uh at uh as uh attending Christian school and Christian college and Um he's he's a well-rounded uh senior layperson in in this thing we call the Christian church. So anyway, it's glad and he's a longtime friend of Jonathan. I am thanks for having me. You you opened the show up uh again uh this morning. Well the fate debate. I think last week's it wasn't so much a debate, it was a little bit more walk down memory lane. So maybe we can take the kid gloves off, Jonathan. friend from eighth grade onto the show. Just a quick recap uh and and then we'll get into some you know uh theological fodder for debate. Okay. Um yeah, we've covered some background and part of that background included uh Jonathan uh for all intents and purposes it the the short hand diversion uh answer is Jonathan was raised at a charismatic church. Uh yeah it's fair to s it's fair to say that your formative years were in the charismatic uh church movement and he's the pastor of a charismatic church today. Michael got saved in a uh had a a salvation experience, a moment that he can still recall specifically, say, that's the moment that I accepted Jesus as my Lord and Savior, and it was in a charismatic worship service. Which by the way was uh the preacher there was his father fo now father in law. That's a fascinating story. But now if you ask him, he's not gonna say he's a charismatic. He has some differences of opinion on how to understand certain things. So we're beginning to explore some of that a little bit. One of the things that's different between the church that Mike goes to now and that Jonathan uh leads here in Frederick now is government style. Uh at the local level there's some similarity. Uh both Fourth Presbyterian and Bethesda and uh Crossroads are elder led at the local level. So I'm not sure if the process for Uh identifying and uh and anointing elders ordaining elders is the same. I don't know if you ordain them, if you just take an election, if you as a pastor said, You are a pretty good bloke, you're now an elder. I don't know how that part of it works Actually that's a pretty good question. How does that part of it work at Crossroads? Yeah, John, tell us. So how do we develop elders? Um well we claim that we follow the biblical model of that. Uh and that is that um elders are uh appointed originally from the apostolic level um and that you put 'em before the congregation for the congregation to see if there's anything against them. Um and uh and then if there's not then you lay hands on them and and you install them and so you use the you know, that the Timothy um standards uh for uh what that individual would be like and what it would look like. And uh the idea, uh my dad even taught for a while though he doesn't do this anymore that that kind of the goal is that everybody in a congregation, given congregation, would would be moving in the direction of of elder status in the sense that You know, an elder is simply he you know, is not necessarily a gifted individual. Uh he's just somebody that is mature in the Lord and that is able to bring you know, godly spiritual wisdom to the table. Yeah. Well gifted in a sense though, right? They they're d they're able to teach apt to teach, right? You have to have some sort of a gift in that way that you should be able to teach, right? Yeah. But but that's a lot different from uh other places where, you know, somebody is a teacher, right? And so um we talked a little last week about some of the things that that you know kind of really drove me from a leadership style to to Presbyterian uh church. Uh there the the the reasons I I attend the church I do are are lengthy. Um but I think one of 'em is I think John to John's credit, he places himself under authority as the teaching pastor, as the one that really is kind of the face of the church, I mean for the lack of a better term, you know, the one that's doing most of the teaching and preaching and s casting a vision and setting you know setting the course for the church to go. Um you know, w were the abuses I saw was that You know they had their elders were out of town, other members of other mega churches, and it was just a rubber stamp of whatever you say goes because if you scratch my back, I'll scratch yours. So I mean I think there's a lot of commonality. And and I don't say this is becoming your friend. I say this because, you know, as as one who's been walking to the Lord a long time, a pastor that can humble themselves to elders and be accountable to them is a beautiful thing. Because you see ultimately they were all submitting to the ultimate head of the church, which is Christ. Um, the true I think the true apostle of the church. Which is interesting 'cause back in the um mid seventies, uh as um my dad's church was grappling with uh what was the right way to handle church government. They kind of voted out the vote. Meaning like they they voted out the the right of the congregation to vote about leadership and uh just saying that they didn't see anywhere in scripture, you know, that it was something that was done by vote, but that it was done by appointment. you know, by uh, you know, the the uh leadership of the um the apostolic leadership. And so they moved in the direction of um kind of taking it out of the hands of the congregation. But in the context of that, like you're saying, a lot of um charismatic churches went the direction of the lead pastor is like the spiritual leader and so he kinda kind of became all about him running everything. um that you know you might as well find a new place to go, you know, to worship because there is no there is no accountability, there is no consensus of elders. And as we talked uh before the show you know, with the Presbyterian there's there's the there i if there is disagreements in the church and among elders and the pastors, you know, there is another group of men that you go to there, kind of the elders' elders. So there's there's another layer of accountability what really keeps I think egos in check. 'Cause I mean, I have an ego, you know, uh as if I've been in things and in places, I mean, power is it's appealing. You know, it's you know, if you get up there and speak and You know, you preach and you know, the Holy Spirit's there and you know and people's are people are being converted by the work of God, there's a sense, unfortunately, in our fallen natures that we like to take credit for it. We like to take glory for it. We think that we had something to do with it when when we truly have that step back and say, this is a work of the Holy Spirit. So to say that I'm not charismatic, I would think by the modern definition of speaking in tongues and, you know, uh always looking at a church service for healing and dancing and those type of things, I would say no. But do I believe that the Holy Spirit is is working and active? Without a doubt, a hundred percent. I mean is my does my when my pastor gets in the pulpit and preaches, he's prophesying to me. When he's telling me, you know, he's speaking as of God speaking to me and and and and preaching the gospel to me I know this side might sound crazy to some people, but he preaches the gospel to me of Christian. You know, and I and I think, you know th So somewhat happens in leadership is that the the pastor gets so successful in the six weeks of money and six weeks of sex and six weeks of, you know, planting your garden or whatever the new kind of catchphrase thing and to talk about in the churches, they forget the gospel and they forget the fact that I'm a sinner. I I think uh I think it was Spurgeon said something along the line. I think it was Spurgeon or Luther. I I My memory's getting bad. But he said something about, you know, sin is like a beard. You know, it it it grows. And every Sunday morning we need to shave. We need to be cleanly shaven. And that's the gospel being preached to me as a Christian And I would just uh maybe ask kind of turn the topic a little bit. I sorry to hijack it as being the you know the guest, but I would, you know, with that eldership kind of maybe something I'd like to ask you at your church. What do you see the role of the gospel is in your church week in and week out? Is it something that you just think that they need to hear you know, oh Jesus died for you, confess and believe, you know, and I I don't mean to quote them flippantly, uh, because that is the word of God, but you know, is that just something that you need to get saved? And once when you get saved we go deeper into like, you know, different things in the scriptures or Do we or do you preach the gospel week in and week out, what Christ has done, where we see Him fulfilling the law for us because we can't do it in ourselves? That's a good question. We've a we've actually, you know, had that discussion at uh various times here on the show, and I don't know that I've done a great job. Uh was it Spurgeon of course that said that, you know, you start um every Sunday in London and end at Calvary or start at Calvary and end in London. Um, I don't know that I've uh always done a great job of uh keeping Christ and the gospel at the center of messages. It's something that I've I've uh kind of grown into and and uh increased my uh commitment to that. Um and uh so to answer the question more specifically, like where does the gospel play what role does it play in the daily life of the believer? Is that what you're saying? Yeah. And and maybe specifically in the your preaching, like how you prepare. Like I would say I wake up every morning and I start with the gospel afresh, you know, uh like with um uh the Beatitudes, blessed are the poor in spirit. for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And and so uh today that's me. Uh I'm the guy that's poor in spirit, but for the grace of God go I and it's only by his grace and then blessed are those who mourn, for they will be comforted, you know that uh that today I'm facing sin in my life and in my family life, family's life and other people's lives, and today I need that comfort from the Lord. in order to, you know, just deal with everyday life that leads in the direction of meekness, you know, blessed are the meek, that they will inherit the earth, you know, and all that is like the foundation you know, of everything that we're doing. I did a series recently just on humility, you know, that humility is a return to what God intended for us to be. uh in the garden with him, w daily, constant dependence upon him as opposed to, you know, kind of having some life of our own that is separate from um uh Christ. And so um my understanding is that that the gospel is a return to a dynamic relationship where we're utterly utterly dependent on the Lord, you know, moment by moment, you know, where we pray without ceasing and where we're you know, where we're living in dependence upon uh Christ and uh his uh reconnecting us to the Father and then filling us with the Spirit that that we're you know are in constant dependence. So I don't know, does that answer the question? to the topic is do do the elders of your church not like listen like intently to like knock and hit you over the knuckles you know with a pencil like they did to me when I was a kid and botched my reading in first grade. Okay Yeah. But are do they like I know from my I know in my church the elders one of those their job is to make sure that the pastor is is week in and week out. faithfully, you know, exegeting or opening the you know the the scriptures and bringing Christ to us. So like if we were to talk about humility You know, I think the pinnacle of pro and I don't want to speak for our pastors because they're a lot smarter and educated than I, but I I would know that I would I I I knowing them and sitting under there preaching, I know that I would ultimately end up in the humility of Christ And him him being that for me. And you know, and that imputed to me. So I guess back to the elders is that d do they d Do you meet with them about what you're going to preach about? Do they ever, hey, uh I heard you say this and what's the biblical text for that, or is it do they not work that way I don't know that I meet with them ahead of time about it, though we are constantly talking j you know, just about what is it uh that the Lord is doing in our midst and what are the um You know, what's the direction in terms of uh where uh we'd like to see the the congregation built up in the Lord So uh, you can eat beforehand. I don't I didn't want my question I went to just think that, oh yeah, like they have to check off on it. No, I mean you're the pastor. I mean called you and ordained you to to be the you know to be the pastor and to preach the word. So just for clarity's sake, I don't want you to think that I think that you need to run everything by and what you say 'cause I I think that would really hamstr hamstring a leader. And I don't know, I I guess I'm wondering if there's any churches out there where uh where the leadership team isn't coming up to you on a regular basis uh about what you're preaching and how you're preaching. I mean I guess I imagine even if you're a church that uh has compromised the gospel uh in therefore preach a different gospel and there's quite a few churches out there that the elders probably are in agreement with that in they're probably coming up to you saying, hey, you're leaning too much in a you know, in a gospel direction. I mean I I can't imagine a church where people are not doing that on a regular basis. to a question that I wanted to ask. So I'm going to uh but first let me reintroduce what's going on here. Jonathan Sweitzer is the last voice you just heard before mine. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Mike uh O'Halloran is uh a member at Fourth Presbyterian in Bethesda. Um been very involved and active in the church in a variety of capacities, but he's not an ordained m uh minister of the word or anything like that. But uh It's uh a blessing to have him on the show. And he's a longtime uh nearly lifelong friend of Jonathan Schweitzer's and I'm Troy Skinner. This is the first time. Well since eighth grade. No, you're right Um uh this is the Faith Debate on WFMD uh news radio 930. So I think what we're getting to here is that what are what are the mechanisms for accountability? If the if uh at uh Fourth Presbyterian if the pastor starts to go off in a direction where he's not preaching the way that the church would expect him to preach, he's not being gospel centered. Uh he's not exalting Christ. He's making it all topical life application. Uh perhaps even drifting into areas that some people get suspicious that might be flirting with some heretical views or whatever There's the the mechanism there is I assume that people would approach the elders. The elders would address the concerns in a in a in a in a a session meeting of the elders. and hold the the the pastor accountable. Hopefully if they're right in their concerns the pastor repents and everything moves on and everything is hunky dory. If there ends up being a fight, they could appeal to the larger body, the elders elders, uh at the regional level, and let them help to hash it out. And that's how that would be a mechanism for accountability there. I think that's what you're kinda getting at. So what would be the mechanism for accountability at crossroads, whether in either direction, let's say they think you're becoming way more gospel centered than they would expect from you, which I hope isn't the case, uh that they would expect you'd be less gospel centered. Uh or you're beginning to drift away from the gospel more than they would white, and hopefully that's not the case either. But if you were to drift from what the church would expect from you, what would be what would be the mechanism for accountability? Okay, so the mechanism of accountability that we see in scripture, if somebody's drifting Uh seems like say the in Galatia, the churches of Galatia, right? Somehow words coming back to Paul you know, or Corinth, words coming back to Paul about different things that are going on. And so Paul writes this letter to say, hey guys, this is what the gospel is all about, and uh this is how you should handle things Right. And so there there seems to be I mean, in today's uh world maybe there'd be like an email or maybe, you know, because we we are able to travel more, there'd be a sense, you know, of somebody coming in. But there was the sense that uh that the apostle and apostles, you know, were were coming to bring whatever correction was necessary and to speak to it But there's the sense that at least what I get is that each local church was kind of autonomous, meaning that the whole church could choose to turn from the gospel, i. e. , where we see in Revelation that there's a couple churches that that had turned away and were about to lose their candlestick. that the same thing is true, that there's not an organizational legal entity that that the higher organization can control and uh you know and hold in a legal sense, I don't like I I don't know if that's the case with the Presbyterian, but you know, if if the Presbytery said, Hey, you're screwing up Like they can not only just remove 'em, but they can like legally move 'em out because they have the authority that's kind of backed and the state would say, Well, that's true, that's in your bylaws, you know, they have the authority to do that. I don't know that I see that in Scripture. I see the potential in Scripture for a whole congregation to go apostate and the apostles would come in and say, You need to stop doing that or you're gonna u lose your lampstand. But the point is is that is that they don't have any legal recourse to say, well, okay guys, you know, we're removing that pastor and we're we're putting him the guy that we want. And so um so the recourse that I see in scripture um is i su i is is one that there tend to be many apostles, right? And that's true for me. There's a whole bunch of guys that my dad interacts with that If my dad screwed up, I'd go talk to any one of those other guys that he's in relationship with. He's been diligent to develop that. That ends up being like a presbytery, except there's no legal authority. It's all relational. And if I wanted to as a local church reject everything that they were saying and go astray, I could do so like we seem to see happening uh in uh the early church. And so the accountability is something that I accept, that I respond to, because that's what I see in scripture, that they responded to it, but not because they were somehow forced to do so, but because Uh the apostles were demonstrating humility, demonstrating patience, demonstrating the gospel of Jesus Christ, and we're were consistent on that. And so uh if they come and talk to me, well I'm gonna hear them. That's why that's why they recommended me for ministry in the first place because there was a sense of of you know, humility, of listening, of of of you know uh being able to interact about the things of the gospel and be serious about the gospel without it um you know, being about me kind of a thing. And so it's a li i it's I feel like it's the same thing you guys are describing, minus the legal authority You know, Paul had the authority, but his authority was to come on the basis of what the Lord had said and to say, you know, uh you're not preaching the gospel anymore, and I'm going to tell everybody in your church you're not preaching the gospel anymore. But you know, if you guys choose to go astray, you know, I'm gonna lament it. But um Yeah, there's like a whole series of shows to try to unpack a significant difference. Uh obviously those in the Presbyterian circles wouldn't uh identify uh anybody in in today's contemporary society as on on a par with a first century apostle So there'd be a big difference there. Uh if you have the idea that they're an authoritative apostle of God, then uh then they're gonna have a lot more authority in your thinking of how the government structure works. Uh so there's that As far as a New Testament model, even Paul is called to account uh and to explain himself before a council of the elders elders, if you will, kind of a thing. So there is a New Testament model uh in that sense. And I would say, sure, we're all given the right to go wayward, not just congregations, but us individually or given the option to make poor choices to uh to endeavor to sin, sometimes quietly, sometimes boldly. Uh but never does the Bible say that that's a good thing. Just because God allows us to do it doesn't mean that that's That that we should floster an environment where that would be encouraged to happen perhaps more than it would otherwise, if we'd had some checks in place. I don't I'm not sure that you are implying that, but somebody who's not carefully listening might think that you are uh advocating for that. And I don't think that you are And say that last part again that I would be advocating what? I got caught on something you said previously. So they're allowed to do that. Yeah. Well yeah, they're allowed to do that to their own detriment if they're allowed to do that. They're not allowed to do that with God's blessing. So that's not what you're saying. Yeah, what I'm saying is that is that a big theme among uh charismatics uh through the years has been that the organizational structures of churches uh can have a tendency to to become controlling and uh as a result, you know, after a generation or so they can they can kind of lose their their fervor, they can lose their their um uh you know, their the the sense of life flowing in them because people are just managing structures that are there instead of living out the full life of Christ. You know, and so so when I look at Fourth Press I'm impressed by the fact that they have a reputation of being alive, right? And there doesn't appear to be a sense that their structures have somehow, you know, uh become something that are just being maintained. However, there's plenty of places where there are churches where they're maintaining the structures and they're committed to their structures as somehow doing it. but the church is dying on the vine, there's that they they've lost the sense of life. And so in the charismatic movement at large, the principle behind that was that uh is was that your organi organization should never become um should should not step away from a commitment to relationships with one another. in that as soon as it becomes a legal entity that there's the potential for it to continue without the life, meaning you're just doing the thing but but there's no real life in it. In so anyways, that's the distinction that um that drives a lot of the emphasis in my particular circle that you need to have those basically. You know, for me ultimately, you know, I feel very comfortable at my church because ultimately I I I sense that the the caring of the sheep is the priority and that care is done in love, but with the gospel and you know, um preached, you know, um confirmed to me, you know, and and lived out um as the best that that we can as a congregation, um, knowing that um, you know, we're all sinful. And that, you know, I'm going to you know, I'm a sinner, so why what's gonna happen out of that? I'm gonna s I'm gonna offend someone in my church, you know, and I'm probably gonna offend an elder and an elder may offend me because we're all fallen, but it's the fact that we walk in that humility Because we know that Christ is our Savior and Christ is the perfect the perfect one and he is our head shepherd, he's the head of the church, and he's the perfection. And and so I I think with the models, you know, you can debate those things, but I think ultimately the most important thing is is is the leadership of the church, caring for the congregation. Or are they protecting their own backsides and their own jobs? And now we're working with that. And we're and we're going to end on a note of agreement. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossers Valley Church, Michael O'Helleran, our guest as well. Thank you, and to our sponsor, Put McPhone Heating. Help we make you smile and thank you for listening till next week, God bless