Good morning to you. If you're listening to the radio on this beautiful Sunday morning, we're assuming it's beautiful. I don't know. We do the show in advance in the air Sun Sunday morning. morning. It's well, you know what? It's a day that God has made has made and so all the days are beautiful. Uh this is the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. If you're listening to this on some other day, it means you're listening to the podcast and that's a beautiful day too, I'm sure. Thank you for spending part of your day with us here. as we grapple with what are really serious uh questions. This is not just esoteric academic, you know, kind of head stuff. This is important rubber meets the road kind of stuff. Last two shows we were talking about theonomy, theocracy, sacralism, sacralism, what does that all mean? It has to do with how we apply God's word into our our government, into our lives, where the where where are the lines drawn, and there's a lot of disagreement, and it makes people nervous. Uh and you probably are more familiar if you've been paying attention to a different kind of a phrase that connects all these things in different ways, and that is the phrase Christian nationalism. It's all related to this stuff. That's why we're talking about it. And here to talk about it again for the third go-around is Daniel Razvey with the Church in Thurmont that's called the house uh the uh the the church that meets at Imron's house. It could be the house that meets at Imran's church, I don't know. And uh Elijah Dirksen, he is a seminary uh Masters of Divinity student at uh Whitfield Theological Seminary and uh he that's out of state so he's here visiting uh uh Maryland and joining us for this conversation. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ and our website is Household of Faith in Christ dot com And you can connect with all my social media media and you can connect with these guys if you uh should want to, by just getting in touch with me and I'll put you in touch with them. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. So we defined our terms of theonomy, theocracy. Uh sacralism well enough for now, I think there's more that can be said for sure. But I wanna um People who listen to a radio station like WFMD uh probably have heard Christian nationalism talked about. It's a it's a it's a politically charged word, so it gets talked about in non-church contexts. And so Uh what do they mean by that? So let's uh boy, it's an open-ended question. I don't know what I'm gonna get and I feel I I don't I don't even know if you know how you're gonna try to answer this If somebody says Christian nationalism to you, what do you think they're meaning by it? You're a Christian fascist. Christian fascist. Mo most people use it in a negative sense as a as an accusation or a derogatory term, Christian nationalism. I think Most most or many of the people that are called Christian nationalists would not call themselves such. It's a name given by people outside the movement. to that movement. Um that's not necessarily to say whether the movement itself is good or not, but Yeah. There are some though that would I think kinda like I said a couple of shows ago with theonomy. If somebody calls me a theonist I might say Okay, yeah, but define it for me because I might end up saying no. Same thing says are you a Christian nationalist? Sure. Although define it for me, because I might agree, you might not. It's such a hot button term and it could mean so many different things. You you have the Latin for theonomy to say God's law, but Christian nationalism And it it It shows you could be talking about with someone just a completely different thing. You're talking right past each other. Now there are Christians who are embracing the term. Yeah, not all of them are thinking of it as a pejorative and they're running away from it. Stephen Wolfe wrote a book that's very popular and I'm I I'm I'm pretty sure he's a Christian. There are a lot of, you know, YouTubers and st and and bloggers and stuff that are Christians and they're and they're identifying as Christian nationalists, so it's not everybody's running from it. But it's creating quite a fight. And a lot of uh name calling and and uh you know just it's it's g getting kinda nasty. It's really un it it's disconcerting that it's gotten as nasty as it has when Christian brothers are are being mean to each other. It's like w what's that? We can hash it out, that's fine. We do that on this show on a weekly basis. But we and and you can get contentious. You can you can have your adrenaline kick in. You can get animated. You can even get, you know, uh to the point where you say something that's uh not really the way you intended it because you're caught up in the moment. But You decompress and you deal with it. And that's not what you're seeing a lot on uh on s on social media and perhaps even inside of churches. So um Let's let's break it down, because I think you're right. With uh with theonomy we've got theo, God, nama uh nominee, which is uh the root word is is nomos, law, so you're talking about gods, law, okay, and we can break that down. Let's break this down. Christian Nationalism, let's take Christian. What do we mean by that? A follower of Jesus Christ. It's the general generally accepted term. Okay, and nationalism, what do we mean by that? Somebody that is uh believes that nations and borders between nations should be very strong, that you my nation is different than your nation. and I'm not m a citizen of the world, I'm citizen of a particular country. So you're using it in distinction from globalism. Right. Right? It's more of a localized thing. And I think I agree with that as far as that goes. On the surface, the the term itself can be acceptable. I I think there's a lot of ways in which it can go up into crazy territory, but I think nations can be Christian. I think how how would you s how would you describe what that looks like? What is a Christian nation? Well, you have let let's take s Psalm seventy-two for example, you have all these The nations are coming to Christ. It's not just people, it's entire nations. Um the Great Commission, he says, go and make disciples of all nations. Not of people from those nations, the nations themselves are being discipled in the Great Commission. That's the end goal Yeah, I'd have to I I wanna I'd wanna make sure, uh but I'm pretty sure that I'm right, that that the word that our English Bibles translate as nations there could also be translated as um a it's it's like an ethnic group I think, right? It's peoples. Correct. But nations are made up of Greek would be Gentiles. because they say the the accusation is made that if you're a Christian nationalist you want to be America and America is and has been predominantly white and therefore you value the white race because that's ethnic group and nations were originally ethnic deaths. And I would I would re reject that on its face for multiple reasons actually, because there's only one human race, so I I reject the premise of their accusation. And two, they're they're presuming the worst case possible motive that somebody has. They're not being generous at all to hear what somebody means by it. Um I think some people will describe the nationalism part as, you know, talking about having a a pride in or a at least a care for uh uh the people who are your neighbors in your closest proximity, the people that share borders that are defined and say we we have these borders in common And we have certain cultural things in common and we have certain maybe a you know language in common or uh um a a lot of our ideals would be the same. You know, we have We're at w we have similar purposes on the world stage, that kind of thing. And so they would say that that's what national uh ism is. Other people hear nationalism, they think you know the Nazi party. Yeah. But but the there is a danger and I you see this sometimes where when you become intensely patriotic to the point where it is valued above your religion and then you have the things where churches is you know, may hold a church service that is all about the Fourth of July, Independence Day, and has very little to do with scripture, right? And this is in a church service. It's not it it's not like they invite the church members to a cookout on the fourth of July and they have a nice You know, fund gathering. And that's where I think Christian nationalism gets dangerous is when you combine that the church and the state together. They're separate spheres of authority. They shouldn't mingle with each other. And a lot of times people citing Christian nationalism will say, no, they need to join together. And that's that's wrong. And that's why the debate you know we were having the last couple of weeks becomes important because they're assuming or presuming anyway some sort of a theocracy. uh or some sort of a sacralistic system in place, which is what I've been pushing really hard against for anybody that w wants to pay attention to what I have to say, 'cause those are dangerous things. And theotomy, again, the way it sometimes gets defined, sometimes Somebody calls themselves a theonymist and you talk to them, you find out, okay, you're actually a theocrat. You're actually a sacralist. You're advocating for for for sacralism. Uh you're calling it theonomy. So that's why we were taking the time we did the first two shows to define what the theological terms and arguments are. So now we can t put it in in a practical sense in terms that as part of the political you know, discourse in the in the in the populace. So Christianity, Christendom uh sometimes get used almost interchangeably and I think that that's unhelpful. What do you guys think? Do you do you do you see Rami what I'm saying? And and if you if you do, do you so expound a little more So Christianity has to do with Christians who are in the church and there's this and and he's subscribed to a certain set of b uh beliefs and you defined uh Elijah did the uh you know what it means to be a Christian, a follower of Jesus. So Christianity is about Uh the rules and regs for those that are followers of Jesus, right? It's a it's a religious kind of a thing. Uh Christendom is in my opinion begins to start to blur the line in almost something that feels a little sacralistic. Um because you'll hear things um like Christian nation. And you said that there is such a thing as a Christian nation, and I'm like, okay, how are we defining that? 'Cause defined one way it's secularism. Defined another way, maybe it's not. So that's why I'm trying to clarify that a Christian nation is a nation where at least the majority of the people in the positions of authority are Christians. So we're not a Christian nation now. No. We we may might argue some might argue that we never have been. Yeah. There's there's no Christian on the planet right now. I I would disagree. Based on that definition. Because a couple of small Afro African nations that the majority of the leadership is is very strongly uh professing Christian. Okay. I I would argue that we were founded as a Christian nation trying to apply biblical laws. Going through law school, you you read like the common law definition of burglary. It's almost word for word listed from the Bible. Sure. Uh all all these the laws, they they were almost word for word taken from the Bible as an attempt to apply what God wanted for. Yeah, and and I and I agree with that, but I would phrase it differently. I'm I'm wondering if you would you know, push back on it or you're like, okay, we're just gonna use different words that kinda tried to say the same thing. I would say that we were founded as an independent nation. Uh based upon biblical principles that are rooted in English common law, which is basically rooted in biblical principles. I I can agree with that. And that's kind of what I think a Christian nation is. It's a nation that's based upon the principles that God gave for setting up a government. Yeah, I would the terms become so important because they become lightning rods. Uh I think I uh I feel good about saying that America was was founded with the intent of being a people group that would be governed by godly biblical Law and order, b godly biblical rules for governing. That's different than a Christian nation because that starts to carry with it The connotation of like if you think of let's let's change the terms just a little bit and you look in the Middle East and somebody talks about a Muslim nation, what do they mean? In that context, they typically mean Sharia laws enforced. Not always. Sometimes it means Sharia law and sometimes it just means the majority of people in that country or could that faith or could could could a Christian nation, that that moniker, could Christian nations sometimes mean the same thing? The Christian version of Sharia law? See what I'm saying? And that makes people nervous. And because that's not what I mean by it, as I've made clear the last couple of shows. But that's that's where I think uh the language becomes important. I see where you're going, but I I think At at least let's let's go back to our example of our founding. Even though there were some other founders like Jefferson, Franklin, who wouldn't necessarily be reformed Christians or uh even Christians at all. Some of them were deists, who I I I would draw the line between that and an an actual Christian. But they knew that there was value in what the Bible had to do had to say about setting up a government. And that's why they set it up the way they did. Because they knew there was no other way to do it and have a successful government. And so that's what I would say a Christian government is, is a government that's based upon the principles. But again, uh we can take that because there's some debate, right, about the Founding Fathers, depends on which historian you want to listen to. I'm gonna take the most aggravating historians and assume they got it right For the sake of argument, because I think they got it wrong, but there are historians that would make the argument that almost none of the founders were Christians. I think they're not correct Um but let's just say for the sake of argument that they are correct. Does that change your definition? Because they're in by by their understanding a bunch of non-Christians, so they're not Christians in the majority No there are no Christians. They're ruling as if they were Christians. The code of Hammurabi is very similar to the Mosaic Covenant Uh you know, the laws are written on in people's hearts and and and the the point is when you're setting up a government that you want to make a code make a a law that is morally based it is based on what God wants us to to do. So that it it thrives. But I think that's an important d distinct and and and and and a narrowing that helps us be more little a little more precise 'cause that to me that that becomes definitional. 'Cause at first we're talking about if a majority of the people in charge are Christians, that's a Christian nation. But now we're saying no, they could none of them be g could be Christians, but as long as they're making the rules based upon the Bible, then we're gonna call that a Christian nation. That's very different. if the government is following the rules that the government is supposed to follow in the Bible. Which would include things we talked about last week 'cause such as punishing Idolatry, theft, rape, m murder, some of the things that I think. Yeah, and I think that's extra biblical and non Christian actually. So we would have a deb a political debate And we're defining our terms differently. I I I I think that's that's a a a horrible conflation. It's a mixing of cate a gross category error, actually. I think it's an unchristian position. But so Christians can disagree about these things. Because I'm not questioning your faith. I don't think you're questioning mine. And we can and so do you, right? And so and that's the point. Right we have the right to be wrong. But if the government decides, if you decide, if you represent the government, I'm no longer free to be wrong. Or if I decide you're no longer free to be wrong and that violates Christian conscience, but it violates everything that the Christians should be fighting for and standing for. I don't think that's what we're arguing for. 'Cause like I said, if you if you're a Buddhist, that's not a crime. A state of being, a state of religion that's just that just remains in your head is not a crime. It has to be an action. It has to be bowing down as an outward manifestation of that. And I g I suppose you could argue that the you can't actually be a Muslim unless you're I think we're minimizing the law. I think the I start w we start to undercut the gospel and the power of Christ. No, but the the thing is because we used it before you could argue and forget idolatry for a minute, you can argue that if um i i i i if if i if i'm in charge of the law, then you're no longer free to murder people Well yeah, but you weren't gonna murder people anyway. So th there there's very again, very, very few th I know there's one that's a very big sticker for you. You ha have a big problem with the idolatry being included in that. But Probably most most of the w uh ones that I that I would I think you have a big problem too, you just won't admit it. You have a problem with adultery being concluded. No, I don't. Yes, you do. As Christ defines adultery, you have a problem with the capital punishment for adultery. No, I I have no problem with capital punch. So if I lust after your wife, I should be killed by the government? No, because the government is supposed to kill the person who has been convicted of adultery with two eyewitnesses You can't eyewitness lust. I can't witness you lusting. What if I said to you guys right now, man, Daniel, your wife is hot. That's one witness, not two witnesses. Elijah's in the room. Elijah's in the room. I got two witnesses. She is smoking now. I can't wait to get into bed with her, man. I'm dreaming about her, fantasizing about her. I got two witnesses, plus a radio audience. No, because the Of thousand, I'm sure. Tens of millions, billions. But the the the government is supposed to punish actions, not thoughts. And it's very clear throughout the Bible. And that's That's not how Christ defines adultery. Sure it is. Look at the when I've loved it after somebody in my heart, I am guilty of adultery. The the the how is Jesus. That's actually not what Jesus says. He says if you go to ask a woman You have committed adultery with her already in your heart. Not you have actually committed adultery, like literally, meaning your heart wants to commit adultery, therefore your heart is guilty, and you will die and go to hell Even if you never commit any of the acts. But the government can only punish acts. That's why the government acts against who Against e each other, against God, physical acts, not uh and if I lust after somebody and commit adultery in my heart, I have committed an act against God. A sinful act against God. Yes. And I will be the one that's punishing you. Because it is very clear in the Bible that only the the government is only punishing physical acts. So if I have a Buddha sta statue in my house, how I'm sinning against God God will deal with that. So who who else am I harming? Who else am I harming though? Why would the government get involved in that? In today's context, you're teaching others to f to to go against God And and you're bringing a demon into your house, so you're ex uh uh accepting uh of demonic entities that are there. So now we're getting into what we teach can be a a capital punishment See what I'm saying? It it doesn't work. It does not work. Again, you're going back to the idolatry thing because that's a e easy topic to Okay, what about the Sabbath? What about the Sabbath? There's no command in the Bible to k to kill or to uh uh uh punish everybody who breaks the Sabbath. There is one case law specifically saying this person who was found doing XYZ it should be uh stoned in that particular example. And th there there's not a whole lot of extra context given, but there is no command for the government to always kill anybody that breaks the Sabbath No. There are very, very few things. It says theft needs to be punished by you know restitution and rape needs to be punished. My concern is we as Christians would be guilty of placing a burden upon nonbelievers that even we as believers can't. We're holding them accountable to a spiritual standard that they are incapable of meeting because they're not believers. So you're arguing that theft should not be a crime. That murder should not be a crime. That's not a spiritual crime. Those are sins against your neighbor. The thing is those impact my neighbor. So yeah, the government should get involved to protect The neighborhood, if you will. Exactly. I I I can agree with you completely that we shouldn't be punishing spiritual sins. We should be punishing crimes, which are idolatry is a spiritual sin. But it has outward manifestations. The the the gold the great image in Daniel that Shadrach, Mish, and Abednego were supposed to bow down to. They wouldn't bow down to it. But their failure to do that was a crime. And then the The whole situation, them bowing down to it would have been a crime for them. It would have been the outward manifestation of their idolatry to this statue. Even though They may not have said, hey, I I worship this statue. They could have still bowed down to it. And you can have outward manifestations of idolatry that can be punished. I kinda lost my train of thought just a little bit there. So what about circumcision? Circumcision. But and and I and I would say that regardless of whether it's applicable to Christians or not, it was never incumbent on the civil government to force people to be circumcised. That wasn't coming on fathers in their f uh families as part of their uh uh the things that you should do to uh uh w when you had a son. But it's nothing that the government or the uh and and the people get together and and uh punish you for not having done. And again, there's very, very few things that are listed for the civil government to be involved in. And the vast majority of them you actually agree should be crimes. You agree that rape should be a crime and and theft should be a crime and because I sin not only against God but against neighbor And so the government is to is to protect those who are trying to live good on God on the and punish those who are upsetting that. But you just try to argue against adultery being a crime. Argue against adultery. Being a crime. You said it shouldn't be a it shouldn't be a crime. Maybe I misunderstood. When you were asking about adultery, why uh should not be punishable. No, actually actually adultery would be if they're if if one of the parties is married, that would have been adultery. Fornication. You wouldn't be stoned for fornication. You would be stoned only for adultery. You would be forced to marry the person If neither of the parties are married, then they God would c consider my question would be where does the civil governments, non non-Israel civil governments, get their civil laws Where does that come from, if not from the Bible? So ask me the question against I I was paying attention to the clock and stuff, but I didn't quite track with what you're talking about. What's the source of our civil laws if we're not a theocratic nation like Israel, a a unique nation in your mind? No, it's from God's law and God's word, but it's applied differently because our context is different. For us to apply our to Their context into our context is a a gross abuse of history. It ignores Israel's unique role in human history. It conflates the two. We are not Israel. America's not Israel. Israel's not America. So why specifically if if Israel is unique? I they are unique. I I can agree with that. But why does that specifically mean that they have different civil laws than we do? We're gonna have to uh uh take a uh break and have it be a cliffhanger question. So um Elijah oh we don't have time to even get into all this uh Daniel Elijah thank you so much for being uh on the show oh you know this screen is thrown How do I make this it makes it look like the music is about to wrap up before it's actually wrapped up, so it throws me off. I have a couple more seconds than I thought I did. So Daniel Razby, Elijah Dick uh Dirksen, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening to the Faith Debate today. Follow me online at House. Uh and uh Daniel's ministry with his father and and his family, I guess, whole family's probably involved in that thing, is conquered by love dot org. Uh Elijah Dirksen doesn't have a website yet, but one day I'm sure he will and when he does we'll we'll edit that back into the show uh un until next week 167 and a half hours from right now god bless you