Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930, WFMD. Theonomy anyone? Theocracy anyone? How about corner? We're gonna be talking about that today on the faith debate. Daniel Razby is over there smirking in the corner like, Oh my gosh, why'd I bring this up? What have I done? He's regretting the conversation we had right before the show. Daniel Razby is one of the pastors at church that meets in Thurmont, uh meets at Imran's house. And they have a website for a ministry that they uh do as a family for quite a long time now. It's been a number of years. It's called Conquered by Love Ministries and their website is conquered by Love dot org. And um Elijah Dirksen I'm meeting him, you know, for the first time with these recording sessions on these topics, but he's known Daniel for quite a few years. And um I'm surprised that, you know, you guys with all the bickering we've had these last few weeks have gotten along so well over the past We need to find a different topic. Anyway, Elijah Dirksen is a seminary student pursuing a Master of Divinity degree uh at Whitfield Theological Seminary. I Of course I'm Troy Skinner say of course. Maybe it's your first time listening to the show. I'm Troy Skinner. I've been hosting this show since two thousand four and I am the pastor of a of a church in Frederick called Household of Faith in Christ. You can connect with the social media, you can connect with the show, you can connect with me, you can connect with the guests on the show, whatever, at household of faith in Christ dot com. That's Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So related to some of the things we've been talking about in recent weeks, when we're talking about theocracy and sacrilism and Christian nationalism and all those sorts of things, part of the dialogue It's so multifaceted, isn't it? It's part of the problem actually. We can't make headway because we're spitting our wheels in different directions. Uh it's like a tug of war You know what I mean? It's like a it's like a t one of those you ever see those tuggle wars? I think they do it at a at a Wana where there's multiple teams tugging on the rope at the same time. There's like four, five, six teams pulling on different like all the ropes are connected in the middle So it's not just a linear back and forth. It's like multi-directional and that's kind of what the this Christian nationalist theonomy kind of thing is like. We're all over the map on this. And part of the discussion uh involves Dennis Prager One of the leading voices in quote unquote conservatism, although I've never quite bought that. He's he's a neoconser conservative at best. But anyway, um Daniel's been following that a little more closely than I have. What how did Prager get it wrong this time? Well so there's uh I actually agree with a lot of what Prager says. Oh, how to get it right this time. But uh but not this not in this case. Oh. In this case very wrong. But I I'm just saying in general I do agree politically on many issues. Yeah I do too. I do too. But pr Dennis Pegger is he gets a lot of the moral ones wrong though. uh th he was just involved in a series done with the Daily Wire on Exodus. And is Dennis Prager is the one running that I think, but uh Ben Shapiro was there uh on one at least for this episode and Jordan Peterson was there who I I would say I'm I'm not really necessarily sure if he's if he's a Christian. He he doesn't even really tell you normally. Was there a Christian in the room? I don't think there was a anybody in the room that I would say is c is is definitely a true Obviously a true believer. Craig is Jewish and I don't know what we're talking about Exodus as a documentary of you know what uh how how the the law was given and what is what is the book of Exodus about and how does it apply at all. And Dennis Prager made the comment and uh this probably is a few months ago by the time this is airing, but uh then he made the comment s uh uh something to the effect of uh When we get to the the commandment that says thou shalt not commit adultery, these Christians have added something to that, which is lust, and that's a thought crime and there's di difference between Judaism and Christianity that Judaism punishes only um actions and Christians punish thoughts and I can I'm so glad we have all these Christians and it's wonderful, but I'm not good enough really to be a Christian, basically, what he said. None of us are That's kind of the point, actually. And and he said, Judaism has no such thing. There's uh you cannot commit adultery with your eyes. There's only one organ you can use to commit adultery, and he said I and he said, I'm not trying to be crass up Literally it's i impossible to commit adults with your eyes. And he ended up because of the logical way that argument took him, he ended up having to defend pornography, basically saying that that's 'Ceterson brought it up, right? I think Peterson collabored him with that, right? Exa exactly. And and I don't think he expected um Dennis to to really just dig his heels in and and he did. And so this has been making the rounds on a lot of uh pastors have been talking about uh how this is a a a a moral problem because even cosid even if you throw out the New Testament entirely you can get heart crimes throughout the Old Testament. Like it it's it's clear time and again that God values the heart and and and obedience in your heart, not just your outward actions. Uh and so Yeah, I think I think uh d Dennis i and I was talking with Elijah, Elijah said it's it's ironic to hear a Jew talk about how Christians are too egoistic. Um because they're usually Jews are the ones that are adding extra things to the Torah. Um the you know, uh extra rules and laws and things. And this kind of relates to what we were talking about a week or two weeks ago where Troy you were hitting me real hard with, Well, if you're gonna punish adultery, you've got to punish lust too and I was like Yeah, uh lust it is wrong. I'm not saying it's not wrong, but Dennis has one little bit of a point in that what you get capitally punished for was the actual physical act, not the thought. He he he missed the point that the thought is also wrong and it's sinful. But what the government is punishing somebody for is the act and that's and that's the But it's not just sinful, it's a particular sin. It's the sin of adultery. So says Jesus. In your heart, adultery in your heart. He does he does clarify that. You haven't committed adultery with your body w you made in in your heart. Right. And that's kind of where I'm I I I was making the distinction before. See th and and I want to pivot in a second, by the way. We're gonna be talking about That's murder too. I mean you would c you would support Capital Crime for Murder, and Jesus says in one of the either the very next or the previous verse, if you hate your brother, you've murdered him. Exactly, which is why I'm consistent. So you you would not support capital punishment for not murder in the heart. But you wouldn't support capital punishment for murder. I'm saying you're advocating for capital punishment for adultery. And I'm saying, well, Jesus defines adultery for us, and yet you don't want to you don't want to institute. Jesus hating your heart. Hating something in your heart is murder I'm should we should we penalize hate? No, because I'm not advocating for crimes of the heart. I'm not uh for capital punishment. Neither am I. I'm only advocating for c uh punishment for crimes of the uh of the action of the body. You're advocating well, as I'm understanding it, I feel like you're advocating for crimes against God being capital offenses. No, I'm idolatry is an offense against God. to be capital. For Israel. Which was a nation set apart to be clean. Whatever. But what America's not what do you no that's the central whatever. That's the that is the question. Should should we not be a couple of things? America has not been set apart to be clean. Should we not strive to be clean? Isn't that a good thing for our country to to strive towards? To be pure in the sight of God? Christians should. Well, to the nation. So so it's impossible. So how are you how are you? They're all guilty and they should all be stoned to death right now. But praise God, Christ has paid that penalty for those that will accept it. What happens if everyone in a country is a Christian You would have the equivalent at that point of Israel. Ancient Israel. So it is it is something that Theoretically we could get to. No, it's not theory. It's fact. It existed. One time in history. So theoretically that happened again? No Well, in eternity at the return of Christ. And now we get to the millennial of postmillennial thought. So that and that's the point. Because Israel is a picture of what It's supposed to be like, and they fail miserably. They're prophets, sinners. They're kings, sinners, their priests, sinners, their people sinners. They failed across the board. And then Christ comes along as the true Israel and does what the ancient Israel didn't to do. And then we're grafted into that Believing Jews, right? Believing Gentiles, grafted into that, and then we live out in perfect fullness what was supposed to be the case three thousand years ago for all eternity when Christ returns. So that and if we lose the uniqueness of Israel, of ancient Israel, I gotta distinct it from the present day modern nation they say. Um if we lose the distinctiveness of ancient Israel We really muck up our understandings of what eternity so is. No nation can kiss the sun and turn away its wrath. No nation can be pleasing to God in your in your view. Because in eternity these there's not gonna be nations, right? No, there is a nation, a royal nation, a holy people. Well it's nations plural in Psalm 2 He's talking about the the peoples, the ethnic groups coming together to form the one nation in Christ. That's the whole point of what the New Testament is teaching us. We're talking about ethnos. We're talking about the ver the surrounding the surrounding countries that were supposed to be influenced by Israel is what's being taught there with that plural nations. all Egypt or whoever, all the countries around Israel are to be influenced by what Ik Israel was doing. Just like now the Egypt of today should be influenced by the Israel of today, which would be three of three of those citizens are in this room right now. So they're nations without being nations. They're they're nations without the the or they're they're nations or peoples without that distinction. The context there isn't talking about geopolitical stuff. It's talking about people groups, the unbelieving people groups set apart and distinct from the people group that is a nation state that's to be an example of what will be forever in the future. And um to and and we you're flipping, we can go there in a second. But I will say that to to uh to transition that you want to get in how esch eschatological views can affect all of this. Uh we have I think three different views represented in this room, which is kind of interesting. And none of them are dispensational, isn't that interesting? Because a majority of uh American Christians would identify as dispensational. Whether they know it or not, their theology is dispensational, let's put it that way. So we had a pretty lengthy discussion about eschatology on this show a number of months ago, and as best as I can tell, I think Daniel Razby would fit uh if not squarely would fit best within a what's called a historic premillennial view and that is distinct from the dispensational uh premillennial view. So he's a Premillennialist, but in the historic sense, not in the dispensational sense. And uh in one sentence, uh that means that I believe in a literal thousand-year reign of Christ here on earth that has not started yet as of the date of this recording. And and but with the laws and and covenants not having gone away in the i in the old testament. It's not that there was that was for that time and place and now it doesn't apply at all. Yeah, so so that view is that Christ will return and then the millennium starts. So it's a pre-millennial, right? The the the return is pre to the millennium's kicking off. Right. And um has not started yet as we speak. And some of the conversation we had before the show started, um Elijah is uh self described as a post millennialist. Now let' Well the the idea of postmillennialism is that Jesus comes back after the thousand years, the kingdom of heaven, the millennium has been completed. The it is a lead up to his second coming rather than the the the after show, basically Now, just for clarification purposes, because Daniel made the point that he's expecting a kind of an exact thousand years. Are you expecting an exact thousand year millennium? Uh no, I I would say uh a thousand years is a symbolic of a a a large number like an eight yeah. Jesus owns uh the cattle on a thousand hills, or he's faithful to a thousand generations. Right, okay And you and I define th that the same way, and which makes sense because I'm an all-millennialist. And so in simple terms, uh the all-millennialist view is kind of a combination, a blending of your two views So um the millennium has already started and uh although Christ hasn't uh fully returned for the second time. That's something we're going to talk about here. We get into a whole the preterist, uh partial preterist uh discussion. Uh but he hasn't returned in the way that he will uh that um when we're talking about millennial reigns, th th that kind of return, uh typ uh that kind of discussion anyway. So the the millennial reign is already arrived but not in its absolute fullness and then after he arrives we'll experience a continuing reign uh for an immense amount of time eternity um as an ongoing millennial reign uh with with Jesus King. So those are the three views. Now it it is related to what we've been talking about with the Dennis Brager thing and theonomy and Christian nationalism and all that sort of stuff. Uh you guys talk for a little explain how you see the connections and how these weigh in on how people are weighing in on these matters. So basically the idea of postmillennialism is I see in the Bible uh passages like Isaiah 9, where it talks about Jesus coming as a baby, and then it says the increase of his government will never end. Um So in my mind, Jesus' kingdom is going to continually increase and get more and more pervasive over the earth, and including the nations. So that makes theonomy a really important question to the postmillennialist because we have to have this practical issue down for the all millennialist who seize the uh I I I believe the I don't know if you necessarily agree with this, but uh generally I I think Omillennialists see the kingdom as something that happens in heaven but not appearing on earth. No. It it appears on earth in the in the church. Okay. The church is the kingdom. Okay. Um But not in the the government. There's no Jesus reigning as a government entity here on earth. Yeah, he he governs his church, so in that sense. Yes. But as it's most of us actually would say that It happens in the future with Jesus present. So for the postmillennialist, we need to figure this out. needs to happen because for the other two views it's just a a dream, uh a a a thought exercise for the post-millennial. That no I don't know that's true Why why do you why do you say that? Why was it only a a thought exercise? Well I'm advocating for it, but I don't think it's possible. I don't think it's gonna happen. Because I think it we're gonna be we're st tending towards decay and corruption and the world is be g is getting more and more evil until Christ returns and makes everything forcibly a theon of uh me at at that time. So it are you agreeing that you're basically LARPing? Yeah, you're live action role playing? It's not it's just a thought exercise? It's not It's just it's just esoteric and well I mean th that's like saying well you're you're reformed and you believe only the elect are gonna get saved so why would you bother witnessing the people? Well because God commands us to witness the people. Right? So I even if i i with with or without you they'll still be saved, you could take a very extreme hypercavalist view and sa and say that there's no point in witnessing, but that forgets the passage that says you must witness. So similar to that, I mean I think That Christians go further than that, but that's a sephard discussion. Christian principles are being followed and the government is part of that. But God does save through means. That's the difference, right? So if I witness to somebody, God might work through that witnessing to actually save them. So it's not just a thought exercise. It's it's it's a practical reality. And to be fair to A Millennialism, they're not quite as black and white as the premillennial, post-millennium as regards to optimism. There there's optimistic A millennials who could see the entire world being transformed and then the end comes. But there's also the pessimistic all millennials who see nothing but darkness and despair and no chance of a Christian government. And I'm both Okay. And that sounds weird, but I I don't mean as a joke. I'm I I'm both. I see uh cycles. I I see cyclical things happening in church history and in world history and that m and that sort of thing. So sometimes things are on the ascendancy, sometimes the decline until Christ comes. That's just the that's kind of the way it is. During the now, there's uh there's a phrase that's used by our millennialists a lot, right? The the now and not yet or the already not yet So Christ is now already king, but not yet in the way that he will be. And honestly, the average postmillennial is probably going to agree at least partially with that, but we would say it's trending upwards. The the ups and downs cycles is going to get progressively better and it's kind of not to Not to denigrate your view by comparing it to the awful climate change theories. But that is kind of what people say about when you say, Oh well it was uh it was a cold day today. We did so much for global warming, you're like Well no, there's cycles. It will progressively get warmer over a hundred years. And what they what they mean by that is kinda what you mean by that, except I think uh you know, I I don't want to really make an accusation that it's that it's uh i i in the same category as that. But I I would say uh often people would call might be more pessimistic about the future of the church and I I would say no, I I'm extremely optimistic because what I view is is a little bit different then the dispensational view showing especially a a i i i i a uh pre-tribulation rapture and the people left behind and all that I believe that we'll be here on earth the entire time and that's not actually a bad thing because we'll be protected here in Goshen just like Israel. So when I say that I think premillennialists in general are pessimistic, I'm not talking about in general, I'm talking specifically about in church history prior to Jesus. The success where the church and the gospel is. Right. Where the gospel there will be that nations be converted as a whole Right. I think that'll happen pretty instantaneously. Because we're all optimistic after Jesus comes. Right. I I think it isn't that'll be kind of instantaneous that all Israel is saved, but it's at the point of of Christ's coming Now this might come across as a cheeky question, but it's not meant to be a cheeky question. But the church age is now two thousand years old. About. Is your read on history uh does it align with that idea, the that post millennial idea that things have been generally on the increase or has been an incline over time? Well I I would certainly say it is. I we started out with eleven and how many people do we have professing to be Christians now? I I'm not saying that all of them are Christians. But the church is in a whole lot better shape than it was at the very inception of it. Is the church in a better place today than it was I'm talking globally, you know, uh than it was two hundred years ago. Potentially not. But that that's those cycles that are trending upwards. We have some time periods where we do great amazing things like take over the Roman Empire or reform the church. Oh I don't think that was necessarily a great thing. It was at the very beginning. I'm not so sure I agree that was a spread of the gospel through the Roman Empire, not Constantine. You're not correct. I'm not I'm not talking about how great Constantine I I say I think that's hor that his form of government was horribly flawed and a a bad first experiment. But we went from a society where If you were a Christian, you got tortured to death because you were a Christian to the entire society, a at the very least, not killing the Christians anymore. And at the very least saying, Okay, we're a Christian nation. And there were a lot of genuine converts that I think came out of the Roman Empire. A lot of the early church fathers did. Yeah. That that strikes me as a little bit uh Western centric. I mean there are people that are being brutalized in the Middle East, in China. So they're not they're not feeling very post-mill right now, like there's a church. The church is also exploding in places like Africa and even in those places where there's persecution. It's Absolutely agreeing in the yeah. That's why I think that fits better with a non-millennial view. But there's this mix and match, there's this rising and falling and escaping in different parts of the planet at different times, depending on where you are. Persecution makes the church grow. That's what happened in the Roman Empire. That's why they were able to spread so quickly. So as they were galvanized by that. And that's why the church in China has grown quickly, because they're galvanized by, hey You believe this and you die, but it's worth believing it. I think the persecution can make the church grow, but there was a time when the uh northern rim of Africa on the Mediterranean was like ninety-five percent Christian And because of persecution, it's almost a hundred percent Muslim now. And to be fair, I I'm not So that the persecution didn't make the church grow in I I'm not basing my optimism on what I can see in history. I I base it on what I think the promises of God are. Right. So I think we should be able to see it in history, and I think we do. Right. But it's not the foundation of the right. I'm just trying to clarify because I don't I I don't quite see it. That's why I get part of the reason why I'm not but Um but just grappling with scripture, how how do because I don't know but I think I don't think I know the answer to this question. How does a uh a postmillennialist, or at least how do you, as a postmillennialist, grapple with the uh uh the last book of the Bible in Revelation. Revelation. Um how does Revelation work in a post mill Well I I'm a partial preterist. I'm a partial preterist, so I would say that the majority of what's going on in Revelation is happening before our time. So these these judgments are more local than global. Um and with that in the past, I don't think there's any reason to say we have this horrible future ahead of us. Okay, so there's a specific part of revelation you you think is but I I I think you said you're a partial predatorist as well Yeah, so so what you're saying is that uh y and I I would agree if you do say this, that you you're you would be of the opinion that Revelation was written prior to eighty seventy, probably like eighty sixty-eight, something like that, maybe, right? Yeah. Yeah, okay. So and I actually I'm I'm sympathetic. I'm I haven't completely made up my mind, but I'm very open minded to it and highly sympathetic to that view. And uh uh Revelation doesn't tell us when it was written, so I I don't want to be too dogmatic about it, but I I I I I'm appreciative of that. And yeah, so the We're using some theological buzzwords. Oh my gosh, we're out of time. Here I go, stop looking at the clock. Uh I'm not gonna have time to even play the music, I don't think. Darn it. Oh w well we're gonna figure this out as we go. This is the fate debate on news radio nine thirty WFMD. Uh Elijah. Dirksen's the one who got me engrossed in the conversation and I totally lost track of time. Uh Daniel Razvy. I'll get some music playing here at least. Let's see if we can go. Daniel Razvy is uh is on the panel again this week. We're gonna do at least one more show to try to figure all this out. Oh, I started the music at the wrong time. I ran out of music in. Anyway, I'm just a mess. What is going on? The one who's a mess right now is Troy Skinner, uh pastor at Household of Faith in Christ. Don't hold it against our church. Or online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. We'll be back next week in about 167 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.