Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us if you're listening on the radio and thank you for spending part of any day if you're listening to us on podcasts. I'm Troy Skinner, uh host of the Faith Debate and Pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com and joined in studio once more. This is like our fifth show, I think, on these uh these related topics. Uh Elijah Dirksen is here from uh from Iowa. Iowa. If you build it they will come. So we built the studio and he came. It's amazing how that works. Uh and he's a seminary student pursuing an M div at Woodfield Theological Seminary and uh back for some more views. Uh He's coming back. It's been a couple of years now I think. And he keeps going back for more. Daniel Razvy, uh he's with a church in Thurmont called the Church that meets at Imran's house. And uh they have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries and their website is conquered by love dot org. We've been talking about Christian nationalism in a general sense and all of the um hair splitting kinds of phrases and words have to be defined as a part of that, including theotomy, theocracy sacralism or sacralism, depending on uh which side of the Mississippi I guess you live on or something. Um uh we talked a little bit about Christianity and Christendom, uh not a whole lot about that, but we touched on that too uh what it means to be a Christian nation, uh the differences maybe between ancient Israel and and present day America and other nation states and that sort of those are some of the issues we've touched on. Even brought up Dennis Pregger in pornography. That was a hot button right there. It lasted about forty five seconds. Woo We were all blushing. Um and then last week we began to transition into how all this connects to eschatological views. That's a fancy word. uh view of the end times, the the the the the you know the uh the the end of time as we know it kind of thing. You know, the the kinds of things that movies are made about, uh you know, Armageddon and all that sort of stuff. And there are varying positions on that And it does have an impact on these discussions about uh how to apply God's law in a uh present-day context. And uh Eli Elijah holds to what's called a postmillennial view. Uh Daniel, we think, probably fits within a historic premillennial view. Uh uh I'm uh I think I fit best in an all millennial uh view and perspective. And so uh Elijah was making the point that for the uh post millennialists uh it's really important to figure out these applications of the law, these theonymy questions, these Christian nationalist kinds of questions, uh, because they need to uh you know well they meaning uh I don't want to say this because I want to make it exclusively they're not Christians. Uh that portion of the Christian team feels a weight of pressure to bring about the kinds of things that would lead to the way the future's gonna play out. So if Jesus isn't gonna return until after the millennium, that's the post millennial view, then we need to put the millennium in place so that Jesus will then return. And if he's in if the millennium is in place, that means that he Jesus is ruling as king over the whole world and so we have to figure out how to have the whole world be Christianized, if you will. That might not be the best way of saying that, but that's the idea. So he he feels like there's a unique pressure that the postmo people uh feel on that that the others don't. And I would agree that the level of the pressure, if you want to call it that might be unique, but I don't know it that it's distinctive. I think that all Christians feel some weight of wanting to have a positive influence on culture and politics and all those sorts of things. Um but there are specifically people who say don't have an influence on culture. Don't of the howl Lindsay's the don't polish rass on the same thing. And we haven't talked about that, but part of this kind of the a phrase that's used for Correct. So the idea that there's there's the religious sphere and these uh and the the civil or secular sphere and they're they're like completely unrelated And so Christians who are part of that religious sphere shouldn't get involved in the other sphere because there's these two kingdoms, they should focus on the kingdom that they belong to now. And uh it's called Pietism, you know, and so they a lot of them pietists, they don't vote They don't serve in the military. Um, they don't advocate for social causes or you know, you're not going to see a Pietist oftentimes doing things that other Christians are doing out in the public space. They're not debating on on forums on social media in the same way, usually those kinds of things. And or if they are, it's about the rapture. Right. And I think that uh I think that there is a distinction. That's part of what I've been advocating for with this this fear of blending them too much and a and having what's called sacralism or sacralism uh take place. But I think putting some sort of iron wall in between the two, um I I'm not there at all. So I think they are they are distinct, but they are never to be separated. 'Cause that's how I would phrase it. And the t two kingdom people, some of them would uh would say they are distinct and should be separated. So I don't go that far. So I agree with you that the post mill folks uh do feel an extra weight of we've got to build the millennium so Christ will return. That's actually probably the aspect of postmillennium views that I find most Unattractive to me. of our own accord. We're we are capable as Christians of building a kingdom for Christ here on earth. I r respectfully I think that's a huge straw man. No post millennialist saying we're gonna win the kingdom and build the kingdom by ourselves. So we're winning it through Christ. Christ is working through his church, which he's done all throughout history. He he works through his church to and his people to bring about his goals and Why would he stop now? So the millennium, we're talking about you know the reign of uh of Christ, right? The millennial reign. He's the king. Um so it's a kingdom. Um H what what what biblical scriptural arguments does a post mill make to to to uh uh biblically, like not proof text exactly, but what are the biblical arguments to support the idea that the that the church is building this kingdom, is partnering the way the is partnering with God in building this kingdom. Well specifically talking about how the church builds the kingdom, I think that question goes to you said make disciples of nations. It could it the thing that immediately came to my mind is the Great Commission, although I think there there are others. Um God is using his church and tasking his church of making disciples of all nations. You said that word is also peoples. That actually makes it more Th that that makes it more difficult for the non-post millennial. It's not just the nations, it's everyone in the nations. Right. So that takes it Kind of out of a geopolitical sphere of building up secular governments that are are no longer secular but religious. But the thing about post millennialism is we're not creating the governments so that the governments create Christians. We're creating Christians so the Christians create Christian governments. If everyone's a Christian in a nation, you're going to have a Christian government. So I'm gonna be a little direct and it seems like you can take that. So I'm not if this my questions are not accusations, they're legitimately. So And I don't know that you speak for all postmillennialists everywhere. Probably not. But for those who might agree with you, uh they would say there is or isn't the kingdom of God right now. There is. The the post millennial idea is usually it's rooted in the the pictures like the mustard seed or the the stone cut without hands of Daniel. It's a kingdom that starts small and then it keeps growing and growing and growing until it at last it fills the whole earth. So there's a kingdom now. Yes. And it's not necessarily the same size all throughout history. But every kingdom has a king. Correct. And and you so we would say that Christ is that king and he's ruling over that kingdom now. Yes. So he's reigning over his kingdom. How is that not the millennium? It is. So we're in the millennium now. Yes. Okay, yeah, I'm trying to figure out where the distinctives are. So the all millennial what part of what I believe are do you not agree with? So postmillennialism. If he's got a brain in his head there's lots of things, I'll tell you that. Honestly A millennialism is a type of postmillennialism. They're very tightly connected. If you want to divide it down to two, it's postmillennialism versus premillennialism. Because it all comes down to When is Jesus coming back and where is that in relation to the the millennium? Do you believe that Jesus could come back tomorrow? No. So that's a distinctive. The reason why is because Jesus said um well Jesus used the hundred and tenth psalm. He said um Uh the the psalm itself says, uh the Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make all of your enemies your footstool. Um that passage is quoted all throughout the New Testament. It's the the most quoted passage in the New Testament. And if we go to Hebrews ten. It's a a citation of that. But what it says is, just while I find it real quick. This is like this live radio or something. Sorry. He s he cites that, but he says We're turning pages. Pastors like the sound of turning pages. I'm not sure if radio listeners do, but pastors love the sound of turning pages. So what are we looking for now? Uh for those studying at home and following along and turning your pages, what are we looking up right now? Hebrews 10 verses uh starting in starting in verse eleven. And every priest stands ministering daily and offering repeatedly the same sacrifices which can never take away sin, but this man after he had offered one sacrifice for sin forever, sat down at the right hand of God. from that time waiting until his enemies are made his footstool. So I would see the right hand of God is a physical location for the physical body of Jesus Christ. And according to this he cannot return or leave that position until all his enemies have been made his footstool. And if we go into First Corinthians fifteen It adds more details. It cites that same verse but says that position at the right hand of God is where he rules from. He must rule until he has placed all enemies under his feet. And it adds another detail to it and said the final enemy that is defeated is death. So this conquering of enemies is comprehensive to the point where even death is included in that as the final enemy to be defeated. And that's why I I can't say that Jesus could come back any time because death isn't defeated, his enemies aren't defeated, obviously. See I don't think I don't I think theologically I don't agree. Death has been defeated. Christ defeated death. He demonstrated his victory over death by his resurrection and then ascension to authority. The issue with that is talking about 1 Corinthians 15 is Paul uses it as a future event He said he's going to remain there until his enemies have been made his footstool. And it i he places the defeat of death as the final enemy to be defeated. So is it your understanding then that Every s let's say that uh you know I don't know when you think it could happen. I'll go out into the future, a number of years, and there's like ten billion people on the planet. All ten billion would be Christians and then Christ will return Is that what we're to understand? Not necessarily. I I think so he would still have enemies that weren't his footstool by how you're defining terms, right? I think you can prostrate yourself under the authority of Jesus without necessarily being a Christian. I mean the people in hell are gonna be be under the authority of Jesus and subdued as his footstool. but they're not going to be worshiping him or Christians. I think the the defeat of his enemies is them submitting to his authority. So you say there was a future time when one hundred percent of people on earth claimed to be following God. Or they have been destroyed. Or they're they in some way or another have been placed under the authority of Jesus and have been footstooled by him. You're sneaking away from the mic sometimes, so um yes, that is very optimistic, as you say. Yep. I I I can't Take it any other way. I I don't I don't know of a way to get around passages like that. So you think that God is not ruling over every aspect of the universe right now? He is, but his enemies are not submitted to him yet. They're still in rebellion So what do you deal with the final battle that happens after the millennium? Uh in my mind a all the All the enemies have been subdued at that point. The resurrection happens subduing death itself to Jesus. As Jesus is coming back. The res So with the resurrection, people get resurrected, and bad people get resurrected. So the resurrected armies are the ones that are fighting against Jesus. those who don't want to go to hell or or whatever. Oh, okay. So that's interesting. So let me make sure I understood that correctly. So when we're talking about the final battle These are vinyl Gog and Magog. So you're talking so you would believe that there are resurrected people who are fighting that battle. Correct. Oh, I'd have to read more. I don't think I've heard that from anybody before for some reason. Wow, okay So it's gonna be like a zombie apocalypse. More or less. Okay, I don't read Revelation anywhere near that way. Now is that the prevailing post mill understanding or is that more of a pocket that you belong to? I uh I think the prevailing wisdom is that there's gonna be a final falling away after everything has been created, Satan's gonna be loosed, and then he deceives the nations all around and it it it becomes a final apostasy within history of unresurrected people before the resurrection. But like like we're seeing with this chapter, I don't think that that works with that. Hmm. Alright. I have so many thoughts going through my head, but Daniel's been quiet for a little while. So what do you what do you have? It's it's i interesting to have um two people disagree with not with me. So what do you make of so this idea of the partnering thing uh that troubles me troubles me. And and that's something I would push back against at least because um Um I don't think I don't to be in fairness to Arjuna, I don't think he's defining it as a partnering with Christ. He's defining it as Christ is controlling him. basically. And he's following just what specifically are you talking about? This idea that we that the that the church, the people who are Christians, need to kind of build these governments. We're the tools in Christ's hand It's not us. It's Christ using us. We're not God God is not our co-pilot. He's he's the pilot and we're just He's the driver and we're the car. Okay. But he doesn't need us. No. Well, just like he doesn't need us to seduce people. I think that God delights to use us. And I think it's a blessing that God uses us to seduce enemies. One of the things that I I don't you know, I don't find a lot of appreciation for on the post mill uh view, which is why I'm more omill and not post mill is um It feels like it's diminishing the kingship of Christ in the here and now. Like we have to wait for him to truly be king. And I think he is truly king now. So am I misunderstanding? I I would disagree completely. He's not only is he king now But his reign is effective in the world now. And I think that's where I think postmillennialism is superior to unmillennialism at that point. the y you would say it's only effective within the church. I would say God's rulership is effective throughout the earth right now. Yeah, no I'm not saying it's just within the I I think that his his kingdom is the church, but his rule is and covers the whole universe. Sure. And that kingdom is going to have an impact on the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city of the city. God has God has allowed um different spiritual entities, many of them bad, to be rulers over different geographic areas of earth. We talk about the Prince of Persia withstood me d in Daniel, the angel says, right? Yeah. And I don't get the sense that that has ceased. I don't think it has either. And so there's still those generals of Satan that are controlling w there's this King of America and there's the King of England and there's a King of the United States. Most likely those are still there, but progressively they will be bound in the same way that Satan is bound. They're going to be banished and overthrown. And I guess I would say the Satan's not bound now. And that's where we disagree. Right. Yeah. And we would agree on that. Really the the difference between post millennialism and obmillennialism Ah millennialism, sorry, can't talk. No, that's a hard word to say. Is the nature of the kingdom, what it looks like, the difference between premillennialism and postmillennialism is when the kingdom is. So what happens in a post-mill view after the millennial and he returns, then what happens? Uh the kingdom is handed to the Father and we go into eternity. The new heavens and the new earth, the the old heavens and the old earth is purged with fire. We have the new Jerusalem descend and we go into eternity. So you believe in global warming. Yeah. So really sudden, catastrophic global warming. And that new heavens and that new earth, does Christ rule over that? Yes. But it's not called the millennium. No, it it's eternity. I I think w we would be in the same camp on this. You you you would say that Christ rules in eternity. Correct. But you're saying well by def I mean I'm just going by definition of the word parts. Post millennial Christ returns after the millennium. So the millennium is over. And then he comes. Am I misunderstanding that? Nope. No. So it's over, and then he comes, and so then there's no longer a millennium. Yep. Because the millennium is over. So that's what we're doing. Where he continues to rule over his kingdom. In a new heaven, in new earth. Because the former heaven and earth have passed away. So uh Laj and I agree on this part that in that case we're all in in in a new heaven and new earth. I don't think Jesus Christ is ruling after his kingdom is done But he certainly rules in his kingdom. His kingdom is never done though. Are you saying it is? His kingdom's done? On earth The the specific the specific aspect of his rulership that is commonly called the kingdom. is finished when he hands over all principalities and authorities. Which kind of sounds like a kingdom But well when people say the kingdom, they mean like the the the church generally, um and and and the the body of of Christ and that's that continues throughout eternity. For a thousand years it's here on earth, and whether a thousand years literal or not, is for a thousand years it's on earth and then the rest of eternity it's in a new heaven and new earth. But the kingdom never ceases. I'm agreeing with that. I'm not sure if if Elijah is. I'm agree with that. Yeah, I think practically getting back to kind of what what brought this all up, the idea of like the uh my all millennial view, and I don't know if I speak for all all millennialists for that matter, but uh Uh I don't feel any weight of pressure to try to Christianize all the nations because Christ is already king now. He's gonna have his way with the nations and there is an ultimate future glory that awaits those who are trusting in him and there is a an And there's judgment for those who don't. And he's got it all covered. I don't I don't have to try to put a yoke of burden on people who aren't believers, uh that they that there's no way they could bear. That's so uh that's and it feels like You're feeling like I guess God's gonna open the floodgates so that it won't be a yoke of burden. There'll just be that many Christians where like almost everybody on the planet will be a Christian. I I think that's that's partially true. I'm arguing it's not a yoke because there's very few things you're putting on them. Putting the entire law on unbelievers, yeah, that's a yoke. But putting whatever the government's supposed to do in a the uh a the theonomic society, mu there's not very many things the government should be doing. My view is the kingdom comes about by making Christians I I I see unprecedented gospel success sometime in the future, whether it's a hundred years from now, a thousand years from now, a million years from now. I d I don't have a timetable on it. It's just in general, things will progress upwards and through the Christianizing of the world I think that what we've seen in history so far and what I see in in in the Bible and particularly the book of Revelation is I I I see what you just described and I see uh a decline. I think ascension and decline. I think they're both I think we see both of them in scripture. I think we see both of them in history. And I think I can actually speak to that either I think it's a chapter in Second Corinthians where it talks about Christ is always leading us in triumph, and through us is dispensing the fragrance of his knowledge throughout the entire earth. And to some that leads to life, to righteousness, and to others it leads to death and to destruction. Of course, what happens if more if if people keep getting um influenced by this knowledge of God to life and the other ones that go to destruction, well you're gonna have more people influence to life because the ones that are going through destruction are destroyed more and more. Yeah, I I I'm trying to figure out different ways to say the same thing because I'm not sure if I'm fully understanding you, if you're fully understanding me. Whether wickedness is is destroyed or the church is built in both situations, Jesus' kingdom and his millennium advances. Yeah, I I I again I don't want to come across as C it feels like it's Uh well we've pressed to try to figure out practical examples. It feels like cherry picking. So like he used the Roman Empire before. So those lands that were dominated by the Roman Empire You know, once upon a time, you know, up until somewhere around fifteen sixteen hundred years ago, whatever it was. Um is that land more Christian now or less Christian now? Then when? Then when Rome ruled the roost. You're specifically talking about Europe and North Africa and Yeah, and Middle Eastern okay countries. I mean it's it's I mean I said kind of a rhetorical question, right? It's overwhelmingly either grossly secular or Islam, right? I mean the the the church is not in a stronger position in that geo geography, but then, you know, you you'll point out, well, yeah, but look at what's going on maybe in uh Asia or in South America or something like that. So Postmillennialism is huge big picture thinking. It's not You can't just look at a specific example and say, Well, this specific area is is worse than it was before. Um w I don't know, but maybe we'll do one more show. We've done a lot already, but if you guys have time we can try to do one more because I feel like there's some straight threads. We'll we'll see we'll we' We'll discuss after this one, Steve Rebear is going to come back. The last voice you hear talking before me was Elijah Dirksen. Before that was Daniel Razley. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Till next week. God bless.