Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock. County where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. Help we make you smile. You can find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of really interesting stuff, including the Frederick Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me eighteen postings a day, weekdays, Monday through Friday. In case you weren't sure what the weekdays were, I thought I'd throw it up. Monday through Friday a week. You're quick. You are sharp. You have a future as an accountant if you want to. You calculated that fast in your head. There's a lot of pressure on you to have to read eighteen postings a day, so you're off the hook. You don't have to read eighteen. You don't have to read any. Just send us one. Yeah, that's right. Or just go on and read one occasionally or something. I I will say this, there's such a variety of bag of popcorn and read 'em all. There's such a variety of stuff that gets sent to me that was posted up there that over the course of a week Whatever your area of interest, if you check in every single week, you're bound to find at least one thing that you say, Wow, that's pretty interesting because it's all over the place the stuff that people send me. So Anyway, on the show this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined again this week by Dr. Harpel Singh Mangat and his daughter Hannah, who is beautiful and lovely and fourteen and She is the future of America, I am proud to say. I'm hoping you're the future of America. I'm counting on you. You know, and actually you you guys tend to come out where I come out politically, and so I'm really excited to see young uh young uh people that are are of those opinions. I'm very excited about that. Now this is our fourth show together and it's it's interesting uh that what you just said that you know politically apparently you guys would come out in agreement with Jonathan a lot of uh Yeah I don't know if we can get into all the details. And I want to get into all that. But I would say that uh religiously I think that you guys, uh the the man got family, would have a tremendous amount in common if you were doing this show with other professing Christians who are in the mainline Right. Uh tradition in the liberal theology of Christianity. There's an awful lot of commonality uh in what they would hold to be true and what you would hold to be true. So but because we're not mainliners, uh Jonathan or I, we're conservative evangelical bible thumper radicals. Yeah, we're the we're the we're the haters Oh we're the haters amongst uh uh the abandonment. That's what they call us. When we first started doing the show there was a lady in this radio station that was convinced that we were the haters because because of where we stood on things And after she listened to the show for a period of time, she's like, Oh, maybe you're not what I thought you were. But w if you read the newspapers, you you watch um uh television and movies What we believe is the things that they always make people out to be you guys. Yeah, she called you a fascist. She did. She called me a fascist And I'm like Which you are, but you're a love now and I are gonna have to talk over. Yeah. So it's interesting. Uh between the last week's show and this week's show, uh Jonathan asked a c a question that was real more of a comment. Phrases the question. Yeah. Because he was making an assumption. Uh you guys believe in miracles or don't believe in miracles, don't you? Yeah. So and I'm not sure that there's a clear answer on that based on the little Well the question means is what do we understand as miracles and what do we Okay yeah define miracles. Classical Christianity, which is what I am, as opposed to mainline Christianity today. Classical Christianity would define a miracle as something uh where uh somebody was dead And they rose from the dead. Uh where the water was parted and people walked through on dry ground. Where um where a guy was blind from birth and somebody touched him and he could see. So a miracle is a is a uh an event an uh that that defies natural explanation that appears to be the supernatural entering the natural and changing uh what's happening right in front of us. The mainline denominations would ju would describe the miracle as People loving each other. And I'd also tend to say, you know, it's a miracle. I'd uh you know, I'd I'd say the same thing. That that's a really great thing. You know, when people learn to to serve one another and to walk in peace. It's pretty amazing. A baby being born. It's a miracle. Those kinds of things. You know, kind of an Oprah-esque, you know, we're just enjoying life and life is just this really beautiful thing. But the classical biblical definition of a miracle is something that cannot be naturally explained. Well the answer to that is that we have those experiences in our faith too. Things that cannot be naturally explained. Like blind people seeing? Well similar things like that. Like for example the founder of our faith. put a great emphasis on honest hard work. Yeah. And uh there's a famous I'm not sure how to express it, the miracle of story on at my Well, okay, so I'm I was thinking about it too. I don't know what I would say if I b if I personally as a would believe in miracles, but there's a famous story for like the basically the founder of how Sikhism was founded that, you know, um there was uh a guru Nanak, he was the founder of Stichism, he was the first guru and he apparently some people say, you know, he went into this river and he just didn't come out for two days. And he came out saying, Nako Hindu, Nako Musulman which means um, you know, there's no Hindu, there's no m Muslim, you know, I'm I'm a sikh, I'm not Hindu, I'm not Muslim. And you know, there's like the whole you can focus on w did he really go underwater for two days, oh my god, how'd he survive, you know? Or there's also focusing on the message. Personally, I've always focused on the message but I I have you know, I've had friends who've had this conversation, you know, with our priest and Things and I don't know, I I would say I'm So what percentage of Sikhs would tend to believe that he actually disappeared into the water for two days? And what percentage would say that it's the important thing is that he came out saying, I'm neither a Hindu nor a Muslim. I mean probably all of them would say it's important that he said that I'm neither Hindu or Muslim, but what percentage would believe that the actual event happened? I don't I I don't know. I mean, you know, I think first of all, just like living here in America, you know, I've I guess I'd say I have more of a modern Western So American Six would be less inclined probably. I would think that. But you know, I don't then there's this whole thing of, you know, having faith in your guru, you know, thinking that You b guru said it you believe it. You know, similar to what you were saying that people are now with their changing, you know, they have the Jesus Convent you're speaking. Uh Sikhs believe in reincarnation, correct? That's correct. So is reincarnation considered a supernatural, miraculous thing? Or has it somehow happened within the confines of the the natural universe as we know it? Um I don't know I would probably say it would happen in the natural universe. But to answer your question on the miracle and evidence of something, something which is not well known among Sikhs, but And it's actually written not in a Sikh scripture but in in another scripture. When like Hindu or something? Uh well not a scripture. Okay. And it's a r it's a reflection of what happened when the Mughals came to visit uh to invade India. Okay. And um What happened was this a very interesting story and recorded uh in the history of the Mughals when it came and invaded India. What happened when the first Mughal came? his father and grandfather could not cross into India. They had some terrible things happening to him. So what happened was um the The guy who actually w went into India had a dream, the Muslim prince. And his dream was uh the he told it to his uh spiritual guys and they said Listen to the dream and uh and abide by it. And the dream said go back ten kilometers or five miles and there'll be a person sitting underneath a tree. And uh you need his blessings to go forward so your w army won't get desecrated. So the according to scholars he he did that. He went back and he found this person sitting under the tree a bearded gentleman as a s was grunted the founder of our faith. And what he said to him was that, you know, um, I will you know, why he said Do you know why you're here? And the guy goes, No. He says, I summoned you and he summoned him in his dream. So what happened was he said, I mean, he talked to him about, you know, why he wanted uh he would not want it, but he would allow or give credence to the Mobils coming to India. He also said to him that when you die your body should not be uh given no should not be buried in India, it should be buried outside. And he said, I will grant you thirty-two generations. Uh and the last person in your lineage shall not be um buried in in India. Now if we look at the history, what happened was a tenth group ten generations later when he was having a conflict with the Muslim rulers. uh he was found digging up a tree and people asked him, Well, why are you digging up a tree? And he said, Babaji gave uh Who's Babaji? Babaji Gunangajji gave thirty-two uh generations. The first one. Sorry. First guru. Yeah. Gave thirty-two generations. I'm taking sixteen back. And if you look at the actual history, what happened was the on the sixteenth generation of the Mughals when the British came in, that last Mughal emperor never lived his full life in India. He's actually buried in Burma. So how can can s can you explain that? I c I can't explain that to you. Sure. But the facts fit in what the spirit spirituality came or was said. Sure. So is that a mirror? So here's an example of a prophetic statement that came to pass that the Mughals wouldn't all be you know, wouldn't live thirty two generations in India But after thirty-two generations they would die outside of India. The first of the dead uh of the group would die outside and the very last. So the prophe prophecy came true. So in that sense, you do believe in a in a prophetic utterance. You believe that that was a prophetic utterance. Yes, I do. Yeah. Looks like Hannah wants to jump in. Let me hear what she has to say. Well, I mean just to go back with miracles, I think, you know, when Guru Nanek Devji he was you know when the religion was founded He went I don't know how familiar if he was talked about this last time, but um he went on a he went by foot to different countries spreading his message. You know, he would want it was about a I wanna I don't know how many years, but they're called a doctor and he's famous for their travels. And so one of the things he would do is he would go and, you know, there's famous stories where, you know People would pour water, they'd be pouring it in a certain direction to the sun and they said and he asked, you know, why are you pouring water? Like the your crops are over here and you're pouring water over there. Why are you pouring water over there? And they'd say, you know, um I believe that this water is gonna travel two hundred thousand miles to get to my brother's crops. And you would say, Do you really think that's gonna happen? You know, that's so if you think that's a miracle, that you know, Sikhism was not for that, you know, we that we don't believe that's that's I just wanted to clarify that. So that would be an example of a miracle that had to do with another religion's belief system. Is that right? Yeah, I mean oh I mean that he rejected as saying foolish and not trustworthy. I wouldn't say that is necessarily from a religious belief system. That was more of a cultural tradition. Uh but I d I can't verify that. I would also I think most people would argue that that that falls into the category of a of a religious belief, you know, that the water's gonna you know, go somewhere else. Um but anyways, my point is is that um uh I would agree and Christianity is in fact has numerous stories, you know, in its pages of what it calls power encounters or what I would call power encounters where the people of God went up against the religions uh scripture calls them the the of the pagans around them, you know, of the of the nations around them, and where, you know, the God of Israel or, you know, uh Jesus Christ that that it proved these I don't know, what do you call what do you want to call 'em? Um uh superstitions to be precisely that superstitions and to have no real power behind them. And uh you know, so there's a number of stories in scripture, one of which was the prophets of Baal you know, met uh the the prophet of God, Elijah, on a mountain top and he called down fire from heaven and they spent all day trying to uh trying to get their God to to bring fire and the fire never came, but the fire came, you know, on his altar and so everybody was like, you know, the Lord he is God, you know, the Baal's gods are all fake and can't be trusted anymore. Right. Anyways, you know, these are situations that are, you know, considered by by the Christian scriptures to be trustworthy accounts of things that actually happened in history. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The last voice you heard before mine was Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're also joined this week on the Faith Debate by Dr. Harpel Singhman Ga and his daughter Hannah. They are uh representing the Sikh worldview and doing a spectacular job. Uh the this is the fourth show in a row. I want to take a second. Um I I I should have thought of this earlier. I don't know why I didn't. In the very first show we did with this particular panel together, uh Hannah was mentioning how she you know she was involved she wasn't the only one, but I almost said she may, but she was involved in making a movie, a documentary kind of style movie, uh explaining Sikhism and and uh this generation is so into the the arts, particularly the the visual arts and the digital arts and those sorts of things. So I'm thinking in terms of uh questions that were asked last week and maybe the week before about helping you guys understand what, in my opinion, authentic biblical Christianity uh viewpoint is. a and a pop culture sense what would help somebody who's a Sikh. You know, if you don't want to spend time reading the whole Bible and try to figure it out on your own and you don't have time on a Sunday morning to go listen to a good preacher like John, you know, unpack it for you What gives you kind of a snapshot of what Christianity kind of looks like in a m in the real world among people who are trying to live it? I don't know if you'd agree, John, but I think the movies that are made by the Alex Kendrick broth and his brother uh are uh a pretty good example of a snapshot of what it like to live an authentic Christian life. What does an authentic Christian home look and feel like and how do they behave inside it? So those movies would include um uh Flywheel Um which is about a um uh a used car dealer who has this come to Jesus moment kind of thing. Um fireproof, which is about marriage Facing the Giants, which is a sports movie, very entertaining, but really uh helps you to see how somebody wrestles in the real world with their Christianity in practice Uh Courageous uh would fit that as well. Probably less so than the first three though. Unfortunately the latest Noah movie, uh a whole number of But those won't show you about a cruz the reason I'm mentioning these other ones, like Flywheel and Facing the Giants. And Fireproof, those are movies about people trying to live a Christian life as I think the Christian life should be tried to be lived. So my question now to you, that I've thrown those out there, are there is there such a thing as a movie that helps to explain to us what a authentic Sikh life looks like. Is there a good movie out there about a a Sikh romance or a Sikh thriller or a I don't know, a Sikh medical drama. Haina will be the one to develop those. Uh There's a there's a very old old movie called Nanaknam Jahaza, which is about thirty years ago. Say that one four times fast, John. Nanaknam Jahaza That's very good. Was that right? Did he get it right? He got it right. Wow. What did it mean? What did I say? Dog clap. Dog clap. Yeah, do I have to dump that? Did he just swear on the air? Okay, what did I say? What he said was Not uh not Granonic's name is the ship we live in. So there is no other. But I know of. Subtitles? Subtitles? Yeah, subtitles. I think it's on YouTube now. It's like thirty years old, but I haven't seen one since. Huh. You have to spell that for me. I don't know. Couldn't you re reproduce it again. I just said it in a moment. You did a good job. You did a great job. So anyway, so the point is that that would be a uh a movie that wouldn't be. N A N A K okay. Nam N A M A M Jaaz J A H A Z Okay. It's actually is it's like what you said, like a love story, but it it brings out the the elements of the faith in it and somebody can Google it and find it on YouTube. Nice. Yeah. I mean there is one. That's the only one I know of. Well, I mean I'm just trying to think if that's the next project I would want to do. I think that decisions like already been made in your head. She's like Yeah, that's not a I'm trying to think if, it's like it's it's more of a how am I gonna pull this together. When could I do it? Where would I find the finance? Uh, you could say it's the interpretation, who like who am I to say what a sick life how a sick life is their life? Spoken like a mainline Christian. Well see this this is the thing, uh mainline Christianity they say that kind of thing all the time Who am I to define what Christianity is about? And up until 100-150 years ago, Christians didn't have any problem with that. They they knew what they believed and how they believed. And there's a whole uh a stream of the b of um the Christian world today that does know how to define that and defines it very close to uh how it was defined, you know, two thousand years ago. But that phrase, you know, whom whom I had to define I think is a little bit of the spirit of the age, you know, that has been here in the United States and it sounds like it's somewhat new in Sikhism that that it's maybe more of an American approach to Sikhism, but I don't know, you tell me Well, I mean I would say that, you know, I if no matter who you ask, you could obviously have core tenants of Sikhism. Like, you know to define the religion, of course you could say equality, ho honest, hard work, you know, sharing with the less fortunate, um, selfless service, things like that. But what I was trying to say was I do understand what you were saying, but also that to live a sick life, you know, there's of course those would those characteristics that I just said, like how to apply those to your everyday life. I can't yeah, I can't think of a movie or a film that that describes it though. And until when did uh Flywheel and Facing the Giants come out? Five years ago, eight years ago? Yeah, it's just recent. Yeah. Until then, I don't think I could have named a movie. Uh there were a couple of movies out there that people had tried to do it, but um Uh the problem for Christians is that our number one commission is to go and make disciples. Right? This is the whole um uh evangelistic uh element of Christianity that is so irritating, I think, to Hindus and Buddhists and Muslims and people around the world, you know, that that were to be bringing others into the into uh Christ. And the result is that a lot of the movies that were made back in the last century were geared in the direction of, you know, trying to preach Christ so that people would be, you know, converted to Christ. And as a result, I think they they've lost a lot of the um the the value the the normal cinematic value of telling were lost in the name of trying to prevent everything was too on the nose. You know, it was like too obvious and too on your and there's no artistic artistry at all. You know, and so and they can't be a little bit of a few. Yeah. By the way, if you're listening and you've never heard of these movies again, I'm gonna give you I feel I need to do this because you might watch the first one and think that all and and give up. Flywheel was made for I think uh I I think this is right, was made for twenty thousand dollars. It's a feature length film. For twenty thousand dollars. So the uh the cinematography is not that great. The the the some of the acting, you know, yeah, a lot of volunteer actors So it's a little bit up and down as far as that. The story is great. Uh but the the cemetery but they they had more money 'cause that movie did pretty well for them, and so they had more money to make facing the giants, which is not gonna win an Academy Award But I think it meets the minimum Hollywood standard for an acceptable Hollywood release movie. And it's very I think it's very funny. It's my favorite. Yeah. And then uh and uh Fireproof might be the best cinematically. Uh So if if you're only interested in cinem the the cinema uh cinematography and the acting quality, probably start with fireproof. Yeah. But if you want to watch my favorite first, then start with facing the giants. So anyway. Um real quickly, things that um that you would recommend that we might read since there's nothing we can watch. Yeah. Is there an English book that I could read that would help me to understand, you know, kind of Sikhism for dummies? Maybe there's such a book. Is there a Sikhism for Dummies? See, I don't know if I could name certain ones, but just to advertise out there, sick kid to kid is actually this um during this holiday season, so I guess that would be But we would be we're coming up with a coffee table book on the basics of Sikhism in our own. Oh, and and how would I go about getting that? I order it online at stores near you? What? Uh pro uh probably order it online to kid2kid. com, but I mean we haven't We don't have that ready yet. I was just saying that's our next project that we're working on right now. As we record, it's not ready. But you're saying it might be ready in time for the holidays, which as the show airs, it's the holidays. Hopefully. Hopefully, not sure. I can't promise. So it's not ready now. They would just Google uh S sick kid the kid or something? com. We have it on there. Alright. Well if you don't already have a pre launch website set up, you know pre promoting the fact that it's out there, a landing page at least You need to do that when the show is over so that when people do hear this show, you can have updated information. Hey the book's not ready, but will be on February eighth or Yeah, we have the website, but the book I have to put on there yet. Okay. Start promoting it. Doctor Mang you have much to be proud of. Your daughter has uh really made you look really good and Uh it's cool to meet her and to uh see the dynamic between the two of you. It's really nice to see that kind of solid relationship between a father and her his daughter. Thank you. Thank you very much. Wow. I I I can't even like say anything now. I would spoil the moment. I have like another two minutes to kill. Oh, sweet. Oh, that's alright. I don't w we we don't want to end on a on a nice note. No, well I'm gonna echo that and then Sounds like false platitudes and stuff, but seriously, it's I'll I'll say this. It's really it's rare that we we've been doing the show for over ten years. Yeah. It's rare that we've had uh any guest, adult or otherwise uh as uh winsome and articulate and knowledgeable about her own belief system as you are. And you're fourteen. So that's That's saying something. So uh very impressive. Uh that said, I'm hoping one day that you will turn Sikhism aside and ex and embrace Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, but that's a conversation for another time. Of course we'll be watching Sikh Kid the Kid here before too long. Absolutely. Uh John, if you can do this in like less than thirty seconds. Uh if you were to give somebody a primer on Christianity other than like read the Bible, what's a book you would recommend somebody read? other than the Bible? You know, it it's uh book that's gonna help them to understand how to understand the Bible. Uh C. S. Lewis Um what's the one uh would be a classic. Okay. All right. Well that's that's a good that's a good one. We'll st we'll we'll go with that one. And if it wasn't a good one, I would I I would have probably said it was a good one anyway, switch off the hook. Uh that's m might be a little heady for some. C. S. Lewis is a very articulate. Start there and if you can't handle it, email me at Troy Skinner at ClearGean. com and I'll make you another recommendation. Actually, anything by uh a couple of things by Lee Strobel, I think. uh my mysterious of the faith stuff yeah the the case books case for faith case for Christ you know case for the real Jesus things like that Yep. But here's a book I've been reading lately that might actually fit the bill, ironically. Um The Meaning of Marriage by Tim Keller. Huh. It's a marriage advice book, obviously. Yeah. But he does a fantastic job of interweaving the gospel and Christian principles and So if you don't know anything about Christianity and you read this marriage book, when you're done, you will have a pretty good sense of what Christians believe. So that m that might be an e an easy entry. Yeah, that's a natural. Yeah. Anyway, John, thank you. John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, Dr. Harpo Singman. Scott and his daughter Hannah, thank you. Thanks for our sponsor, Putm Fleming Heating. How can we make you smile? Till 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.