Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, your host and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find me online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week again by Daniel Rasby and Elijah Dirksen. Uh Daniel Rasby, of course he's become a familiar voice to you, I I hope, after uh these many months of him being on the show pretty regularly. He's one of the pastors at a church that meets in Thurmont and uh also involved with a ministry that's called um Conquered by Love Ministries. ConcordedBylove. org is their website. Elijah Dirksen is uh not a pastor yet, but maybe one day he is in seminary and is a pursuing a master's of divinity degree at a school in Florida, even though he lives in uh Iowa. and is presently in Maryland. So you can very confusing long story of how I got here. Yeah you can figure all that out later. Anyway, we've been talking this uh we don't typically do the same exact panel talking about the uh very m very much the same exact related topics, six shows in a row, but here we are. And part of the reason is uh I think it it exemplifies the challenges. The reason we're tackling the the issue that we are is because people are fighting about what they mean by Christian nationalism. Somebody calls somebody a theonomist and they say, Oh yeah, well so are you. Yeah, what do you mean by it? You know, and and uh it gets confused with sacralism and uh theocracy and um you know w we w what do we mean by Christian nation and Christian nationalism and uh there's And and it's it's related as as we talked about last week and the week before that a little bit too. It is related to how you view the end of time, your eschatological view, when you think Jesus is coming back and what that all means, what the implications of our it's It's all over the place. It touches on so many different areas of disagreement within the church and we're talking past each other. And we were gonna have in my mind anyway, we were gonna have last week's show be the last show on on these matters for now anyway with this panel. And it just felt like we drifted into a morass the last five, ten minutes. Like it just kind of just came unglued. And I think it's because we just couldn't quite get our heads wrapped around what the other person was really needing to say and I think that becomes an uh a real practical example of how hard this is. So why are we talking about this? One, it's interesting, right? It's in social media, it's in the news, we manage You know, Dennis Prager waited in with a really s silly take and all that. So there's those. Those are the kinds of things we might talk those are the kinds of reasons we might talk about something anyway. I don't know if you guys ag agree with me exactly, but for me This is a pressing issue. Oh yes. I feel similar and actually maybe even stronger about this the way I felt a few years ago when the whole CRT thing was going crazy. Now, critical race theory was was undercutting uh the truth of the gospel was was substituting the actual gospel with a social justice false gospel, so we're fighting for the gospel. And so uh in a pecking order of important things, that's more important than what we're talking about these last few weeks. But here's the difference What was going on at last uh a few years ago is you had a bunch of wolves in sheep's clothing and we were able to call them out and all the the actual sheep And the faithful shepherds were able to whip things together and s and and come together and and what we rallied around the gospel and the secondary issues didn't matter as as much in that moment and we exposed the false teachers And so now we kind of know who the good guys are and who the bad guys are. It was a moment of clarity and there was a lot of good that came out of that. Now here we are a few years later And who is fighting with who? It's not the false teaching heretic, you know, leftist quote unquote pastors fighting with faithful biblical pastors. No, it's faithful biblical pastors, faithful biblical Christians fighting amongst themselves. And that is inc incredibly dangerous because there's there is by definition unity in Christ and we're not behaving like it. And we can't figure this out. We can't g and we we haven't figured it out exactly, but hopefully we've modeled it in in such a way where We're being direct, you know, or or instructors we can figure out how to articulate ourselves. We're not trying to be evasive, we're not trying to play games, we're not calling each other names, we're not going out how At homininism, you know, we're we're trying to grapple with what does the scripture say? What does what does the Bible really teach us? What does what has the church historically thought about these things? We're trying to grapple with those kinds of things. And even if we agree, even if we disagree We can find some areas of agreement maybe and we can hang our hats on those. Uh even if but even if we don't, even if we're just like disagreeing across the board, we can at least say, you know what I think you're p just flat wrong. I can't agree with you. However, I know you're a Christian brother. And so I love you and we'll continue these dialogues as long as it takes. And if we never quite figure it out, well God will figure it all out, you know. And that's not the attitude that we're seeing. I mean, there are people I highly respect. And I'm not I don't wanna get into in this context I'm not gonna name names 'cause I'll uh when it comes to false teachers, I'll name names all l all day long. But when it's uh Christian brothers embarrassing themselves a little more reticent to name names. But we've got a number of uh highly, in my view anyway, highly respected Christian brothers who have been embarrassing themselves on social media. And I find that very disheartening actually. Because we're w w whether you think this is the worst moment in human history or not, it's a bad moment in in in history. We're we're in a fight for Western civilization in my view. I I kind of feel like it's almost a a lost cause, but we're fighting for our lives here Well don't say that. Post millennial. Exactly, right? But but we are fighting for our our we're fighting for our lives here and we're we we formed a circular uh firing squad And bad guys are shooting at each other. I mean, uh good guys are shooting each other as dull or bad guys. It's very disheartening. So that's why we're having this discussion. And so I don't know if we can end this week's show any better than we ended last week's show. But I think a way to try to do that is with keeping in mind the idea of the commonalities we have as the body of Christ. What are some paths forward that we, even though we've disagreed pretty significantly over the last five shows. We found some areas of agreement too though, right? What are some paths forward if the three of us were to kind of set the tone for others. What would we suggest that we do moving forward to navigate the troubled waters and to navigate the debate and dialogue that's taking place on these things? What do you think What's what's the the godly biblical way for us to press forward in Christian love, respecting one another, n being humble, realizing we don't have all the answers ourselves. God has the answers and we've got to figure out what He's telling us and then be obedient to that. How do we get there? How do we stop all of us sniping at one another online, for example? Generally the the situation with I don't know if you're specifically talking about theotomy or not, it's a matter of ethics. What laws do we think the government should follow? And that is continuously being tra changed and transformed as we're working together. This is uh I don't think this is an issue to divide people on. I think that we can both be Christian brothers and both have different opinions about what laws the government should follow if the a Christian was in government. But I think f working God working through his people is going to refine his church and lead us to the truth. So we we can for lack of a better word, we can agree to disagree, but we should still work towards that goal of finally understanding what it is that we're supposed to be working towards. And you should find a commonality on the core doctrines of what are um in uh what makes you a Christian. And if we agree that you're saved and I'm saved and you're saved and then that's what d holds us together and then these other d disagreements, they're not as important. They are important to discuss, but they're not as important uh uh for in order for us to present a united face to the world. Um And and and there is a little bit of danger because there is a uh a uh the ecumenical movement which basically accepts people of many different faiths who aren't necessarily Christians at all. Um but I think within Christian Christian Dhamma, as he said before, or Christianity, um the core doctrines of salvation of and we went through some of those l uh the last several months on statements of what is it that Christians believe. Here are some of the like the Chicago statements that here's what Christians actually believe. And If you're in agreement with that statement, there's many different denominations within that and they have all sorts of different views on how to make the world a a more Christian place. Um but that's that's where we start. And to be perfectly honest At least not for the foreseeable future, we don't have to deal with this practically. We don't have a new nation rising up right now that we need to figure out how we're gonna govern it. I think individual people who are governing should figure it out figure out how they should honor God best by doing their performing their duties. But right now we're not in the position to create our own government. We're not in the position the founders were in when they created our government Um we should certainly be prepared for that. But it's not an issue that is w we shouldn't run around with our hair on fire trying to fix it at the expense of unity right now Yeah, and you just helped remind me of something I've actually been articulating and fighting for a lot and advocating for a lot in different spheres, maybe not so much on the Faith Debate show, so I'm not sure if I've mentioned it on the show before or not Uh if I if if I have, it's been a while I think. Um we're spending so much energy, you know, fighting with what was um referred to a couple of shows ago as like it's like an academic exercise in your head because practically speaking we're not in a position to affect any of this we're just arguing to argue, maybe. I don't know. And the concern pastorally is that we're expending so much energy on things that aren't gonna actually have a practical effect. uh to the disminishment of where we actually can have a practical effect. Or at least not a practical effect right now. Exactly. In my in my opinion it would have a practical effect. Most certainly. But we're not going to change the government of the United States tomorrow Right? But we as Christians can live a better Christian life tomorrow than we did today. We can work towards that. We can have an effect on our lives And then we can have an effect on our families' lives, particularly as men where we're the spiritual leaders in our home, we can have an effect there, and then we can get uh involved in making our local church uh better at being biblical and better at being faithful and teaching what the what the full counsel of God and we can hold our uh one another to to account and we can be iron sharpening. Those are things we can do now But we're not doing those things if we're, you know, talking in the abstract all the time. And if we do those things, if I work at becoming a better Christian, you bec work at becoming a better Christian and your family therefore is working at becoming a better Christian and the church I'll come back to that in a second, is is is better at being Christian. Then you do eventually s make the kind of progress that the postmillennialists are are counting on and and and and and trying to lay the the the seedbed for. So I totally get that. I think that faithful Christians are doing that already. and to lead Christian families and are active in their Christian church. But there's not enough of us, and we've allowed too many synagogues of Satan to masquerade as the Christian church. The church has got we've got to f we're not gonna fix the government until we fix the church. So I think we'd be better, practically speaking, to figure out how do we get the church uh on the right track because then we have Christians running things in the government eventually, right? Because Christians are gonna elect Christians. I agree completely. The the church is what dictates what culture is and c I think some someone said it the um faith is upstream from culture. What we believe our fundamental worldview is going to impact culture. And culture is going to impact people. So it starts with the Great Commission. You need to witness the people and God uh as the one that does the saving, but he's doing it through your witnessing in most cases and one person at a time. They're you all individually are getting saved and as there are more and more saved people, then they are going to start to change culture, um, if there's enough of them Mm-hmm. And it it's not a top-down approach. It's you change you change people. People change churches. Churches change the state. That that's that's how God's kingdom has always grown. God's government has always grown. Yeah, and and the kingdom and and uh and uh uh God's government grows whether or not the state changes actually Mm-hmm. And so you agree, so that's that's good. Um so as a as a charge to you, listener If you're agreeing with the sentiment here that you know the world's not in a great place right now, we certainly could do better at the very least. Um our political leaders uh are are not behaving as as uh Christians would uh would have them. No, really? You know, I I think I think it's it's safe to go at least that far. Um and so something but our churches are not being faithful. We're not discipling Right? We're n we're we're not engaging. How many times I I I I think you got oh I'm gonna let you guys off the hook for because uh this isn't trying to be a gotcha. I'm talking to the listener. How many times have you met somebody and you've come to find out, ooh, they're not a Christian? And maybe they don't even understand what the gospel is, I should tell them. How often does that thought even enter your head? And if it does, in those rare occasions when it does, how often do you actually tell them? We gotta start there. Don't you remember the Vodi Bakam's eleventh commandment, thou shalt be nice? Don't want to tell people tell people that they're going to hell. They might be upset with you Yeah, the problem is it's not very nice to let people go to go to hell, right? I think there is a fantastic, unrealized potential in the gospel. We are given spiritual weapons. We're we're we don't war according to the flesh. And God says those weapons are mighty for tearing down strongholds, tearing down arguments and every thought, every high thing that exalts itself against God. We have that in our arsenal. Why aren't we using it? And and and I'm not trying to you know pick on the listener right now, but I I'm telling you, if if you've got a sensitive heart This should convict you to to uh to to a better path forward. Honestly, ask yourself Particularly if you're listening with radio sense like this, I I think I know what some hot button things. Honestly ask yourself. Have you talked to people about your firm commitment that the government had no right forcing people to put a face covering on? Have you had those conversations with your neighbors? Ever. Or how about the mandates to get the shots? So you talked about that because you feel passionately about it. You think it's an important issue and you're you're going out of your way to to to enter into those those dialogues. Or how about pushing back against uh you know, mm the the Black Lives Matter movement and you know critical race theory and and all that crazy wokeness. Have you talked about those sorts of things? Why? Because they're important to you, right? Have you talked about what they're teaching your kids in school and you're out there on the public square advocating for better instruction in the government-run schools? And this circles right around back to theotomy. But you're not talking about the gospel. The reason why we can challenge abortion, the reason why we can challenge um critical race theory is because it's antithetical to the Bible. We govern our lives by what the Bible says. And because of that, we can stand against these things. Otherwise we have no basis for doing that. But if all we're going to talk about as God's people All we're gonna talk about is abortion and government overreach and maybe stolen elections or whatever your hot button thing is because you want things to be right and righteous and just and you're gonna be uh if that's all we do We're not behaving as Christians, we're behaving as moralists. The gospel isn't moralistic. It's moral, but it's not moralistic. Right? We we're moral out of gratitude for the gift that God has given us and we're not talking about that gift. Like we're we're we're we're ignoring the most important thing It's like you're introducing, you know, uh somebody who walks into your house, you're introducing them people that you know, and you never get around to introducing them to the most important person in your life. You never introduce them to your wife in our cases Yeah, you're introducing the neighbors, the mailman, you know, uh the the the visitor from out of town, but you're never talking about the thing That's most important. We've got So that preacher a little bit, I guess. Do you believe it? Is it good news in your life? Do you believe it? If the answer to that question is yes, you could prove it by telling me a time when recently you told somebody about it. I if if if you knew how you could help everybody you know become a millionaire tomorrow because you had this great insight and you were going to tell everybody you cared about about how they become a millionaire, you'd probably tell 'em I I would encourage people just to to try it because a lot of times they're people are intimidated by the fear of the unknown, the fear that I'm gonna mess it up. Paul, the probably the greatest preacher of all time was someone who said, I don't know how to talk very good. Outside of Jesus, you know. Outside of Jesus. So if you're in that con that conversation, that situation God's going to tell you what to say. You're God's going to speak through you to cha potentially change someone's life And I'm going to try to make it as easy. This is how actually we go through uh role playing and stuff at at the the church I lead. You know, we walk through, we practice sharing the gospel in a variety. I I I set a scenario and then The person tries to figure out how to share the gospel in that context. And it's made us better at it. But if you want to make it really simple, you can actually share the gospel if you can remember this, you can share the gospel with one word Jesus. Because it means God saves. So if you can just remember that, that is that's Not all it can be said, but that is the gospel. God saves. So Jesus is the gospel in one word. God saves the gospel in two words. So you can share the gospel. Talk about Jesus. Why are you talking about Jesus all the time? Because God saves. That's it. You started the conversation and they might ask you about your what you believe about the Bible, and you might not feel equipped to answer those questions. Well, okay, then You go ask your pastor, you go read the Bible, you do some study, you come back later. So that that's a really simple way. If you want to be more expansive, you want to make it personalized, you can say, look, I can tell you the gospel in three words and and make it personal to me. God saved me. The gospel in three words. And you know, if you believe God saves you, you can do it in three words. We're in the process of updating by the time this airs actually our website might be uh fully updated. And you can find gospel sharing uh tools and and aids on household of faith in christ dot com actually just occurs to me. But if you want to check this out later, but basically if you can remember that uh the the the basics of the gospel are that we have a maker who is holy and righteous and he made us in his image, so we have value. But we don't honor that image. We're we're broken image bearers. We're sinful image bearers. And so there's a brokenness in that relationship. So we have a maker But we're in rebellion in our sin against him. But there's a solution to that problem in Jesus Christ at the cross. And once you recognize the truth of that, you want to live your life in humble obedience to your king And you're enabled to do that by God's provision of His Holy Spirit indwelling you. And one day, however your eschatological view is One day there is an eternity of glory forever, where Christ shares with those who are his people everything that is his. So we have a maker, we're sinners against that maker, but we have a Savior Solve the problem for that sin. Out of gratitude we want to live a righteous life and eventually all the bad things that we're worried about in this world go away. If you can remember those those five things you can share the gospel So we've got like uh look at this with maybe three ish minutes left in the show. So uh is there anything that we haven't covered the last six shows you feel should be said before we wrap up Can you think of anything that's on your heart or on your mind? Like, ooh, we didn't get to that. Not don't start another five-hour debate, by the way. Can you make your point? I mean the the the priority should be the gospel. And I mean there is something to be said for discipling believers. And so there are really two things as you you as a believer should be doing. If you're saved One is to save other people through God. God d God is God's well saving you through you. Um but the second thing is to disciple other believers. And if you're a woman, disciple other women. If if you're a man, disciple people that are younger in the faith than you. and and or fellowship and sharpen each other. So that does bring up these theological debates and discussions. So there's nothing wrong with that. But if you're doing one to the exclusion of the other, that's the problem Um, but it is both are very important. And some people are called more to disciple others than they are to witness, and some people are called more to witness than to disciple others, but we're all called to do both of these things. And if you are a believer you're going to be b uh bringing new people into the church and building up and growing the church from within as well. Uh and I think I think that's that is important. So doctrine does matter And it's not just the gospel. You can't live on milk alone. You need you need meat eventually. Um and so I think that that is is important to make sure we have distinct that, make a distinction Yeah, how much you realize anything you want to add or p we've you feel like Daniel just nailed it. I he stuck that landing. I agree. Okay. Yeah I agree too, Lee. And you know the the discipleship thing it has to be it you know it's about being a student and learning. Right? That's what's really going on there. So part of why we don't share the gospel, part of why we don't disciple is because we're not students. We're not learning ourselves. So i if it seems hard to you like, oh my gosh, these pastors or the future pastor that's on the panel, uh, you know, they're they're they're pushing me to try to do something that's out of my comfort zone. Well it's out of your comfort zone maybe because you're not actually in the word. Maybe because you're not actually on your knees seeking the face of God and seeking his guidance and wisdom on things. Because if you're in the Word and you're And you're recognizing the fact that you, as a believer in Christ, have the the Holy Spirit indwelling you, He will give you the words. And they might not be articulate words, but they'll be the words that are needed in that moment. And you might Be sloppy and embarrass how you said it, but maybe that's exactly how God's gonna choose to use you in that moment. The Holy Spirit doesn't need magic words to start working. He he just needs He doesn't need anything. He needs God needs you to be faithful in discipling all the people around. And the last thing I want to say is that If you don't share the gospel and you don't do the work of discipleship and all that sort of stuff, you are just missing out on incredible blessing. And I and my heart is for you to feel blessed and to have blessing in your life. So anyway, the two Amen screen from Daniel Razby and And uh Elijah Dirksen. Uh you can find Daniel uh at um conquer by love dot org. You can find me, Troy Skinner, at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. You can find those gospel aids uh sharing aids there too, household of faith in Christ dot com. Well, thank you so much for listening. This has been a great conversation over like six weeks worth of shows. Uh hopefully you listener gained something from it. If nothing else, you saw how Christians can agree to disagree sometimes, do so stridently even, but come to a resolution that recognizes the unity that believers in Christ have. have in the person of Jesus Christ. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless