Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the hops of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement, trust me, I know it's true. You know why? You know why? I'll tell you why, because people keep putting their faith and their hopes in unsatisfying things. This is the Project Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Don't put your hopes in us. As good as this show is, it too will be unsatisfying. And yet, if you can't get enough of this unsatisfying empty calorie program, visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith There you'll find all sorts of interesting things and you will probably have noticed by now there's a change that's taken a place on the Faith Debate blog, and you can blame those money-grubbing capitalists for that one. A capitalist or a money grubber. I don't know if he's a capitalist. He's probably you know, probably a socialist, right? A opposer. He he he's a he's uh uh a capitalist Yeah, so from what you look at. I'm going to take a f a second because I then I then want to hear uh because I shared uh before the show and um Bernie uh by the way I guess it should be I'm Troy Skinner the the earthwhile and uh long time and uh hopefully into the future host John Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, and Bernie Beal, who is the founder and uh everything else that there is associated with Great Commission families That's right. And if you have not uh had the pleasure of taking a tour with Great Commission families and having Bernie explain the spiritual heritage around uh our nation's capital and surrounding areas, you are missing out on a fantastic treat. So Um so anyway, the the blog. The blog. There are companies out there that have decided the best way for them to try to make money is to try to get photographs that they own the copyright to out into circulation. And then hope that somehow, some way, someone will accidentally post it on their website. And then they there's some way they can code the photograph. Did you know this? What they can do today is amazing. So there's They put they put codes embedded in these photographs and then they send these little spider programs to go find the code and then they find us you know, a radio station or uh a person even, I guess anybody has a public website and they send them an invoice saying, Hey, thanks so much for posting our photograph. Here's how much it'll cost you. A thousand dollars, fifteen hundred dollars. It's crazy. So we can't have an our blog is your blog uh mentality anymore because you might own just such a company and uh be up to devious things. So So now we're not gonna be able to do that anymore. And so now we're gonna try uh this thing with with videos and all that sort of stuff. But I was sharing this story uh and it sparked a joke or something. along those lines. Can you can you can you hit it out of the ballpark twice in a row? Oh my goodness no. So so it was a doctor and a lawyer talking together after church. And the doctor says to the lawyer, you know, what what do you do when people come up to you and and kind of out of the office and say, Well for me it's like they talk about a pain here and a pain there and and uh you know they want free advice. And what do you what do you do? And the lawyer says, Oh I just sent him a bill. So okay, thank you. Well that week the doctor got a bill from the lawyer. See? I just can't get past the fact that it is legal. for them to to throw out that kind of bait in into ensnare unsuspecting innocent people and then send them a bill What's like fishing without bait? It's like just throwing the hook in the w in the water and just jerking it around till you get a fish without bait. Now the one thing I can You didn't go for something, you know, like this. Okay, but this is just a picture. It's not like actual language necessarily. Right, just a photograph. But if you link to a website or a comment that has that picture, do you also have to pay? No, if you have a I don't th I mean I don't take my word as only if you put proof on this the picture. My understanding is yeah, if it's it wouldn't be enough This is my limited understanding. I think you and I should take a picture and just put those out there and see if we can get anybody to post them. Yeah. I'm just saying because if they're Dumb enough to post our picture. It's apparently not good enough if you put the photograph, this picture that, you know, came to you unawares. Yeah. And you also somehow had a link for like to give Hey, here's the company who provided this photograph and here's all their information and aren't they wonderful people? That doesn't cover it either. But here's a weird loophole. Yeah. The same kinds of things don't seem to apply to video. Because there's an embedded technology involved with video, and so somehow the embedding handles the copyright. I don't really totally understand it. So in theory What you could do is you could shoot a video for like an hour of the photograph. It would appear as a still shot because the camera's not going to move. Yeah. And you could put that on your website and you don't get an invoice for that. The fact that you that you know that information is in and of itself as you pay a lawyer to learn. And so yeah, it's I can see if somebody took a photograph and they used it uh in their in their promotional materials, in an advertisement or you know what I mean? They They use the artwork this for some sort of commercial enterprise. Yeah. But somebody who accidentally posts it on on a website And there are companies out there that anyway have put pictures out for people to purchase to use for that kind of thing. And I imagine after a while they got sick and tired of the fact that nobody's going to purchase their pictures because they can get pictures for free anywhere they want on the internet. So they probably just said, you know what? I think we should have a fake debate about the ethics of that. The only other business model I can think of where where you pay after the fact and have no idea how much it was going to cost is the medical industry. Yeah, I mean and I that I mean that you a little bit tongue in cheek, but not really. You go to the doctor and he says, Oh, we need you uh you need your booster shot, you need this and you're like, Oh, okay And then later on you get the bill. Holy cow, is how it was that much? Yep. Right? You never know. It tends to only happen now because there's you know, we all use insurance companies and so, you know, we get caught that way. But I imagine back in the day they would Tell you ahead of time you know. Yep, they'll cost you two turkeys and a pig. I was gonna say two chickens, so you know you beat me to it, yeah. So there's my rant on that and consider yourself uh educated. And don't you guys get any ideas with your with your church and and ministry websites. Pictures to the fate debate. Yeah, don't send any pictures. They won't get posted. Now now I want to see the picture. You can send me you can send me in charge. Oh, and you'll appreciate this, John. Somebody who I s you know, kind of mentioning this too. Uh oh. Uh who is a cynic about most things religious, I think. I'm not positive about that, but I I think. But anyway, we're not gonna name names but I know who you're talking about. He was quick to say, oh, it's probably the Scientology people. And I said, what? So yeah, the the Scientologists are notorious. That's that they do that all the time. That's the way they make money. Now I don't know if that's true or not. Meaning like with pictures on the internet. Yeah, that they purposely put their copyrighted material out there hoping that somebody will use it so they can send them a bill And again, I don't know if that's true, but if even if if it's true, then shame on them, right? And if it's not true, it exposes the the image that Scientology has in our culture. So there's it's it's kind of interesting. Which hasn't been doing so well anyways. Yeah. Yeah. So So anyway, so we didn't come have Bernie to come on the show to talk about this. We uh although the joke was fantastic. Oh well, yeah, maybe. Yeah. But we we had Bernie on because today is July fifth, which means that yesterday was uh let me think my July fourth, uh Independence Day in America, and it's all things red, white, and blue, and of course there's very little that's more red, white, and blue than uh than the national anthem. And last year, Bernie sent an email and said, Hey, why don't you have me on your show? We'll talk about the two hundredth anniversary of uh of Francis Gockey writing the uh the national anthem, the Star Star Spangled Banner. And uh I said, sure, and here we are about a year later having him on the show finally. So we're inaugurating the um The tricentennial century. Yeah. So um there are some fantastic little tidbits And once you get on a roll, Jonathan and I just sit back, probably mesmerize. That is right. But give us a couple of you know this is the faith debate. So give us a couple of spiritual oriented, Christian oriented maybe, uh tidbits about Francis Scott Key or and or the national anthem. Well, yeah, most people know the story of the Right of the Star Spangled Banner. Uh but Troy, since you're sitting here, I want to recap at least a little bit of it. Because there's a skinner in the story. Oh really? You didn't know that? What did he skin? Well um I did not know that. Okay. And let's not presume that you know we have you know somebody tan the skin? school children to listen to this program. They might not know the details of the uh the War of 1812, which by the way, wasn't just in 1812, so it's a totally misnamed war. But anyway, I have a great, great, great, great, great, great uncle that got wounded in the War of 1812 and died. Oh my goodness. At the hands of Skinner. It might have been. Skinner was at the hands of the Skinner. So if it was at the hands of Skinner, I'm really upset about it. Well, Francisco Key was in his thirties. He was a Georgetown lawyer. Um how he got there, we'll be maybe we'll go come back to that in a bit. But yeah, this kind of recap the The story of how the Star Spangled Banner was written. It was uh as a Christian, one of the things I observe is just the amazing providence of God that here a man who was, I like to summarize, was an articulate passionate patriot and a Christian, uh was in a spot uh that could observe things uh that is he wrote in this this song. Um he wrote it to be a song And you're going to explain later how he ended up in that spot to write the song, so that's a pretty fascinating part of the story, I think. Yeah. Uh well it had to do with Colonel John Skinner Um Colonel John Skinner. Yeah. My middle name is John. Well in in August eighteen. It'd be you. I salute you. In August of eighteen fourteen, the the war of eighteen twelve came to Washington and uh the the British did what even some English people thought was uh dishonorable, they burned non military buildings, specifically the Capitol and the White House. Um and so pretty much everybody had skedaddled and the word skedaddle is pretty good to use because their approach to Washington was through Bladensburg. How could you say that the Capitol, the White House, are not military targets? I mean the the commander in chief is in the White House. They're political targets, they're not military targets. The commander in chief of the military is in the White House Well, there's always more to the story. Okay. But anyway. And earlier in the war when when the American forces had gone into Canada, uh they'd gone into York, which we know today is Toronto. And unfortunately they they burned some buildings fairly indiscriminately. A couple of years later, that came back to haunt. And so the British military who always you know had had the uh uh do things the right way. Um Yeah, they stood out I did. Yeah, they the red coats, they would stand out in the open so they could shoot at you and you could shoot at them. That was the honorable way to fight. That's why they wore red coats so you could really see them. So back in England when they heard the word that they that government buildings had been burnt, not military installations, there were some English people who were like, Oh, that's not very sporting of you, you know. Kind of a thing. But the reason they did it was because what the Americans had done in Toronto, which was again called York at the time. But they were very specific to choose government buildings so they didn't burn into extreminally people's home homes. So it's revenge, so it's not as bad. It's amazing all these rules, this is just a couple hundred years ago. Those rules do not exist now. It's all about terrorist type of activities and well d they don't exist on the terrorist side but but how often are we hearing in today's uh news uh how we're not doing things and how we're limiting ourselves and they're not rules of engagement you know rules are still there Yes, to avoid collateral damage. Yeah. So the the bridge come into Washington from the Bay side and um uh through Bladensburg, so that means the Capitol First, when the White House is is uh a little over a mile away and James and Dolly Madison have just sat down to eat. Hot food is on the table when the word comes get out of here And uh so they they leave, Dolly Madison famously rips off of the wall the famous painting of George Washington, and she leaves in one direction, and and James Madison, who is the commander in chief, uh heads in another direction. north towards towards Baltimore somewhat. Um British come through they they uh pile the desks in the old House chamber and uh throw in books or the Library of Congress is is burned. They light it and well they first they take a vote. You know, all those in favor, you know, the British soldiers take a vote too to burn. Then they get to the the White House and it goes up in f well they first they sit down and eat the food. Uh then they uh it goes up in flames. But then a Province of God. A thunderstorm, a uh a downpour comes and puts the fires out. And they're actually leaving the city and uh The thunderstorm has embedded tornadoes or just very high winds. And one British soldier, it's reported, you know, I wasn't there, but this is I love reading this stuff. And I I like to make these kinds of points, you know Ha do we really know this was said? Well it's it's very hard to know but it was reported and repeated. So now we repeat what was reported Um and and a woman was asked by a British soldier, Do you always have storms like this in America? And the woman replied, the American woman replied, No, God sent it just for you. But as they were retreating Uh they had some wounded soldiers. There wasn't much fighting, but they had some wounded soldiers, and there was a doctor named William Beans, an elderly man, and a friend of Francis Cocky, um, who um who was caring for some men. uh wounded British soldiers. And uh th but there was some stragglers. Every army as they move, they have their stragglers, and the stragglers tend to get into trouble. And so these couple a couple of straggling British soldiers were trying to break into the root cellar of Dr. Bean's outbuilding, one of the outbuildings. Um and so he has them arrested. You know, it's the proper thing to do. Uh and then but then they escape and then they go finally catch up with the British Army and they report that this man had tried to capture them when he had made a promise that he wouldn't engage one way or another he would help the British. Doctor Beans would either be a good soft drink name or a good name for a cartoon character. I'm not sure which. One of those two. Or he's related to Mr. Bean, you know. So it's an actual man. So so Mr. Bean is taken prisoner and this begins this a sequence of events that puts Francis Scott Key on a ship uh about five miles uh down the bay. Uh wait, because of what happened to Dr. Bean? Bean's Vanessa, yeah. Beans. Yeah. Right. So Francis Gotkey heads north and he catches up with James Madison, the president, and and he puts him in touch with J Colonel John Skinner. who is in charge of prisoner exchange for the American military. They get on a ship and they they sail out from Baltimore down um um Down the ba I it's really not the bay. What's the what's the river that comes in the boat? I just want to be clear. Doctor Beans is been captured by the British now. So he's he's on that ship. He's on that ship and the world's largest navy has a has a major chunk of their whole navy right in the Chesapeake Bay, uh in sight of Fort McHenry. Fort McHenry. And a little s uh American ship, the Tonit, T O N N A N T, you know, with the flag of truce we're doing a prisoner exchange. comes up, and this is before the bombardment takes place, of course, and and uh Francis Gott Key is a good lawyer, has paperwork. He has signed letters from British soldiers who had been helped medically by Dr. Bean Dr. Beans. And and uh so the you know, all that's done with some of the officers uh who are not on the front lines, you know, there's a few ships back. And um and they said they agree, yes, he should be released But you can't leave yet. Something's about to happen. Timing. And and so a twenty-five hour approximately twenty-five hour bombardment begins And uh they the British had this twenty five hours. Those cannons guts shoot like two miles, isn't it? Well the the British cannon were had uh you know I forget the exact but it I'll use the numbers a mile and a half range and the Americans had a mile. Or it was a mile and a half Americans, two miles British. In other words Fort McHenry could not fight back. Yeah. Um because they didn't have the range. The British ships could stand at a distance where they could fire upon Fort McHenry but not be fired back at. And they had this new thing Uh, 'cause traditionally it had just been a a cannonball was just a big piece of lead and when anything it hit it would bust it apart. But what if we could put explosives inside? and then have a fuse and it would detonate, you know, about on impact we hope. And that was a relatively new invention. Yes, that and the rockets that would the rockets red glare, you know it's in the song. The idea was that they would then detonate on impact. I like bottle rockets as kids. Did you guys have bottle rockets? I pictured man we're at Fort McHenry, we're firing up the bottle rockets. But um most of them didn't uh didn't detonate they detonated too early, so didn't cause uh the massive damage you might think in a twenty-five hour bombardment. But a frightening scene. And they uh described uh one s one place where it did blow up and it like took out fifteen some people, you know, at at one corner of the fort. because it just exploded right there before it hit and everybody nearby was taken out. Well there's one that was a direct hit on um uh or what do you call the place where the the magazine. The magazine. And it did not detonate. Can you imagine being in shoot because they're running back and forth to the magazine because they're trying to I can imagine I've seen that in a lot of Hollywood movies. is uh a landing force is going is i is approaching uh oh what is the point? Uh fell's point? No, I'm I I might I might have been wrong uh just to the east of the city proper and they were gonna march in and and and Baltimore was filling with citizen soldiers I mean every farmer within a hundred miles it seemed like was there with his weapon. And uh there was m militiamen that were facing the oncoming uh uh Red Coast on land And it was going to be a two pronged attack. They were going to go into the city and attack the fort from the land side while they were attacking from the from the seaside. But somebody and there's a there's a speculation of who it is, somebody took you know it was very unsporting Took a shot at the commanding officer of the British Army. Hmm. You don't do that. And took him out. And that sent him in a disarray. The guy that was in uh second command, he you know, they just didn't do his I don't know why But anyway, that force uh faced such resistance, more resistance than they expected, uh uh while the Americans are essentially falling back. Um They eventually decide, well let's let's just leave. And so when they when they left there was another attempt on the on the west side of the city. The fog rolled in, all these providential things. Fog rolled in. If anything could go wrong, it did. Um For the British and uh and this whole time, um, all Francisco Key can see is this twenty five hour bombardment. And then daybreak they started before Sun um Bef uh before daybreak one day and finish after daybreak the next day. So all through the day, all through the night. Uh and uh This is a twenty-five hour embarkment. Yeah, September four thirteen and fourteen, uh eighteen, fourteen. And then um daybreak came and uh the commanding officer of the uh of Fort McHenry for the for the battle he'd had the um the s the storm the storm flag, one that's not so big as in a storm, there'll be too much stress on the flagpole if you have a big flag. So Uh when it's it's still flying. I you know, it's just a bit battered, but it's still flying. But as the sun was coming up, he had that thing hauled down And what does that mean? Does that mean surrender? Yeah, everybody's wondering. Uh but he got the huge one, the garrison flag, thirty feet by forty feet. It is massive. That's what they have at the National Museum of American History, at least what's left of it. Uh so it was a pristine flag. It it never suffered in battle. Now to help get an idea of the scale, because pretty sure by forty seat you kinda lose that. That's the size of a b uh that's the Uh almost ball for you. No, thirty feet by four years ago. Thirty feet is like a it's like a three story building. Yes, that's right. You know? I mean it's a three story building. It's it's a that's a big flag. He had it made. Obviously he didn't have it made before the battle. He had it made some some years before, sometime before. And he said, I want a flag so big that the British can see it from miles away. There's the Inner Harbor and it's several miles. You have to go uh out on land to get to Fort McHenry. It guarded the b uh well out and so from that fort it was well placed. I was uh named after the Secretary of War under President Washington. And I guess the wind is whipping, right? Because you need some wind to pick up a flag that fort. Um well that w when Fort when when he saw that flag, then the scene um the s the statue that is over top of Franciscock Key's crypt today here in Frederick uh Mount Olivet Cemetery. Um that's the scene that's depicted as he's pointing at a flag and an and and the statue of him over his crypt is um indeed, you know, they have a flagpole there, so he is Poetically pointing literally. Jose, can you see? Jose, can you see? Yes. By the dawn's early light. Well, so proudly we hailed at the Twilight's last evening. There's four verses. The first three verses all end like like the first one. It actually ends with a question. Over the land of the free and the whole you know, is it still there? Is the question. Verse one, two, and three. Three verses are a question and the fourth verse is a s it's finally a statement. Uh and the the statement is that it is still there. So I have the whole fourth verse we can do that maybe in a little bit. And it's and it's overtly um a faith-filled song, right? But we lose that by only focusing on the first verse all the time. Right? Yes. And um Is it the fourth verse that has the In fact if it was more of a uh Christian, faith filled um song, meaning that that that became a a a significant identifying factor of it. I just can't imagine that people would allow it to continue to be You know, verse one. Only verse four says God specifically. Uh but the reason is it's Francis Francis Kakie, the man. Yes, he was a lawyer. But he was a Christian first. Which is kind of a hard thing to imagine with reputations that lawyers have these days. Um he was a poet, but just an amateur poet. He did not publish in his lifetime Even this um the lyrics he wrote, uh sometimes call it a poem, but um uh The Defense of Fort McHenry, uh he went uh to um a hotel that night or the next night um and gave it to a a a friend. I think it was his one of his brothers in law or someone Who then took it to the newspaper and they had it published. So it wasn't he wasn't out to publish things. He wasn't a publisher. Oh my god. So why don't we uh why don't we do that fourth verse? The fourth verse. Right, that'd be a nice way to end. I'm gonna read it as poetry, I'm not gonna sing. Blessed be the victory and peace, may the heaven rescued land praise the power that hath made and preserved us a nation. Then conquer we must, when our cause it is just, and this be our motto, and God is our trust And the star spangled banner in triumph shall wave over the land of the free and the home of the brave. So our national motto that is on our uh on all of our money. Currency comes from verse four of uh that verse. Well he didn't make it up, it was this common knowledge. Now you I I should know this. I feel silly for not knowing The entire song is our national anthem, correct? The fact that we only sing the first verse. It's that it's not just the first verse that's our national anthem. All four verses are our national anthem? Yeah, I would guess in your church's hymnal It has the Star Spangled Banner in all four verses. Huh. It's an it's a hymn. He he wrote a couple of other hymns. So where is it officially uh you know, coded into law? Nineteen thirty one, President Calvin Coolidge. Yeah. That's when it became our national anthem. Under Woodrow Wilson, he made it the uh as a presidential executive order. And the whole all four verses are like read into the record as being a part of the National anthem or do they just say the first verse? That's interesting. I call the whole song. You and I are thinking of the same thing on that. Anyway, we have about a minute left, so we're gonna uh wrap this one up. Jonathan Sweitzer's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. So I'm going to say your name again. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church And Bernie Beale, what is your official title with Great Commission Families? Founder or president or not president because that's an elected position. Oh okay. Uh ministry director or founder. Small independent ministries. Gotcha. So G Great Commission uh families is the organization. Bernie Beale is the the man who makes that thing tick. And I have gone on one of his tours and it was fantastic. What have I been reading lately? Donald McCloyd's The Person of Christ. I give that uh two thumbs up Definitely you should read that one. All right, Donald McCloyd, The Person of Christ. Till next week, thanks for listening. Thanks for putting plumbing and heating and for being our sponsor. Till next week. God bless.