Broadcasting for the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlod County, we're preaching with impact. is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate Sponsored by Plum Plumbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile. You'll find our show online at WFMD. com. They say they can kind of garbled the call it as WFMD. com, keyword faith, takes you right to our page. There you'll see Well, lately you'll see videos. You'll find links to uh podcasts of this show, links to other interesting things. And every once in a while you'll see a a blog posting or something of interest, but we're not doing the whole our blog is your blog anymore because that's been robbed from us and if you want to know more about that You gotta listen to the start of either last week's show or the week before that. Go grab a cup podcast and you can get all up to speed on that. And then you can warn your friends and your neighbors. So on this on the show, you record On the show this week, Jonathan Sweitzer he's got the video camera in his hand now. That was probably the worst decision I've made in my life. Handing a video camera to Jon Sweiser can never be a good idea. Wait, think that again. What did you say about me holding the video I said that giving you that video camera is probably the worst decision of my life. Except look at how exciting it is right now. I'm just recording you in a different direction. And there's Bernie. Right, we are talking about what are we talking about? We're talking about you shooting video at this exact moment Right, but that's like so like self focused. What is this show supposed to be about? By the way, stay focused. You got me so distracted that you were talking for like thirty seconds with your mic off and I was like, wait a minute But for the video You're gonna hear it better on They're gonna hear it better on the video than on the show. That's just wrong. That's not right. So now what you have to do Oh my goodness. So on that note, we will see you guys on Sunday. Yeah, that that's that's enough of that. You just gave somebody a headache by flipping the thing around like that That's what keeps it excited. That would be the one everybody likes. Anyway, Jonathan Sweites is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and our chief videographer. And Bernie Beale is the Ministry Director and Founder of Great Commission Families. I am Troy Skinner and this is the Faith Debate. Let's get back to some semblance of reasonableness, can we? What are we talking about? First show it went out the window. Yeah, oh my goodness. So um We are talking about Francis Scott Key, the national anthem. We're dedicating the entire month of July to our our national heritage and and uh the s the spiritual connections within that and Christian particularly. And uh Bernie is an expert on such matters. Uh uh but I mean seriously, can you think of anybody within our local sphere? Maybe, you know, internationally there's somebody uh in our local sphere, can you think of anybody that knows more minutia and and trivia historical, you know, relevant stories and you start talking to the guy and say, oh you see that flower right there? That flow and all of a sudden It's a story and the gospel comes out of it. It's like unreal. Uh I'm an evangelist, but I love what scholars do, and so I like to find the stories. And uh uh Francis Scott Key, let me give you a family story by Francis Scott Key. Last week we talked about uh the fact that his father and his father's brother, his uncle, were on the opposite side from the Revolutionary War, and yet they reconciled And eventually the the the brother came back from England and was elected to Congress, one of the very few Tories or Royalists who ended up in the American government decades later. Hmm. Oh this is Key's uncle? Yeah. So he's also in government. So there's a lesson of forgiveness right there. Reconciliation forgiveness, which is a Maryland theme, by the way. Dark flag is a message of forgiveness and and reconciliation. The North and South combined their flags after the Civil War. Um but another family thing, because you know we're great commissioned families. My wife and I are so our little ministry. When he was um a young teenager, he went to Annapolis to go to the grammar school at St. John's and then on to St. John's College. And after that, under his uh uncle, the the former loyalist, uh he b he became a lawyer. But his his grandmother is who he lived with. And his grandmother had um what I like to term an overt Christian testimony. You know, many of us have covert Christian testimonies. No one knows. But overt means though, is that a testimony? Is there's such a thing as a covert testimony? Right. That's kind of like if you ask and they're willing to tell you. Oh yeah. But his his grandmother, um Gee And I've got two and I've got two explanations on why that is, by the way. I think one is some people they're not really Christians and so they don't want to be found out and so they kinda pretend. But there are those who truly are are saved maybe, probably. But they're afraid that if somebody finds out, they'll start asking them about their faith, and they feel ill-equipped to explain the reason for the hope that lies within. And so they'd rather not talk about it because they don't want to be exposed as being, well, you you're a Christian and you believe, but you don't even know what you believe. I think people feel like idiots. Like they don't know how to explain their faith. So it's up to people like you not me, you Bernie and John, and me. Uh to to equip people to be better at sharing their testimony. But anyway, go ahead. Well I l I love quoting in their own words. by the way is an acronym, I T-O-W, in their own words. That's the acronym I toe, as in I toe you through the capital, for instance. show you evidence of America's Christian heritage. So here's one in 1911, looking at my footnotes for my gospel fire. In 1911, Francis Kotki Smith In other words, the descendant of Francisco Key, they had to give it in his name. In nineteen eleven he wrote one of the uh w well done biographies of Francisco Key and and he used the term that uh Francisco Key's grandmother was known as a woman of Christian fortitude. That's not a term you hear much these days, but how she got that description, she and a lot of those wealthy white people was a slave owner. But there was a fire at her home. This was before Francis Kakee was uh with her. There was a fire at her home and and and two young slave girls were in there and it looked like they were gonna they were gonna go down to the house and she ran in and rescued them somehow and came out and was so overwhelmed with the smoke she was nearly blind the rest of her life. So it was often talked about. You know, she's that one woman with Christian fortitude. So that's who Francis Gaquidi was sent to live with for his grammar school and s and uh And we're gonna end up having a talk about that and I think we'll probably in uh have the same panel together next week and we can talk about what just came up. I mean she's a woman of Christian fortitude. However. And she was a slave owner. Okay, so I have a question along those lines. If that's the case, do you think when he opens up the song and he says, Oh say, can you see that he's thinking about how often he had said that to his grandmother who had a hard time seeing. Right? And so like that's a common thought and a common phrase to him. That is amazing. Right? Because it was through the fog of what happened through the by the Donzer, you know, of the Rampots we watch, you know, uh we're so gallantly streaming in the rock's red glare. Uh came through through the night. That's right. But you have made an interesting connection that can be your observation. I would always be the first guy that ever said it. That made that as a mistake and you see. Yeah. That that's remarkable. That's remarkable. Well and he w and Francisco Key was a family man. He was a lawyer in Georgetown. He had eleven kids. Eleven. Um and kids. And he was a fun fun guy because he went in his he went in his backyard once and took flower seeds And in script he wrote the names of his children all around the yard. So when the flowers came up, it had the names of his children. And uh that's the kind of guy he was. Oh, that's cool. You know where the Key Bridge is in DC? The reason it's called the Key Bridge is because on the DC side, that's where his house was. Uh but in the nineteen forties it was a old it was old. Well right there where the um Kennedy Center is? It's just a little bit upriver from that. In fact there's a small park with a bus of Franciscut Key. But here's one of the uh the old history jokes for DC Um everybody knew, well, Francis got Key's old house. It was all falling down, dilapidated generations gone by, but it's something historically important. So the uh DC government, you know, kind of took it apart and packed it away. And then eventually the Historical Society Uh in DC got enough money together, okay we're gonna we're gonna rebuild it and you know um uh refurbish Francisco Keys old house. So they went to the DC government and said, Well, you know, where where where's the stored? Where have you got the parts? And they said it's under lock and keys. The headlines did literally read. They lost it. They said anybody can lose the lose the keys to the house. But only the DC government could lose the house of key I read that one of those historical booklets. Now I don't want to take us off on a tangent you weren't expecting to go on, but we we were talking about the Maryland flag being a flag of reconciliation and all that and I Notice you've got one of your little pamphlet flyers here about the flag. So oh here, Jonathan's gonna get out the video again and and and shoot a video. Well everybody knows the Maryland flag, so that's all you got to keep getting video. So anyway, so Well I I remember in the past, I don't know if it was on the tour or if it was on the show last time or another time when you and I met. I can't remember. Uh hello, we're back on video. We're back on video. We're about to show another one of Bernie's brochures. This is a great one about the flag of the state of Maryland that is really unique. And it is the best flag in the United States. Yeah, and I'm not a fan of the five. I'm not a fan of our politics in this state, but I'm a fan of our flag. Well yeah, this is a little gospel flyer that two thirds of it is just information that I would hear from docent at the statehouse in Annapolis. And I thought, that's a spiritual message they're telling, but they're not telling the whole message. That's a docent. A docent is a um uh a tour guide that works in one location all the time uh a volunteer uh usually. Okay. Uh but the the Maryland flag um is a reconstitution of what was the family crest of the first Lord Baltimore. And it was never a flag, but his family crest, he took his father's colors, black and gold, and it's it's actually that it's looks a little bit like a uh um Right. That's what all you NASCAR fans are thinking about. And so you can hear more about this on the Fredder Fate debate this weekend. We'll see ya. Sorry, that's a good one. Yeah, that's good. We'll we'll see. That was like a minute and ten seconds. Okay, we'll see. All right, so We're experimenting. I don't know. Yeah. Maybe maybe at some point it makes sense for us to figure out a way to use that video camera to record the whole show That's what I was thinking. There's gotta be a way to figure that out. You could grab it or you know, we could just you know there's all we're off on a we're way off the topic now. This is like a conversation for off the air. But anyway So there the flag there's a whole bunch of spiritual stuff wrapped up in this flag that if people really knew they'd probably want to change our flag So, fortunately other than our families, no one's gonna l hear this. This is the problem. The entire Western culture is built on Christian foundations. That's why there's a to destroy the Western culture. A roll dick. A rollback. It symbolized a sash going across his chest. Is there Rivera imagery too? Yeah. Well, to hold a sword, and so he he had fought for his king, but it was just political fights. He wasn't actually a soldier. And his mother's maiden name was Crossman and the family colors they had family colors back then. The family colours were red and white. And so uh you know w um to honor both sides of a family and heraldry, you would quarter it to show it's not one over the other. So that was the family crest. Um and during the American Civil War, Maryland of course raised regiments for both sides. There's a wonderful historical plaque in the State House down in Annapolis that's is dedicated to the soldiers on both sides. But people for the north associated with the so-called Baltimore colors, black and gold, and people for the South. use the crossland or the uh the cross botany. So there were soldiers in Robert Lee's army that had this little cross botany. And um that cross isn't just any cross It's an old Catholic Crusader cross to show it's a four armed cross. I'm sorry, I I feel like a real f a fool. I mean I'm an educated person. What the heck is a cross botany? Uh botany. It has to do with uh you know things you grow, doesn't it? Um Maryland, curiously enough, Maryland is the only state to have an official flagstaff ornament. And it is a gold cross botany. Botany is kind of anglicized from the French about buttons. So if you can picture it's a four-arm cross, and in each arm it has like three buttons So it's the four-arm cross. It's a four-arm cross to show that the four gospels should go to the four corners of the earth. Well what is the gospel? Look at the end of each cross, three buttons It's the message of God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. If you go down to Union Station in D. C. , they have all fifty flags in order that they enter the Union. Flag number seven is Maryland. Every other flagpole just has a ball on top and just a little ceremony. So it's the flag behind us but we have a b A botany cross. That's right. No, no, no, no. Of course it is Catholic and and it's background, right? All that is kind of Catholic imagery because the deal was George Coward had been the ambassador for King James I of England to Spain. He got hooked in with some Catholics and and decided, you know, I'm going to become a Catholic. But back in Spa in England, you couldn't be in the government and be Catholic at that particular time. So he kept it quiet. But finally he told the king, and the king said, I like you. You can no longer be in the government, so I'm going to listen to you and do some things for you. I'm going to invite you so you get the rights of heraldry. I'm going to give you a castle, Lord uh Castle Baltimore in Ireland, and I'll listen to your plans for a safe place for Catholics to go. And so the colony of Maryland was created That's right. And in fact there was there was a time when Maryland was trying to stop Catholics from being here and then the and then it went like the other way where the Catholics were in power and trying to kick out the Protestants And so that that's the we we have it in that other brochure, the date where uh they declared that in Maryland Everybody could worship according to their conscience, but it wasn't extended to Jews until 50 years after the founding of the nation in 1825. Well that brings up an interesting question. You were almost alluded to it earlier. It's the question of tolerance. Yeah. When you make a boat and say, everybody can be in this boat And well we will be in this boat. And then they start saying so okay, Catholics are in the book. Rubby dub dub, three men in the tub. Jews can be in the boat, the boat of tolerance. Yeah. Only Christians and Jews. And and then okay, everybody can be eventually and then the last people in the boat say I don't like the Christians in this boat. They have to get out. Wait a minute, they made the boat. So it's a it's uh metaphorically it's a little bit like the guy who's sitting on a branch on a tree and he's got a saw and he's sawing away. Question is, is he sawing Towards the the uh the trunk of the tree or away from the trunk. So that's yeah it is it is very interesting. The uh cour of course if it's wily coyote, he's always on the wrong side. Even when he's close to the tree. Right. Well I told you the branch if he's on the tree, the branch will stay floating and the tree will float. How do I respond to that? No, go ahead. Take it deep. This is good. You're good at this Why why the coyote is Oh oh no I thought he was gonna make a great why the coyote. It's fascinating. America is is always called the melting pot. It's really true, particularly in Maryland, w parti in I think especially with all the religious cross pollination. I mean the part of the story you just told with the Catholics and all that and the Protestants kicking. But then all the It was it was religious persecution of some sort, I think. Uh with the Quakers or somebody that sent the German Protestants down into Frederick to begin with or something along those lines. Louis the Fourteenth was uh was trying to reimpose uh Catholicism up into the R Upper Rhine region of Germany, uh after the Treaty of Westphalia uh had been signed and the Treaty of Westphalia uh was what ended the Thirty Years' War that was this ugly ugly religious war all through Europe where everybody's fighting against one another They ended it. The Treaty of Westphalia said that anybody from any nation in Europe could worship uh uh any way they wanted according to their conscience. Shortly after that, Louis the Fourteenth ignoring the Treaty of Westphalia began to re-impose Catholicism on uh these Germans in the Upper Rhine region and they said, you know what, enough of that. And some 50,000 of these guys up and left and headed toward the United States, some of which ended up in Ireland because the Queen of England said, you know what, we will give you homesteading rights in Ireland. So some came to the States, some came to uh and sure enough the Schweitzers came over during that time frame. Uh you know, my f uh forefathers, but one hundred Germans came down the uh Great Valley uh into Maryland uh in bought land from uh Tasker who had taken a chance. Benjamin Tasker. On Western Maryland. That's why they call it Task. That is a chance. So there's that element of our religious heritage in Frederick, right? And then Maryland there's Tons of United Methodist churches in Maryland because of all the evangelism that uh Wesley and his guys were doing, I guess. And actually it was Robert Strawberry is the guy that came in and Uh and he said to the guys back in England, he said, he said, we have got to go ahead and start baptizing and uh ordaining people because God's doing things here. We're not gonna wait for for uh word from the guys back in England. We're just gonna go ahead and do it. And it caused a break uh w with Methodism in the Episcopal Church that was pretty significant. Asbury and him fought over that. And uh uh Strawberry said, you know what, we just gotta start doing it. So I mentioned all that in context of what you were saying, Barry. There's uh I mean there's all of these I don't care what kind of Christian stripes you want to bury. Did I say Barry? What for his name? Did I? You might have that's my middle name. Is it? I knew that. And and that was an early Methodist evangelist that influenced my family back in the eighteen hundreds. But go ahead. So you couldn't have made a better mistake. So you're so you're Bernie Barry Beal? Yes. I'm named after both my grandfathers. When I was born, they were so poor they couldn't choose find any new names, so they just took my father's father's name, Barry. And my mother's father's name, Bernard, and that's my name. Wow. So you were born to preach the gospel. You got the alliteration right built into your name then. Uh well Bernie Veal is a great great great commission family uh Um Barry now I know is no and hopefully we'll never forget his middle name. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Israel Church. I'm Troy Skinner, and this is the Faith Debate. And I was bringing up all that rich tradition, the rich history, the rich religious Christian roots in the state of Maryland that goes back hundreds of years and now look where we are It is one of it is one of the most secular friendly states in the Union. So how does that happen? We have this rich mixture of these re rich Christian traditions. I think that's exactly why it happened because Uh too much of a good thing and they just threw it out? No, they actually called it the act of toleration uh which allowed Jewish people the right to worship according to their conscience. And I think that that what we found was that there was an emphasis on embracing people to worship according to their conscience, whatever they represent. And the more that you have that, then the more in the public square you probably have to find ways to keep things more secular. and less religious because you have so many different viewpoints that in order for people to get along, this I think is why uh uh inner cities, large cities tend to be less religious than out in the countryside because you have so many people from different religious backgrounds that you have to find a place to interact with one another that is less religious. So it actually I think makes sense that then in the name of toleration that it ended up being very secular in orientation. But again, that's John's thoughts. Right. As a farm boy I've often thought about That'd be a good title. John's Thoughts? John's thoughts? John's Thoughts. Yeah. Um such a common name. Yeah, gr growing up in the country I um well I'll I'll tell this story. Once we were working on the uh helping a Damascus camp meeting get going and we always hired some local guys to help us bail hay. But that day we were over to the camp meeting to uh you know work do outdoor work. Claren Bros, that kind of thing. Is that the same camp that's that's still there in Damascus where they did all the the holiness camp there? Yeah, diff Difference Maker Church is what they're doing. Um But um during lunch break one one of the uh one of the guys that we just hired local asked one of my uncles, said uh, does camp do they pay you to do this work? He said, No. Well you're paying me, why do you do this? So it doesn't hail on our corn. And I've always thought So it doesn't hail on if it's not a uh a farmer has an observation about the dependence on God and the character of God and nature more so than someone who lives in a concrete jungle Except for Nebuchadnezzar, because God drove him out of the concrete jungle and the hanging gardens of Babylon into the into the uh countryside for seven years. to that because there's so much light pollution now that even in the suburbs where you can see some green, you can see the mountains around Frederick and that sort of thing, you still can't really appreciate the night sky like you could when I was a kid. I remember when I was a kid you'd look up and it was See the star the stars were unbelievably spectacular. And now you look at the night sky and it's like, oh there's a star and o over there's one and Yeah, well then you say that your descendants will be more numerous in the s than the stars in the skylight. Oh, so I guess you didn't have like ten or twelve kids, huh? 'Cause that's how many stars I can see So I think I mean so the majesty of all that is is lost. So there's something I think something to that. Can I share a quote with you that goes back to your question? Well look at Maryland now, you were kind of saying. I am a quote collector. And um and in my booklet here, which maybe we'll talk about later, about the US Capitol. Is that an expensive hobby? No, scream. But there was only one man who was a minister, like Jonathan and I He is a pastor, myself as an evangelist. There's only one man that was a minister who was ever elected president. And he was assassinated after two hundred days, by the way. Uh James Garfield. He was in Congress for about, I think, uh, nine terms But here's a quote from James Garfield, whose statue is in the rotunda in the U. Capitol building. He said, the people are responsible for the character of their Congress. So you made some comments about the state of Maryland or you know he's making a comment about Congress. It's a reflection of the people and it's a responsibility of community leaders, which includes churches and pastors, evangelists. to uh to seek to influence our culture. Uh I found what you said very interesting. The uh almost sound like lowest common denominator uh type of a you know who's gonna get elected? Well y you can't stand out, that'll get hit down. Well that's true now. It obviously wasn't true for a long time here in the United States, but the but the shift in the mentality, whatever happened, uh I think leans in the direction that that the more religious perspectives uh that are represented, incluse including atheism, right? So your toleration If you're a leader in toleration, then your toleration is going to extend to whoever's not tolerated. You're a leader in tolerating whoever is the new group that's not being tolerated. And it's all shifted in the direction now that that uh we want to purge the public square of any kind of religious orientation in the name of protecting everybody from, you know, not being offended. Well that that's ironic. You know the phrase wall of separation. Yeah, totally. And you know where it comes from. Yeah. It comes from the Bible. Yeah Does it? Yes. It's in uh Song of Solomon and Isaiah, and then it was picked up by Roger Williams when he established Rhode Island, and then picked up by Thomas Jefferson. This is Bernie Beal on the Frederick Faith debate. There's Troy Skinner and Bernie is talking about where the wall of separation comes from in the Bible. Well yeah, there's many times probably as a Christian you've talked to a brother or a sister in Christ and said, I'm gonna pray a hedge of protection around you, brother. I'm gonna pray a hedge of protection. That wall was for the purpose of protecting the garden of God, and then the people of God were to go out and help cultivate and bring beauty and life and encouragement and positive things to the world around us. So the uh wall of separation. Don't miss the show this weekend. That's uh That's the first time I think I've seen Jonathan agree and then immediately say, Wait a minute, what did I just agree to? Right? Said, Yeah, right. Wait What? What? I don't think I've ever heard you've caught that off guard before. I wasn't really off guard. I just appeared Anyway, he's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Island Church. Bernie Beale is the uh founder and ministry director for Great Commission Families. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor of Putman Plumbing Heating How Can We Make You Smile. What have I been reading? Robert Letham's The Work of Christ And it's another winner. Uh last two weeks I gave you a couple of winners. It's another one. Robert Letham's The Work of Christ. Excellent read, uh excellent theology in my opinion. So uh have at it We'll talk to you uh next week at the same time, 830 till nine, every week on WFMD, and check us out online, WFMD. com, and you can see those much now talked about videos. God bless.