Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like Plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Credit Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debates Online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith There you'll find news items and podcasts of this show and links to all sorts of interesting stuff and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me. 18 posts a day, Monday through Friday is ninety a week. So encourage here, pop in and see what all that nonsense is that people are sending our way On the Faith Debate Today, we have Dr. Carl Gregg, who's Minister of Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Frederick and the president of the Frederick area of Ministerial association. And Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church Association. The uh the the other mysterious group, you are the uh uh pastor evangelical ministerial fellowship. Yeah, I can never remember the names of these things. Evangelical Ministerial Fellowship or it might be because I think at one point it was the Ev Evangelical Ministerium of Frederick. Right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. You guys need like I don't know marketing advice. That would be a better name. I agree. That name's horrible. What F AMA or EMF. Both are horrible. It'd be better if it like but if the acronym meant something. That'd be good. Yeah, what does that mean? It means nothing. So sort of memory hook to help you remember the order of the words and yeah, something. They're horrible. I agree with you. We'll work on that By the way, speaking of things, you have uh one, two, three, four, you have five words in the name of your uh congregation. That that's that's too many. It's excessive. I totally agree with you. It's it's a total thing. Like filling out marriage licenses and stuff, it's like Now we've spent two shows already. This is show three and we're going to get through finishing up what we where we left off last week before I think the last thing we do. I could Google it as you mentioned earlier. Why is it Unitarian and Universalist? Why can't you be Unitarian or Universalist? That that could have happened, but because it was the merging of two strong traditions. So that it you know, it was the Universalist Um Church of America and the Unit and the American Unitarian Association that they consolidated together. And so out of respect so it could have other names were bandied about, but to Sort of that was part of the deal of consolidation was that both names would be maintained. And isn't it true, uh I think you hinted at this previously that the United parts of the uh Christian Church, the denominations, mostly United, United Presbyterian, United Methodist, United Church of Christ most of them are very close to where you are theologically in terms of their liberal approach to the religious roots. Yeah, the joke, um and of course this is mildly offensive, but I don't think that offensive, is the joke is that the United Church of Christ, that they're Unitarians considering Christ. You know, that that's the they're sort of on the the the the left wing of liberal Christianity they could easily then make the jump. But it really is a paradigm shift from liberal Christianity where your starting point is always Jesus, the Bible, the Christian tradition, to Unitarian Universalism, whereas we've been exploring Judaism and Christianity are one among six other sources. That's that is a paradigm chef. to to where we finished up last week. Well let's let's recap real quick because uh I know you guys have played to your radio on Sunday mornings at eight thirty you you come in like clockwork and you never miss a show. But in case last week was one of those rare, like never to again occur instances where you missed a show. It's on the internet. It is on the internet. You can check it out on the podcast. Uh let's run through real quick what these six Sources uh are for I guess I I'm trying to figure out how to understand even that. Sources meaning these are the things that inform your worldview. Right. These are your religious we can draw from. Okay. So direct experience. is first. Now is this by the way in order of of importance? No. Good question though. It's m and I don't know exactly why they're in the orders they're in, but no, it's not order of of importance. Well first on this sort of a constellation. Okay. Well first on this randomly assortment of uh of resources. We have uh direct as uh experience, number two has to do with profits. Uh meaning prophets like uh And justice people who have done good things in the world. Like Gandhi would be one of your prophets Correct. Right? Okay. Number three, uh the world of religions. Offshooter, that was number four, Judeo uh uh Christian tradition, particularly the liberal uh spectrum on that. And then kind of flowing from that really is an almost another bridge, number five is humanism and science. Um and then number si so that one we don't really talk about at length, although we talked about it a lot, but not specifically last week. And then actually number six, I don't know, we kind of alluded to that too, had to do with the the the the earth based religions, I guess. Uh Mother Earth, paganism, attention to the seasons and those those sorts of things. So those are the six things that And by a source it means it's a source of wisdom or a source of inspiration to do good things. Because the goal is orthopraxy, what you do. Mm-hmm. Deeds, not creeds. Deeds not creeds. Now it's kind of a cool little Agree with it or not. It's a good little flare. Now that's one of the things though that sounds like somebody who's not paying close attention will think, oh well they're all about deeds, not creeds. That means that John Schweitzer must be all about creeds, not deeds Right? I would say creeds inspire the deeds. But the your church actually isn't creedal, is it? Crossroads isn't isn't a creedal church per se. Yeah, well in the sense of the distinction between what Dr. Gregg represents and what Christianity represents were definitely creed. Well you believe in the religious creed say you just don't say we we suscribe. You know, for the purposes here, all a creed is is a boiling down summary statement of what Christianity teaches. Oh, I agree. And so all I say is let's let's beware of the summaries because sometimes the summaries represent historical moments more than they represent what uh what you know the the fullness of what the scriptures say. And so, you know, I'm I'm creedal in the sense that I'm you know biblical, but Uh he's uh Dr. Gregg is is uh not creedal in the sense that he he doesn't see the authority of scripture as binding. Solely there's other places to look from. And it's likely that there'll end up at some point being a seventh pool Oh probably so. Right. So we so that's another sort of little slogan that you get. Right. Yeah, you know. Oh the Pope talked about that the other day about you know he's like sure I'd baptize an alien. But the uh that's another slogan that we've got to be. Absolutely. Have you listened to Po Frank? So the uh what I was gonna say though is the uh another slogan that we use sometimes is that revelation isn't sealed So that we sometimes people talk about revelation. That's something that happened in the past and so that that we see that, you know, revelation is is ongoing, that we're continuing to learn from from our experience and from the world. That's their nationwide slogan. But God is still speaking. Don't put a period where God has put a comma. Right. Now there was something at the very beginning of today's show that you kinda wanted to jump out of the gate with. You remember what that was, or did I distract you enough that you don't remember what that was anyway? I could get back to it, but uh we should probably just keep rolling. Okay. So um I want to talk about the uh what probably is going to end up being the central disagreement, which is you have on your shelf of many books a a a book called the Bible. Correct. That You might have a shelf of twenty books and in order of importance you might have on any given day the Bible might be the twentieth book on that list. And John's gonna have he's gonna have a whole bunch of books on his shelf. He never reads them. But he but the mo but the most important book is the Bible. And that's gonna trump all of the other uh books that he might read that would inform his view on things. H history books, whatever. So So like I do preach from the Bible, but I also preach from the Dao Dejing. I also preach from Science. I'll say that. But what do you use you? That's kind of a funny word. It is a funny word, isn't it? But what do you do? But what do you do if something that you want to preach from um somebody who is only uh devoted to what the Bible has to say about things and you're preaching for something else and it seems to be uh in conflict with what the Bible would have to say. We are preaching from the Bible, so you we have to I guess choose parts that are more in alignment with what you think the truth of the universe is? Right. Well I was That has to do with our understanding of Scripture. That's a whole discussion. So yes, I mean I w I would and but I would do the same thing with the Quran or with the Dao Te Ching that I I'm gonna pick the parts that I think are you know, the the parts that ha are relevant and wise and and helpful for living a better life today. reason in science, whereas we would say that we view science and reason through the lens of the Bible. That's accurate? Mm-hmm. What more needs to be said? So we summarized it. So we started at the very we've arrived at the be at the beginning of the very first show. Yeah. Or somewhere near the beginning of the very first show that we've done together. I asked Jonathan why he was so excited to have these discussions And one of his strong motivations was to see if we could figure out how we could just all get along better, we could learn how to work together, see eye to eye, overcome obstacles to in the United States to keep your religion out of politics. And I'm of the opinion that if I'm not taking my religion into politics then I am failing both in my religion and my politics. Meaning what I believe spiritually defines what I think is best for all humanity. Right And the same thing's true about you. And so if we tell people to leave your religion at the door and to not bring it into discussions about science or discussions about history or d you know, whatever. And the reality is that in college campuses, this is the case, I walked into to my English class and was immediately within ten minutes of raising my hand and wanting to participate in the discussion, labeled by the professor as the conservative Christian. Bigot in our midst. Right And uh sh you know, she was cussing every other word, you know, and and and mocking everything conservative that that was there. My point is is that there's a sense in today's culture that You guys are allowed to share what you believe and bring it into your discussion, but that we are not And that was not the case at the fining founding of our nation. And my question is, what is it that has shifted and why is there an unwillingness to let Christians in particular bring You know, to practice what we pre w what we preach. Let me jump in real quick. Jonas is white, so senior pastor of Cross Roy Church. We're joined this week with Doctor Carl Gregg, who's Minister of Unitarian Universals Congregation of Frederick Antroy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty, WFMD. And you were about to say. Sure. I think even both be true. My brothers older brothers always thought I was I think evangelical Christians do bring their values. What was this whole Hobby Lobby decision about, if not that? But what to me is more important than that, because I think we are mocked and castigated for it on every side. We're told that we are bigots and that we have no business being in society. Like the vehemence of the language is is pervasive. But that would be true for c culture in general, and certainly liberals in the media and liberals on a p in politics But would that be true w would a Unitarian Universalist mock and ridicule uh separate angle on this and then we can come back if it if it's helpful, is that I think it's also important to say that there are political areas that we agree about, such as what the work you've done with Frederick 48. Things need to be done to alleviate poverty and homelessness. And that's that that is exactly what I'm talking about. Because there is there are people in Frederick, religious leaders, uh that wanted to Encourage that kind of unity, but in doing so, they would require the uh the evangelical world to come to the table willing to say this. Ah, we all just worship the same God. Why don't we just get along? And because Because we were unwilling to say that they they would they'd get all huffy and angry and tell us that we were being divisive. And so my response back was, well look I don't need another reason to be in unity with you. We're citizens of the United States. We're citizens of the state of Maryland. We're citizens of Frederick. That's enough It doesn't matter if we worship the same God. It doesn't matter if I say that I worship a different uh God than you. to force the evangelicals to say we all just worship the same God. And if you're not willing to say that, then you need to shut up and take your exclusivist religion somewhere else. Out of the public square. Out of the public square, which is precisely where I'm saying that something's changed from seventeen seventy-six. Where I'm agreeing that the Unitarian Universalist was there But I'm also arguing that the the Puritan impulse and Daniel Webster spent great uh uh amount of time trying to argue uh the for the for the Christian foundations of the Constitution of the United States. Right? So all of that was there and it was abundant and it was allowed. Right. Right. Even though Jefferson had his separate reasons. That's my point. They were both there. They were both there. And I'm willing to admit that, but in lieu of being told that what we bring to the table is is divisive and mean and and all these other things, um we uh I feel like what's happened is we evangelicals are overreacting and saying, what are you talking about? We are the ones that are the inheritors of the founding of the nation. And we've overreacted and it's cre it you know, and so there's all this overreaction. The question is Where does that come from? Mm-hmm. And my read is that it comes from Um my read is that it comes from the left. I'm pointing the finger. Right. I'm saying that the left is the one that is pushing this narrative and saying that we Christians are responsible for the entire failure of the Western civilization on every level. We're bad You know, Christopher Columbus was was nothing but a racist and a uh a um uh imperialist. You know, and and so so therefore because I believe in an exclusive exclusive savior in Christ. Therefore I am the natural inheritor only of what is a failure in the West and therefore I'm the bad guy and needs to be sidelined. Mm-hmm. And I And all of that is aside of the f aside from the fact that, you know, I'm s you know Jesus called us to preach and whether or not anybody agrees with me or not, who cares? Right. But it seems like the American Right. Ethos didn't have to be that way. Meaning where we just are persecuted, we just have to take it. I think you're right that we have an American tradition of robust diversity that we can reclaim and that I think we have to work together because otherwise we're just going to continue in these intractable problems and I would qualify what you s said to be I think that both sides have become reactionary. Totally. And I agree. So that it's both there. But I would say, and I wonder if this is true for you I have Republicans in my congregation and that's part of what I was saying, I think, two episodes ago, that I don't think that political that religious liberalism does not necessitate political liberalism. That I have political liberals and political conservatives in my religiously liberal church. You're not gonna be happy as a Unitarian Universalist if you are a uh religious conservative. But if you you but you can be a political liberal and a You mean a political conservative and a religious liberal. And so I would wonder, do you have independents and maybe even some Democrats in your congregation? There's several areas where the evangelical world has been very conflicted recently, meaning conservative evangelicals One of those is immigration. Mm-hmm. Right? And it's clear to most of us that when it comes to Immigrants from another land, when you read the Bible, the Bible is abundantly clear that we have to embrace the immigrant. You were a stranger in a strange land of our sense That we're being told that Christianity has no business in the public square, that we need to take down Salt Mount Soledad's cross we lose the voice, then we get the sense that they're just bringing in the immigrants in order to squash us even farther. And as a result, we react and say, look, you're just trying to change everything. You need to stop it. Let us get back to our roots and then let's bring people in. Right. And so our sense is that is that that is being used as a tool to somehow just uh a re Right, I I say destroy, but you know, to to remake America into the image of Unitarian Universalist. You know, like like the p the the reason why most people think Obama is a Muslim is because he's a religious liberal. And so he's open. to the idea that the Quran has good things to bring to the table just as much as the Bible does. But he's certainly not a fundamentalist Muslim. He's a religious liberal. Exactly. And so my point is is that Uh because there's a sense that that's being forced on us issues like this, I think you're right. I think even even the question of how much the government should be involved with helping the poor would be different if there wasn't a sense that somehow this Marxist anti-God, you know, throw religion out and we just need to view our religion as, you know, God is dead and so we're just looking for the inspiration from it, which In the midst of the the battle, it looks like you're doing that as much as everybody else. When I sit down and talk with you, I can see that that's not necessarily the case, which is what Wh which is part of the drive that it that that I've been pushing for because I feel like the spirit of the age is this tolerance Christianity sucks. We need to get rid of it. You know, all the other religions are okay because they all accept each other. And there's truth in in what you're saying, but but but the piece that's exciting to me and really alive is like the immigration piece. And saying that I think it is extra unhelpful and part of the problem to think that Unitarian Universalism or the United Church of Christ or whatever, that that religious liberalism it's it's extremely unhelpful to see that as synonymous with or a shill of the Democratic Party. in the same way that I think it's unhelpful to say that when you become if someone were to think that when they become a member of your congregation that they have to to sign on to not only that Jesus Christ is their personal Lord and Savior and the authority of the Bible, but that they have to sign up for the platform of the Republican Party. I think that's Okay, so I agree with you on that, but I feel like that's a little bit of a distraction. Okay. Right. Because I feel like the heart of the issue isn't the politics. The heart of the issue is this sense that that the Christians are the bad guys. And um I'm aware enough about history to know that the institutional Christian Church has behaved very badly. Mm-hmm. In fact, what I like to say is that we Christians are the younger brother and we're just as bad as our older brothers. You know, in the Old Testament, the Jews failed to follow what the Lord had told them to do and they entered into ex significant judgment from the Lord about it. Uh we Christians have walked walked in the footsteps of our older brother. and done the same thing and so maybe we're just experiencing a Babylonian captivity that we deserve uh, you know, because of uh how institutional Christianity has acted. I'm open to that being the case. But that being the case My concern is that the the esprit uh you know, the spirit of the age, what was the word I was looking up, the esprit decor, the uh um the zeitgeist, yeah, the zeitgeist is Christianity sucks. We gotta get rid of it. We gotta tamp it down because it's the problem. Mm-hmm. Right? The problem is All those that are extremists for you know for the religion that actually believe their scriptures to be true and follow them. Those the guys are the problem. This may or may not be helpful, um, but a tangent I would be interested in exploring with you if only briefly is is your reading of history. So you sort of you did um what I would almost call a deuter deuteronomic historian view of history. Uh but then I read in the Bible books like Ecclesiastes and Job, which very much wrestle with the fact of sometimes bad things happen to good people and good things happen to bad people. And so as you as you know, I was raised in the Christian tradition for many years. Sure. And that's and I increasingly came to identify with those sort of those wisdom books like Job and Ecclesiastes because I saw over and over again the ways in which people did right and good and then their family got killed in a car wreck. Or that's why I question that reason. That I'm open to it. My warning is that um we then are assuming that we know that that guy was good. You know, and something bad happened to them and they were good and so they were were really deserving of blessing. We do know that in Job, at least according I mean if you take the Bible in the plain sense. were given the impression from other passages of scripture that Job's considered to be one of the most righteous persons right persons that ever existed. And for us to apply Job's situation to our situation, I I feel like The reason God chose Job, the righteous one, to establish that was so that when Christ came along and he got crucified, we wouldn't think, oh, well, he must have deserved it. It was showing us that there would be a righteous one that comes along, and there is a time when evil is so bad that even the righteous in our midst, you know, are treated with wickedness. In fact, that's where Daniel in the book of Daniel, he sees the the vision and he sees the the one horn that is given authority to make war on the saints and to win. And w and he's shaken by it and afterwards that's what he asks about You're gonna let that happen, God? How could you let that happen? And it shook him that that God in his righteousness would actually allow a moment where the righteous, you know, but that's like the moment of the beast, you know, that's that's like the apocalyptic moment where everything's happening. Right. And so the point is is that is that kind of a scenario happening on a regular basis I think that is a misread of of G. We disagree about that, but that's interesting to hear your your take on that. So where did we get off? Well and it's interesting because I would disagree as well. But we've touched on some of those. So you know Christians can can disagree about that as well. I found I think it's interesting. I wanna I'd like to give uh somebody listening might think the same thing I'm thinking. I want to give you a chance to respond to a question that could be hanging in the air. The way John has kind of set things up a little bit and the way you've kind of allowed him to. Um so that's why I just want to give you a chance to push back in case you were just being you know nice. John set it up as though the left you are telling him to sit down and be quiet um because the Z guy's not Greg. Those who are are liberal in orientation are going to say you conservatives need to be quiet because you're wrong. And there's a great irony if that's True. Yeah. Because the the left would be the one saying, Oh, we're inclusive and open minded. Tolerant of everything but intolerant. Exactly. Yeah. Actually that's a question that's going to have to kinda hang. We only have about forty seconds left now. So maybe we can do one more show next week? Sure. And we can kind of start with that question, give you a chance to respond to that. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Rose Valley Church, Dr. Carl Gregg is minister of the Unitarian Universalist Congregation of Frederick I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor of Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading lately? Don't take the title the wrong way. Against Christianity by Peter J. Lighthart. I've read that. It's good stuff. Got a like lightheart. Has no pictures, John, so don't worry about it. Is there such a thing? No, I'm just kidding. We'll be back this same time next week. Actually not this same time, a half hour earlier than this next week. Sunday mornings at eight thirty, that's uh set your alarm clock for it. You know how many people listen to us as they're getting ready to go to church Yeah. So right now we're getting ready to write. Hurry up, you're about to be late. Hurry up. Hurry up. The call to worship is right now. God bless