Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Online at WFMD. com. Uh all around the world actually. We're drawing guests now from all around the world. I'm going to turn up my headphones just a little bit. If you need me to turn yours up, let me know. We we're we're expanding the show Been doing the show since two thousand four and for the first time ever the guests on the show have headphones. Welcome to the twenty first century. Anyway, I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate here on News Radio 930WFMD, and joined this week by Daniel Razby, a name and a voice that um you are familiar with over the last couple of years And we're joined this week by Elijah Dirksen. He is a seminary student at Whitfield Theological Seminary in Florida, but he's he apparently owns a private jet because he I think lives in the middle of the country in Iowa. And now here he is in Maryland, so Why did you tell him about my jet? Or maybe what happened is our headphones came as a package deal. We now have one of those dark Transporter devices and we're beaming you around the planet. That could be what's going on. Anyway, so uh we're gonna be doing uh we're taking a break from uh a lengthy series. We've been going through uh theological statements put out by uh important people in the American church over the last like fifty years or so try to clarify some things to help everybody to understand how we should approach the scriptures, how we should try to tackle difficult issues. And here now we're going to take a break from that to try to tackle a difficult issue. I don't know if you pay attention to these things on social media or not, or you know, people the bomb throwing is taking place on Twitter and Facebook and Gab and Me Wii and what other ones are out there? I don't know. Um whatever they are. I'm on most of them, but I can't remember what they all are right now. Um But Christian nationalism has become a big buzzword. You hear that even in in political circles, not just in um theological circles, in church circles. But we want to get there in a logical progression. So something that's really foundational to understanding how we define our terms as related to Christian nationalism comes down to what we mean by here's a fun word. The word theonymy before? You know, m a lot of people who theocracy, maybe Yeah, well but they're different, right? So we so we want to clarify that. So Uh Theo God uh NAMI, the the root word there, gnomos, law. So it's about, you know, uh God, uh God somehow is the law or you're leaning on God for the law. That's what the root words mean So it seems simple enough. Okay, there we go. Why are we doing a show defining theonomy? Because if you talk to somebody who says they're a theonomist, and then you talk to somebody else half hour later who says they're a theonomist, they don't mean the same thing by it all the time. And it's very confusing. And it causes a lot of heartburn within the church because you have people yelling at each other because and they're talking past each other because they're not defining their terms. So we want to carefully define that. And so I'm not sure the best way to try to do this, we could do it as a compare and contrast with theocracy or whatever. But maybe a good place to start and if you're comfortable, Elijah, and you're new, but you know you seem like you're comfortable already. You settled right into that chair, put those headphones on like a pro. Um First of all, would you define would you describe yourself? Would you label yourself a theonomist? Let's start there. Absolutely. I I would I I understand there's a lot of baggage that would come along with that. You may have a time to define what you mean, but I just want to see where you're coming so you're coming at this positive and I and Daniel and I have talked before, I think off the air, I'm not sure it was on the air, but I know Daniel says I would I'm a theonomist. Yes And you know what? I'm comfortable if somebody wants to call me a theonymist too, uh, but my very next thing, say, the most I'll say, Well I'm gonna say yes, but what do you mean by it? Because I might end up saying no, depending on how you're gonna define it. So words are just words without definitions. Yeah, no word ha uh in Word as a woman Yeah. No word literally, there's not a single word that has any meaning outside of a surrounding context. Words truly derive their meaning from their context. So we need to put some meat on the bone, on the skeletal thing that we've got here. So Elijah, what would you say is your view of theonomy that you're embracing? So my my understanding is that God gave us his word. God gave us this Bible right here. Just that one. Specifically he just held up a Bible except this one. So he he gave us a a book of rules, a book of laws that is applicable to all areas of life, all occupations, all situations. Second Timothy says that scripture all of Scripture is profitable for teaching, for reproach, for training in righteousness. And I I think that is something that it extends to everything. We we can find rules that apply to all areas of life in the Bible. And that includes uh your job, your your role as a husband, as a father, uh unless you're a girl, in which case you probably don't have that role. Um uh your role as a pastor. Makes me nervous that you hedge done that and said probably. But that's a different show. And this is probably where it gets controversial. I think it applies to your role in government. If you are A person in authority in a a place where you rule over other people and make laws and make decisions, you need to be doing that based upon the rules given to you by God. Now there's more that can be said. I'm not saying that was not a good and full answer, but there's a whole lot that could be said. And part of it could be uh what could be said is somebody who says, Yeah, that's kind of how I feel, but I feel differently and this is so I'm wondering, Daniel, do you have anything that you would add? Or subtract from that for that matter that says, Yeah, I'm a theonist too, but I think about it this way instead or in addition. I would say the ideal form of government that I support would be one that has all of its laws and judicial system based on the Bible. And by the Bible I mean all of the Bible, all sixty six books, not just the New Testament. Uh and the judicial system should be uh the d laws, the punishments for crimes, criminal justice systems particularly, should be uh met out by the civil government in a way that is consistent with the Old Testament and New Testament. Now we're all gonna start this is gonna be good because we're all starting with a a a relatively common platform, but when we get into nitty-gritty we might have some separation we'll have to see. I'm not s I'm not anticipating I don't know what to anticipate. I just know If you grab three random Christians off the street and and and then start talking about this, you can get four opinions. Um I would say in the simplest terms, not to try to um uh get too wordy with it because everything's been said so far is good. I would say in the simplest terms Christians should uh receive the Bible as authoritative, as you mentioned. And it's not just authoritative, but sufficient. It is fully sufficient. It is the rule and guide for our faith, so what we believe, what we know to be true, because God has revealed you know, how we're to worship him and how we're to understand who he is and who we are in relationship. So the faith part and most people kind of get that. But it's also the rule and guide, fully sufficiently so for our life practice, what we are to do And as you mentioned, in all areas of life. So, yeah, my job, my family, uh our government, this radio show, everything that we do, God's word speaks into all of it. It is full now And this is about you know the Protestant Reformation and the Solos Scriptura, but also uh totas scriptura, right? So it it's the Bible alone is what is fully sufficient as the as the rule and guide for our faith and life practice and all of Scripture, not just cherry picking or whatever. So I I think we're all on the same page to start. And y it looks like you're itching to say something, Elijah. Well I I would just add that not all of the Bible is equally applicable to every single person. The the rules for being a father wouldn't necessarily apply to my wife or Because she's not a father. Because she's not a father but they would apply to her as she should understand what fathers do. And that's That's where we need to meet out what what does this actually look like, because we can't say everything is equally applicable. We have to determine applicable to who. And if we're in that category, follow those laws. But that that's where the discussion with theonomy is. Now some people that would call themselves a theonomist, what they mean by that is I want to pick up the book of Deuteronomy or Leviticus and I want to uh drop it on top of America and make that our constitution kind of a thing. And so okay, so there's one there. And I'm I'm not there. I'm more in the camp of I well, before I show my hand, where are you, uh Elijah? I'll save myself for last because um You you're the visitor, you you go first. I would consider the the rules of Deuteronomy. I I want to be careful how I say this because I I I wanna be clear in my my understanding of it. There were certain rules like the the parapet at the top of your your thing that don't don't necessarily apply to modern culture, but the general That's a general word for a for a fence on top of your roof so no one would fall off. And that's definitely a biblical um prospect, e even though you wouldn't support a government regulation that all pointy pointy roofs should have I I I don't think Deuteronomy should be reprinted as our constitution, but the the concepts and e even the the majority of the laws should be as a part of our rules for daily life and our rules for how we govern. Okay so there's a difference it seems like Elijah and I might might be more closely aligned. So I say we take a all of Scripture, not just Deuteronomy or Leviticus or whatever, all of Scripture and and we apply it in principle to the context within which we find ourselves. But it sounds like Daniel you're you're advocating maybe some for something a little bit more literal. Literal, yeah, I guess more exacting. A little more exacting. People might get the wrong impression, right? They might think, oh well you said all of the laws in the Old Testament should be mandated by the g civil government. You can't and people say you can't legislate morality. Well actually Um, that's what laws are, that to legislate what morality, right? You can't force people to have a correct heart. So that doesn't mean that you need to kill everybody who looks with lust. You kill the adulterer Right. Be even though looking with the glass would be adultery. I know there's been a big controversies with Dennis Prager and Jordan Peterson and and uh uh about this uh topic recently. But the The idea is not that you would make a law because there there is no command in scripture to for capital punishment for looking with lust, even though it says it's a sin. So not everything that is a sin is something that is punished by the civil government And an another good example would be the dietary law. So let's say l let's pretend that we would agree that eating pork is wrong, and I know we don't all agree on that, but if if we were to agree that That still wouldn't mean that the government needs to force people to never eat pork because there's no pro no uh prescription in the Old Testament says kill the person who eats pork or co uh fine them or kick him out of the uh the country or whatever. There's there are things that it says here's the prescription for if this crime is committed and a lot of things are, okay, well you're just um unclean and we we should we should uh to society there should be some you know uh shunning that happens but it's not a punishment by the fi civil government. The legal texts, if you will, in uh the Phenateuch uh are uh in my view, are like a hybrid blend of civil code, capital punishments uh ceremonial rules, um, you know, practical living guides. There's there's a whole bunch of stuff that's kind of mixed together there. Some of it is is seems to me to be very uh uh directly addressing uh religious practice as opposed to you know everyday life kinds of things. And so when you say you would take, you know, those parts of the Old Testament and just drop 'em down and I mean we were a little playful, I get that. But dropping it down saying that's our constitution uh how how are you navigating uh I'm trying to track with your your uh your thinking on this, how are you navigating towards saying uh the the government wouldn't mandate the government what we now call the kosher laws. But the government needs to mandate and and uh punish crime, that's the role of government, is to have very few laws that and the ones that are ac actually uh listed in the Old Testament with punishments listed. So things like murder and and and uh larceny, uh you know, theft and and adultery and rape and and things like that, th those all have and if you do this then you should have a trial and you should have two witnesses and then the uh they punish them by doing X, Y, and Z. Well that's and there's restitution given for certain things. And there's a whole bunch of other things that says to be a a a godly person you should do X, Y, and Z But it doesn't give a like a a a a stick with that. What Dandel just said over the last sixty seconds is i is that different than what you were trying to say earlier, Elijah? Oh well. You know, the crime and punishment aspect. I don't think he 'cause I'm not I'm thinking I would agree. I'm In principle, I wouldn't disagree with him. I'm wondering if in principle you would disagree with him. I would say well, I we're first of all coming from a different point of view on the ceremonial laws, I think. Um I would say that those are no longer applicable, but the remaining laws are. But he's saying as far as the government instituting the rules and regs, that he's not advocating. It's not the government's place to enforce those. I would say the ceremonial laws, even in Old Testament times, weren't enforced by the civil government. They were enforced by the the Levites. You couldn't go into the tabernacle if you were unclean. Correct. And in that way We can't enforce them anymore. There is no temple, there's no tabernacle, there's no Levites. So there's yeah, so there's this is what makes this sort of discussion so difficult because you can start to go off in all these different threads. And so that's why I'm trying trying to figure out where we kind of are and we can try to figure out how to keep it narrow. We can have other conversations down the road, but I want to keep it narrow. So it sounds like Daniel, who was the hardest core in his first response about his theony position. Um is now nuancing it a bit to say, okay, I said that maybe for a fact, who knows? Um but I'm not saying that the United States should institute government mandated ceremonial religious laws. I'm not saying that. Is that am I am I being accurate? Depending on your definition of ceremonial religious laws. See, that's that's a little bit where we differ because I don't make a distinction in the Old Testament between the quote moral law, ceremonial law, uh whatever. Uh I do make a distinction. I see where the government the civil government has a place and a role to play in the Old Testament and in the New Testament and there are things the civil government is supposed to do. That's a separate issue for me than talking to a Christian about, okay, what things should you do that God commanded people do And does those do those companions still apply to you? What's an example of something that people would disagree about whether or not it's a a civil law or a ceremonial law or rule or whatever? Because you're saying it y you're not so sure you would make the that kind of distinction. There are some things maybe that would fit into both, like is what I'm hearing. So is I can't think of and I mean ones. Glassmate would be a good example. So then we're going to be able to do that. Right, so yes there's a punishment for that. uh execute somebody who commits blasphemy. Okay, let's use that as a practical example then. So somebody blasphemes God they should be uh suffer the death penalty. The government And the United States should enforce that? after the Constitution was enforced. Okay. And that may or may not have been a biblical decision by those states, right? So that's what I'm trying to get to here, but that's a progressive example. It's out and out and moral. We know exact everyone instinctively knows that we shouldn't blaspheme God because we know that God is, according to Romans 1. I I wouldn't call it a ceremonial law necessarily, but it is more on the religious side Um there there can be laws that govern morality within the religious side, like idolatry. Right. Um, which is where I I would go. I I wouldn't say a government can regulate what you worship, but it can regulate and say, hey, you have this idol, that's against the law. Get it out of here. Like a bit like the kings did throughout Israel. Okay, so you're so so that Are you trying to articulate what you think Daniel's position is, or are you articul are you articulating your position? This is my position. Okay. And I would agree with that. All right, so I'm probably the lightest theonomist in the room then because I wouldn't I wouldn't uh I wouldn't go there. We're not regulating then saying by law you must become a Christian. We're saying you can't do these actions of worship in our country because it's against the kind of connecting to the Ten Commandments basically at this point. Right? Sh sure. Uh but the Ten Commandments uh include things that don't have civil government punishment. So the one of the Ten Commandments is to honor your father and mother. And while there is a prescription for if they actually have one. That the parents are bringing before the judge and asking for something to be done about him. But there's They're not like the the government doesn't go around and and say, Hey, you kids listen to your parents you know, they don't there's no there's no prescription for how that should be done So there's a lot of things even in the Ten Commandments, covetousness. You should not covet. How are you going to enforce that? You're not going to punish somebody because that's a heart crime. So the things that have the heart or not the civil government's place to But the things that we can see that then they would execute, you know uh well's there, they would im implement uh capital punishment Uh for. To me a law that's being violated needs to have the heart and the action to go with it. The the challenge though, this is why this is where my pushback will come, and I'll be curious to hear what you guys respond to this is those sorts of uh detailed laws uh that are spelled out more explicitly and it tells you exactly what the punishments and all that sort of thing are rooted in initially the foundational document of the Ten Commandments, the Ten Words, right? Everything is kind of an unpacking of that in detail. Well, what's the prologue to the Ten Commandments? Love the Lord your God. No no not the first what's the first commandment what's the prologue that you know in Edward the Lord your God. And who's he talking to? See that's the fact. Humanity. He's not though his people. What is what is that? And and specifically, right, it's very specific. I the God who r who s who rescued out of Egypt. Right. Free from the bonds of slavery. He's talking to them. He's talking specifically to his people. His chosen people. And right now his chosen people is the church. Right? So if we take America and treat it like it's the chosen people, I'd be willing to bet money that there's less than three percent of America that are actually following Jesus. The the thing about it is God treats these Gentile nations who have never heard his law as if they knew what his law was. He punishes Assyria, Babylon, all these places that don't actually have his law and it's like, hey You've been treating your your subjects badly. You've been murdering people. You've been having all the all sorts of sexual sins within these count these countries. But W where did they get that? I if the Ten Commandments was strictly to Israel and it wasn't something that was already instinctively known by those people. How is he punishing them? And and God God brings judgment on them, and he brings judgment today, I believe. Yes. I think we're living through it right now actually. So So God does that, but that's different than what our civil code should be. It's that he so I think this is we might need to take a little bit of a rabbit trail here to clarify. Uh I find the uh the the ancient Israelite nation state to be unique in history. Do you agree? Depends on what you mean by uni unique. Completely, utterly unique. No other nation before, during, or after their existence is is uh is a fair comparable. It's it's not a fair corollary. Well, they still exist. Yes, and we're in this room. No, the church has not replaced Israel. No, we've been grafted into it. So we're part of Israel. Correct. Correct. My next door neighbor is not. Right. And I can say that because I've I haven't he doesn't go to church. But he's an American. Right? That's what I'm saying. We we we can't conflate we can't conflate ancient Israel with modern day, present day America. They're not the same. But why would we create the differentiation? Because God said so. Where where did he say Israel is going to have these these moral laws but no one else will have these moral laws? Because God said, I, your God who rescued you out of Egypt from the bondage of slavery. Am your God, you shall have no other god before me. It's a religious commitment. It's a covenant with his people. His people. Not his n he didn't make that kind of covenant with the Babylonians or the Egyptians for that matter. So where does the morality of the other countries come from? W how how everybody so the moral questions, everybody sh deserves death cause our sin deserve right, we should be killed. But we now know in the New Testament era, in the church era, that death penalty took place about two thousand years ago on a cross. Right. Mm-hmm. So th there's the there's the answer to that. I get very nervous because the the path I'm concerned about, we might have to talk about this in the uh uh in the next show because we only got like two minutes It th the thing that has me nervous, and this would be the cliffhanger, if we're not careful, people that are advocating too strongly for uh what I think is a a slightly over-the-top uh theemonic uh outlook, we're gonna end up with a theocracy or some sort of sacralistic or sacralistic, I however you want to depend uh define uh uh uh utter that word. What's the word I'm looking for? Uh pronounce. Goodness gracious, pronounce that word. And that never goes well. If you if you're a student of church history, that never ends well. And I'm I'm concerned that that's what people are advocating for and it's not a healthy or helpful thing. But I'm gonna have to have selfishly gotta steal the last word 'cause I got like, you know, less than a minute and I I forgot to start the the music. Here we go. Let me get this back on track and are we close enough I don't know, I'll have to say it out. Anyway. Daniel Razvy, uh Elijah uh Dirksen, thank you. Uh Daniel, I didn't mention at the beginning. Daniel Razvy is uh one of the pastors at the church in Thermont, uh that uh the church that meets at Imran's house and they have a ministry that's called uh um my brain is going blind. Conquered by love. Thank you. Concordby love. org is their website, conquered by love. org. I'm Troy Skinner, Pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Elijah Dirksen is a seminar's uh student at Whitfield Theological Seminary, so he doesn't have a a website yet, I don't think. No, right? Okay. Lone Ranger. And of course you should visit the w the website for this radio station, right? Wfmd. com. Uh there you can find the podcast from previous shows and all that sort of stuff. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from right about now. God bless.