Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The Frederick Faith Debate is brought to us by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction Shredding today for growth tomorrow and Putman plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile? If you're listening last week, you heard us have Jonathan Schweitzer and Mike Campbell's square off on Christianity and Buddhism. Uh representing the Buddhist side, Mike Campbell from the Tibetan Meditation Center and Jonathan Schweitzer on the Christian side from the not that we're choosing sides per se, but I'm trying to make this simple for you. Um the uh I really got us up to a bad start, didn't I? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Here we go. Anyway, uh from CrossFit Valley did I say that already? John and Swedford Crossroads. I don't know. Anyway. Um at the beginning of last week's show I outlined real briefly what uh a general understanding of Buddhism is. I th I think it did an okay job, not as good as I could have. I'm gonna uh do that again this week in a slightly different form uh so that it won't be overly repetitive. Uh Buddhism began about uh 2500 years ago uh in India with a man that we now call Buddha or the enlightened one. Buddha is considered by some to be divine, others uh not divine, uh, and simply a great teacher who left behind an example that uh those who are seeking enlightenment should find within themselves rather than seeking it from outside support. Uh Morally Buddhists follow the five precepts, uh no killing, uh including animals, as I understand it from what I've read, although Mike's shaking his head. I don't um That's true. No killing. Okay. No stealing, uh no illicit sex, no wrong speech, uh which would include gossip and uh no drugs or alcohol. So I'm okay, he's nodding. I'm doing okay. Uh Buddhists believe in the four noble truths Uh they are that uh life is basically suffering or dissatisfaction, uh that the cause of suffering is craving or grasping. Uh suffering ends with the cessation of craving and people can escape craving in a continued rebirth by following the noble eightfold path, which we talked a little bit about last week. We might get into a little bit more this week. Uh but we can get bogged down in some pretty heady philosophical stuff when we do that. Uh but we we will I think I think it'll be natural that it'll come up. I want to ask uh a couple of general questions. Because people might not know, including possibly me. Um, the idea concept of God. Buddhists believe in God, don't believe in God, uh and what is the idea of there is no creator God in um Buddhism, although in the Vajrayana um in the well I guess in the Mahayana uh school of Buddhism uh actually in all of the schools of Buddhism there is Uh, six realms and one of them is called the God realm, so there are people who ha live like the Greek gods. You know, there is that realm of of beings. Um but there's no singular creator. Yeah. The um and what there is instead is this notion of karma. Um and karma I again it really quickly would get into very heady stuff. But uh we talk about a mind stream of consciousness, um that there's th which is i isn't like spirit but is kind of like spirit and it trans it goes from one birth to another birth and during the between when you die then you go into this thing called the bardo and then you choose a to be reborn in one of these other realms which are the I do want to talk about that because that is the part that a lot of people who don't know a lot about Buddhism they they think they understand that about it you know you hear people talk about karma all the time and reincarnation and things like that. So Well not talking about that, but the uh if what is the Buddhist conception of uh how the universe came into being? If you don't have a creator god, w w do you have a a view on that beginning? The answer to that question is um that that Buddhism came out of Hinduism so that the cosmology, if you will, is pretty uh similar to that of of um Hinduism. However, when specifically asked those questions, the Buddha, who was really just a pragmatic kind of guy, said I don't know. You know, and people said, Well, you know, what's life after death like? And he said, I don't know, I didn't die yet, you know. So um What is the Hindu cosmology? 'Cause I don't know the answer to that question either. Oh I Again we could go uh it could take a long time. But basically that you know uh that time and space are infinite and that somewhere in that infinity, um, these very, very, very subtle um notions of karma and I can't tell you where they s how they began. Um began and and as it is it and then it kind of gets denser and denser and eventually it becomes it you know, it's like mental at first or you know, ethereal at first and then it gets denser and denser and then you get planets and bodies. So is that like the second law of thermodynamics, like like karma was getting worse and worse and so kind of things were going downhill or then they have this whole thing called kulpas and Um there's a uh Ali yogas which are you know these tens of tens of millions of years You know, they're um billions of years. They don't really talk about a beginning per se. There is kind of a a vague uh kind of idea, but there's really no beginning. And and for that matter, there's really no ending Either beginning and no ending. But but what when you become enlightened I mean one of the things that happens. Is that you don't have an ending. If you have parinirvana you have an ending. But the um But g but but part of this notion of enlightenment is that you just become open to whatever. To all of time and all of space. That those those concepts You become free of those concepts and all of the ego things that are the result of being in time and space. Like fear of death and you know how that's a lot of things. Here we go. All right let's let's ask some you grassroots questions. Okay. Things people want to know about. Okay. What happens when I die? Well that's what he was just saying. Go into the me. I'm not a Buddhist. What happens to me when I die? Oh. Uh well Let's see, the answer I don't know the answer because I haven't died and neither have you. So the pragmatic question we don't really know. Yeah. So well uh the theory is or uh the explanation by people who have uh attained high levels of of uh meditation and have looked into these things at that level are that you have this karma and it goes to previous lifetimes. And the You got baggage, baby. That's what it's saying. You have baggage. When you die, all your baggage is gonna is gonna force you to choose certain options for the body. Whether I know it or not I had Yes. A previous life. Yeah. That's what that is. Yeah, again there's these there there's depends on what what different kinds of levels there there are s different realms out there and one of them is the is c called the six realms and You could have been a god, you could have been a demon, you could have been an animal, you could have been you know, just a few lowest This one is the Hell Realms. And then that's really just pretty similar if you've ever read Dante or anything like that. You know, it really is just uh you know, Old Testament. you know, fire and and all the things. Now is there anybody um alive who is alive for the first time who doesn't have a previous life? I can't answer that question. I'm I'm clueless. It's possible then. But I just don't have any way of knowing. Buddhism doesn't attempt to answer that question. Buddhism doesn't attempt to answer that. Okay. Okay. Now at some point uh in the in the process uh I die or you one uh one of us in this room dies of we certainly will. And Well yeah that that's Okay, cool. We agree. We agree. There it is. We agree. We would go into some other existence and then we would choose a new life to come back as that what I understood you to say before. We would choose how to read the thing. Based on the karma that's again it would be certain choices that would present themselves. Uh so there's a big difference in this original school, the Theravadan school which I really can't talk academically about. And the Mahayana school. And I think in the Theravadan school or the earliest or early school um that w when you die you just die. And um yeah, but I and I'm not I can't I don't want to go any further to that 'cause I don't understand. But in the Mahayana school, um yeah, you can go on and on For is each life an improved life? No, no. Or you can make take steps backwards and have Definitely yeah. Well and yeah, just depending on what Well like that's how our prostitute friend got here. Yeah. Is that she might have had a better life last time, but she didn't handle it very well and she did a poor job with her better life. And so because she uh did so many bad things and thought the wrong way, she was brought back uh and she's paying the price now for what happened previously. Right. And so it's almost it it it it's almost like like purgatory, but you're living through purgatory, trying to ascend Yeah, and it can be again it can be as a in as a hell being, it can be as what's called a hungry ghost person who's described as having this huge belly and this little teeny mouth and so they can never get enough. So if you die. Yeah. Big belly, small mouth. Yeah. If you d You know what I I relate to that my whole life. Big belly, small mouth. You're gonna be reborn in the He can relate to it, but he doesn't resemble it. He's got a big belly and a big mouth. Right. Okay, well And then there's the animal realms and then the human realms and then what's called the Titan or demigod realms and the god realms. And they're related to to the um negativities in the negativity of the hell realm is if you die and with anger then you are reborn in the hell realms. If you die with um uh lust and and gluttony then you're reborn in the hungry ghost realms. If you're if you die and you're just ignorant, you don't get it. then you're reborn in the animal realms. If you die and um and you have envy, then you are reborn in the uh demigod realms. And if you d um die i with ego, with pride being your main personality structure then you're reborn in the God realms. And if you're be reborn in the God realms then you have all this God stuff like in again like the like the Greek gods like power Yeah, but you and you live for five hundred years, but after three hundred years, every night when you go to sleep you dream that you're gonna be reborn in the hell realms. Which is what it ultimately happens. And so you have this like two hundred years of night. So what do those guys hang out? Do they hang out on Mount Olympus? Yeah, if you can find Mount Olympus, you can't do it. What's the right word here? The original source or what is the foundation of of of the the teaching of the understanding of what you just explained? From Buddha. Yeah, that was yeah. So he had these visions or these understandings and he wrote them down. Yeah. And I've studied with like current teachers, like one guy who had been in sixteen years in meditation and another person, um Garchin Rampushe, who got enlightened, became enlightened in a Chinese prison camp um in Tibet. And y and both of them said very emphatically, you know, you guys might think that this is just a you know an a analogy But the truth of the matter is it's real 'cause I've been there. You know, I've been in meditation states in which I've had that kind of suffering. So you know, so again Freedom you mean Uh uh but again that you know, Buddhism always refers things back to the na to what our mind perceives. You know. So if you if you're this prostitute and you know, you go out and you know, you do a good trick and the person's nice and you get a lot of money, you know, then that's a good night for you, you know And if you go out and you get some slab because it eats you up, then it's a bad night. But there is absolute right and wrong, right? I mean like there's still a sense that you shouldn't lie, you shouldn't cheat. Yeah, the ten very karma from a previous life. But you don't call them s you don't call it sin. It's more of an ignorance to what the right way of behaving is. Is that Yeah, it's a good idea. And a lot of that is ha has this notion of karma which we call habitual tendencies. So our mind um t our mind has the habit of, you know, being slothful or, you know, being avaricious or whatever those things are. So when uh we're presented with with situations then that's the thing that clicks in. Right. You know. And so the eightfold path, you know, is the way that you go through the training that that just members uh there's what's the right word, you know, um dissolves that habit and in turn creates a different habit. And I I'm sure that's the same practice that you do in Christianity is learning a b uh different hab habitual way to be. Yeah, I don't want to make the mistake of assuming that Every single person listening to the show would know what the Christian view is. So maybe if we could take a moment, Jonathan, what is the answer to the question of, you know, what happens when we die? Do we come back in these cycles or is there s what well let me just ask it simply great what happens when a when a person dies from the classic Christian uh perspective on that is that you have one life When you die, then there's the judgment, and at the judgment seat, Christ Himself will s will will uh open the book and look at all the things that you've done, the good and the bad, and uh and you'll be judged on that basis. And that ultimately the question is going to come down to, uh, with all the good and the bad things that you've done, the question is going to come down to, okay Uh why should he allow you uh to spend eternity in his holy presence? And the only answer to that is gonna be according to Christianity, because I believe in the blood of Jesus Christ, and because I place my total faith in uh Christ's suffering and death on the cross, and that that will uh then pay the price for the sins of the past and allow us to uh to spend eternity with God in heaven. Wow that's like the shortest answer he's ever given. Amazing. So can I add can I bounce off that? Oh yeah So uh an an i interesting concept in the Mahayana Buddhism is the concept of the bodhisattva. Okay and so a person who is so there's these various levels of enlightenment which end in being equal to the Buddha, uh attaining a level of understanding that's equal to the Buddha of Buddhahood. Okay. Um and as soon as you have that first one then you enter the path to of the bodhisattva. And the and the bodhisattva is someone who um chooses to be reborn in a situation in which they can help other beings. Okay You know, so so so you've reached enlightenment but like you might come back as like a Dalai Lama to help other people know what it means to reach enlightenment or you might come back as a prostitute or you might come back as a hell being You know By choice. Yeah, by choice. But but because of our understanding then then what we would normally consider suffering isn't the case anymore. That we don't we don't have that level of suffering because we don't have ignorance. You know, we have the w wisdom of knowing uh of un of n knowing what the true nature of reality is. Okay That's the uh well the okay was the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, the pastor there, and the voice before that, uh for a slightly more extended period of time before Jonathan's okay, was uh that of Mike Campbell. who is a member of the board of directors for the Tibetan Meditation Center here in Frederick. Um Buddhism, Christianity, there's two things, and we've got about maybe a little less than fifteen minutes left. And I don't know if we have time to flesh these out as well as we would like. Yes. But there are two main things that I think need to be talked about. Okay. One is the idea of nirvana, because that's something that even non-Buddhists have heard of. We think we have a uh a a sense of what that means, but I don't think we really have a clear understanding of what that means. Maybe the Buddhists can't give us a an understanding. Maybe it's not Who knows? But I want to talk about the idea of Nirvana, what it is, that sort of thing. And I also want to talk about the person of Jesus because there is some shared history there, Buddhists uh have some sort of a belief in Jesus as him being some sort of a Bodhisattva. What that word he just said? Bodhisattva. So I want to talk about those two things. Firstly we can start with nirvana. I know it's difficult. It's like asking a Christian to explain the Trinity, I'm sure. You know, w Yeah, we we have a Trinity too, but we won't go there. Yeah. Oh, well can ooh, we've got my anchors. Can you do that trifle? Tri Murdy? Pardon? Is that the Tri Murdy or is that Hindu? Oh, it's Anyways, yeah. I mean it would be a good show next time or something. Okay. Okay. Okay, so Nirvana. Nirvana Um so if you uh th and I think that you did a nice job when you were introducing it to say that there's suffering and then there's the um the end of suffering and so basically nirvana would be the end of suffering. So is there love in nirvana? Do you love? Well, it you have I would have to do it. Joy is the peace. Yeah, yeah. We w um yeah, there is. Oh we don't in the Tibetan in the Tibetan system we h we don't much use the word nirvana, so um I'm kinda s struggling for it. Isn't that the ultimate Like you've really arrived when you've when you've achieved Nirvana. Like that's the ultimate pinnacle of the of the goal, right? In in the Theravadan school satisfaction, yeah. In the early school, then Nirvana was the highest that you the highest level of meditative realization that you could attain. And which and I think that the way that w we describe it in the Vajrayana school is that you get to a place you know, where you're just in this bliss. You know, you go in your cave and you just get into this bliss. And again for all you Theravadans that are listening, I'm sure this is incorrect and forgive me. Um in the um In the m Mahayana school, then w we don't talk about that. We talk about bodhisattvas and we talk about levels of meditative enlightenment um and becoming uh actual becoming a Buddha, you know, in in which case everything you do and everything you say um uh automatically moves a person towards attaining enlightenment Alright. Well I'm not sure that I have any clear understanding except that I know that Nirvana is more than a uh than an alternative rock band from the early 90s. Right. And it smells nothing like Teen Spirit. One more thing. Let me say one more thing. Which is that i that in the Vajrayana practice or in the Mahayana practice, that getting attached to nirvana is not any different than getting attached to samsara or the world of suffering. That in either case you end up Yeah. Yeah. So in and if your desire is only for your own um well being, if that's what you want to do is get yourself away from suffering, then uh ultimately you end up just with your ego again. You know, I'm trying to escape suffering. So in the Mahayana school, you know, we don't do that. We stay is a bodhisattva we continue to work for all people to become enlightened. Okay. Person of Jesus, what is the Buddhist understanding of who Jesus Nazareth was is. Generally not um not much of a discussion. And you know, I've actually talked to some Tibetans about it and they just kinda go, uh You know, so th they themselves don't have a thing. But uh I think in the West we would just we would say that he uh has attained enlightenment and he is on the path to Buddhahood and he's in Okay, so he was on the way but but not there yet. Well, I the answer is I don't know. But I in Buddhism we would say he hadn't attained Buddhism. So he was he was a lower level type Buddha person? Yeah, yeah. Now do you d do Buddhists subscribe at all to New Testament writings or anything anything like that? Any okay. Well I mean we have our wh a whole long literature I mean, you know, but we're not book oriented. I mean there's no Bible you know, there's uh there are um the teachings of the Buddha, you know, which were like Christianity were written down sometime after Buddha did. And I think that again that the Theravadans are more book oriented perhaps than than the Vajrayana people. Can I ask this question? Then would you say that Nirv that that the Buddhist idea of Nirvana, would you say it's similar to the the Christian idea of heaven or different? I would how's it similar? How's it different? Um well I don't know very much about the Christian notion of heaven. Um so it's a little hard. I mean, it's not The Christian notion of heaven claims that that we're gonna live forever and that the that that Jesus is gonna be there w uh with us forever, that uh that we'll be worshiping him, that that there'll be a love uh relationship and in connection with one another that um uh you know that that there will be an eternity uh you know in in where where we're still a person separate. but that there will be a a an intimacy of closeness that, you know, will be eternal. Yeah, I don't th w that's not something that the Buddhist So that's different. Yeah, that's quite different. There's no yeah, there's nobody. There's no recollection of who you are as a person, and there's no desires again. Like when I w uh from from a Christian idea of of heaven, uh I'll desire to be with God. And he'll desire to be with me, and I'll I'll desire to be with the others that that are in heaven. And uh and there'll be that that sense of of personhood and separate but together. Right. But there's not that in Buddha. So somebody said to me the other day in this class that isn't happening tonight. Um somebody said that um the most difficult part of the whole path is to go from the highest step before Buddhahood to Buddhahood. And the reason that's the case is because a person on that highest level has no personal desire for his or herself. And the only way that that person Well, not only that, but the only way they can get to be a Buddha is to want to be a Buddha. Right. And so it's kind of like this uh almost serendipitous thing, you know, um, because they have no desire for themselves. What they have though is a desire for every sentient being and all of time and all of space to become free from suffering. But we have uh just a little bit of time left. I'm gonna ask an either-or question, meaning that you can a you can answer either or of the two questions. All right. You can either uh or you can blend the two because I I wish I had time to ask them both and I'm gonna blend them. Why are you, I'll ask Mike first I guess, why are you a Buddhist? Would be the either. The or would be, why are you not a Christian? Mm-hmm. Uh I grew up in a Christian family. Um I it didn't um stir my heart. And w as soon as I started reading about Buddhism it stirred my heart. There was something about this notion of enlightenment that intrigued me. And I began, you know, studying and looking at it and um and that was Many years ago, almost forty years ago. And what uh what part of the um a Christian world did you grow up in? I grew up in the as a Roman Catholic. Roman Catholic, yeah. Same either or, only reversing of course. You why why are you a Christian and why are and or why are you not a Buddhist? Well, um my concern uh with Buddhism is that I I sense a um uh a denial of you know, who we are as people. I'm I'm of the opinion that God made us with desires to be fulfilled and that that uh you know this great wedding feast that we're gonna have one day that is all about love and being connected with one another that uh that there's a sense of uh impersonal, you know, you're just trying to reach this enlightenment and it's kind of all alone, even though you do want everybody else to be enlightened, but you don't really interact with the rest of those guys Uh my my my sense is just that that there's a that there's a com community element of desire and love and relationship that that is in Christianity that has just captured my heart. Well this was good. Hopefully uh you will be agreeable to coming on again. We would love to have you on and find some other uh there are a zillion different facets that we can explore. Uh Mike Campbell, member of the Board of Directors for the Tibetan Meditation Center, representing uh Buddhism on the show today. Jonathan Sweitzer, the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick, representing uh the Christian perspective. I am Troy Skinner, the host of uh the Fred of Faith Debate, brought to us by All Shred and Putman Fleming and Heating. Thanks so much for listening Um what are we doing next time? I think next time is um somebody who thinks they have spoken with the What yeah, what happens when we die? Can we speak to the dead? Those sorts of issues. Ought to be pretty interesting anyway. Until then, God bless.