Good morning, I'm Troy Skinner, and the Frederick Faith Debate is up next on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Put in Follow me. How can we make you smile? Faith and hope. Words that walk hand in hand through the lives of everyone touched by breast cancer. Footman Plumbing honors the courageous battle being fought by the special women in your life by donor. $10 from every October service call. Look for our technicians wearing pink bow ties. Putmanplumbing. com. Putman Plumbing. How can we make you smile? Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Grid Luck, Jenny. We're preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. Faith Debate is online. WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to wonderful things like Podcasts of this show. Yes, I said that all together. Wonderful things like Podcasts of This Show. News items and the Faith Debate blog is there as well. Faith Debate blog is not my blog. Well it sort of is my blog, but my blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Whatever you send me gets posted within Moderation. There are a couple of things I've had to edit over the the years, but for the most part whatever you send me goes up there. Forty five vlogs a week. Nine per day, Monday through Friday. So even if you don't send me an email, go check it out. The most popular uh blog page on the WFMD website, so I'm told, and it's not even close. Not even a little bit close. Jonathan Sweitz is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. He's uh every like every three months I think he he sends out a tweet. So you can follow him if you want. At Swipes or Jonathan. That's right. And much more regular, I'm sure, with her blogging, uh Doctor Kristen Largen from uh uh Lutheran Theological Seminary in Gettysburg, or at Gettysburg, I guess the official name of the school. Uh happy Lutheran dot blogspot. com. And this is the third show now that we've we've had her on the show, and I have to say she's been pretty happy so far. Did you know she's happier than most people that spend you know three weeks with Jonathan Sweit here? uh was uh Lutheran. Really? And the Lutherans in that church didn't come from Baltimore. They came over because the Peace of Westphalia had failed under Louis the Fourteenth's reign. And so the Germans came from the Palatinate, some fifty thousand of 'em and uh in one year there's ten thousand and one year in nineteen uh seventeen fifty I believe it was they came here uh across from Lancaster down past Gettysburg, down the Monocasee Road into the area here, and sure enough, uh there were several hundred of them that that were the um the first to uh settle here in the Frederick. Well you know Pennsylvania Deutsch is actually uh you hear Pennsylvania Dutch, but it's actually Pennsylvania Deutsch. So yeah we have we are thick with Lutherans uh in the in in Pennsylvania thanks to the German migration. Yes In fact, the Germans didn't settle here at first because there was a big controversy over whether or not the land was Pennsylvania or Maryland. People were afraid to be taxed twice. And so Mason and Dixon had to go survey their line in the late 1700s. And so that kind of settled out in around 750 or so and people decided, okay, it's okay to settle there. We're not going to get double tax. And so they headed south to the Shenandoah Valley first. The Maryland room over at the library is very helpful. They got great information over there here at the CIBR Arts Library. Yeah, and and most of the pict the books have good pictures in them, right John? They do. It makes all the difference. And I can understand it. Yes. Hieroglyphic. All right. So among the many things that uh Kristen teaches over at that uh seminary just up the road in Gettysburg is comparative theology. And in week show week show, week one's show, uh this this is the third show in the arc now, uh we spent a little more time talking about that than last week we got it, talking about a whole bunch of other things, crusades and public schools and all sorts of stuff came up. Yeah. Uh so so and attacks your memory if you're a regular listener to the Faith Debate Show, then attacks your memory of going back two weeks and talking about more again about uh comparative theology. And in that show, if I remember correctly, I'm taxing my own memory now. Here we go. Here we go. Um Kristen made was making the point about comparative theology is about identifying what's going on in the other traditions around the world and identify how that can inform me and my belief, my faith practice, whatever I can learn from them. Right. Is that fair? Right. I'm going to use an analogy that runs the risk of taking us in a political direction. So Jonathan, mind yourself. I'm just using this as as an analogy that might be helpful, might be problematic. There have been times when federal judges in the United States have made decisions uh rather than referring to American case law on precedent, but have referred to international law or the laws of other countries around the world and using that to inform their decisions. And some people get very up in arms about that. Some people obviously don't because judges do that. They're not up in arms about it. Um Those who would be up in arms about that sort of thing will be the s it would be the same kind of reasoning I think that would have them up in arms about a comparative th theological approach. Um Christianity being f being informed by Hinduism and its practices or Islam and its practices or whatever and its practices rather than being informed by Christ and his practices feels problematic to a lot of Christians. I'll put myself in that camp, it feels problematic to me. Right. So far it hasn't seemed as problematic to Jonathan the first Two and a quarter shows so far, but maybe we haven't gone down that path deeply enough. Well one of the things that I've really appreciated about our our conversation here is I think that p sometimes and I'm not saying this is true for you, Troy, but sometimes the um the the problematic aspect comes out of fear. And I think it's um you know like well well I you know I've got to cling to to God really tightly in this this particular belief and this particular understanding of God. And I what I've appreciated, I hear you saying is, you know, at least this now I'm putting words in your mouth. God's got us. I mean, I'm clinging to God, but more than that, God's clinging to me. And so I don't have to be so fearful. I can really go out in a spirit of trust and um radical hope and um enthusiasm about about what w what God is doing, this great God is doing in the world in all of these different places and not be afraid that if I make this one little misstep you know, it's all gonna fall to pieces and I'm not gonna have anything anymore. Um, so it's it's not always that, but sometimes I think it is. And so I'd I'd rather be motivated by um Yeah, by by this kind of radical trust in God and and rather in instead of by the fear. um should be encouraged to um substitute uh other laws in I don't I wouldn't say no. I just I kind of ignored that. Sorry. Yeah, I didn't yeah, I'm not that really no I you what you what you finished up with was this idea that well I need to see Stay right here. I can't go anywhere else. I'm saying we don't need to look to Hinduism Absolutely to inform our Christian practice, our Christian thoughts, our Christian beliefs, our our connection and relationship with God. We have uh the fellowship of other believers. We have the written word of of God in the Bible. We have the holy for Christians. We have the Holy Spirit dwelling within us. We have resources that would far supersede, in my opinion, anything that any of those other faith traditions would have to offer. So why would I seek my answers outside of the things that God has instituted? Right. Are you saying that you're seeking your answers outside of that, or you're saying that you're having an attitude of of um collegiality and uh willingness to to learn from others because that's the right way to have conversations with anybody. Well, I I mean frankly, maybe just a little bit of both. I mean s I I just um I just published the book. It just came out in August and the the title of the book is The Finding God Among Our Neighbors Okay, so there you go. And so because yes, I I believe that's possible. And so I I think you asked the question Well why why would I do that when I have the Bible? And sometimes I'll hear that when I go into congregations. People will be like, Isn't the Bible enough? And I will say, Well of course the Bible is enough. But the analogy that I would use is Um, if I if there's some big issue that I'm wrestling with, I'm trying to get my head around, or maybe even a big decision that I'm gonna make, um, I can talk to you about it. I'm gonna talk to the important people in my life about it But I'm also going to talk to a lot of people about it because everybody's got a different perspective on it. And I'm going to be interested to hear what other people have to say, again, like we were saying earlier, kind of out of our own experience, because that shapes us Doesn't mean that I'm going to agree with them. It doesn't mean that I'm going to wholeheartedly embrace what they have to say. But so when we're talking about God who this mystery beyond all telling, right? Um God, God beyond all praising, God beyond all knowing, far greater than than we can ever imagine or think. Why would I not G um go go the breath to to see what I might learn about God in in other places where God might be found. I mean, of course, of course, if I you know, my my my grandmother, uh God rest her soul devout Christian who would not even I'm sure she didn't even know anybody of another religious tradition, small town in Iowa, right? And so w would I say somehow that her faith was deficient? I would never want to say that But I also think there is a richness out there that awaits us in other religious traditions that can tell us something new that we can't learn that that we that we don't that we see it in a in a new way than what we see in scripture. Like C. S. Lewis did this in the context of the Tao uh from uh uh Confucianism. Did I say that right, Confucianism, that uh you know, that there seemed to be a uh a similarity between it and what we understand as the Torah, the the law of God and um It just seems to me that it's appropriate to expect that we're going to find uh some equivalence, you know, when we're interacting with other cultures, and uh that it will be important for us to be able to speak language that they understand. And so in order to speak that language, infused into their culture is not just you know, their economic systems and their family systems, but it's also their spiritual systems. And so you end up, you know, I I know all kinds of people that are ministering over in India and other places and uh they're doing theology in that context and um Uh, but there's a difference. I think either you're not wanting to go there out of politeness, you're not seeing it the way I'm seeing it, or you're agreeing in a way that is surprising to me. I'm not sure which it is. Sure. By the way, that's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Hill A Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We're joined this week by Dr. Kristen Largen, who is a theology professor at Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg. I'm seeing I'm agreeing that we want to understand the cultures and the religious traditions around us. I mean I do the Faith to Hate show where we invite people on all the time. I'm trying to understand them, interact with them, and that sort of thing But I think the difference and I think both of you agree with that. I think here's where the the difference between at least myself and Christian is, and I'm not sure exactly where you are at at the moment on this It's nice to know you so long and realize I don't know you full yet. I'm happy to be I'm totally in agreement with learning about all the other stuff that's out there so that I can use that information to help to illuminate for them their lostness and need for Christ. And I think Kristen disagrees, and she feels more like, no, they have something that they can illuminate inside of me about God. Correct. And I'm saying I can be used by God and the Holy Spirit as a vehicle to transform others. And so I'm seeing I see that as a radical difference. Now, I think Christian sees it as a radical difference too, right? That's a pretty different orientation. Yes. And I'm not sure if you're more oriented to my right way of thinking about it and Kristen's wrong way of thinking about it. Or my right way of thinking about it and Tora's wrong way of thinking about it. So that's where I'm confused. Okay, so let me ask you this though. On the show, do I tend to find the areas of agreement. Of agreement. Absolutely. And agree with it one hundred percent. Right. I'm still getting to know Kristen and I feel like there's areas of agreement that I have here with her that I'm going a hundred percent on them and I'm saying that I think they're really important that you might not agree with, but I'm saying that I do agree with. However, this whole question of whether or not whether or not it's an important in all discussions to address the negative side and to have the language to address the negative side and to address it forthrightly Um I uh it seems to be part of where we disagree. She's the happy Lutheran. There's a optimistic side that that it appears to me that she's a bit loath to say anything negative about anybody but that she wants to keep it. So that's the qu th that's when I by the way that reference last week's show, you have to listen to last week's show to understand that that it it was an inside joke otherwise. You know, w when we had the Buddhist monk on the show, uh Zen Buddhist. But after going back and forth he would say, you know, I agree with you and then he'd say, No, no, no, no, I don't agree with you. Oh, it's totally like Christianity. No, no, no, it's nothing like Christianity. And I finally I had to say, look, is it or isn't it? Right. You know, because the guy didn't want to disagree about anything and the result is that I can't get a real feel for where he's at until I know Uh right, it's great to know where people are positive, but until we're starting to deal with the things that destroy our lives, we're not really dealing with what has made the widow, the widow, the orphan, the orphan, you know, the the um the s sex slave, a sex slave, you know, w w we're not really getting into the real issues of life until we're recognizing those things that cause us to be destroyed in particularly Hinduism and Buddhism. Uh I I I i it seemed like, you know, they're loath to go there, you know? Well yeah, you're right about that. And many here in the United States that don't ever want to go negative, you know, because they're afraid that the church has been too negative for too long. Right. And unfortunately there's so much in the Bible that is negative that deals with the things that destroy us that even though I'm a risk taker and I want to find out everything that God has to offer out there and not be limited, uh I'm keenly aware there's a fear of God in me that that recognizes that If we allow lying at any level, it's going to destroy trust. If we allow sexual immorality at any level it's gonna destroy families. If we allow um you know murder and hate at any level, it's gonna increase violence. Right? And so so when I start getting into things about cultures that I see that are wrong. Uh I feel like there has to be a prophetic uh call in all of the body of Christ that when we see it that we're willing to speak to it and say, you know what? If we continue down that path, it's gonna destroy us. But all the things you've mentioned so far, everybody is ag in this room is agreeing. It's just a question of how we go about doing it. That's where I'm trying to get at the style of i is it just a style that That Kristen, are you just optimistic or are you willing to go there with people and address the negative? Yeah. So far, I get the impression you're not wanting to go there. We're we're talking about two different things really. I mean there there's this sort of m uh cultural critique that that I actually I I'm I'm pretty sure I'm I'm I'm quite on a different page than you, but that's really and and we can talk about that, happy to talk about that. But going back to religion, you mentioned something I think this was back in the first show that you said you hoped that we came back to. And it was when you talked about the um the kind of the the naming of of Hindus, for example. I mean you you used the this And I can't remember what it was that you said. And I I said, Oh, I wouldn't I would not be willing to put that kind of judgment. So there That that would be an example of where I would say yeah. So um uh while I And that's what I'm talking about. I'm saying that theology informs in and produces the fruit of culture. And so so so the culture is driven by By our theological uh Oh I wish the culture were driven by our theologi. But I I want to go back to the the kind of inter religious piece of where um uh I mean here w somehow we're for some reason we're clearer, Troy. So I Yeah, what you just said I would totally disagree with. The idea that the whole point to learn about other religious traditions is so to better convert them Which is what I heard you saying. It I I I think that's that that's a compl I mean that that to me is actually a dishonest kind of conversation. of learning about you is that so I can change your belief to make you believe like I do. Well I didn't say that. I didn't say that I convert them or that I'm changing their belief. I s I don't know exactly how I said it, but I'm sure that it was along the lines of to be used by God for them to be converted. The Holy Spirit converts. I can't convert anybody. I want them to know Christ, because I want them to spend eternity with Christ. I want them to know the fullness of the love of God. Now see, we have not gotten to the salvation question, and we have to save that for the for the last show because that's that's gonna be a very fun. That's like a specialty of mine that I I sort of deal with and I I know will be quite quite different on that. But I I still want to say I think God can use me and the Holy Spirit can work whether or not that person comes to a a public confession of Jesus Christ or not. And I'm not going to place a judgment on, well The spirit must not be at work in them because they just turned around and left my conversation and went back to the temple or the mosque or the synagogue. I mean maybe the spirit is at work in them and and I I'd like to think that they have in my presentation of Christ or our conversation that they they too have have learned something new about who Jesus was. But it sounds like it's all enlightenment type of language and and and gaining of knowledge, gaining of personal understanding, it has not we're gonna get to the salvation quite. It doesn't get to the th the salvation question. And even your comments earlier, Jonathan, about you know theology and informing culture, theology does way more than just inform c culture. If we if we make that a a pure equal sign, theology equals culture, culture equals theology kind of a mindset I th we I think we've lost the battle right there. But I wanna say Wait, wait, why though? Oh you think that culture and theology are are equivalent? Yeah, absolutely. When when I see when I see our God is merely about culture? All things will pass away. Culture will not exist as we understand it. Sure, right? The kingdom of God is like yeast and it and it brings a transformational effect. in the context of culture that uh that what we believe in and I believe it goes both ways. In the context of culture and in the context of other things beyond culture. Yeah, and I'm saying that theology both has to do with with the theology that I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and others that say that I believe Jesus Christ is not the Son of God. I'm I'm talking both those theologies affect how it is that we live our lives and it affect it it affects what we do. And so if Jesus returns, is he going to find faith on the earth? Right. But is he going to find more belief? I agree with you. My point is it seems like you're only kind of going that far. I'm saying I agree with all of that And then some. Yeah, okay. Well I I do too. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm like, why aren't you going there? Not sure why you're not going there. I'm just I'm j I'm trying to grapple with where I'm in agreement so that, you know, when we move into areas of disagreement I can say, Oh well I c I can see why you're there 'cause Because so often people talk past one another when the when the watershed of their disagreement is up on the top of the mountain and they're down here talking past each other, I'd rather know where our disagreement is than when we get there I'm not surprised. I'm not I don't want to prematurely try to put too fine a point on it, but I think the ultimate disagreement might be that Jonathan, you believe that people without Christ are lost, and Kristen might not agree with that. Yeah, that would certainly be one area of disagreement. But along with that, I also want to say it that's uh I I also when when we talk about salvation, we often go to that end time thing, right? What's going to happen when we die. But we also have the experience like of Zacchaeus, who is transformed in the moment in a conversation with Jesus, and his life is made new. So I think salvation also means a diff makes a difference for who we are right now in our lives today. And so it's not just about so so You're just saying it's about more than that. I'm saying it's a it's about right now. Um No you're not. That this is the point. It's about right now in our s in our spiritual reality. But I mean Uh that's not that's actually not what I heard you saying. What I heard you saying is the point is, you know, we need to make sure that people know Jesus so that when they die they experience salvation. But in the here and now as well. Yeah, but I want to say in the here and now You don't e you you can't tell. You don't know what God is doing in them. You don't know what the Holy Spirit is doing doing in them. And so I think to to assume that, again, that because somebody doesn't know Jesus or somebody is a practicing Muslim, that then somehow they're lost or somehow their their God is not at work in them. I think that's a that's a that's problematic. And then it sort of makes the whole Christian faith on earth this sort of prep for later, as though now our lives with Christ don't matter. You're taking it further than I um I'm not meaning to say it's prep for later. Okay, oh good. It's also prep for now. I mean it's a current reality in our lives. But I would disagree. I think somebody who's a practicling mo practicing Muslim is not now in proper accord with God and or I would just disagree with that. So you have you don't have any way to make that call. So let me let me ask this question. Yeah. Does does Paul and does Jesus Is my grammar right on that? Do Paul or Jesus ever say that that there are people that are lost? Yeah, Jesus I'm we and you're saying I mean does he give clarifications about about what are the issues involved with whether or not they're lost or not? Well of course y you don't want I mean yeah if you go there you can look at the Matthew twenty-five passage and w what what determines that is the kind of behavior that you engage in. And no Christian is going to say that You've just talked about knowing Christ. There's nothing in that Matthew in twenty-five passages that says anything about knowing Christ. And this has to do with how we approach Scripture. Right, do we take one passage and say that that that is the the only important passage or do we do we recognize the teaching of scripture and we say that that that that issue in the context of You know, he's talking about uh the fall of Jerusalem, you know, and uh it it appears to me that he's dealing with the Jewish people directly in that point. And it seems like, you know, like it's pretty strong From reading Josephus and different uh backgrounds to me that that he's clearly referring to something that's gonna happen h in his generation, the fall of Jerusalem. is the only thing that comes anywhere close to that. Hence the end of the ages refers to the end of of the Israeli nation at that point and there's going to be a new, you know, spiritual reality moving forward. Right. So anyways, in my mindset all that happened. That being the case, Christ defines those that are lost and those that are not. And he says to them, If you believed Moses, you would believe me. But because you don't believe Moses, you don't believe me. Paul says they've been broken off because of unbelief, and you've been grafted in because of belief, and if You uh if you don't continue in your belief, then you need to consider the sternness and kindness of God, or you too will be broken off Right. First John talks about if they obey my commands, then they love me if they don't. Like there there's a number of passages Mm-hmm. Through the New Testament that give us criteria by which to judge the fruit of those that are or are not believers. And it doesn't tell us to judge whether or not Ultimately they're going to turn, because we don't know. I would agree with you on that, but it does seem to indicate if we're to be like John, if we're to be like Paul, if we're to be like Jesus, that we need to be consistently communicating these criteria and recognizing that some of you are going to be lost if you do not Do what's being asked of you. And so my question is, are you saying that that we shouldn't do what Paul and Jesus And we'll get the answer to that question on next week's show. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Because in the podcast sequence, people might listen to the shows back to back and it'll be seamless for them. Doctor Kristen Largen from Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg, our guest this week, our sponsors, Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. What have I been listening? Uh reading? Listening. Reading? Kristen will appreciate this, I think. Discipleship. Dietrich Bahnhofer. Oh yeah, so good. Yeah. Anyway, thanks for listening. Visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.