Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Putman, Plumbing, and Eating. How can we make you smile? BMC Insurance And cruise holidays. We're online at WFMD. com. Just type in the keyword faith. It brings you right to the Faith Debate page. There you'll find links to podcasts of this show, news items, and the ever-popular face debate blog. My blog is your blog. Email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I spell it because sometimes people don't know what my first name is. I don't know. I've been doing the show for like nine years and they don't know what my name is. Anyway, whatever you send me, I'm gonna post I might do some minor editing, but uh pretty much whatever you send me I'm gonna post. Forty-five blog updates a week. Nine a day, Monday through Friday. Do the math, nine times five, that's forty-five. I encourage you to pop in and see what people are saying. And if you aren't really an internet guy, you're more of a Twitter sphere guy You can follow Jonathan Sweitzer at Sweitzer. Jonathan, why do I tell you that? Because Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and the co-founder of the Faith Debate program, and he is sitted sitted? He is seated across from me right now Uh I'm just out of reach of harm's way, so I could say some really bad things about him right now and he couldn't do anything about it, but I will I will save that for later because he's up to some good works this week. We'll give him a chance to talk about that in just a second. And uh being patient while Jonathan talks about that for just a second is uh Dr. Harpel Van Gott. He is representing Sikhism. But before we get into Sikhism and Christianity, and we're going to talk specifically this week about um uh the crucial distinctive between the two and that is the the work and person of Jesus Christ because that is going to be the crux of the matter, right? So like these were crux. Yeah, yeah, I'm following that. Yeah. Alright. So this week, today is the uh what is today? The twenty second I believe? Yeah. So we're like four days away. That's right. Frederick48. org. We did this last year. We did it two years ago. Raised 30,000 the first year, raised three hundred thousand the second year for the top twenty-six nonprofits. focused on the three highest priorities in Frederick, uh those that are most hurting in Frederick, that is at-risk youth. Those that are overwhelmed by medical bills and those that are either homeless or on the verge of homelessness. The reality is that we all know people that are in these these uh populations, these groups. And uh we are working just with those nonprofits that are focused on helping those particular groups. And the beauty of this uh this fundraiser is that you decide which one of those organizations to give to. But we all work together to make sure that these needs are met. And so you go online to Frederick48. org and you give to whichever organization you think is best positioned to meet those needs and or most represents what you think those people need the most and then you go and tell everybody that you know to give as well. And by doing so, what we're hoping to do is start a movement of people. We're hoping to sweep into the pool of people that give to these organizations. more than there were last year. Organizations that participated last year had a twenty four percent increase of uh donor of their donor base as a result of Frederick forty eight. And that was one of our biggest Goals was to find a way to sweep new people in. You can do it all online, you don't have to go anywhere. We have next to zero overhead uh for this event. Right? It's all being done by word of mouth, by a website that that is uh is donated, and so uh it's really an awesome Way for us to come together as a community. we would be close to what was raised last year. That would be a dollar per person. If everybody within the listening range of this radio station's broadcast signal were to give a dollar, we would crush last year's number, which was over three hundred thousand dollars According to the Arbitron ratings, if everybody who listens to this radio program, this show, the Fer Frederick Faith Debate, if everybody listening were to give $100 And do it right now, we'd raise about four hundred thousand dollars right now. Just like that. You don't have to wait till Thursday and Friday to give. You can give now. Go to Frederick48. org. Frederick48. org. Maybe you can't afford $100, but I'll bet you you know somebody who does. So if you can't afford to give $100, pick up the phone and call somebody and say, Doctor Mangot, I know that you're a wealthy doctor. I know you can afford a hundred dollars. Why don't you go online and give a hundred dollars for yourself and give a hundred dollars for me because I can't afford to. So you give two hundred dollars And I'll tell you Dr. Main is a very generous man. He's uh very committed to his community here in Frederick. Uh I mean I'm I'm just saying I'm not trying to put the doctor on the spot, but I mean these are attainable goals. We start talking about we want to make a raise hundreds of thousands or millions of dollars or whatever. These are attainable goals. They really are the dollar that you give will be proportionally matched. by funds that are being raised that are s that are direct proportion match funding. So every time that you give a dollar, it's not just a dollar, but it includes a match. It's not a dollar for dollar match. Uh and actually we won't know until everybody gives what the proportion is because there's only so much of the matching funds that will be available. Nevertheless, every dollar that you give will not just be a dollar, it will be dollar plus whatever portion of the matching funds that has been raised that will go to the organization that you think is best positioned to receive those funds. And it's totally tax deductible. Totally tax deductible. And it's a chance to prove to the world if you are conservative in orientation and the majority of this audience is, it's a chance to prove we don't need the government. In fact, we don't want the government making these choices and doing these things for us. We can and should do them ourselves. Their government gets involved when we don't do it ourselves. This is a chance for us to do it ourselves. And if You're on the other side and you're one of the four um uh one of the twenty-five percent that listen to this show that is from the liberal side, you know how frustrated you are that the money has been cut. by uh the commissioners and this is a great opportunity to show them that this is a high priority uh to take care of these people. So that's the we'll we'll maybe revisit this really quickly at the end of the show if we have time, but right now let's let's transition from uh Frederick forty eight to something of eternal, not just localized uh present day concerns, but eternal consequence and that is what happens to us when we die, what's the purpose of life, why am I here? Is there a God? And we've uh had this panel together, uh the good doctor and Jonathan have uh and this is a f round four, this is a fourth show, and we've established that both of you, Sikhism and Christianity Uh yeah, you both represent a uh the idea that there's one God. We need to treat our neighbors right, we need to work hard, do the right thing, and if we do the right thing, good things will happen in a general sense At least a lot in common. Um but there are some differences. Some of those differences were highlighted last week. There's a difference uh a different idea of what happens when we die as far as uh eternality and uh and judgment Uh there's a difference about whether or not uh uh humans have the spark of the divine within them or whether that uh they only have divine within them when the Holy Spirit is sent at to get conversion to Christianity. So there's some differences there uh the Trinity. Sikhs don't believe in the the idea of the the Trinity. Christians obviously do. So those sorts of things. We haven't talked in any specific sense about Jesus. My understanding from the little bit of homework I try to do to figure out what Sikhs believe is that Sikhs do acknowledge that Jesus Christ is a historical figure who actually lived. Is that correct? That's absolutely correct. As as a Sikh we give respect to every other faith and their beliefs. And w and we respect that Jesus Christ is a historical figure. Uh and uh we b we respect the fact that he he is he's a f faith based uh organization and a faith based uh principles and we acknowledge a lot of similarities uh in what he preached and that's what and what's also within our faith too as well. So um the idea of respect is an important one. Um in that idea of respect uh is there a willingness to Uh one, obviously there is a willingness to acknowledge differences, but um a willingness to to share why you would think that it's better to not believe in a savior as opposed to Why I would believe that it's better to believe in a savior, right? We're recognizing that we're neighbors that that we're not gonna go out and uh and kill one another over these things. We're not gonna um treat each other in business, you know, uh wrong because of these things. Uh so we're good Americans. But that being the case, are you willing to kind of dig into Why not have a savior? I think the key essence is to understand the historical perspective of where Sikhs come on other faiths. As I said to you before, uh we have given up our blood uh for other faiths. I'm not sure how many other faiths have done that. the ninth guru championed uh the Hindus in Kashmir and offered finally offered his life uh in Delhi to uh champion that because he would not convert into Islam Uh so w we are taught to be open about the faith and respect them. Which is similar to what the Revolutionary War was all about. We were saying freedom of religion is a top priority for everybody. Right? And so I mean people died and gave their blood s to to say that people, you know, a Jew, a Muslim a Buddhist can all worship according to their concept of freedom is a very good analogy because as Sikhs we have had our traditions and a very strong military traditions and we've always fought for freedom. In World War One, uh the British Indian Army came to the Somme and a lot of people died there. Uh and the the hospitals b are built in Britain to comm commemorate those Sikhs. My own grandfather fought in uh Monday Iraq at one two medals. Okay, so all this is areas where we are in agreement with one another. Correct. In fact, I guess what we're saying is that we believe that it's worth shedding our blood to protect another person's freedom to believe according to his conscience. Correct. To worship according to his conscience. Uh one of the things that Christianity is sometimes accused of is being disrespectful, judgmental. You know, there's one way to the Father, there's one way to be saved from damnation and that's through Jesus Christ. And it's a very exclusive claim that people like to uh beat Christians over the head with. Would a Sikh think that that exclusive claim of Christianity is inherently disrespectful and not open-minded enough? Well it depends on the context it's used. I mean the whole point is we would uh like to have an openness in dialogue. But the thing is if the the viewport is always fixed then how can you have an openness in dialogue Sure. uh struggle to not look like we're just dogmatic to those who want to throw God out and kind of discover their own truth about things. Right? And so again that's a similarity But I I s uh I'm still asking question and maybe you're just not comfortable going there. Um and if that's the case then, you know, I guess we gotta accept that Um I guess. How how how nice was that, you know? I guess we gotta accept that. I don't know, unless I can figure out some way to worm around it and then we'll Not accepted. Right. Yeah, no, so I'm being honest about my desire to draw this contrast, right? Um Are you why not a savior? Why recognizing all these other things are true that we would die to protect others' rights? You believe the absolute truth is that we don't need a savior, that we need to search for God within, and in in the process of that be released from the cycle of reincarnation and merge back with God. Right? All that being the case Why would it be wrong? Well w if a Sikh went away from that to Christianity, you would respect him, you would tolerate it. You wouldn't do anything negative to him, but what would you say to him to say, hey, uh I think what you're doing is is is not the best way to go. That's a very difficult question to answer. I think first let's let's talk on the savior aspect. Yeah. Okay. Um the whole point is if you look at the analogy of Christ being the savior and the only path to uh God. Yeah. Islam said the same thing about Muhammad. Yeah so what makes you different from Muhammad? Well okay, well I feel like that's an easy question. Go ahead. Muhammad does not claim to be God And Muhammad makes no claim whatsoever about what's necessary to cover our sin. What Muhammad says is that well, actually what Muhammad teaches is very similar to what you teach. except that he only gives you one lifetime to get there, and that is that your good works have to outweigh your bad works. And if that's the case, your good works outweigh your bad works and they talk about how ten uh how how um ten bad works are equal in weight to one good work, you know, and they have ways to kind of do the math so that there's a likelihood of people actually getting there, right? But but the key distinction Uh they say that Muhammad is the teacher, but they also think that on the final day Christians are going to line up behind Jesus. Jews are gonna line up behind Moses and that everybody's gonna line up behind their own prophet. So you'll line up beh behind the guru, right? And everybody lines up behind their own prophet and they'll be judged according to whether or not their good works outweighed their bad works. Which means it's based on each person somehow becoming holy, doing doing what's necessary to get there. And Christianity teaches you can't do that. We need a savior to bridge the gap. But I think the key concept here is we don't have that savior concept as as Jesus Christ. That's a difference. So why is that bad? I'm not saying it is bad. So if somebody left Sikhism and became a Christian, we have n we have nothing wrong with that. You would not Sit down with them and say, hey, I think that's probably not the best way. I mean, I'm not sure. By the way, there's a pretty famous person who did that, I found out. Uh Haley Barber Governor of uh South Carolina was raised a Sikh and converted to Christianity at some point in her life. I'm not sure when, but I was trying to find famous Sikhs. I went online and looked for famous American Sikhs and I didn't recognize any of the names they claimed to be famous except hers. I think it's a covenant uh governor of South Carolina. She's actually a s born as Sikh Uh and uh she's actually the niece of a friend of mine. So but she married into uh uh a Christian family and she's raised uh cr uh kids as Christians. But I'm not sure if she'd ever ever said I'm not a Sikh. See I mean because we we ha we don't exclude anybody. I mean we have we have Muslims who come to our faith. We have we have Christ Christians who come to our ch uh chapel Okay, so I haven't thought about that because I'm not sure. Real quick by the way, you can hold that. Don't lose a thought. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined by Dr. Harpel Mangat, who is uh representing Sikhism. Um this is the Faith Abandon Produce News Radio 930 WFMD. So you still have a thought? I do. Can a Christian uh according to a a Sikh uh theology can a Christian without ever becoming a Sikh train uh break out of the cycle of reincarnation by doing enough good and by s you know, w whatever he does, f end up finding the God within and be released. Sure. Equally well too. I mean you you so a Muslim could do that as well, without ever becoming a Sikh. Yes. I mean you asked the question which is very personal to me. I have a cousin who was born a Sikh uh he chose to become a Christian in LA. His reasons for choosing to become a Christian was different from what you're saying, but we respect him for that. We encompass him in in and he comes to both the Gurdwara and he goes to the church. Now there's one question about you know the historicity of Jesus actually living and walking on earth. I'm assuming. Uh what about the the death on the cross? Do Sikhs accept that Jesus died in an execution on a cross? And what about the resurrection? That I think is not a question of a Sikh, it's a question of your personal belief. Uh that's Okay, so what per I'm gonna do the same thing I always do with you. What percentage of Sikhs would say That Christ did not rise from the dead, what percentage would say he probably did? You think it's fifty-fifty? I'm not sure it's in fifty-fifty. I think the key question really is understanding the concept of resurrection. And understand the importance of resurrection. I mean in our faith, when our g la our first guru died, it was very interesting. Uh the uh the Muslims claimed to be him to be d one of theirs. The Hindus claimed to be one of theirs. And just before he died, his followers said, Do you want to be buried like the Muslims or do you want to be burnt uh like the Hindus? Well, what happens when he passed away the next morning two flowers are found there? We know we don't know what happened to the body Right. So th okay, so so that's a resurrection. So we're asking specifically about the idea that Christ rose and appeared to his followers in a body that ate food. and could be touched, um do Sikhs believe that that that he actually rose from the dead or no? I believe those who What percentage? I I can't answer that question percentage wise. I think the whole point is those who are knowledgeable about the concept of resurrection. uh would agree with it. Those who read about the resurrection. But a lot of the uh a lot of Sikhs who maybe the Punjab don't have that knowledge base to answer that question. So unlike Islam, a Sikh believes that it was actually Jesus on the cross who died. Right. Oh right. Okay. Because Islam thinks that it was Judas who died, who made to look like Jesus. Okay, so this is this is where I think the contrast between Christ as a Savior and what his demands are as the only way to the Father is in Sikhism was probably the most sharp in terms of the contrast. Uh I think that contrast is most sharp uh when when we come to the the question of of suffering and and the pain that we face in life, right? The the Buddhist or Hindu idea of reincarnation is that we're stuck in this cycle of suffering in that when we finally attain to Godhood, we're released from the cycle of suffering. Right. And um and the question is If life is suffering, is it really good for a just God to let us suffer through eight and a half million lives just to become a human? And then another, you know, however many to keep trying, keep trying, keep trying to someday reach heaven or reach eternal life, or would it be more uh just for him to say, look, uh what I wanna know is that is is your sincerity to recognize that you have sin and if you're willing to recognize that then I'm going to restore you to a place where you can live with live free of sin and live righteous by putting my spirit inside of you. Which way is more just I don't know the answer to that, but I think i within our faith we have the ability to correct your misdoings by doing good deeds. I understand. Uh the question of the the savior approach is is not there, so I can't comment on that. It's interesting, you used the word misdoings. Is is the word sin not a Sikh word that's used? Well I think we use the word sin, it's it has a connotation a biblical connotation. That's why I I So what is the Sikh term? What do you use in your s your Sikh? I'm not sure how to uh express that in English. But the whole point is I just use the you know perfectly correct phrase, misdoings. Wrongdoings. Huh. Hm. Okay. And so there is an idea of misdoings, but those misdoings like for example, if I if I uh crash into your car, I could say, oh man, I'm really sorry I did that. I I apologize, right? But your car is still a wreck. Right. And so if I got no money and I got no uh I got no insurance, I got I got no grammar others. That's the secret with between me and you said it before you said it. So then you're stuck with nothing, with no payment. to to make right what I've done wrong. You know, in the Jewish mindset, you you don't just pay back if you stole something, but you pay back plus five percent. Right, 'cause there's measure of pain and suffering and difficulty for having to go without. Right. And so the the question of of making things right when you don't have any way to make it right, who's going to make it right? Well, I think in that context the way I look at it, if you if you can't make a right, obviously there's a loss. But the whole point is um Yeah, the pain and suffering you go through, God will give you something more better in a l in a different way. So God will reward you somehow for going through the pain and suffering. So um there's a measure of grace. It's interesting that many times in our discussion I think we're coming to the end here, uh you've mentioned that there's just not that concept in Sikhism, so you don't know how to speak to it. And yet you're such a thinker in general, which is why I I liked you immediately as my doctor. You know, you're such a thinker in general that I'm surprised you haven't taken more time to consider you know, the concepts of some some of the you know, some of these other religions, you know, and just consider well, okay, I wonder if that's an important concept or not. I'm too busy being a doctor. That's a problem. If you would eat better and get more exercise, you'd free him up. It's your fault, John. Speaking about eating better and eating more and all that sort of stuff. We've got a couple of minutes and I want So I want to give you a chance to put a plug in for Frederick Forty one more time in like ninety seconds or less. Okay, so we're gonna be there all week, you know, with uh we're gonna be there later on on Blaine's show uh um on Thursday and Friday and on um Bob Miller show on Thursday and Friday. We're going to be talking about uh how uh we are inviting the entire community of Frederick. to come together on September 26th and 27th, Thursday and Friday, and to go online to Frederick48. org and pick one of the organizations that is represented uh that you feel like is best positioned to help those that are either dealing with at-risk youth or homelessness. Those overwhelmed by medical bills. You pick which one you think is the best organization and give to them generously and then Go on Facebook, go on Twitter, go on your email, go tell all your friends to go to that website and to give as well. And let's see if we can't exceed what we did last year, which is $300,000 for those organizations. Fort and you don't have to wait four days to start giving. Go to go there now. You could go right now. W. Frederick48. org. Frederick48. That's correct. org, not dot com, not dot net, not dot edu. None of that. In the school system, every single child was set home with a flyer about this. We have uh the um uh Boy Scouts, the Girl Scouts, we got uh Frederick uh Community College, we have Hood College, we have Catholics, Muslims, Jews, Christians, we have atheists, we have the Business Community Chamber of Commerce, you know, Rotary Clubs. Everybody working together so that we can sweep more people into the giving pool in Frederick. So the people that don't know how to give to these organizations or know what's happening, we'll both know and be able to give so that we can improve what we're doing uh on behalf of those that are most hurting in Frederick Don't just dip your toe into the giving pool. Dive right in. The water's fine. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and the uh tip of the spear on Frederick48. org Want to thank uh the good doctor, Dr. uh Harpo Mangot for being on representing Sikhism these last four weeks. It's been an education. I'm I'm uh I'm really thrilled that uh we had the opportunity to do this and we'll do it again sometime. Wanna thank our sponsors, Putman Plumigan Heating, how can we make you smile? PMC Insurance and who am I forgetting? Cruise Holidays. Drew a mental blank there. Apologies, Cruise Holidays. I'll give you another plug. Cruise Holidays, sponsoring this program. What have I been reading lately? Well, given with what we were talking about, this is appropriate B. B. Warfield's The Person and Work of Christ. I would recommend that. Check it out. Go on Amazon, you can find it. It's out there. All right. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless.