Welcome to Craig Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman How can we make you smile? Again I want to invert it a uh inverge. That's a word. I'm sure it's a word. I dare you to challenge me in Scrabble if that's not a word. I encourage you to uh visit us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find a daily Monday through Friday updated blog and I need you to email me, Troy at WFMD. com because your blog or my blog is your blog. So you email me and I post what you email. It's a way to make the show interactive. So we don't take calls You know, the show's actually I have two pastors in the room today. The show's not live, okay, so I couldn't take calls if I wanted to unless it's through some sort of divine supernatural intervention. So the way to make the show a little interactive is We post your emails on the uh Faith Debate uh page. So I encourage you to do that. What am I reading these days? Little John Piper goes a long way. Don't waste your life. A hearty recommend for that one. And we're going to talk about how CEOs shouldn't be wasting their life or yours or mine today. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And uh co-founder of the show and founder and president and CEO of Frederick 48? Yes, Frederick 48 I'm very excited about uh where we're going with this this year. We are uh we have put together a team. Last year we didn't have enough time because we were responding to the cuts the commissioners have made. Well this year we're beyond that. You know, we're we're not uh tying it to the cuts Commissioners made. We're just gonna take it to the next level and We have a team put together that has uh several uh very high energy uh people here in Frederick that are ready to rally the Catholic community, ready to rally other parts of the faith community, re ready to rally our school systems and uh uh students, uh both in the uh elementary and high school, up through high school and up into college. uh students to get all of Frederick out for forty-eight hours to see if we can give more in forty-eight hours than has ever been given to those charitable organizations that are helping those that are most in need in Frederick. And the cool thing is that the way that we're setting it up is you decide which organization to give to. Nobody else decides for for you. We're Finishing the website so that you can give through the website. We had one that we used last year with the United Way and we're taking that to a whole new level this year. And uh you will get to choose who you give to and who you think other people should give to. And we're gonna try to see if we can increase the number of people. that give to charitable organizations this year uh in Frederick. We're making a big push on social media. That's going to be the kind of the the core of everything that we're doing is helping those charitable organizations to use social media media effectively to uh to raise funds for what they do. So I'm very excited about it. religiously inclined Christian business leaders might want to get involved in supporting sounds to me like I would agree. By the way, I I'm I'm beginning to think that social media should more more accurately be called anti social media. But that's me. Um you realize that that there is a an age problem that you face that you're just too old to appreciate anything you I don't know. Being social has speaks to me about, you know, relationship, true communication, authentic, you know, interpersonal dealings. Not this pseudo pretend I have twelve thousand friends, really name four of them. So anyway But that's me. Uh Ken Gosnell is the area chair for the C twelve group, uh in the Washington DC metropolitan area, also pastor at Restoration Point Christian Church in Frederick. And you know, C twelve group What a coincidence. That's a group of Christian business leaders that come together and uh hold each other accountable, mutual accountability, they there's training of how to run your business like Jesus would have you run your business Learn some spiritual truths, learn how to manage your people in a Christlike way, how to develop leaders within your organization. Sounds like the kinds of people Running these businesses that would get behind Frederick Forty Eight. It's just uh amazing how that occurs to me. All right. Okay, do I do a good job? Yeah, but but uh his guys are down to Baltimore And down in uh down in Rockville, so we gotta get it started. We need to get it started in Fredfield. Those businesses want Customers in Frederick County though. That's right. And if they do, they better get on board. Well blacklist. What does that mean, blacklist? I don't even know what that means. So anyways, I was just thinking if I was a a Christian business owner and I'm going to church every Sunday and and I am uh being impacted by the messages. You know, my heart is soft. And I'm like, man, I want to do what's right. Uh man, have a place where other Christian business owners are coming together and they're getting resources to help you know to to kind of give them best practices and uh and and information about how to do things and how to handle things uh on a regular basis. Well I I think I would travel from Frederick to Baltimore to be a part of that. How how often like what do you have to do if you're a Christian business owner listening? You know, to this show and you're like, man, I want to be a part of one of those things. Sure. What do you have to do? You just go online and sign up? uh c12group. com. Find our local meeting and register online, or you can send an email to me at Ken. gosnell, G-O-S-N-E-L-L at C12group. com So you'd like to do it. So how often are the meetings? The meetings are once a month. Once a month. And we encourage our business owners to think about it as the day to strategically work on their business. It's a full day. It's a full day. Once a month, I'm going to give a f full day just to hang out with other Christian CEOs. To work on their business, not to be away from the city. We're talking about an eight hour day. Wow. What happens is we spend some time in devotional We have a time where we work on our uh have a business segment where we think about a business strategy, whether it's how to deal with customer complaints or How do I develop a pay for performance system in my company? I mean whatever the the business topic is when we run the gamut of those business topics. That is ninety-six hours a year. Right. We talk about ministry, how to build our business for ministry, and then we have a time where we have Like you actually preach the gospel through the business? Well right. I mean doesn't that drive people away? I mean what if Muslims come? It's gonna drive them away. What if what if Jewish people come? You know it's gonna drive them away. Well, I got a funny story. I got a guy that uh we invited him to come to the uh the C twelve group when we launched and he said I'm not a I'm not a Christian and I'm quite offended by you you even asking me to come to this to this group. And I said, Well what kind of company do you run? He says, I own a furniture store. And I said, Well, you believe everybody needs furniture? And he said, Yes, absolutely, I believe in my heart. Everybody needs furniture. So sit down. I said, Well would you Would you uh Which is why he has a mattress sale every week. I said would you would you be would you be surprised if somebody came up to you and said that uh they didn't need any furniture and they're offended that you'd ask them if they need furniture. Uh-oh. And what we said what what I said is that You know, we are a Christian CEO group, um, but we do allow people that are sensitive to trying to figure out how to run the business in a way that's effective to come and And then has high moral standards. So what did he do? Did he come? He hasn't come yet, but he might come too. So they don't have to be Christian CEOs to join. They just have to acknowledge, okay, I'm joining a Christian group, but they don't themselves have to be Christians. Um that's a good question. They would the m they would have to have a r a resonance with the idea that I'm gonna run my business. as the way that the Bible talks about. So we we are open to having people that are not of faith to to come to the group and become members. They have to be approved by the other members. It's a membership only group. So you've got to be approved by the other person. Is that true if you're a Christian guy, you've got to be approved also? Absolutely. And what's the approval process? They have to come to a meeting, set in on full a full day. Okay. And then uh then we ask the members, do they fit into the group? Do you believe that they're willing to run their business like Christ would have them run their business and they either accept it or we tell them that they're not qualified. uh around the country and and more specifically I guess in yours. But just generally, follow along denominational lines. Are they mostly Baptist Right. No, exactly. Excluding John Calvin on the website. No, we actually have a wide variety of So when you're sharing the gospel in these meetings and you're doing Bible teaching and devotionals and stuff, I mean you're gonna be able to do it. Head knocking, aren't you? Uh w no, we don't really have much head knocking. I mean our movie as fun as that. Clearly we're not made to run one of these movies. Our calling is elsewhere. You know, our members uh our our members really value we require that they attend ten of the twelve meetings a year. I mean so it's it is a high standard that we have. For our C twelve members. When they come So if they don't if they miss three, they're kicked out? That's good. And if they if they don't we have 'em sign a covenant agreement that they're gonna be there for ten of the twelfth. Eighty hours. If they don't, then we ask them You know, we we don't just kick them out. We have a conversation with them to talk about where they are and what's going on. If they're not committed to the meeting, then yes, we tell them that they're no longer quite. So that's eighty plus percent. Right. You should do that at your church. You don't show up eighty percent of the time? You're outta here. That's right. And so we get about three percent of the population, right? But you know, when we get together, these guys uh guys and women, uh, they're very serious about their business and very serious about learning. So we we have a time that's called business is ministry. We don't get into heavy theological debates or doctrinal issues. We leave that for the churches to do. Because we're a partner with the churches. But what we do is help them to realize what the bo Bible says about Running their business as ministries. So we talk about certain values and concepts. So for example, this past month we've talked about um Well uh running our business as a ministry with that perspective of the eternal beam in mind, what is our return on investment eternally, just not temporarily? Um but we've had members go back to your earlier question, we've had members travel uh hours and hours to come to a C twelve member. We had one C twelve member that was up in New York before we had a a group in New York. He had moved from Tampa and every month he would get on a plane and fly from New York to Tampa just to go to a C twelve group. should be doing this at his church for those who are in business at his church. And that you should be doing it as a pastor at your church for people who are in business at your church. And if I ran a church that people were at my church, I should be having a a meeting of those who are in business and having mutual accountability within the context of local church. Paul Monday who was on right before us, his show airs right before ours. He's a pastor of a very large church, so I'm sure he has lots of CEO types in his church. Shouldn't he have quote unquote C twelve groups in his church? Well, I think that I think we put too much on the church sometimes. I think the church is designed to equip people for ministry. And so what each church how they do that, I think there's some flexibility in what God calls. Yes, you should challenge your businessmen uh members, business owners to run their business from God. But I don't think God has called every church to have bid business owners get together and have a meeting. I think that's why God has called the C twelve group to come along and other groups like us to have a really concerted effort on bringing Christian business owners and I need the uh pastors and church leaders to challenge their uh business owners to to go further and go deeper than maybe what a Bible study on a Saturday morning might be for a business owner. Now do you position it with the people that are uh become members of your C twelve groups as part at least part of what they're doing is how they're gonna do ministry in in and through their business? Absolutely. But we don't want them to separate their ministry from business. We want it to see You know, I want uh and we challenge our CEO members to think about uh their entire perspective of their life and Not just do ministry on Sunday morning or do what the church you know, serve on a elder board or a deacon board or something along those lines. That's that's important and we encourage them to do that. But we don't want them to leave their faith on Monday morning when they go into the workplace. So their biggest ministry, what we challenge them is, their biggest ministry is those forty or sixty or seventy hours that they run their business through the each That's all ours that they could be doing something for the eternal perspective. Right. I'm just wondering, uh do you ever get pushback on these sorts of questions? People say, you know, it sounds kind of like you know, a lot of parachurch church organizations where they're supplementing what the church is doing. Uh they're not trying to compete with what the church is doing, but if you're not careful, the parachurch organizations end up supplanting the role of the church. You know, if it is an extension of their walk as Christians and the and their ministry as Christians and their business is an extension of them doing ministry in the community, then doesn't that fall under the headship of the elders And the and the and the pastors of the churches? Well I think we this is a question for you too, John. Are the churches falling down in their responsibility in helping business owners and CEOs Well I th I I think we moved beyond and that's why we have the business component. You know, we're strategic and obviously the ministry is a component of what our day exists if around our round tables. But we also are very strategic about best business practices And our CEO our C twelve groups are run by business owners. They have business owners that are around the table. And so we're very equipped to talk about real business issues in a in a way that's then maybe not every church or maybe every pastor has had that experience. And so we go and expand, we go deeper and larger than maybe what a local church could do. Number two, I think. Um that are larger that that have And number three, the potential to have a population of many s you know, business owners in their churches. Do you think that there are many out there, you know, like Rick Warren? You know, or Bill Hybels, you know, or or these different guys that already have this kind of thing happening in their local church? I think there's I mean, you know, uh Bill Hybel's uh leadership summit every year. I think was is kind of that model and that concept of a conference that challenges business leaders to learn best business practices and go out. The difference what we find is that we have that monthly accountability. So you go to a conference and you may get a gu good idea and we think that's effective and supportive. But who's going to help you live out those daily decisions that you have to make in your company every single month? Who's gonna be there to challenge you every single month and think make sure that you are having that eternal perspective? Where are you gonna get that business Process every single month. That really helps you to think real time about the issues. And then the the best component is the peer advisory board where we have the other CEOs. We bring real time issues. So they have eleven they they serve as a board for one another. So they have eleven other CEOs that they can bring any issue to, whether it's spiritual, whether it's personal, whether it's business related. and get the advice and wisdom of eleven other people. You're not going to get that in the conference or you're not going to get that. Do you have pastors as as part of these churches? Unfortunately it's not something that we see as well. Right. We are a pay for fee fee service business. Right. And we did that intentionally. We're not a nonprofit. We are we are a business. Because we wanted our C twelve chairs to be in the same situation that every business owner that was going to be in their group. So we are uh uh we do some monthly round tables, we do one on one coaching with our members. Um we also do seminars and and conferences that we invite not only our members to, but other people that might be interested in a particular topic We do that throughout the year, but we are a paid-for-fee service. Uh Ken Gosnell is the area chair of the uh C twelve group here locally. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Light Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick Seniors Radio 930 WFMD. I think there's great value. We've been spending now two and a half shows on um what C twelve does, and there's great value in it, but it still does trouble me a little bit. You know, that there's a need for a C twelve group. It does feel to me like the church should be doing a better job of this and providing that. So well who's going to do that regular accountability that month to month? So it troubles me a little bit that the church isn't doing a better job of discipling and mentoring and holding accountable not just the CEOs, but All of the members. If the church isn't holding the CEOs accountable with regularity and helping them work through difficult decisions they have to make in their day-to-day lives, Monday through Saturday. then they're probably if they're not doing it for the CEOs, they're probably not doing a very good job of it collectively for the entire congregation. Okay, so let's look at church history, right? You're the Apostle Paul, you know, and uh and you've got um Priscilla and Aquila You know, uh what she's a worker in purple, you know, the different ones uh that that come along and and you're a growing organization uh that is pretty unified, you know, in terms of uh of what they represent. And you've got one business owner that that gets it and is is trying to live out Christ in their business. And you got another business owner that's coming to your services regularly but isn't getting it, I mean you're probably going to say, Hey, would you s you know, you'd say to the to the guy that gets it, the business owner that gets it, would you sit down with me and this other guy You know, 'cause 'cause uh I I feel like there's some some things that you could work out together. Right. Well, as the church continued to grow, I bet that there was all kinds of things like that happening, but what's happened is that the church has splintered since the uh Protestant Reformation and even before that, and that splintering has created all kinds of gaps that that these um uh these organizations step into that are parachurch. Right, and preferably, you know, we'd all bless one another and care for one another. There'd be a sense that we're all one. in Christ together. We've tried to do that somewhat with the evangelical ministerial fellowship. Uh but in in fact I'd like to see in Frederick that those those pastors in those churches that are serious about the gospel that are serious about the Word of God, uh helping to facilitate something like that happen here in Frederick. You know, and the question is is is a question of unity of the body of Christ, I think, Troy, not so much uh a question of um of whether or not the church should be doing it better. The church should be doing a lot of things better If we were walking in the unity that Christ won for us on the cross, I think we'd do way more of those things a lot more effectively. But we've lost that. And and unless we're we regain it, I think there's gonna continue to be gaps that have to be filled by parish or church organizations that could be filled by the church if we just didn't perceive them as threats and we work together. And I don't want to challenge your ability to make a a living by getting more organizations in this area, but I would put out a charge to any and all pastors listening that you need to think about your church doing this better. Your local congregation should be doing a better job of this. And maybe as part of that you could get some people involved in C twelve. Yeah, I I don't see that it has to either or But if if it if C twelve is a ministry, at least part of the component is this ministry mindset and it's for the church and it's for believers to come together. It's the church being the church, but without the covering. But a better scenario is a person who wants to lead the Bible study goes to their pastor or their leadership or their church and says, Hey I want to lead the Bible study at my house. This is the book we're going to study or this is the Bible we're going to Book of the Bible we're going to be focusing on. I'd like your blessing and your insight and your oversight on how we're going to handle this. That would be in more ideal situations. Uh uh one church has two CEOs, another church has two CEOs, you know, another church is a really big one, they've got six or seven. You know, uh that uh churches are limited precisely because they're splintered away from one another. And if you have a church that's big enough, maybe there's one or two churches here in Frederick that are big enough that they could have a whole C twelve group of these guys that had uh unified pastoral oversight from that congregation. But but again I uh like like I hear your challenge and I'm just saying that as a pastor um uh I don't think it's gonna happen. But if a group of pastors got together and went to their business owners and said, Hey, we'd like to recommend Uh you guys getting together and we'd like to and you know we'd like to say that we encourage that as a group of pastors, you know, and You know, Ken Gosnell's material is the kind of material that we feel like is is really good material, you know, that that could provide that. But the providing of that oversight I just think Can't happen church by church. It's somehow it's gotta be a unified thing. And as a pastor, I'll just say I would rather buy a member go out and start a Bible study. I mean if they feel like God is calling them in their community On their neighborhood to start a Bible study, I they don't have to ask me for approval of that. I mean they might come and say what what do I recommend but I'm equipping them. That's my job. Sure, but I'm not saying that they that they have to ask. That was what I was trying to say. I don't think they have to ask But he's not usually so good. Uh I I think if they were doing Sure, I mean you know, communication is always a great thing, but I'd rather them have if God has called them to do something in their neighborhood. Man, wouldn't that I I was thinking about that with Easter not too long ago. Wouldn't it be better? You know, all of our churches get together having Easter at night. for the neighborhood and so on and so forth. Wouldn't it be better if we had fifty Easter egg hunts? If every member of our church did an Easter egg hunt in their neighborhood. He hates everything that has any kind of Pagan background connotations. I just think it's good to have covering and oversight. You know, that's it's part of our interpersonal relationship, it's part of what it means to have leaderships in your church. They're kind of outside of traditional church leadership, but there's not a church covering It's a good question. Maybe it's a very good thing. That's uh that's been in existence from since the very beginning. Um and they have to have a unanimous uh decision. And there's there's pastors or church leaders on that board. Uh church leaders on unanimous decisions. I'm telling you, Troy, we sound like the Catholic Church here. You know, like well if the Pope hasn't said yes or the College of Cardinals hasn't said yes. Yes. What I would challenge is every pastor that's listening, I would ch challenge you to preach one sermon this year on faith in the workplace. And then challenge any business at least one. Challenge every person to not leave their faith when they go to work on Monday morning. And challenge any business owner to run their business as Christ would run the church. That's the first thing the church is going to be. We're doing a courageous Bible study right now and and they get into that very effectively about the importance of taking your faith with you. I've been pleased with their material. Yeah, and I again d I want to make sure it's not misunderstood. Uh I'm not talking about that there's this need for some authoritarian dictate and only those who have a position of leadership have any say. But I'm thinking more about the heart of Paul. Yeah, I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. And and and he's at at that point forward He's an apostle. And yet he goes out of his way to go meet with the council of Jerusalem to kind of get their blessing. Right, he didn't after the fact. I think he went out and preached and talked for a while. Talked to the Gentiles. Then he kinda got it stirred up. I've just been studying that issue you know in Galatians because we now meet in a messianic Jewish congregation building, right? And so I've been studying that out. And the reality is that in Galatians he makes it very clear that that he went up to Jerusalem Um because the Judaizers that had come down from Jerusalem were trying to impose something. So he went up to Jerusalem. uh you almost get the sense as much to verify that the apostles were doing the right thing as that he was doing the right thing. But uh I think your principle is that he was he was keen for there to be a sense of unit unified And that there was a understanding of what should be said and done. I don't think that we can I would I would challenge the And I haven't really thought it through, but my first blessed instinct is that that the Acts fifteen council can't be considered a covering council for the Apostle Paul. And that he didn't perceive it that way so much as he went up Well, on that note we're going to have to end. We will stand on the word of God. We can do no other. Jonathan Swipe, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, our guest this week from the C twelve group, Ken Gosnell. Visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Our sponsor has been Putman, Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Talk to you again in uh what is it, 167 and a half hours. Till then, God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pop and plumbing, how can we make you smile