This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales online at HiloAutoSale. com and tire prose of Frederick. We're online at WFMD dot com keyword faith. We have a wonderful panel back for a fifth goal round. One off of the record. Five uh shows in a row at the same panel. Uh I think the most we ever do is six. So the one off of the record. Call Guinness if we do one more show. Julius Chern is the pastor of St. John's Bible Fellowship Church in New Market, and the evangelist at that same church is Kendall Lovelace. We're also joined by Daniel Razby, who is a recent law school grad just took the bar and he's on pins and needles waiting to see if he passed. I don't know. I he's clearly gonna pass. Have you listened to the last four shows? Uh he has his degree from Oak Brook College of Law in California. Um did I mention me on Troy Skinner I don't know if I did or not. But uh I'm irrelevant. So we've been talking about things in the news and there's been a lot of them. I mean we've talked about I don't know how many ten, twelve stories probably so far in the last or pretty close to it anyway, over the last four four at least ten sh stories probably I'm gonna guess So here's a story that's from uh LifeSite. I wasn't really familiar with this website until uh I saw this story. And this is not really a a news story. I mean it was a news story, but what I'm going to read to you was not a news article, it was an opinion piece. Uh written by um where's the author? I don't know, isn't there Faith Freedom uh and It's in their faith freedom I just noticed this for the first time. It's in their faith, freedom, and homosexual section. Oh man, okay, so uh no wonder I can't find the author's name. They don't want to admit to writing it. So the uh the title on this is Fearless 85-year-old says no LGP says no to LGBT flag at church. Now the entire town is against her. So this is in uh I guess a town, let's see, an elder el I'm having a hard time speaking. An elderly woman in ultra-liberal Carlisle, Massachusetts had the nerve, again this is an opinion piece, had the nerve to publicly criticize the gay quote unquote flag outside of a church in the center of town. She caused such an inflamed reaction that it was reported in Boston's NBC TV news. She was not backing down. Sally Nauman, an 85-year-old resident of Carlisle and a longtime mass resistance activist Any you familiar with mass resistance? I am not. Mass resistance activist uh was very upset that the Unitarian church in the center of town is flying a gay rainbow flag outside She is distressed because people she knows have died of quote unquote gay-related diseases. She strongly believes that the homosexual lifestyle should not be promoted. Interestingly, for nearly twenty-five years, Sally and her husband had been members of that Unitarian church. But a few years ago, while speaking at a Sunday service, she raised concerns about the church's promotion of the homosexual lifestyle For simply saying that, the church leaders declared her to be quote unwelcoming. After a hearing, that's in quotes, Sally was banned from the church and told that if she came back they would call the police. It gets better from here. By the way, it's interesting, she was in the Unitarian Church herself, so maybe she didn't understand what the Unitarian Church stands for, but they're like ultra liberal on these sorts of issues. Yeah, so why she was surprised, I'm not sure. But anyway, so here's she wrote a letter to the editor of the local newspaper. And here's what she said. To the editor. That's a good way to address a letter to the editor. One of the saddest vistas I know is that of the beautiful rainbow flying as a flag. to welcome and encourage the extremely dangerous behavior of homosexuality. Each time I go through the center of my town Carlisle, I see such a flag and my heart cries out, why, why Indeed, why is this flag being used to speak well of homosexuality and encourage the behavior? Where is the caring for people who for one reason or another have gotten into this behavior. And homosexuality is a behavior. No one is born homosexual a homosexual, she writes. Where is the truth? Where is the help for such people? It seems they are only helped down the garden path to some of the worst diseases known to man. Just look at the Center for Disease Control and Prevention website for information as to how devastating homosexual behavior actually is. And then look at PFOX. org for personal stories where ex-homosexuals speak out. Knowing how many have contracted HIV and AIDS and even died. as a result of homosexual behavior, leaves me wondering why people would promote such behavior, let alone churches such as the Unitarian Church and the United Church of Christ. Signed Sally J. Nauman. So The story keeps getting bigger, so pardon me for taking so long, but I want you to get the full thrust of what's going on here. So in the next issue of the Carlisle Mosquito, that's apparently the name of the newspaper There were nine angry letters attacking her, not one letter supporting her. Sally's letter was called, and these are quotes from some of these nine letters, hate speech, disinformation, rancid, ignorant. Several letter writers said that despite the First Amendment, Sally's letters should not have been allowed to be printed. The attacks on Sally continued in the May 12th issue, just a few days later. of the newspaper with seven more angry letters. And in those letters Sally was called homophobic, hateful, intolerant, prejudiced, libelous, and malicious. And then it says in the May 5th issue of the newspaper, next to the letters was a scathing editorial. This means it was written by the editors of the newspaper, not a letter writer who wrote in, aimed at Sally and her letter In particular, the editorial explored whether Sally's facts and opinions should be banned from the newspaper in the future. Yeah, you wouldn't want facts in the newspaper. It's admitted that in the past years the paper had run letters similar to Sally's without a problem. But now the community must be protected from these views. That's because the editors say, and here's a quote from the editorial There are times when a position becomes so repulsive it is no longer suitable for discussion, and perhaps advocacy of homosexuality as a sickness has migrated into that territory. Now one of the letters in the paper was from a local political group saying that people should fight Sally by putting out rainbow flags everywhere in town. And so a lot of people did. They put rain all over the place to make her feel uncomfortable and like the whole town was against her. However, she did happily report that there were some people who kind of on the down low uh would let her know that, hey, we're on your side, good for you. But we're not gonna stand up with you, but uh yeah, good for you, keep keep fighting the good fight. So Wow. Okay, so um I don't know what the legal definitions are exactly of hate speech or libelous material, but uh it seems to me that There's nothing libelous in here because she didn't talk about any specific person. And don't you have to talk about a specific person that because libel you have to you have to publish a false fact. uh or fal sorry, false statement and it has to cause damage to the reputation. Clearly the uh gay residents of this town did not have their reputation tarnished by this because most of the town did not agree with her. Now could the ho the homosexuals in that town have filed some sort of class action movement against her because we've seen it mentioned. Um but but but I think I think uh Does she have a case in the reverse, I wonder? Uh possibly. I I don't know. Again I'm not I I I'm not her attorney and I'm not an attorney either, so I I can't speak to that but I do I do know Uh this this reminds me of something you said a few weeks ago about uh we've changed some meanings of words. You changed the word gender you mentioned a few weeks ago. We changed the word the meaning of the w rainbow. It used to be a symbol of God Uh uh uh to remind us of God that God destroyed the entire world full of sin and then he's not going to do it again until the end uh time. And the uh the that has been completely changed and um twisted and I think that speaks to what you said a few weeks ago. Um I I have a personal problem and I'll let you uh break in pastor in a minute but I I have a personal problem with using the word homophobic as she was called. Phobic implies fear. I do not fear homosexuality as a Christian, and I don't think anyone as a Christian should fear homosexuality You can disagree with something, you can say that such actions may be sins, just like there's many other sins. It's not the ultimate sin or anything like that. But you can disagree with something and think it's a sin without being afraid of it or afraid of people who do such a sin. Um, you know, uh i I I I I I object to the use of the term homophobic and I think it's it's been wrongly applied to Christian beliefs because Christians are not afraid of sin. We we we were slaves to sin and we are still sinners, but we have made been made alive in Christ Jesus. Amen. I uh uh I think uh Sally is truly uh a victim of political correctness. I think uh somewhere you were reading that Sally was what eighty some years old? Eighty-five. And uh and uh when Sally was young and and growing up and going to church uh very possibly that unification church, whatever kind of church it was, uh probably did speak against homosexuality and and she is just standing on her convictions. Uh listen Uh people are people, and there's all manner of sin in people. To me, homosexuality is a sin. Why? Because the Bible teaches me that. Uh do I hate homosexuals? Absolutely not. I love homosexuals. I And you're not afraid of them either. Nor am I afraid of 'em. So that that is the definition of homophobic. We're not afraid of homosexuals. I've got I've got homosexuals in my family I try to get him in my church because I want them to get up under this anointing because uh um Jesus came to heal. the sin sick world. And even if you're afraid I mean, I again I don't want to overly parse the words here, but just because you're afraid of something doesn't mean you have a phobia. Right? Right. Yeah is I mean if I'm a more irrational fear or something. Yeah, like if I'm in the c i if I'm in traffic and it's the stop and go, you know, accordion kind of traffic where you're doing fifty and then you slam on your brakes, you're doing fifty, you slam on your brakes. Every once in a while you glance in the rearview mirror and you're afraid the guy behind you is gonna hit you. But that doesn't mean I'm accident phobic. Right? I mean I'm just like in the moment afraid of something that could actually legitimately happen. That's a rational fear That is a it's not phobia like right, it's like an ongoing nonstop, oh my god. I can't go outside because I might have a tree fall in my head. Precisely Right. Right. And that's what they're trying to imply. I do not believe that eighty five year old is is is is homophobic. I think she's a good Christian who's just calling out a sin, you know. And I think that what we have done She might be a bad Christian calling out a sin. And and like like I would probably be. There's no way good, but I I don't think that's quite what he meant there. And and Well, uh sin is uh calling out sin is n is not a problem. Right, right. Um the the problem is this. The problem is uh that we live in a world uh that wants to uh do away with Jesus Christ. Uh don't want us to talk about it, don't want us to breathe it, don't want us to think it, don't want us to feel it. You know, and I applaud her. I applaud her. And what makes homosexuality any any better than uh womanizing or d uh some other sin and and we just need to be very clear about uh I I think we believe. I think Christians can fall into the trap sometimes though of uh uh of pushing so hard against the prevailing thought that homosexuality is right and normal and good and saying, No, it's a sin, but to the extent that we're uh omitting references to other sins and we are implying and this is where the the world c sometimes comes and says, No, y y you're you're being hypocritical. Well no, uh if you have an accurate theology, you're not we're not implying that other sin is is less bad or or better. You know, there there is lots of sin. And different people struggle with different sins, but that doesn't mean that we uh that we it condone sin. We love the we love the sinner. And I get concerned too when we w uh when when we mean the church, because everybody in this room is a c a Christian, um you know, falling within the uh you know the Protestant uh realm of Christianity, so we're kind of one sided, lopsided in our viewpoints on this show. But uh I so speaking for us as a group, uh I think that we get ourselves into some trouble when we wag our our finger uh at a non-believing person or a non-believing community of people and trying to hold them to a standard that God has put forward. Uh we can't live to that own standard ourselves. Uh I think we need to go to the unbelieving and hit them with the message of truth and redemption uh and grace that's found in Jesus Christ. And then once they become a believer, then you disciple them, you train them up in the truth and say, now that you're a believer you gotta stop sleeping around with all those women and you gotta stop uh stealing from your boss and you gotta stop lying to your friends and you gotta absolutely engage in some sort of homosexual behavior you gotta stop that too. Like but I don't think you s we s we unfortunately start there by wagging their finger pointing out everybody's sin and then all that does is cause them to turn back and say start wagging their finger back well what about your sin? Well it's not about that it's about salvation of Christ. Well we've kind of lost the argument already before In the story that you just read, you know, it started out by raising the flag of sin. They were talking about raising the LBGT flag. And and um I think that as a Christian, I don't think she was wagging her finger at them. I think that she was ex stating exactly what she should state as a Christian. I think she actually did it well. I don't even know that her argument would have to change if she wasn't a Christian because her argument wasn't based on religion. Her argument was based on her personal experience, the people she knows that died from HID HIV and AIDS. And so as a medical fact, people get sick from uh f from engaging in certain behaviors and she's not a fan of that and so this was kind of a secular argument and she still got lambasted for it. Well she implied she implied that because of their homosexuality they got sick Uh the the in in her facts weren't that was but that wasn't based on the Bible. It it's it i it erated the fact that as a general rule, if you are uh i i if if you practice absence until marriage and you are always the husband of one wife and you never have an extramarital affair, yes, um, you cannot get A's and HIV. So uh the the the blood transfusion things like that that's like that is a general rule. But that that's where she's saying a and the behavior that is outside traditional Christian teaching as far as i as relates to sex that uh that does leave the potential for diseases. And I think Paul speaks to that in Romans when he says they they the you know received in themselves They recompense. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to us on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith takes you right to our page. Uh we're joined the voice you heard right before mine was that of Daniel Rasby. He is a uh a uh how long did you graduate? Uh a few months ago. Well congratulations, that's pretty cool. And he took the bar and he's waiting anxiously. He'll probably have those results in just a matter of a few weeks and then Then I can call him a legal expert and he won't get mad at me. Uh he went to Oak Brook College of Law in California. Uh Julius Schurn of St. John's uh Bible Fellowship Church. He's the pastor there in Newmarket. And Kendall Lovelace is the evangelist at that same church, St. John's Bible Fellowship Church. In the whole same vein, the LGBT vein, here's a story from the Toronto Star. And the title of this, the headline on this is this uh BC uh British Columbia, not before Christ. This uh British Columbia baby's ID says U under gender, the letter U. And here's why that's good, experts say. So they've got a field for the sex of the baby or the gender as it says in this story and it has you. So here's I'm gonna read the clear my throat, hold on. Pardon me for that. So this apparently takes place in Vancouver A parent's request to exclude their child's sex on government-issued identification is pushing past the boundaries of gender stereotyping, experts say. Corey Dotti, a British Columbia parent who identifies as transgender and prefers the pronoun they refuse to provide the sex of their child, Cyril, to the government when they were born in November Dottie said it was a victory when Cyril's provincial health card I've got to look up the word Cyril to see that means something. Cyril's Provincial Health Card arrived in the mail in April displaying a U instead of an M or an F to designate the child's sex. Vancouver based lawyer Barbara Findlay, whose name is spelled with a small B and an and a small F. who advocates for gender-free identification said race is no longer recorded on birth certificates or other identification because it's personal information and gender should be treated the same way. And this is a quote. One's sex, one's gender identity is a a per is as personal a piece of information as how you identify your race And it shouldn't be an ID document, said Findlay, whose legal name is not capitalized. Gender neutral birth certificates could be issued in Ontario by the year 2018 That's so far off. Why would we worry about it? Uh Aaron Dever, Chair in Transgender Studies at the University of Victoria, said an infant's gender identity may not develop as expected. Assigning gender may also force intersex babies into a category in which they don't belong. What in the world is going on? In Ontario, gender was removed from health cards already back in June of 2016, and driver's licenses already have an X as an option. It's a move that Dotti and other advocates for gender free ID want to see implemented for all government documents. So what do you have to say about all that? Well I I I object to the comparison between race and gender. Um the Bible makes it very clear there is one race. We are the human race. The human race, amen. And on forums Uh as a as a personal thing, uh whenever possible, I do You and I are sadly like-minded. I'm worried for you. uh for other other. And because I I don't believe that there is such a thing as race. Now I understand what people are trying to say by race, they mean ethnic backgrounds and sometimes they tr are talking about skin color. Um there's more genetic variation between the lobes of your uh head being the lobes of your ear being attached or free than there is in the color of your skin. So it's not uh it's not something that's that's a a very big difference And we are all one race. Now with gender, we are two. We are male and female, as the pastor said in a few weeks ago. Um And God made them in his image. He made them in his image. Male and female he made them. Male and female. And there are two there you know, if you have an XY chromosome, you're a male. If you have an XX chromosome, you're a female. And that's a biological fact. It used to be that if if someone claimed to not be sure or be confused about that um that that it was treated as a mental illness. It was treated as something that they were emotionally in need of help and counseling and and people were healed from that. But you can't do that anymore. It's not politically correct. It's not pretty great. Uh Genesis five and two says that he made them male and female. Uh he made them uh in his image, and then he blessed them. Then he blessed them. I also will remind you of this. The image that God made us in was not just the flesh. He made us in a spiritual image as well. And uh that's where uh the political correctness misses the boat. They don't deal with the spirit. They deal with the flesh. Right. Yeah. Well we're gonna wrap up our uh marathon of uh of of shows here. We've uh done five. We had a bunch of other stories I was thinking we might get to. Maybe we'll save those for another time and or other stories will come up. We'll have you guys back on. I maybe that would be fun. Uh one thing I want to say from a theological biblical standpoint on this whole gender sex identification thing It really does matter from how you understand the Bible. You know, there are a lot of people that are putting them and I only got a couple of seconds here, but putting a push to try to gender neutralize the pronouns in the Bible And that doesn't mean that God is a man who has particular kind of genitalia. I mean God is spirit. He doesn't have a body per se at all. That's not the point. But there's so many themes about how to understand what's happening in the Bible with federal headship and And the first Adam and the second Adam and and w and and so many things where understanding the gender, if you take the gender, if you neutralize the gender in the Bible You lose something really important about how to understand what's being said and communicated. And so it's a dangerous thing. It's a stand the church needs to take. Anyway. Thank you so much. Daniel Razby from uh Oak Brook College of Law, recent graduate there in California Louis Shurn, Pastor at St. John's Bible Fellowship Church, Kendall Lovelace, the Evangelist there. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, online at HiloAutoSales. com and Tire Pros of Frederick Uh that's in Frederick, by the way. Uh thanks so much for listening. Uh appreciate it. Check us out online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Until next week. God bless