We are involved in a war, whether we want to realize it. Or not. Old certainties are often met with automatic suspicion. These days it's fashionable to question everything Trendy scholars can't wait to endorse the latest new perspective. Maintaining a positive image has become a priority over guarding the truth. Well the fact is denial of all certainty has nothing to do with true humility. It's actually an arrogant form of unbelief Because every thought we think presupposes that there is such a thing as truth. Any propositional statement is an idea that affirms or denies something, and it is expressed in such a way that it must be either true or false To make any cogent argument against this, a person would have to employ propositional statements. So every argument against propositional truth is instantly self-defeating. Remember Real love does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth. And there, with the help of words from John MacArthur, we have the foundation that is the Frederick Faith Debate. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help we make you smile and Deer Valley hardscape, landscape, and masonry. Or words to that effect. I always get the order of those words taken up now. On the show this week we have Jonathan Sweitzer again, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Good to see you. And Reverend Ronald Simmons. From No Wayman. Yes, Wayman. Wayman AME Church in Frederick. Thank you for being on the show. My pleasure. Is your sh has your church ever been referred to that way before? The yes way man, no way man church? No, it hasn't been. Well it should be. There it is. That's what I think. We are trendsetters here on the fake debate. Do me a favor. Uh we're having all sorts of interference. Would you grab your mic for a minute? Do that again 'cause you let go. That's X tip. Uh-huh. It's like magic if we believe the I'm electric. Anyway, last show I didn't tell uh mention what I'm reading, so I'm gonna mention two. Alright, so I don't forget. Okay. I'm sorry I'm on this this kick with professors. Yes. So the latest two showdown One of the Paradise Nival novels and Saint, also a Paradise novel. Showdown, dig recommend. Saint, not so much. It's okay, but Okay. There it is. So anyway, but Ted Decker series continues. Do you know who Ted Decker is? And I've seen some of his uh I've seen the titles but I haven't. Yeah. He's uh he's he's a a Christian author who writes from uh about good and evil from a Christian perspective and he's Some of his books are fantasies, some are uh are horror. You know, uh some are mysteries, his suspense mysteries. He's an interesting author, very talented, but uh I've I've noticed now that I've read a bunch of him that he's a l little uneven. I would say that most of his stuff is very good. Some of it is just a little bit pedestrian. Every once in a while. Pedestrian? Yeah, just a little bit run in the mill. Oh. Something Jonathan might write. Pedestrian. So I am a pedestrian. Hey, I'm walking here. So what we're talking about Is that rolling? I want to make sure that this is rolling. Testing one, two. Okay. I'm very nervous about this uh this this technical issue we're having, but I think we're good. Apparently recently, Jonathan and and Ron Ronald had a uh conversation in which they found a lot of agreement. We were in a meeting having to do with the monies that had been cut by the commissioners, and in the context of that meeting we were discussing uh whether or not there uh we we're discussing the best way to go about, you know, kind of meeting those needs. And Ronald brought up uh a co he made a comment that really stood out to me and he said that that He remembers back to when the church began to be regulated out of the public square. 'Cause it seemed like, you know, as a response to, you know, the cuts the commissioners were making that there's there's kind of a situation where the best thing to do was for the church to kind of step back into being a part of things, you know, along with whoever else uh desires to help out along those lines. So there's a there was a sense of a big openness there. And Ron had mentioned that he remembered back to when uh when that was happening more often and the government was beginning to regulate us right out of it. That's true. Yeah, what happened back then? Well, um what a w when I was a younger child I'm an older child now I guess. When I was Um I remember that the the church churches were providing a lot of the social uh care. In fact is if you go back in history, where did the hospitals come from? Uh uh in New Jersey schools as well. Schools it was all based upon the social responsibility of the the good Samaritan concept of love your neighbor, taking care of the poor taking care of the poor. Orphanages. And um And uh as a child I remember people would the first place people would go was to the church. Interesting. Um but um I remember oh uh in New York City, the Salvation Army was informed that they had to uh hire homosexuals and lesbians, otherwise they would lose their funding uh from the city of New York. And when was that? This had to be Thirty-five thirty-five years ago I think. That's amazing because that seems like like a relevant issue to today. You know, just in terms of you know what what freedom do uh religious organizations have or not have. So you're telling me that thirty five years ago that the Salvation Army was given an ultimatum, if you won't hire these kind of people then what would happen? then you would lose the funding. At that time I believe it was they were getting five million dollars to provide social services in New York City. That was the the New York uh uh Okay, so these funds were coming from from the government. The government to help provide social services through the Salvation Army. And the Salvation Army leadership in New York said, well, sorry, we will not hire uh homosexual and lesbians in our leadership positions. And so they said, We'll make it and they did not suffer any loss because people s uh stood up to it. And a lot of people are tempted to give in to that sort of pressure because oh my goodness, where are we gonna find five million dollars? Um but the the the church put the and it's uh Salvation Army is uh like a parachurch organization for people, you know, if you don't know that Are they considered a church as well? Are they? It's more than a parachurch, it's uh the actual church. The parachurch, they're social services is power church, actually, right. Okay. But the the Salvation Army is an evangelical church. Um kind of like a super well integrated Parachurch and church organization. have given in to that pressure. That's right. Now I I know the Catholics have not. Um you know the Saint Vincent de Paul, etcetera, etc. But uh many have uh bowed in. I was working with a denomination um that uh was uh on loan to them and I will not mention them, but I remember a number of years ago when the state of Maryland uh passed one of the I think it was the one of the gay liberation g gay gay uh laws that the leadership uh in the state of Maryland decided that uh whatever the state law required uh uh is is focused on that's what we we must be in compliance instead of uh saying, you know, we are God's people. Now uh At about the same time, about ten, eight years ago, it must have been eight years ago, uh the uh When this issue of um gay marriage came up, the uh AME church leadership at the um quadrennial, uh th the first order was business was to make the statement that we are a Bible based denomination and any clergyman who conducted a same sex marriage or uh any or b uh anything of that nature would be defrocked uh because we are bible based So now this is very interesting. So so I remember back uh up in Massachusetts that the Catholic Church was one of the major providers of adoption services. for the whole state. And uh again it was the homosexual issue that basically regul uh caused them to be regulated out of helping out with adoption services. And the key there was that they were not uh willing to um uh d adopt two homosexual couples and so the state basically said unless you're willing to uh make adoptions to homosexual couples, you will no longer receive those funds. And so what that means in each of these situations, this is this is what stands out to me, is that in each of these situations a major portion of the population of a given city or state is automatically told unless you change your belief system you can no longer help out with the poor or or uh you know um orphans or you know whatever the situation is and this is this is a pretty amazing thing for a country that claims that we have freedom of religion that that when it comes to helping out with the poor, that they would be totally blocked out. And I've watched this, you know, and it from a number of different directions. And it and it gets to feeling like to to me like somebody's trying to find a you know, like a like I get a little paranoid. Like they're trying to find a way to keep churches from participating and really helping the poor. Like somehow they recognize that that's one of the most powerful um um elements of the church, one of the most powerful witnesses that the church has. And if they could just get us regulated out of that, then then everybody else will, you know I don't think it's paranoid 'cause I I I might have a naive, limited view on on history. So do you think it's a conspiracy? I think it would conda well, I don't know if it's a c I don't know if it's uh um coordinated enough of an effort to mental to say that it's a conspiracy. I think that there's this mentality out there enough like-minded people with similar agendas kind of working alongside each other, maybe without even realizing how much in lockstep they are with other people that are m pushing forward. Yeah. Uh this secular humanist agenda. Yes. In our country I would say a at the very least it would go back to the New Deal. Yeah. Uh up until you know the early part of the nineteen hundreds there was still an awful lot of of uh uh what Ronald was talking about where people would turn to the church first. Yes. And then you know the Great Depression happens, uh FDR gets elected, the New Deal gets put into place, and all of a sudden the government uh has incredible resources of at its disposal and it can increase those resources by taxing the the the the the snut out of people right So they so they start sophisticated arguments. So they start taking over. The government starts taking over these things. Yeah. The church is still involved and so the government starts to maybe take over in certain ways uh kind of an insidious way. Now if if they were this if they were this smart, and I think some of them were, to realize it's like uh it's it's like a drug pusher on the corner. And they want to get you hooked. So they get these churches and these parachurch organizations hooked on the federal money, yes. Or the city money or the you know the government money. Yeah. And here's just a little bit. And then next year you say here's a little bit more. After twenty, thirty years you're almost dependent on the money that's coming from the public sector. Yeah. True. Precisely. So now they take it away and they got ya. They gotcha. They gotcha. In fact this is what happened in Uganda. Uganda created this great system for um stopping the development of AIDS acr you know uh in their country because it was such a huge problem. And so what they did was they chose to um uh a program that was one two three was ABC. Abstinence, be faithful and uh in Christ They changed it to condoms. And they changed it well what happened was the UN came in and said, Look, you guys are doing such a great work here. Would you mind if we came in, we got a bunch of money? Uh and we w we just want to learn from you and then we're gonna take your system and take it out, you know, to the rest of Africa so that we can help them. So they came in with all of their money and then once everybody w you know was was um you know milking from the same you know, uh UN teat. Can I say that on the faith debate? Uh then is ag agricultural terms on the faith debate. Yeah, it's an agricultural, yeah. And so w once they're they're, you know, uh stuck in uh to the money, then the UN came in and said, you know, the the whole Christ thing is just a little bit, you know, too Christian, could we maybe change that to condom? Right? And that's that's crazy. But the reality is that Uganda because the money had come in, didn't have the wherewithal to respond back. And it's a it's a totally insidious approach. And this is the problem is that if churches have uh do a great job at inspiring people on the basis of their spiritual uh roots and background to step up and to take care of the poor, you know, to help out uh with with the sick, to help out with all these different situations. And they're good at that. Why would a nation or a city or a state, why would they say to themselves, well, you know, they're really good at inspiring everybody, but you know, we just don't want them uh we don't want their help. You know, and s and and so by by rejecting whatever inspires them, they end up turning off a whole group of people from being able to help, and then it feels like they turn around and they tell us that we're just not compassionate, we're just not caring, you know, all these kinds of things. Well the the the church wants the money because they want to be able to do this ministry. Yeah. And those that are uh that have power want to wield influence, they have this money and they're willing to spend that money quote unquote spending money with the church in order to have more influence and more power. Right. So they're buying power. They're buying influence by giving that money. So every time the church takes money from the government They're giving the government that much more quote unquote power. So that's a downright Baptist statement that you're making. Because the church in the United States always has taken money. From the government. And I think it's fine. If anyone wants to give you money, I think I say you take it. But you shouldn't put yourself in a situation where you become dependent where there are strings because it all those strings. Or you become so dependent. It might not be strings. Initially attached. But let's say you're running an organization. Let's say Crossroads Valley Chapel is going to start this huge outreach and You're able to make certain inroads because because you got a limited budget and all of a sudden you get this huge windfall. Blaine Young says, Hey Jonathan, seizing the hallway. This happens all the time, right? Sees you in the hallway and says, Hey, uh Frederick County wants to give you like, you know, two hundred million dollars You're like, cool, you know what I could do with this ministry? And so now you start operating. After like ten years of operating a two hundred million dollar ministry, you don't you you're not in a position to go backwards. There's no way, yeah. And now Vlaine comes up to you and says, by the way, you know what? Uh let you keep the money. Yeah. This coming year you'll get two hundred million dollars again. Yep. But you gotta take Christ out of it. What do you do? You're really stuck. It's a tough place for a church to put itself and it's not a place that the church I mean we I I say this a l a little bit over the top for the for the point of hyper you know making a hyp hyperbolic point here. Okay. The church has no Right to complain. Yeah. It's the government's money, they can do with what they want. And if we don't like the way they're gonna spend it or the strings they're gonna attach to it, hey, it's their money Right. As an American citizen, as a voter, as you know uh that I that's a but as a church member, yeah, I don't have a hill to stand on. As a vote. Well exactly. Well exactly. But uh I think w we need to separate arguments a little bit. I think we need I think we should be able to complain we should be complaining to the government that they're not being efficient and effective with the way the money is spent because the most efficient and effective ways to do ministries through faith based organizations. Right. Proven they know how to do it. So we sh we can at on a practical level we can be angry with our politicians for uh tying inappropriate strings. Right. But as a church We can't get mad at them if they if they decide to take away money or attach strings to money that we've grown accustomed to having anymore, because it's their right to do that. And it's shame on us as a church for putting ourselves in that position. Interesting. Well then you're wrong. It seems to me that that our nation, if we are truly committed to the idea of of freedom of religion must provide a way for for uh government funds to be used by the people that want to use them However they want to use them. So for example, you're speaking as a practical po uh political that's a practical political argument there. That's not a church based argument. But right, but that's my point. Uh as Americans, uh if we're of the opinion that freedom of religion is important in the United States that that we are of the opinion that our founding fathers were right to enshrine that in our constitution, then we have to fight for that principle. um uh uh of of religious freedom and we we we feel like somehow that that religious freedom arises not out of government but arises from God Himself, that God gives every man the right and the freedom to choose how they're going to worship. And that based on that choice to for how they're going to worship according to their own conscience, that then uh then they are Um uh they are still you know, the sun still rises for them every day. You know, uh there there's still food You know, in the nation, there's there's still a sense that that their needs will be provided for. And so if we're of the opinion that that is a correct way to go as a nation, then we gotta fight for it. We should be fighting for it, but we shouldn't allow ourselves in the meantime as a church to become victims. I I see one of the what I s I saw happening was that more and more the government was providing services, taxing us to provide the services that the church was providing gratis. Our hospitals were Really, uh they kept the cost minimum. Th the the government came in and started adding regulations. Um childcare. Churches were providing daycare. Um the government came in and started establishing regulations and y you have to have this, you have to have that, and on and on and on. And finally and what happens is that we W free services could no longer be provided freely because of the regulations. I mean the same thing's happening in the medical profession. The doctors have to have a s a s large staffs to handle the paperwork that the government requires for them to have. I believe that the church allowed itself, first of all, as you as you suggested, um, it became very comfortable to receive these funds. Personally, uh I've been told a number of times, you know, you can get funding to uh fix up your new your old building, you can get funding for this, and I say no thank you. If we get funding it will be private, no strings attached uh grants, but nothing because once a government has control, even if a church allows the government to uh helps fund a improvement on a facility, then they can tell you and they will tell you what you can and cannot do. Therefore As long as I'm a pastor, I will never accept any government funds because I don't want to be limited into what I can do and say That's the voice of uh Reverend Ronald Simmons, pastor at Weyman A. M. E. Church in Frederick, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. On the panel, I'm Troy Skinners of the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. We've got about five minutes uh left in the show and I got so many different directions my head wants to go right now. So I think we're going to carry over some of these into next week's show. Good. Uh let me ask you a question. Um Usually in the circles that I travel when I run into um um African American or they could be it might not be African American, it might just, you know, be black pastors of Christian churches, they usually have a liberal um uh political view. It doesn't sound like that fits what you're saying. But is is it fair to say that you're not a liberal voter? Um no, I I guess not. I I wouldn't consider I In the truest sense of being a liberal, yes. But in the in the warped sense of what liberalism is, no. Uh I've I've always been a rather conservative person. I believe first of all, I believe what the Bible says, uh uh to be truth and and reliable. Um I believe that as the scripture says, those who do not work should not eat. It's different if a person is out of work but a person should be trying for themselves. And I've watched the social welfare system go from uh what was called temporary assistance to a lifestyle. And I saw I remember as a generational poverty. A a teenager uh watching as f as the uh social workers were typically low paid uh public employees and then it became you had to have a bachelor's degree, then you had to have a master's degree and now there are PhDs and I'm not saying that those those are bad But what we've built up is this social uh social system bureaucracy. Uh at one point and I know personally of of the the time when they were actually had groups of Well people on welfare uh fighting for welfare rights which included going around the world and these people on welfare were traveling, flying to Hawaii uh various places and studying uh the social welfare systems and they were demanding at that time that they had paid vacations like full time workers had That was that was in the s probably in the s late sixties uh when the social welfare system really just started s uh snowballing. Now I'm wondering in you know in political spheres, like somebody like uh Clarence Thomas, you know, they get they they're conservative. They have dark skin. They're called Uncle Tom's, yes. Does that happen to you? Does that happen to you? No, it doesn't happen to me, but people know where I stand. They you see, uh when I work for one of the major corporations, the Uh one of the vice presidents said uh was telling people, you know, you can be conservative, liberal, middle of the road, it depends on the what the issue is. Um when it comes to helping people, I'm a liberal. I believe that I should be very liberal and and help those in need. Sure. When it comes to uh spending money, I believe you should be very conservative. You should save. You should uh be a uh uh you should be an environmentalist in the sense that um the earth is the Lord and everything's in it So yes, I should be very careful. I don't waste. I I'm one of the the people who who uh recycles everything. Uh I don't throw things away, I repair them. So you know, that by the way is a conservative issue that the somehow the right let the left steal from them. Yeah, very interesting. uh ended up being a Republican driven issue and there's a whole bunch of ways that big business has has uh ended up driving through issues that that really at the end of the day are not so conservative. And uh there's definitely one of them. No, so I don't know. You have one? I don't have we might have to do two next week. I don't know. We do a word of the week. It ties into the theme usually somehow. What what's uh Can't think of one. Yeah, I c you know I'm derelict in my duty. Derelict word of the week. What's derelict? Loquacious, all right. If you look up derelict, you'll see my picture. Didn't do my homework I'll have a I'll I will have a word of the week for you next week. Promise. John, let your yes be yes and your no be no. I promise Make no vows. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh Ronald Simmons, pastor at Wayman A. M. E. Church in Frederick, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Brought to us by Putin Plumbing Heating. Help me make you smile in Deer Valley, landscape, hardscape, masonry, they do it all. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?