And I stop Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, I am. You know the chunky that left these chunkies? No man! Someone who was unencumbered by any emotional attachment. Someone whose heart is so dark it cannot be swayed by pity, emotion, or human compassion of any kind. Hello, Newman. I don't know. They're deranged. Hello Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Hello, Newman. Damn you, Seinfeld. You useless postule. It's so great to see a show that's about something. Good night. Noman. Hello, Newman. Well it's interesting. Is this a show about something? I wonder if this is a show about something, the Frederick Faith Debate, broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City, in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Why? Because People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Fred of Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We can check us out online. The Faith Debate page is easy to access. Just go to WFMD. com keyword faith. There you will find all sorts of interesting things. Well at least Some of the things are interesting, some of them not. And if you think they're not, email me and say, That wasn't very interesting, and I'll post it on the page. That will be interesting. So do you ever get trolls Oh yeah, all the time. Oh yeah. And we post 'em. And you post the troll stuff too. Absolutely. So the calling all trolls. That's right. And post on the Facebook. That was very very clever and smooth of you there, gentlemen. That's right. Our uh our vlog is your vlog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. There are eighteen that go up a day Monday through Friday, that's ninety a week, so there's plenty of stuff that we can put up there. Why do we open with all those Hello Newmans? Why did you open with Hello Newman? I just felt like it. It was funny. Yeah. Oh, I I know. It it mo it it like inspired you at a whole different level, man. You were like on fire this morning. Anyway, let's get this back under control. I am Frey Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Joined this week, of course, as always, by Jonathan Schweitzer, who's the senior pastor at Crosswells Valley Church. And Hello, Newman. Hello, Troy. David Newman, who is the principal of uh and co-founder and co-owner and co- seminar leader and big kahuna. Yeah, he just is he's he I think he might even empty the trash on occasion. Cohuna is what he is. He's a co kahuna. Nice fifty percent Partnership techniques. She is obviously a woman. I am a veteran. We are neither a woman-owned nor a veteran-owned business because we want to keep it fifty-fifty. Hmm. So you can't claim one or the other of if it's fifty one percent, I guess. That's right. Wow. What does a thing say? I know there's something wrong about that. That is a bureaucratic NAFU if I've ever heard one. That's the way it is. It is the way it is. Good for you, standing on principle instead of bowing to the pressures of bureaucracy. And uh David Newman is also one of the uh originators of So on that Peter and Paul Greek orthodoxy. The way that they said it because they didn't like Newman. Because Newman was irritating? Yeah. Okay. So just for the record, that's not the case w with you this evening. That was just the case. Well, we don't know. We haven't really spent that much time with him. So maybe by the end of the show we'll be like Newman. Newman. Yeah. You want to reserve judgment on that. And then he'll be calling you some sort of pustual or something. Which actually, you know, I feel like this Yeah, yeah. That'll be nice. Which is what leadership is all about, right? This is the topic. of these set of shows dealing with leadership and what is leadership principles look like. And the reality is that leadership is always dealing in this zone. of people, some of whom are irritating, either the leaders of their irritating or people that are being letter irritating, and how is it that you get things done you know, when when everybody's inner when everybody's got an opinion. You know, when everybody's got their own critical judgment about what's going on. Right. How is it that you move things forward without looking like the guy that is the idealistic you know, um irritating visionary that everybody rolls their eyes at because he doesn't seem to be connected with reality. Like how do you lead toward a vision? in a society that is cynical toward vision, be for whatever reason, we've just lost, you know, a lot of willingness to follow guys with big ideas and big vision. How do you lead in that kind of environment? What are the basic principles in that? I Well first of all, it's it's funny that you say uh uh in an environment where there are a lot of opinions, when you're in the workplace and you are a manager Even if the people don't report to you, let's say you're a project manager, the people don't report to you, you're still in charge. You still have some modicum of authority there. Whether you're the president of the parish council or a big principal right there, recognizing the authority that you already have in a situation is huge to learning to exploit it and to make a difference. Right. Because if you're sitting there complaining about having no authority and and all of that, then you're the guy that's going to end up stuck 'Cause you don't realize that just by virtue of being in the company, you've got influence and you gotta start from that place. That's right. And one of the things we teach is how to establish yourself as an authority figure. even in the lack of actual authority. And there's a lot of different ways to do that. De facto leaders. And how do you do that? It's this uh you by leading. Yeah. By being the person who who establishes themselves as a leader. And I know how you do that 'cause I watched Charlie Brown, Peanuts Gang. Yeah And one of them was all about him wanting to be the leader. Right, okay. They start saying, Lead, Charlie Brown, lead. You said you wanted to be a leader, so lead The leaders do what we tell them, so lead. The leaders do what we tell them, exactly. Right. Well I've heard that how many times that the best leaders figure out where everybody's going and gets out in front and just sounds the alarm, you know, to get everybody going that way. In the Greek Orthodox Church we have uh twelve people elected to the parish council. Uh the twelve disciples. It's you know kind of numerically uh significant. It's it's uh I'm sorry, it's actually thirteen because there's the president. But he's Paul. Exactly. It's a twelve plus Paul. The way I the way I facilitated meetings or ran meetings when I was uh in in charge of running the parish council meetings was that first of all I didn't vote unless it was a tiebreaker. That was a rule that we decided amongst ourselves. Okay Um and uh we ran the meetings in a very fair way. Now when you talk about opinions Well, by the way, talk about the power in those moments. When you're the When you're the vote. Yeah. Lots of uh you try to avoid those, right? Lots of baklava coming your way, hey. There is some politician. It's definitely politicking that goes on with people talking and things like that to try to to try to sway people their way. Um but one of the w things that we did in our meetings uh when I was in the parish council was We discovered very quickly and I I sat in on a lot of parish council meetings all through the years um and I've often joked uh the Greek people uh first of all I should mention before I get into it too deeply that the Greek people uh uh including my own family, my in-laws have always welcomed me as as part of the family. And the church here did the same thing. So Before I became Greek Orthodox, I went to the priest and told him that I'm not Greek Orthodox, so therefore I'm not comfortable being in a leadership position in the world. Sorry. That's sounding what it's me kind of about my background and I told him about my background. I had attended many classes on Greek Orthodoxy and the Greek religion and even the Greek language, although please don't ask me uh to repeat any Greek words now because I don't really remember them. But um I had attended basically three years of Greek catechism with my priest in North Andover. Okay. Um, the priest who married my wife and I And so when our priest here, Father Vlahos, learned that and learned of my commitment to the church and so forth, he charismated me. And uh which then made me Greek Orthodox. Gotcha. So I became Greek Orthodox and I started attending parish council meetings and people often joke that if there's thirteen people in the room then you have thirteen different opinions, right? Yeah, but if you're except for all my Jewish friends, say two Jewish people, three opinions. Exactly. That's what I was just gonna say. Twelve thirteen of us in the room there were fifty different opinions totally right and and a lot of time you know here's another difference between work and the church. At work When people get emotional, it's it's irrational, it's illogical. Why are you getting emotional about something? This is work. We all know the goal we need to accomplish. The vision is set by the company. The project is established. The client wants something or the organization wants something. Your leader's moment that so what does that mean? That means diplomat, you know, and just trying to appease everybody? Or like what's the difference between appeasing and Well it depends on the situation. You know, in the in leadership situations if the d if the emotion and the and the um We call it storming. If the team stays in the storming stage too long and can't move forward, then the leader has to make decisions and move the team forward. So it's forming, storming, norming, and performing, right? for management stages. American psychologist. And they added a fifth. Which is adjourning. Because in in the world of project management, we always want to adjourn a project. A project is by definition a temporary endeavor. Okay. So in the workplace The church isn't temporary. No, the church is the church and the the the w the work the church is doing will adjourn. Right? And so we're working towards an end goal, you're saying. Yeah. But there's a lot of projects along the way. There's projects going on at the Greek church now that renovating Yeah. Um the building. The in the inside of the building is very beautiful. A lot of people working very hard. Each stage of that is a project. The Greek festival in the spring is a project. So so we have projects along the way all supporting the work of the church, which is to save souls, right? To to turn people on to Jesus. That's what our real job is. And um Yes, but you're a Calvinist and you don't really believe that we can do that. I'm the one that thinks that that can happen. I try to use that kind of terminology. Yeah, I I try to use that terminology because Greek Orthodoxy we tend to think of as a very stayed uh old fashioned religion and and people you know if you go it hasn't changed for two thousand years. And if you go a lot of times people say, Well, it's boring, especially if the liturgy is in Greek. A lot of time when I first started going to Greek church back in the eighties, the entire liturgy was always in Greek. The only things said in English were uh the Lord's Prayer and the sermon was said in English and Greek. So it's a very long service. Which means that all the Greek kids, all the kids growing up kind of see the church as the past in English, in school, in people that are not speaking Greek as the future. Right. And that's dangerous. There's some other generations. You start losing people There's some other issues in the Greek church. One is uh those mixed marriages, you know. People uh Greek women marrying Protestant men. It's just why you could not marry a nice Greek boy. I don't know. Are there any of those? So um and another issue. Another issue that that you you may not be familiar with is the fact that in Greece The church is funded by the government. And so people don't used to be here in the States too. Maryland way back in the beginning collected taxes that paid for the churches in Maryland. Right. And then it was, you know, somewhere in the eighteen hundreds or whatever that that changed. So yeah. Significantly. Why the forefathers were focused on it. Right. Because they and so when people move here from Greece, the concept of hiring a priest is a new concept. Mm. And so here in America then, for Greeks who were who who were born and brought up in Greece and brought up in that environment where the priest was assigned. and paid for by the state or by the by the government, here the priest becomes an employee of the church and therefore of the parish council. So the parish council becomes the employer of the priest. So this the big controversy becomes Then is the parish council the boss of the year. Which is supposed to be led by the apostles and the prophets. Not led by the well actually it's led by the elders. There it is there is Well in Greek Orthodoxy there's apostolic succession. Yeah. Which is how priests are ordained through apostolic secession. So there is a secession all the way back to the disciples in Jesus. the employer or the supervisor or the manager of the priest. The priesthood has its own hierarchy that manages it. There is a chancellor, a vicar um a priest that's over a certain area and then there's uh the bishop and then the archbishop and Uh and the patriarchy concept you know. So what point in that little description did your eyes glaze over and you say to yourself, whoa, it's hard to keep up with all that Yeah, but I'm glad I'm a Protestant. By the way, that's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor across the little digital. David Newman is uh is um Co-owner or whatever Co Kahuna, I think was the title of the Kahuna. Also involved one of the first cookies that helped to establish the uh Saints Peter and Paul Greek Orthodox Church in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930, WFMD. So through all these different things that are particularly uh uh a challenge for the Greek Orthodox, Uh that might not be it. Like John's church isn't gonna have those same kinds of issues because his congregation is i it's not foreign to them that they need to pay a pastor. And if John were to m move on for whatever reason they'd have to find a replacement and hire a replacement, they'd figure that it wouldn't be so that's unique to the Greek Orthodox. But anyway, the the primary necessarily. Um in fact my dad remembers the day that as a Baptist they voted out the vote among the elders and they said, look, we're gonna we're gonna not run things by vote anymore that kind of tended to turn things into this polarized orientation, but they moved in the direction of trying to work by consensus, you know, in and move in the direction of really praying together and if they can't come to consensus, you know, to be slower to try to move forward. So anyways You know, the idea of who's in charge, like a lot of churches are run like a CEO orientation now that whoever's the head pastor is the CEO. And that has all kinds of problems built into it as well. And so this is not a just a Greek Orthodox question. Whatever church you're a part of this this working through how the pastor can can or or the leadership of the church can be in a role of discipling and and providing a a uh authority, authoritative direction, that's what I'm trying to get to, while at the same time creating an environment where we're all the body together Like this is a constant ongoing issue, leadership issue, which I think again is where we're going with all this, is how do you Navigate those authority structures and still bring influence. And the emotion that uh that uh we had started to talk about earlier, I was saying that if in the workplace the emotion is somewhat irrational because We all have an o uh an objective to follow and and it's a solid goal. In the church it's not quite as irrational. Again, that's a very engineering background kind of thing to say. Uh 'cause I think engineering in particular is a lot less emotional than even other uh uh business environments. You know what I'm saying? So anyways, yeah. But in the church I don't see it as being irrational at all. Church and religion and God and Christ are all very personal to us. And so when people have uh disagreements in the church. And I happen to know or I believe anyway that this is true whether it's a Greek Orthodox Church or a Jewish temple or a Protestant church or a Catholic church, all churches or religious organizations have similar problems in that Uh the people who are serving are very strongly motivated to serve in their church, to serve their God. Right? And so it can become a very emotional thing. So for example, we uh we we were talking about sermons before. Yeah. If in the Greek Orthodox Church If some of the people think that the priest is not doing a good enough job with their sermons, they may want to decrease their salary. But we don't have the authority to do that. The hierarchy of the priesthood is outside. Yeah, come on, merit pay for pastors, huh? Merit pay for pastors. Yeah. And that is that is uh not allowed. The point is how do you allow encourage the pastor To be the you know, to be improving, to be im you know, doing the best that he can do with the way that he presents the material. 'Cause the goal isn't just that he gets up and speaks But that he communicates something that's gonna help it change. Yeah. And uh what well, the way we communicate with with the priests is through open communication people need to be uh you know a lot of times uh people are influenced. Yeah. A lot of times people are have a fear of priests and and um clergy. Uh the collar. And so you have to have someone who is willing to be open in a loving way. with the priest who can tell him um at least what some of the observations are. Um but running the meetings can uh motions can get out of I've seen meetings get very out of hand with with s with Um you know, sudden some unpleasant things being said and so forth. And so the way we handled that, uh when I was serving a lot of people, Yeah. As Christ taught us to love one another and you're about to come to blows because emotions have gotten so so my Greek Orthodox friends I never said that we came too close. But but I pulled that story actually from Bill Hybels, you know, the pastor of one of the largest churches in the United States Yeah. Where he was talking about whether or not we're really being authentic Christians and he was dealing with this reality that the Willowbrook Church outside. where he you know, he goes to a meeting with the church leaders and emotions like you're describing are running really high and literally they're about to you know, come to blows with one another and then they end with, you know, some kind of a kumbaya moment, you know, and do they actually strike a blow? Uh I don't think he says strike a blow, but they were like red faced, you know, like yelling at each other kind of a scenario. And I have experienced heated discussions and we and so one of the important things is to always begin and end with prayer if the priest is present. The priest can lead a uh you know, a prayer at the beginning and the end so that we are in brotherly love and we remember that we're here for Christ. And one of the important points that I always uh have espoused is that no matter what we do to work against it, if God wants there to be a church, there will be a church. And so all we can do is try to find God's will and and work it as well as we can. Hmm. The way we ran the me do you No no go ahead. The way we ran the meetings was uh if they started becoming emotional, we said, Okay Let's everybody take a turn speaking. We'll go literally around the table and each person will speak for no more than two minutes. Yeah So that there's no speeches. We had to eliminate standing because some people would stand up and if you know if you stand up in a meeting you immediately take control of the meeting. Yeah. It increases the emotion and that person has complete authority until they sit back down. So we eliminated standing. We said, y you know, let's keep our voices in in a couple of years. Crucial Conversations. Mm-hmm. Yeah. So recently that book kind of made its rounds among a bunch of the pastors in the evangelical world here in Frederick, just dealing with this you know, creating an environment where people are able to get their concerns on the table effectively so that you can get along with one another. And that's an important point in leadership, whether you're in the church or outside of the church. is that everybody needs a chance to participate. We need to get everybody's perspective. And so is that just Like uh this kumbaya thing, okay, we're gonna let everybody share and then the power players are, you know, are still gonna do their own thing. You know, like like how do you How do you keep the cynics from thinking, oh, you know, well everybody shares their thing. We take all this time for everybody to share their thing, but it doesn't really get anything done. Like how do you How do you create an environment where it's where where there's value to everybody sharing instead of it's just kinda Well you have to practice it repeatedly. You can't just do it once in a while. You have to practice it repeatedly Every meeting, uh we teach our students, you know, a lot of our students come to our classes and say, I'm frustrated because my meetings never start on time. I always have people coming late. And so what we teach them is start your meetings on time. And there's there's a few other things that follow along with this, but the fundamental principle is If people understand that your meetings will start on time and that you won't restart it when they show up, but yet they're responsible for the things that they're accountable for, whether they were there to hear it or not, then they will start coming to your meetings on time. And if you end 'em on time, they'll especially know and respect that you're that you're gonna do that. And so our meetings in the parish council are always or at least when I was serving on the parish council, I uh can't attest to the way they run 'em now, but I'm sure that they're very similar. Sure. Is um that everybody gets a fair chance to speak. Yeah. And uh we go around the table, everybody gets their two minutes. If somebody wants to speak again, once everybody has spoken, you can speak again. But you can't repeat yourself. If you're repeating yourself then you're not saying something new and then you're not adding value to the conversation. So if I wanted to shut Jonathan up, I would just have to trick him by saying I'm sorry, could you say that again Right. And then he'd repeat himself and he'd be done. So if we all know that we're gonna be trying to do that for years. You know, if everybody knows that He might know the right thing to do, but whether or not he can do it is the question. Well you gotta have rules, is what you're saying there too, right? You can't have a rule and then once in a while bend it or break it because why I'm not offended by by uh speed cameras. There's rules and the speed cameras require everybody to follow the rules or else we're gonna get, you know People ask me about that all the time. And I'm like, look, the rule's been there forever. Just because you've gotten away with breaking it for ha for all these years doesn't mean that they're putting up the cameras just to get money off of you. Exactly. authority to get it done. Did you know that? So in downtown DC DC they're making less money on s on uh traffic uh what red light stops and speeding tickets because the speed cameras have been so effective that literally they th they they had this initial rush of money and now it's all gone 'cause everybody's been trained to do the right thing. Speed cameras don't kill people. You know, people the streets without speed cameras kill people. That's right. Yeah. Big brother Bob. It doesn't even roll off the tongue button. No, but it's it's it gets it's gonna be a good t shirt. It's gonna be hot selling. It's great. You watch. Uh in case you're interested, uh there's a band called Need to Breathe that is uh it's a Christian band, but it's not a Christian band the way we normally think of a Christian band. It's not all of their songs aren't praise and worship and Christian oriented. They have they sprink they are Christians who are in a band and their faith bleeds through into a number of their songs and actually a few of them have been played, I think, on contemporary Christian radio. I don't know, but they're not they're not a Christian band the way we normally think about it. Anyway, if you're interested, go online. There is uh on uh a YouTube video of the bandmates, two of them are brothers. They actually get into a fist fight over some leadership decisions of what the direction the band should take and stuff and actually get into a fist fight. I was reminded of it by the story earlier about Oh yeah, so it's uh it it's their documentary on YouTube. It's like ten, fifteen minutes long and it's that's their way of being vulnerable so everybody can see what their lives are really like. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crosshouse Valley Church. David Newman is a Principal with leadership techniques in Newman. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless.