This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a way. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. Wang in With a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Welcome to another edition of the Faith Debate. Thank you so much for tuning in to listen each and every Sunday morning, nine to nine thirty here on WFMD. As the announcer said, I am Troy Skinner and we are in the midst of a uh special edition uh series of shows because of all of the restrictions that are placed upon us by um you know all all all the different rules and regs that are in place. It's hard to do a panel discussion show um that that like we do uh and keep, you know, distance and and and uh wear all the accoutrements and all those sorts of things. So we're making use of some material that has been uh out there in other forms but never on the faith debate before. So we're repurposing some material that hopefully is a a blessing to you. And so you're going to hear a lot of me uh speaking in a different context uh over the past number of months and now being brought to you here on the Faith Debate. I hope I I hope you enjoy it and I hope it's a a blessing to you. I wrote about the divide in the church right now that is caused by some churches canceling congregational gatherings and others continuing congregational gatherings. This is a major issue affecting the unity of the body of Christ at this moment in history. And so I'm feeling compelled to dive a bit deeper into the debate for everyone's mutual edification. And given that most of the negative energy appears to be directed at churches who have decided to continue meeting This email will self-consciously work to help us see things from their perspective. Any church making the decision to cancel worship services So long as it's a decision rooted in godly fear and not worldly fear, can properly make that decision, having prayerfully sought wisdom provided to their biblically informed conscience. However, the church making the decision to meet together, so long as it's a decision that's rooted in godly obedience and not worldly self-righteousness Can also properly make that decision, having prayerfully sought wisdom provided to their biblically informed conscience. A church group that does not meet will, as many currently like to argue Perhaps keep someone's mom from contracting a contagious illness that leads to her death. However, consider if the church group that did meet had that mom as a visitor to their church on the day in question. And she hears the gospel that day. And God uses that moment to bring her to saving repentance. Seen this way, isn't it fair to say that both churches sought the loving path forward? And the way the illustration is constructed, wouldn't it be fair to say that the mom in the second scenario is much in much better shape than the mom in the first scenario? As an intramural church question, is it possible for the body of Christ to have a more generous attitude for one another and toward pastors? who are tasked with making this difficult decision. As an exercise in logic question, how far do we want to extend our risk tolerance? In addition to avoiding church gatherings, should Christians also avoid going to the grocery store? Even without having attended a worship service, the Christian could contaminate the cashier who might be someone's mom. If the answer is getting bread from the grocery store is a necessity, well that's fair enough. But isn't getting the bread of life, an even greater necessity, of eternal consequence Hundreds of thousands die each year after being infected by the seasonal flu. So should local churches cancel their services during this time of the year? It'll be tempting in the current climate to dismiss this as a ridiculous question, and maybe it is. Regardless of its ridiculousness, what is our answer? And why? Isn't the mom's earthly life and that of the cashier just as valuable during flu season as it is right now? If mothers around the world and grocery store clerks too live to be even 117 years old, what use is that ultimately if they don't spend all of eternity in the loving presence of God? We can't expect individuals to quickly and easily alter their view of how things should best be handled in their local and personal contexts. But we can be hopeful that perhaps, maybe, there can be a little more patience, kindness, and gentleness with regards to this issue so that we can experience more love, joy, and peace among the brothers and sisters of Christ. This is an opportunity for iron to sharpen iron. The answers to this question, particularly at this moment in time, are not as clear-cut and easy as some might tend to pretend. despite what the majority thinks or says. Whatever our own position, let's be humble and generous enough to consider the possibility that someone else might be more correct than we are. I know that this is your heart, many of you, and so I have great confidence in the attitudes of those whom I know and call friends and fellows brothers and sisters in Christ. I've determined that it might be helpful to treat a number of this week's emails as a kind of in-depth study of the questions surrounding decisions churches are making to either remain open or to close their doors. Please know that my attempts to be incisive and clear might make some of what I write a bit more academic in tone than normal. Let us begin by considering the recent news story of the choir members in Washington State who were working together in preparation to share the gospel through songs sung during a gathering that would be dedicated to the worship of our Creator. who has sovereignly appointed the day that each of us will breathe our last. As Christians, these choir members, I dare say, were prepared to die. And how much more readily would they be willing to die than as a result of being busy doing the work that God had called them to do and using the gifts that God gave them to use for his glory? Uh it's been a few weeks, so real quickly this was a story in Washington State where 40 semaine members in a choir held practice. They didn't practice uh a a a lot of the pr uh social distancing stuff um and a number of them were older and got sick and quite a few of them ended up dying. That was the story I'm talking about. So whether they die this month, next month, or in 20 years, these choir members, they know they will die And knowing the risks of getting sick and possibly dying from the illness, they chose to do what their biblically informed conscience informed them to do. When looking at their story this way, do we see a cautionary tale or rather an inspirational one? Because several of the women ended up dying from the coronavirus. Many commentators have proclaimed rash judgments against these women and their church. What were they thinking? They behaved so foolishly. Well, perhaps so. Yet consider further that this was not a suicide pact that they all made together. The women likely planned to share the gospel through Psalm with many others many months from now But in addition to those far-off plans, they were also preparing to share the gospel through Song with many who might not be around many months from now. Indeed, they themselves might not be around many months from now to share the gospel, and as it ended up, this turned out to be the case. It can be healthy for us to be reminded that tomorrow is guaranteed to no one When thusly reminded, we get busy doing the Lord's work today. To say there's a risk of physical death when people go out is true in one sense But in another sense, there's no risk of death at all. There's not merely a chance we will die, it's an absolute certainty. No one gets out of this life alive. Christians should not advocate recklessness. To do so would be to test God. However, there are ways to serve the kingdom of God by serving others without being reckless. The situation is sad. It's devastating anytime anyone dies. And yet it can be important to keep in mind that those choir centers, they knew the risks. If they want to risk their lives bungee jumping or diving out of airplanes or driving in the rain during rush hour traffic or singing in the choir, Shouldn't they have the right to take the risk without hearing a chorus of condemnations? Is there ever a season when going out does not risk our own lives and or the lives of others? There are a number of brothers and sisters still gathering corporately out of conviction to be obedient to loving others as they see the Bible telling them to do so. Some are very loudly calling this selfish behavior. It seems that the word selfish doesn't fit their situation. If it is a fair word to use, it could also be used in the reverse by those who think differently, couldn't it? All the extra things the church can do to connect social media, that sort of thing, they're great and they should have already been done and they should continue to be done. As good as they are, they are lesser than in-person interaction Those who advocate for lesser right now as the path of wisdom have good reasons for choosing this path. However, those who advocate for more than lesser as the path of wisdom also have good reasons for choosing this path. Some, not all, who pushed forward with corporate gatherings could be guilty of testing God. On the other hand, some, not all, who have canceled corporate gatherings, could be guilty of not trusting God. Both are bad and sinful. So each group likely has a mix of those who are honoring God and those who are not. In-depth look at what has turned out to be an issue that is historically huge for the institutional church. There are Christians all around the world who are possibly more motivated in this moment of their lives than they have ever been before because of the pandemic. The reality of everyone's mortality has struck these Christians with a strength and profundity, and so they want to get the gospel message out now. Months from now too, but also right now. And they want to do this over the phone, via video meetings, and in person. There is a mission field surrounding us all. When a group of believers goes off to a far-off land, Exposing themselves and those to whom they minister to countless deadly diseases, we celebrate their boldness. In recent weeks there's been a tendency by some to shame this same boldness. While comparing a virus to auto crashes isn't a perfect comparison, there are many ways in which traffic accidents are a fair comparison to infectious disease. Millions have died due to infectious disease. Millions have died due to automobile accidents. A person infected with a virus has a very real chance of dying. A person behind the wheel of a car has a very real chance of dying. Even if a person carrying a virus does not die, they still can cause the death of another person Even if a person traveling in a vehicle does not die, they can still cause the death of another person. Simply by going to church, someone could die or kill someone else due to a virus Simply by going to church, someone could die or kill someone else due to a crash. Death is a real thing, and it is a grievous thing. As I mentioned before, approximately 120 million people will die this year, half of them due to abortion. During the first quarter of this year, 30,000 people using very round numbers died a death attributed to coronavirus. During the same quarter of the year, 30 million people using very round numbers die to death attributed to something other than coronavirus. Death is an ever-present danger. In fact, everyone alive right now will die unless Christ returns first. No one escapes the first death. It's what makes the proclamation of the gospel so urgent and of utmost importance to all followers of the way. This week in particular reminds us of the victory our Lord won over death. We need not be afraid. Praise God. A very nervous watching world is ripe for hearing why believers maintain so much hope. Transition now from whether or not churches should meet, shouldn't meet, and how we should understand each other into something else that's gotten a lot of attention. I've had several people who have asked me specifically about this question, which is why I ended up writing about it and now I'm sharing with you with you now. It's the Romans 13 question. What does it mean to be under the authority of the government, to be subject to governing authorities? And I think we're all going to learn a little something here. But I think. We'll see. So now continuing our in-depth look at an issue that's Church historians will likely study until the return of Christ. There has been a lot of Romans 13 talk batted around in Christian circles lately. Maybe you've noticed. What's the biblical way to understand respect for government authority? Today we'll examine that question. Romans 13 has been a recurring theme in lots of social media posts, that's for sure. There's growing concern that Romans 13 is too readily used by many as bumper sticker theology. There are important nuances that can get lost when simply relying on standalone proof texts. It seems apparent in much of what's posted on social media that the passage isn't always understood in the context of the full Bible. Having said that, People should understand the Romans 13 argument that many are making and people should take it seriously. There can be no biblical argument against the fact That all people are to be in subjection to governing authorities. This is 100% biblically true. However, in Daniel 3, the reader finds the story of three men who refused to bow down before an image of gold. This was in violation of the governmental authority. But they were bound by conscience to disobey. Is there a contradiction here? No, their lack of obedience came with an attitude of submission. They demonstrated this submission by saying that they would willingly accept the government's punishment for their actions. Christians can do the same thing today if they feel that their biblically informed conscience informs them to disobey an order from the governmental authorities. Again in Daniel, this time in chapter 6, readers find the story about Daniel refusing to give up his practice of regular prayer, even though the government told him that he must not do so for a period of 30 days. Yet the submissive spirit that rules his attitude demonstrates a subjection on his part to governing authorities. Daniel is willing to accept the government's punishment for his actions. So like his three friends, Daniel disobeys the government while still being in subjection to the government. And something to note about Daniel, he prayed in a public way and was told to stop. He was not told to start doing something sinful. And still he rightly disobeyed the government. This principle continues to stand for believers today. It's a principle that allows the Christian to disobey the government while still being subject to governing authorities. These guiding principles allowed Martin Luther to do what he did during the Reformation, Christian patriots to do what they did during the American Revolution, faithful Christians to do what they did in Nazi Germany, and Martin Luther King Jr. to do what he did during the civil rights movement and so forth. Now moving on to Acts chapter 5, it's more of the same The governing authorities demanded that the apostles Peter and John stop preaching in the name of Jesus. Their Holy Spirit-led conscience required them to disobey. They didn't challenge the authority of those in charge, however. In their answer, they gave evidence of their submissive spirit. They said Whether it is right in the sight of God to give heed to you rather than to God, you be the judge. But we cannot stop speaking what we have seen and heard. These apostles were willing to pay the price the authorities deemed appropriate. And thus they were subject to the authority, even as they disobeyed the authority Submission to the authority of a legitimate government and its agents is required by God. This is true at all times and in all cases. And normatively, this means simple obedience. However, there are circumstances when an individual or a group of individuals might be compelled by the Spirit to disobey. And yet when this is the case, they must do so in a submissive spirit and manner. Submission always gives honor to whom honor is due, and honor is given. When someone says, respectfully, sir, I must disobey. I am prepared to face the consequences that you deem fit Um last month marked the 75th memorial of Dietrich Bonhoeffer's martyrdom. I'm not sure if you know who Dietrich Bonhoeffer is. He's relatively well known in church history because of his involvement in trying to push back and uh fight back against what uh Hitler was doing in Nazi Germany back in the forties. Uh he ended up um being killed for those efforts uh by the Nazi regime And he wrote some pretty powerful stuff back then. And he's a guy that's uh that was really well acquainted with suffering uh and with uh with separation from fellow believers And I feel like some of us at some level, you know, are feeling like maybe there's some suffering going on in our lives that's new and different for us We're definitely feeling um the separation from believers. And so uh Dietrich has some pretty poignant things to say about being a Christian in general. And um So I'm going to be sharing throughout the evening about uh ten or so of his quotes interspersed among the music, so I think. Uh so here's a quote from Dietrich Bonhaber. And this is from his uh theological education at Findwald. At that time I was terribly alone and left to myself. It was quite bad But then something different came, something that has changed and transformed my life to this very day. For the first time, I came to the Bible That too is an awful thing to say. I had often preached, I had seen a great deal of the church, I had spoken and written about it, and yet I was not yet a Christian but rather in an utterly wild and uncontrolled fashion, my own master. I do know that at the time I turned the cause of Jesus Christ into an advantage for myself, for my crazy deity. The Bible, especially the Sermon on the Mount, freed me from all this. Since then everything has changed. I have felt this plainly, and so have other people around me. That was a great liberation. became clear to me that the life of a servant of Jesus Christ must belong to the church. And step by step it became clearer to me how far it must go. Here are a couple of additional, these are shorter quotes from Dietrich Bahnhoffer. The first one is from his Life Together and Prayer Book of the Bible. On upperized, the fact that Jesus Christ died is more important than the fact that I will die. And the fact that Jesus Christ was raised from the dead is the sole ground of my hope that I too will be raised on the day of judgment. Our salvation is from outside ourselves, extranos. I find salvation not in my life story, but only in the story of Jesus Christ. And in discipleship he writes, suffering willingly endure is stronger than evil. It is the death of evil. The more terrible the evil, the more willing the disciple should be to suffer. Evil persons must be delivered to the hands of Jesus, not I But Jesus must deal with them. All right. So this is from uh letters and papers from prison, also Dieter Braunhofer. In the last few years, I have come to know and understand more and more the profound thisworldliness of Christianity. The Christian is not a homo religios, but simply a human being, in the same way that Jesus was a human being, in contrast perhaps to John the Baptist. I do not mean the shallow and banal this worldliness of the enlightened, the bustling, the comfortable, or the lascivious, but the profound thisworldliness. It shows discipline and includes the ever-present knowledge, excuse me, ever-present knowledge of death and resurrection I'm gonna get a drink of water while we uh And that's gonna be the end of that while I go and get myself my drink of water. This isn't a special edition of the Faith Debate. Thank you so much for for listening along. We appreciate it so much. Uh the the thoughts that you heard this week, by the way, were shared originally about nine months ago. So early on in the whole COVID crisis stuff that's been happening. So hopefully those thoughts um are helpful even now. I think it's interesting. It's like a time capsule looking back on how things were in the past. Uh you can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith gets you there. You can also go to the WFMD Facebook page at And find uh links to podcasts and stuff there as well. Thank you so much for listening. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debates. Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless