Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City. In the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact, so I'm told, is like ploughing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. That's why. You keep placing your hope in unsatisfying things and the preachers feel like they're plowing pavement This is the Project Faith Debate sponsored by Futman Plumbing and Heating. Help We Make You Smile, EMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. Visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith There you'll find links to podcasts, to news items, the Faith Debate blog. Email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, and I'll take what you email me and post it on the Faith Debate blog because My blog is your blog. Although I don't know if I call it my blog now, because Jonathan challenged me last week or the week before on whether or not I'm now a blogger. I don't think I'm a blogger. Anyway, so send me that stuff. Forty-five blog postings a week, Monday through Friday, nine a day. Some of it's actually pretty good. You also find a link to Jonathan Schweitzer's Twitter account. Maybe you should like give out Sweitzer Jonathan. Maybe you should give out prizes for the best blog each week. Oh. You wanna supply those? Oh. Okay. That's too much work. All right, so I'm invested, but you're not a blogger, you're just a pass-through. Exactly. I used to the but this came from now that we're on the subject, right? Time out from the regular show. We'll resume normal broadcasting in just a moment. I used to try to do one blog a day. Yeah. And that became too time consuming. To try to be thoughtful. Yeah, I would write one a day. And try to say, okay, I wanted to be thoughtful and and informed. That's like Oswald Chambers, you know, my utmost for his eyes one a day. That's a big project. And I was like, I can't sustain this. So then I thought, well I'll just take stuff because I was getting people emailing me random stuff anyway, even before I started soliciting it. So well I'll take some of these and put them. But that felt like a cheater's way. But it felt less cheater if I took nine of them. And the reason it's nine is is uh the way of the software set up at our on our uh website, you can only have a maximum of nine blog posts show at a time. So So you just you can go and see you know, number ten, eleven, twelve thir by going to a separate page, but if you go to the main faith debate page The maximum you can see on that one page is nine. So I'll put nine up there a day. Yeah. So it's a vast variety. And you do it all at one time? I can just get there in the morning. Five of 'em five minutes you just cut and paste. Well, it depends on what's going on. I will say that the they they start going up around seven, seven thirty in the morning and then I have other things maybe they get in the way or whatever and the the last one is Probably up by ten, ten thirty. And so do you tend to talk to your wife and to people around the office about what you put up on the Faith Debate blog that day? Every once in a while. 'Cause it's like a regular part of your life. Yeah, not daily though, but every once in a while something will be particularly poignant, like, oh I might draw attention to I might actually actually email it to my home email so that my wife can see it or something. Anyway. Yeah. Interesting. So enough about me. Not a blogger. I love talking about No, I'm not a blogger. You uh you have red skin tie on today. I'm just saying. Oh actually. RG three, he'll be back. It is red skin colors, isn't it? Hallelujah You can't say that's it's politically incorrect. I don't know what you're talking about. Yeah, see. And you're wearing uh North Carolina terrapins color. Yeah, you're you're you're not proud. You're you're you're still amateur. See me. There's a little Detroit lions there to me. Alright, so what you've heard so far at the beginning of this show is no liturgy Lack of structure. No formality, no official form to the first five minutes or so to this show. Well done. If you s it was a high liturgical We would have had, you know, prim and proper announcements at the beginning, which we kinda started with, but then we drifted from that. And we'd had an agenda, we would have worked that agenda, we would have had a plan, work your plan. And everything would have had a purpose and everything would have been in its place, n right, and e and highly structured. So that's what liturgy is the the flow of the worship, the structure of the worship, right? Try to put it in layman's terms. So you have a high liturgical church If you go to a Roman Catholic church, that's a high liturgical church. If you go to a Lutheran church, it's pretty high liturgy. Depends on the church. Okay, well most most of them are going to be have some pomp and circumstance too. You go to a a Pentecostal church or a or a charismatic church Uh a church like Jonathan's church is going to be a lower liturgy. It's like there's not a lot of pomp and circumstance, not a lot of of uh of firm markers. of of the structure. I don't think you'll ever hear those words at Jonathan's church. You might hear them uh at at your church, John. Regularly. Yeah. So that's what we're gonna talk about. as an extension really what we've been talking about the last couple of weeks with the Lord's Supper, because the Lord's Supper is part of the liturgy. In fact in a Roman co Catholic con uh Roman Catholic context, boy say that three times fast. Um It's the centerpiece of their liturgy. Everything is building up to and pointing to the mass Right, which is mass I guess it means the end actually. I think literally mass translates as the end. But the end of the service is the Lord's Supper. It's all pointing to the end, the Lord's Supper. Um and so their whole structure is pointing toward that. That's not true in Jonathan's church. I'm not even sure if it's true in your church, John, 'cause do you guys practice Uh participate in the Lord's Supper every week? We do. Every worship service we uh we celebrate the sacrament. Um Yeah, and I so I would just jump in and add there that uh the the word liturgy actually means the work of the people And so it has to do with not not just structure or formality, but what what do we do uh when we come together to worship and and what is what what should that look like? And uh so when I say you know, w you talk about high liturgical or low liturgical, you know, or whatever, I mean any church you go into there's some kind of structure. I mean nobody is random. I'm sure if you go into Jonathan's church it's not just Oh well let's see, let's why don't we do this now? You know, I mean there's some kind of form to it, some kind of pattern that you follow that people are involved in some kind of way and And largely that's sort of how I understand what liturgy is. Right, but isn't it true that if I went to your church, John, uh th today, and then next week came back. It it would be probably the same structure, the same th the work of the people would be this doing the same things at around the same time throughout the Hour, hour and a half, hour long you're serving. But some churches you walk into and that's not gonna be the case. I could go today and I'll go next week and it could be a completely different experience than it was just a week earlier. Wow I've not had that experience. So that would be like the lowest the lowest possible liturgy. Sometimes called low church and high church. And I That language offends some people, so I'm talking more about high liturgy and low liturgy. It's it sounds like a judgment, right? High church must be better than low church. You know, people don't really know what liturgy means, so high liturgy, low liturgy isn't as offensive. So so describe um your point of view in a church that's less liturgical Yeah, so my point of view, we self righteously pride ourselves, uh, is uh coming from First Corinthians fourteen, where it says that when you come together Everyone has a hymn or a word of instruction, a revelation, a tongue or interpretation All of these must be done for the strengthening of the church. If anyone speaks in the tongue to her, at the most three should speak one at a time. Someone must interpret it Two or three pop prophets should speak, and others should weigh carefully what is said. If a revelation comes to someone who's sitting down, the first speaker should stop Uh for you can all prophesy in turn so that everyone may be instructed and encouraged. The spirits of the prophets are subject to the control of the prophets. And so we we intentionally try to provide with the first part of the service before we get to the preaching of the word. With the first part of the service, we'll sing some songs, and that's pretty organized. You know, we we open up, we call to worship, we sing some songs, you know, so it's uh kind of classical contemporary, but then we we build into that. What uh a a time where we say we come into the Holy of Holies. You know, we come out of the outer court, into the inner court, you know, the song's a little bit softer, into the Holy of Holies where it's quiet, and we're expecting something spontaneous that nobody has planned ahead of time but that you know anybody in the congregation would get up with an opportunity to speak and to share and sometimes some do Sometimes they don't. Sometimes we'll we'll uh invite people forward for prayer uh at a time like that because somebody shares something. We're like, you know what, let's go ahead and have people that would like prayer for that come up You know, or or maybe we'll say break into groups of two or three and just pray for one right one another right now. And so so we kinda have this this um grab bag of types of ministry that would come out of that time where we're trying to allow for what we call the flow of the Spirit uh spontaneously to come forth in the service. And then that's followed by it that comes to an end and then that comes to an end and we'll do uh announcements And then we'll release, you know, children to, you know, children's time, and then we'll uh bring the preaching of the word and possibly ministry at the end of that as well. So so that's kind of what I'm talking about. There's a form to it. Definitely. So I mean e even as you talk about it. But on a given something is it possible on a given I don't know if you've ever done this or not, but is it is it conceivable in your church's context that You would sense your congregation would sense the move of the spirit in a particular way that you would say, in the moment, on the spot. We're not preaching today. Yeah. Yes. So so that's what I'm talking about where it's you could go one week and you you expect a cer you see a sermon, you hear a sermon, you go the next week you expect to see and hear a sermon again and maybe you don't. Right. Have you ever actually had that happen at Crossroads? Yeah. A couple of times. Uh and and the key to that is that is that if there's a prophetic move in the in the in the group you know, leading in the direction of a certain kind of ministry, we're saying that we want to provide uh the space for proper response to honor you know, whatever it is that came forth. And if it's come forth appropriately, then there's a revelation that came to someone, you know, and so we judge it as being, you know, something that lines up with scripture or not, and then we lead into what would be a an appropriate response, you know, let's all just make an altar in our hearts together right now. Or let's, you know, let's lay hands on one another. Let's um you know, let's pray for one another. And so Uh the the sense is that yeah you don't get a sermon, but there's a response to the word of God that is an immediate response in the moment. So what happens when it's discerned that it's not lining up with the Word of God. Well a couple things happen, right? Um 'cause even like it says here, it's interesting 'cause it says um Uh everyone should weigh carefully what is said, two or three speakers should speak, and everyone should weigh carefully what is said. So there seems to be the sense, at least uh in what Paul is writing there in Corinthians, that Sometimes something might be said that doesn't and that needs to be weighed carefully with one another and that that you would have an expectation that you are weighing it carefully. And so uh if it's somebody that's that's My my sense is that in those spontaneous times, everybody is sharing kind of on the cutting edge of what God's showing them. You know, in terms of their growth in God, the cutting edge of what it is that you know, and so somebody that is younger than the Lord might say, you know, I just I just feel like God's saying that that there's somebody here that needs to know that that God is with them right now, you know, and it's like a revelation to them. You know, like phe you know, they're just for whatever reason it's it's like this this thing that's breaking in and and You know, so well yes, that's true. You know, when we're in Christ, Christ is with us, you know, and and so um you know Let's just receive that from the Lord that God is with us right now. But somebody else might speak up and I don't know say something like, um, you know, I I just sense that that um Uh God's saying right now we should all go outside and and and leave the doors of the church right now, you know, in the next five minutes and go find somebody to preach to. You know, and so s y or or i and I can't say that anything like that in particular has happened. Uh I think the w the one thing that has happened in the ten years is somebody uh brought an insight that says if God gave us faith it's because God has faith. And God has faith and Christ had to live by faith and so that's why he gave us the gift of faith because we too have to Live by faith. And it was questionable enough that that I said to him in the moment, I I drew him out because I knew kind of some of the discussions that that he'd been having with different people and And and I drew him out a little bit and then we even came back to it, you know, the next couple of weeks and kind of addressed what he had said and whether or not there's biblical um backing. you know, to the idea that Christ say Christ had to live by faith himself. Right? And uh in the context of the fact that God has given faith to us. Right. And so a again it was a moment where where the leadership is listening and if somebody says something just a little bit off then we'll say, Okay, well, you know, we're not gonna go that direction right now. You know, in but but what they were saying that was right is this and we'll we'll just weigh carefully and we'll bring gentle correction to it. If somebody were to prophesy that Christ is going to return, you know, tonight, uh, in that kind of a scenario we'd say, you know, we'd probably bring 'em up front and say, Okay, everybody, you know, let's all tell Joe how much we love him. Joe, we love you Joe, you are wrong about that. But we love you. And it is true that Christ is going to return and that we can't wait for that to happen. That we pray for that to happen Uh but it scripts, you know, clear that you know, so we would address it in the moment 'cause my experience is that in these settings like this, that if there's not a clear sense of addressing when somebody gets off, then you get into some really weird stuff that is just unnecessary. And so there needs to be a lot of courage in the leadership to address it and to to speak to it in the moment. Whether it's a general correction or a major correction as it would need to be made. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by the Senior Pastor at Redeemer Lutheran Church, John Brummel. And uh Jonathan explained what his church's uh relatively low liturgy type of approach, uh how it plays out, the reasons for doing it, and that sort of thing. So One, John, uh y you can react to anything you want to react to what he said, but I'd also as you're reacting, or instead of reacting, share some of the reasons behind why you like having a higher liturgical form. Some of the benefits may be Yeah, and you know what struck me as I was listening to you, Jonathan, is um and and th this just came to me, so I mean bear with me as I try and unpack this. Um well weigh it carefully. Yeah, you weigh this carefully because um so like in in Old Testament literature, yeah, you know, you've got the prophets, right? And there there's something About the prophets that is just like it's in the moment. uh but then you also have this body of literature in the Old Testament that's the wisdom literature. Right. And the wisdom literature is all about the right time and it's about rhythms and it's about the patterns and it's about cycles and the seasons, you know, and and um And and I wonder if that's not like a fitting description of the differences between what I I've not experienced that kind of total spontaneity in a worship service like that. Because where we come from in terms of what liturgy is about for for me is um really seeing patterns that God has laid out for us. And so like you have a a particular scripture passage that you point to I would point in terms of liturgy, I would point to the gospels and just say, you know what, Jesus like laid out this pattern. And so our liturgy is going to follow a pattern. And what so the p pieces of that pattern are when when Jesus began his ministry, he began by calling people to himself. So he went to Peter and and Andrew and James and John and to Matthew and he and he called all these people to himself. And in that calling, you know, there's um sort of this time of like realizing, wow, what's going on here. You mean really I could I could be a part of yeah what you're about and And um so for us in our liturgy there's that time of gathering. So we would actually talk about our opening praise songs or hymns or or our music at the beginning as a part of that gathering time, the invocation You know, um kind of recall the right naming the name of the Triune God, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, the confession we mentioned before. You know, confession is a part of his I am invited into the presence of the living God. I come as a man of unclean lips and a among a people of unclean lips and and so we have a time of confession that's a part of that gathering time. Then what Jesus did is Um he spent a lot of time with his his followers teaching. And so we hear from God. We hear the word of the Lord. We hear it read from the scriptures. We hear it proclaimed from the pulpit. And then we have a time we have an opportunity to respond to that. So in the response there's like a hymn of response. We call it the hymn of the day or uh you know, a song of praise after that, a time of prayer after that. We we do ministry around our altar rail after the um after the sermons. People come up and people lay hands on. So we I mean There's a spontaneity there for us too, but it's within that form. And um that all leads up to Jesus then after the time of teaching, leading, preparing, training, all that kind of stuff that he did with his disciples ultimately He sits him down and he says, Okay, now uh I'm going to establish with you this connection. I'm gonna host you at this meal, I'm going to um institute this g gift of the Lord's Supper, and so it has that kind of um place in our liturgy that it it does sort of direct to that the holy the form of the service itself is like an object lesson. It's it it is. Right. And so you look at um you look at the rhythm of that and you see and then after the death and resurrection uh of Jesus he comes to his disciples again and what does he say? Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. So he sends them out And so our liturgy is going to have that gathering time, it's going to have the time of the word where we hear the word read and proclaimed. It's going to have that time of um sharing in the Holy Meal. And ultimately it's going to be go in peace and serve the Lord. It's going to be that sending out. And and so the the pattern or the form of our worship, the liturgy, um, follows the pattern of the life and ministry of Jesus. So that's I'm imagining, particularly if if it's gonna be very different one week from the next for John Swe Jonathan Schweitzer's Church of Crossroads, that you might explain what's going on and why. You know what, we're feeling like we're gonna go in this direction and here's why. or whatever, uh, you'd have more maybe more natural reason and opportunity to do that sort of thing. What you, John, with the Lutheran Church, do you take time each week or regularly to explain what the form of the structure of the of the service is supposed to be teaching them? Or you kinda lead up to them through Oh, you know what? I just realized we kind of start with a kind of a call to worship, a gathering of the people. you know, our confession, our assurance of forgiveness, you know, the reading and preaching of the w I just realized there's a form to that, or do you take time to outline that for them from the from the pulpit or lectern or whatever. you know, the details of the meaning of of all of these uh rich elements of a liturgy. Um and it goes beyond just the weekly service. So in other words in in my tradition we also follow the the cycle or the pattern of the annual church calendar. So we you know we follow the church calendar set which which is seasonal and and um uh has that to it as well. So that in other words the church year begins first Sunday of Advent. We have the season of the Advent leading up to the celebration of Christmas and then Epiphany and then Lent and then Holy Week and then Easter and then the season of Easter and Pentecost and so on. And we we follow that pattern throughout the year as well. So I I would say in answer to your question that I think there are times when we will take uh an opportunity. to um maybe say something about um you know so like the pyramids um are the what dresses our altar um our different colors for different seasons of the year. And so it's like, okay, so we've got uh purple pyramids on the altar now. Why is that? Well We're in the season of Lent, and what is that about? The season of Lent is this forty-day period, you know, that is like a journey to the cross, right? And it's a time of deep introspection and reflection, you know. And and so so we might take opportunities to to teach on various elements of that. But what is that word again? The covering? Paramount. Parent. The parament. Yeah, the pyramids have to do with like um w well like uh the the pastors in my tradition will wear stoles, so we wear an alb. uh which is like a a kind of a white robe, off-color white flaxen robe kind of thing. And then a a a yoke, basically, the stole. uh which has uh different color based on the season of the year that we're in. And so I mean there's um th the I guess the r the richness of the tradition um takes us back to a time when there was all kinds of different ways that the church needed to find ways to help people learn and remember the stories and um the the meanings of different things. And so we used colors and we used Yeah, w whether it's stained glass or, you know, all kinds of different uh elements um that would help communicate. these um biblical truths. Um does the liturgical calendar uh tell you what passages to read each week and what passages to preach on each week? It's um that is we've we do follow a revised common lectionary which is um used you know by many different denominations and there are there will be some um differences between let's say Roman Catholic uh lectionary or a Lutheran or um you know any of the other Protestant denominations that follow a revice common lectionary, which is in a three year cycle, so that's a little different than the church year calendar, you know But um so within the three-year cycle we will have uh assigned readings um for each Sunday. uh that will be drawn from the Old Testament, uh a psalm that's assigned, a New Testament reading and a gospel reading. And so generally speaking you could say Uh year one is from the Gospel of Matthew, year two from the Gospel of Mark, and then from the Gospel of Luke, and there's readings from the Gospel of John interspersed in all three years. Um but our our particular congregation, we we generally will follow that revised common lectionary, but we're not bound to it. in in a way that we don't draw from other scripture passages or sometimes we might be in a series and uh preaching series that might uh lead us to draw from other passages of scripture, but it's always there to kind of measure then all of the churches in your denomination would be following the same basic program each Sunday Right. Essentially so. Right. And and you know there are great, great similarities between the revised common lectionary that we follow and the Roman Catholic lectionary. So in many cases, uh, you know, if you go to a Roman Catholic church, a Lutheran church, Anglican church, episcopal church, you know, the chances are good that you will have heard the same gospel reading you know, that any of your brothers and sisters in Christ in those church bodies heard. So there's a really good chance that it would be the same reading. Yeah, this is uh a f a fascinating uh panel to have because I don't know that you could be a whole lot more different and still be Protestants. The only way to be more different would be for one of you to not be Protestant. I think. Right? So it's it's it's it's fascinating. And I I'm appreciating the structure that comes with the high liturgy, and I'm appreciating the the move of the spirit that comes with the low liturgy. And I imagine when Jonathan is talking about what happens acrossroads, that John finds that to be somewhat frustrating at some level Like, uh I don't know if I'm uh comfortable with that. And Jonathan when he's listening to John described the high structure is probably pressure. Uh uh feels like he might be squashing the squashing the spirit there a little bit I I think it maybe we can talk a little bit about that 'cause we're running out of time on this week's show, uh in next week's show. And also kind of be thinking about what are some must haves, elements of worship that you feel are must haves, if not every week, at least monthly or quarter or whatever. The thing that need need to be part of the worship service. Potluck after the meal. I mean after the service. Well, and in your case, the potluck after the meal after the potluck after the service. Right, yeah. In pizza with the East Group mean. Without a guy. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh joined this week by John Brummel, the senior pastor at Redeemer Lutheran Church in Damascus. I am Froy Skinner. Uh join us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. If you missed part of the show and you want to hear it, wait a couple of days and it'll be uh you can play back in its entirety uh online through the podcast on the uh audio vault on the uh radio station's website. So Um did I mention what I was reading? I think I did. You I don't know. I don't know that you did. Well it might be a cliffhanger teaser for next week, all right? So because I we're out of time Thanks so much to our sponsors, Putman Folding and Heating, Help We Make You Smile, BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. Until next week, God bless