This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters Than others learn in a month. Well, how can we get. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a more on here Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Swaster. No, I'm just getting warmed up. There's a movement within the church gaining influence in recent decades. This movement has gained power in recent years. And has finally come to a pivot point for the life of Christ's church within the past, I don't know, dozen or two dozen months or so. It is a theological liberalism appearing to win the day, even in traditionally conservative enclaves like the Presbyterian Church of America, the Lutheran-Missouri Synod, the Evangelical Free Church, the Southern Baptist Convention James Pittman is the pastor of a Southern Baptist church in the western suburbs of Chicago, and he, along with his congregation, almost left the FBC, the Southern Baptist Convention, last year. What happened and why? We begin to shed light on those questions today. If you missed it, you got all the background and expository kind of stuff. Exposition kind of stuff uh last week on the show. So back for the second week in a row now is Pastor James L. Fitman Jr. , uh Pastor of New Hope Community Church in Palatine. Thank you for being with us again this week, Pastor. Thank you for having me. So take us back in time, you know, approxim well, I don't know when the when the when the nuggets of doubt. I was going to say take us back in time about a year or so, but take us back when the thought entered your mind that there was trouble afoot and you need to be thinking about it. So last year um the reason how I even got into this realm because confession, I I when you pass a church sometimes you just get bogged down and what's happening in your church, right? Yeah. S so many things to do. You always didn't have time for that last phone call or whatever. So I was so bogged down in this church here and the things that was going on a around it. Uh big thing that I was involved in since the end of twenty fifteen was when was when uh President Obama used Title Nine to start putting transgender kids in in in bathrooms of the opposite sex And so that was my battle here in my context since twenty fifteen. The young younger a younger minister of mine said, James, you need to get out and battle ideas because it's no longer door to door. It's on social media. Now myself I I I don't like social media. I know how to turn on a computer. Um but I I was brought to the table kicking and screaming. So when I start looking at social media, okay, I didn't know who and I don't I don't necessarily say the names but big names that I've heard about I didn't know who they were, didn't really understand it. But then I started to look about it well about a year a year ago around this time. I'm starting to look at what's going on in the Southern Baptist Convention. And I run across um the president of the Southern Baptist. He was the president back then, he's the current president. Now J. D. Greer. I'm saying, who is this guy? that the Southern Baptist has elected. And so as videos, because we started a YouTube channel, I said all that to say we started a YouTube channel in order to begin to put more conservative um biblically based ideas out on uh in the social media realm. And then I run across this um the president, J. D. Greer and and And I'm saying, is he re is this really this the president of the Southern Baptist Convention? And then I started to to you know, there's a lot of things out there on YouTube I didn't know And I'm finding these things and I'm saying, wow, the Southern Baptist obviously has shifted way less than what I I had realized. And at that point Um my congregation and a a and and I we became very, very alarmed at where the it seemed like the Southern Baptist Convention had drifted. Now did your congregation di did did they notice it too, or you noticed it and then brought it to their attention? Um M I could say m more so I noticed it. Yeah I didn't know they were already on social media ahead of you on that and were w they were thinking finally Pastor, I was wondering when you were gonna notice. Somewhere, yeah, somewhere. Yeah, yeah. And so what were some of those issues that uh were the leftist issues where you were like, wow, I didn't wouldn't have expected that from the Southern Baptist Convention? Well, it was the issue uh of critical race theory. All right. Um Matt Chandler was very popular. uh gave a a I would say talk at the MLK fifty. And I believe it was that talk that prompted John MacArthur and his group to respond with uh their statement and which Vodie Bacham got involved and whatnot. And so then I I saw Al Moller got involved. And and then that's when J. D. Greg came along and I'm saying, whoa, whoa, this is the president of the Southern Baptist Convention? And so it was literally the critical race theory in which I it would take some time to unpack, but critical theory comes out first. I think um someone said um my research, um Mr. Bell is the father of critical race theory. in which you now have the oppressors and the oppressed. And the critical race there was thrown out in the secular world and now like And it has. At the time though, I'm saying, well, whoa, people in the church are embracing this and so yes, it was the critical race theory now that people were embracing that John McGarth and his group started to push back and then in that watching that exchange then JD Greer pops up, oh I did not know this And um and so it was the critical race theory that that that that's I pro I probably should should uh uh get out my my uh my old baseball cards here and lay 'em out for the for the for the uninitiated. So I'm gonna 'cause you threw out a bunch of stuff. So big names big names to us, but maybe not to everybody who is hearing our voices right now. So uh MLK fifty that was two years ago, I think, right when they did the uh the the Was it two years ago? Wasn't it two years ago Wasn't it two years ago? It was uh I mean I don't know the exact number of months, but anyway, whatever. It was more than a year ago, I know that Uh Matt Chandler was one of the speakers at the ML now first of all, I guess I've got to give more ex exposition on this. There was some controversy about them having an MLK-50 uh uh celebration if you will anyway because Martin Luther King Jr. uh uh a brave warrior on on uh social issues and a peaceful man a peaceful protest and has some uh unbelievably brilliant and inspiring oratory and but uh those who know about his theology, you know, many would label him a heretic And uh a at the very least, questionable. And so why would they have a conference celebrating this guy was very controversial? So Matt Chandler, he's a very high profile, he's part of uh the big evangelical like pop culture, you know, celebrity pastor crew. He pastors a pretty big church outside of Dallas, or maybe it's inside of Dallas near Dallas, Texas. And he was one of the speakers and he was particularly noteworthy because during his presentation he kinda kinda guilt shamed white people and and basically advocated for tokenism. by saying that if they were going to bring an associate pastor into the church, uh he and and they were grading him on a scale of one to ten, if he had two men And one of them was a seven and the other was an eight, but the man who was a seven was black, they'd hire the black seven. Uh now if he was a black six, they might have been okay, that's much of a d of a difference, so we'll go with the white eight. But if there If if they're not even quite as good as the white guy. Now that is I'm not black, but I'm offended for all black people. I mean that's tokenism is offensive. And so that caught a lot of people's attention. And so that yeah, the Dallas what you the statement you talked about, uh some people call it the Dallas statement, the the statement on social justice, uh John MacArthur and some other uh big names like Bodie Baucom and people like that were were behind the the writing of that statement. And they they put that out and you can to this day you can go online, you can Google Dallas Statement on Social Justice and you can add your name to those who are electronic, you know, signers of that document if you want. And then you also mentioned uh Al Moller. Al Moller is a very well known um political and social commentator. He's the president of Southern uh uh Baptist Seminary, right? Am I correct? And it is the so supposedly it is the flagship seminar. The flagship seminar supposedly within the Southern Baptist. And rumor has it that he is kind of in line or in running or at least desires to be the next president of the convention, replacing J. D. Greer. At least that's what there's been talk about. The status quo candidate. Yeah, but that he's running for president of SBC So that those are those are all the players in the background. I just wanted to get you know our listener caught up to what we're talking about. And so uh Matt Chandler says something that was offensive to a lot of people. Uh and yet not offensive to most it didn't seem. And that and I guess and you were one among those who took note, like, wait, uh w why did Chandler say that? Why didn't more people speak out against it? Why aren't more people jumping on board with this Dallas statement on social justice? What's going on? Who is this JD Greer guy anyway? And so um now that if that took place in 2018, you obviously were stewing on this and thinking about it and doing your research for at least a year, year and a half, before you made your announcement, correct? No. The yes, yes. So i i it wasn't necessarily Matt Chandler. It was now you get these Southern Baptist players getting involved such as Al Moeller and now J. D. Greer. So that's what directly affected myself and the congregation. The the the knowledge that these men had adopted this. So Matt Chandler okay, he's in Dallas, let his people deal with it. And which some of 'em I mean he called some people uh uh who are white who disagree with him. He says he called them fools in that that that that um that speech there. It started to affect us when the big players in the Southern Baptist Convention started to jump on board. And so that's what what got us if you want to say stirred up. And wasn't there a proposition that was voted in by the convention that Prop nine, I believe. Prop nine that said that Critical race theory was legitimate language analytical to and legitimate for analysis. That was twenty nineteen. That was a year after the MLK. Yep. Uh a little over a year ago now. And so that's the point at which you're saying uh Pastor James that that you were like, whoa, this is a little bit too much. Uh y yeah, that's to put it kindly. That's the way we put it. If and I we did some videos on on on Myffice of the Times this station in which we started to chronicle the the statements that are now coming out And and if you start to embrace critical race theory, which I believe is Marxist in its origin, you you necessarily now uh it's this is what happened, and now I'm starting to see a trend with a lot of um Christians who are trying to embrace this, you have to start going soft on sin. And I had a meeting uh this morning with with two of my leaders. We actually did a a podcast that's coming out soon in that When you embrace this, you start to redefine what sin is You start to redefine what repentance looks like and it literally becomes it starts to to to um evolve into a different gospel. It really does. And so uh um again I think people who are trying to embrace it they're at different levels, but if you take it to its logical conclusion It is a different gospel because now um uh I believe I believe it was John Harris who did his his talk uh who did a video in which some people at Southeastern were saying Jesus did not die for the individual, he died for systems. That is a different gospel. Mm. And so when you start to do your research and you start to see what they're starting to advocate, it is very, very dangerous. And and at that point my church said we cannot we can no longer be affiliated with people. This is where the Southern Baptist is. Now um we we got a a a phone call once I put out the video and says hey we're we're out of here we are not gonna associate with this. I did get a call from the executive committee of the Southern Baptist who said hold off. Um and in a phone conversation said that is not with the Southern Baptist Convention Yeah, and I do want to hear a little bit more about that in a second, but let me reset because we've you know we're halfway through the show and I didn't do a reset last week, shame on me. I want to let an anybody who you know if you join the show late Who are these voices talking to you? I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. My uh regular partner in crime, of course, Jonathan Schweitzer with Cross Bridges is here as as well as typical. And uh the voice joining us by the phone is Pastor James, he is the senior pastor of New Hope Community Church in Palatine, Illinois. And he's telling us the story about how his church was ready to move on out of the Southern Baptist Convention. And we're going to hear more of those details in a second. By the way, you mentioned John Harris. John Harris was on this show. Um he was on for four weeks in a row, about a month and a half, two months ago, whatever. So if you go to the podcast, you want to hear what John Harris has to say. And you mentioned South Eastern, that's a reference to South Eastern Seminary, which is where John went to school and that's when he started having his al alarm bells go off, like, what is going on around me? And then he bravely really well, I I don't know how brave he was. I don't know how much he had to lose. The people who are brave are the ones who are putting themselves out there and have a lot to lose. So John's just this unknown guy and he puts out this this video on his YouTube channel saying, Hey, this was my experience at Southeastern Seminary and I just figured some people ought to know And he's become like this huge uh um almost like revolutionary figure for the resistance to defend the the the biblical gospel kind of thing. It's really a fascinating th there could be a movie about his life one day maybe, or at least a at least a made for T V movie. Um so now John I think was itching to ask a question, so I don't want to jump into it. Well yeah, you were just saying for all of us, I think uh because of uh the George Floyd incident and then the rise of um the language, you know, and white fragility and and um uh, you know, systemic racism and and um you know roadmap to reconciliation, all these books that that are at the heart of uh trying to define for the nation right now what is uh what is just or not just having to do with the African American uh uh community and um in that context then kinda like all of a sudden everybody's paying attention to what is this language. You know, even Trump has like has has uh said that it can't be used Um government. And so my question is like you're saying that critical race theory goes soft on sin, and then the second key was that It ends up being this sense that that that Jesus died for systems, not for individuals. And both of those have like, you know, significant uh content for us to unpack. What do you mean by soft? on sin? Like how does critical race theory soften the biblical teaching on sin, in your view Now, I I didn't mean to say that within critical race theory it goes soft on sound because critical race theory doesn't directly deal with sin in the first place and that is the first problem. But I'm saying if you embrace critical race theory, the the the the thrust now is between oppressors and those who are oppressed And so it becomes the the the dominant white culture. The dominant white culture oppressing everyone else. And what's gets what gets lost in that is sin. So when you have someone um asking questions about uh and by the way the MLK was put on by the Gospel Coalition, right? Um that that's what the organization that put that out. When you have someone who's talking to someone in a gospel coalition and they're asking questions about homosexuality And the person interviewing the person was represent who was part of the gospel ask it for the fourth time. Is is homosexuality a sin? I was talking to a younger uh uh friend of mine and I said the mere fact that the guy who was interviewing is asking me fourth time means you weren't clear the first three times. That's why he's asking the fourth time. That video's actually up on our our YouTube uh channel also And so you start to become soft in that because the thrust is no longer being being saved from one's sin, being reconciled to God. J. D. Greer, which I actually played on channel, say that God whispers about sexual sins. Really? He whispers? About sexual zen sins, Sodom and Gomorrah would tend to disagree with you that he whispers about sexual sins. And so if the thrust is about oppressors and oppressed and all the other things that come with the critical race theory, then by default you would have to start going soft on sin because sins are no longer the thrust. It's it's it's it's the system of oppressing oppressors So so this is my question about um Saufton Sin that Um like I'm I'm probably do this too much, but I try to hear uh the challenges to how I view things. and to to honestly consider the truth of those statements. Is it true that there are places in Scripture, one where it deals with oppressed and oppressor? uh in clear biblical ways that we should uh as churches uh also be really clear about. Um and secondly that that there are places where uh the Bible deals with um a corporate nature of sin, meaning like, um yeah, I just read a book by a close friend of mine here in Frederick that uh that runs a Christian business and he's he's basically describing how a Christian business uh will run things differently. Its culture ends up being very different when it's rooted in uh grace and truth and rooted in uh integrity and um uh, you know, genuinely trying to serve, right? There's a there's a whole different culture that is developed in a a community like that. Uh I've even throy uh lead in uh some business environments where where I felt like that was the c um uh as well. And so my question, you know, on both of those is is is there some truth that we should be paying attention to uh that critical race theories are drawing our attention to in ways that that we haven't uh effectively uh you know addressed in the past that we've uh looked over and been somewhat blind to maybe even. Uh and my answer to that would be no. What you see going on today is I don't see any pattern in the Bible, and here's the main thrust, whether you're coming from Daniel or whether you're coming from any other um prophetic book in the Old Testament is that the Jews Right? Or the Israelites dependents on something about. When they talk about corporate sin, they're confessing their corporate sin Israel is confessing to the Lord their disobedience and how they transgress the law. That's totally different than now you have one group of people trying to talk about the sins of another people group and trying to force another person group to confess their sins, how they define it. That's apples and oranges. Does that make sense? And so it's not like blacks are saying, Father, forgive us because our our group, our our our black communities, we've transgressed the law and we've turned away from the Lord. Forgive us That's not what the black community is saying for those who are pushing critical race theory. What they are saying is, no Lord, not us, the white culture They've sinned. Lord, uh deal with their sin. And matter of fact, Lord, don't even deal with their sin. Let us deal with them. And they should they should change their behavior to fit our um concept of sin and you know it's lost in all of that? There's n there's not a call to obedience to the Lord It it it's it's a it's it's uh it's an effort to change the behavior of other cultures and I would show my Marxist um underpinnings There's no obedience to the to to the Lord of the universe. It's now we're gonna deal with systems and we're gonna deal with corporate sins and how do you deal with the corporate sins? change the system. You don't see that anywhere in scripture. Well we're getting into the meat of the issues now. You've got that YouTube channel you mentioned. I didn't I didn't promote it for you last week. Shame on me. I should have. But uh uh it's called for such a time as this, right? So if you go to YouTube and you type in the search bar for such a time as this, they will find your YouTube channel, correct? Yes, yes. And you've got a Facebook page I think that goes by the same name for such a time as this, if I'm not mistaken. You can find us on Facebook as well. WFMD has a Facebook page. I have a Facebook page. Feel free to follow and like and stuff. I'm also personally on Parlor and on MiWe, so you can follow me there. If you follow me, I'll follow you. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer he's on Facebook. I don't know um right? Not nearly as much as you are. I pride myself on not being you. You know what If I were you, I'd say the same thing. Uh anyway, this is the Faith Debate till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless.