Broadcast From the police state that is Frederick City and the gridlock that is Frederick County, just outside the Capitol, the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plenty and Heating. How can we make you smile? You can find the Faith Debate online at WFMD. com. That's WFMD for the Slow Riders. dot com keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of religious links, including links to podcasts or previous faith debate shows. The best part of the website right there. You'll also find the Faith Debate blog on the right hand side of the webpage. My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-E-R at clearchannel. com. I get lots of like People trying to call me Tony or even Scott Skinner. I don't even understand that. But Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. Whatever you send me, I copy and paste it right onto the webpage But whatever you send me within reason. Nine fresh blog postings are uploaded each weekday. That's Monday through Friday. Do the math. 45 blog postings per week, and some of it is actually very good stuff. On our show today, Jonathan Sweister, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Good to see you. How are you today? I'm Splendiferous. And also from a Covenant family, downtown Frederick, Pastor Neil Achampong. Is that right? Say something again. Good to see you. Oh, okay. I got I got nervous that I lost your microphone there for now. That would be for a long show. That would be a long show. So half a conversation coming at you. Yeah. So what am I reading these days? What am I reading? It's actually appropriate to the subject matter today. A book called A Parent Privilege by Steve Wright with Chris Graves. Parent Privilege. How can we be better parents? How can we serve our kids in the home better? And we're gonna talk it's kinda related to that and I'm sure there'll be an extension in which we will talk about that, but we're talking today about how the church can serve our kids better. And I joked before the the start of the show, you know, kids Can't live with them? Can't shoot 'em. So since we can't shoot 'em, you know, you pastors got to figure out, you know, what the church can do to better serve them and uh what families can do to better serve their kids. Interesting that comment's a uh a fascinating one in light of uh recent uh shootings and violence in the media and and I'm sure that'll even play into the the topic today because uh there is so many cultural influences that young people are facing and violence is one of them as a matter of fact and so Uh the question is what do you do? How do you uh how do you care for them in the midst of a uh very multicultural environment. And this topic came up because of a conversation that I had uh with Neil and uh he has such a heart for reaching the kids and he's got some some ministry initiatives going on that are he's specifically targeted going after those kids. And I thought, wow, we should probably talk about that. I think we've alluded to children issues and that sort of thing, what the church should do. But I don't know that we've ever focused specifically on that topic. And I thought it'd be good for us to tackle. So why don't we start there real quick to found provide a foundation? Why such a heart for the kids? Um I believe that kids represent our future. And that any generation of people who Whitney Houston says something to that effect on generation. Generational thinkers. we would always have to think of our children. Uh reason being that if you look at the example of um Caleb. He he says, Give me this mountain. What was he gonna do with it after eighty years old, man? And the whole idea is that because he has generations behind him, that he's expecting that those generations would one day inherit what he has. Um all through other scriptures we see things that Jesus said it. He says, Let the children come unto me. If the master wants the kids, I believe that we ought to like them too. Um, my h heart for the children actually develop because even though our church size is not that big, we have that we have so many children. We have about sixty five to sixty eight children in a church a size of about eighty two hundred people. And um to me that is not normal. And so I had to sit down and I kept asking myself, why would God give me this many children? Mm. Why that? And um So I kept praying. I said, Lord, you need to just open my eyes. And then I have three of my own. And so anytime I look at my three boys and look at the sixty-eight other children in the church It hits me that listen, if you're not able to do anything for them right now, then we are not helping anything in the future. And so um that is how my my my heart for kids all came about. And then um we started looking at the kids are gonna grow up, they're gonna be youth, the youth are gonna grow up, they're gonna be adults And so if I'm gonna be able to produce better adults then I must start right from the beginning. There are too many single parents today. In Frederick. Well I'm doing the math. If you've got sixty-eight children, that means that you have you have more than three children per adult in your church. Yes. And so like I'm trying to figure out like is that like six children per family? No. Or you have a lot of single parents that have three kids each, or or you just pulling in extra kids that that their parents aren't even there. Yes. Yes. I don't recall having one family that has six kids, but I at least I can recall a family several families with four. Okay. But then we have kids who are also coming in with other parents, but their parents are actually not in church. And very often what we do is that most of the people who had joined our ministry had come as a result of their children. The we we raised the parents through the children. And so um that's why we have that many. You have such a beautiful accent. Right? You're from Ghana. For those that that are wondering the accent you're hearing, he's from Ghana originally. I thought it was South Baltimore. No? No. South Alabama. No. All the way from Ghana, West Africa. But I've lived in this country for quite a while. Yes, indeed. Thought we would end up going in this direction at some point. We're gonna go to it pretty quickly, I guess. You talked about, you know, your church is able to reach a lot of parents through their children. Yes. Now that's a practical reality because there's a bunch of kids that are being drawn there for a variety of reasons and then it makes sense. Okay, the kids are here, let's let's reach the kids. But how often is that the default position for churches Sometimes I I fear that it's one of the motivations behind a V V S a Vacation Bible School. You know, let's get the kids from the neighborhood to come because then we can get the parents. Yeah. You know, it's only a good thing. And I'm not so sure that we should be using the kids to get the parents, I think are the ideal. I mean if if that's the way it is, it works out, it's a practical reality, it is what it is. I believe it. And reach the kids through the parents? Either way, it doesn't matter. What matters is uh throughout the scriptures there are clear examples where um There are others who were raised, like children who were raised through parents, and then there are parents who are raised through their children. For example in Mark Chapter 9. Um, there is a boy who had a seizure, has a demonic influence, and it was the father who brought the boy to Jesus. But then when he showed up, he found out he had more problems than his own boy. And he asks Jesus, he says, Lord, um for everything you said, I believe I helped my own belief. Sounds like um the guy did not believe, or maybe part of him did believe, the other part does not believe. Now that's a clear example. Uh just like all of us by the way, I think. We all struggle with that. And and there so I believe that rich and kids through parents and rich and parents through kids. should go hand in hand. And if you're gonna reach either the children you must first of all always try and reach the parents first Because they become the fresh line uh of action. If they get it wrong, very often the kids are gonna get it. Like I don't know that I've ever ever thought to myself of a preference. Why do you feel like parents should be reached first or or or you know like uh like that that's ideal? Yeah, because it's go ahead. Look at it this way. Because of the authority of the home, if you reach the parent first, it's very easy for parents to bring children along. But then it's not very easy for kids to convince their parents, I need you to go with me. Is that what you were thinking? Yeah, I think you mean the the the spiritual head of the home is going to be you know the father and the mother, not the kids, right? That's going to be the head of the home. Ideally in from my view, it's going to be the the father first, you know, the the mother the one A or whatever, right? The father first, the husband and wife together first, kind of a thing. Uh and that's not going to happen if the kids are the ones that are being reached. So you're almost asking the kids to go evangelize their parents, which is fine. I'm not saying you shouldn't do that, but I don't think that's the normative way, right? That's not the Well it's so interesting. And the gospel isn't sent to the healthy, it's sent to the sick. Right? And if you've got a healthy family, you know, then I I don't know that the gospel I mean the gospel is toward anybody that's that doesn't know God through Christ. Okay, it is towards everybody, but it's i i we're we're sent by Christ to the poor, to the broken, to the widow, the orphan, and in that case then you're sent to those that are in broken families and that that somehow the gospel is the answer to the brokenness that is there. Yeah, but you just mentioned an orphan. An orphan has doesn't have parents Right. Okay, but how many families th this is precisely where I'm going though, because how many families are there where where there's d significant dysfunction So maybe they're not an official orphan, but at the end of the day there's enough brokenness that the kid is looking for something and needs something and you know Uh even the school system is set up that way. Uh you you even read this all through, you know, um uh political uh policy, policy that is geared towards towards youth the recognition why you just can't trust the parents to do it. You know, the parent you can't trust the parents to talk to the kids about sex, so we better do it for 'em. You can't trust the parents to teach kids about morality, so we better do it. You know, and so we're we're you know, the school system, society's picking up the pieces for all of these broken families. And the reality is that there are a ton of broken families out there. And single single parenthood has been scientifically proven to not be anywhere near as effective as as two parent families and that's that's pervasive. But then does the church step in and do just what you were saying you don't like about what the public school system's doing? Does the church step in and replace the parents? Well the parents aren't taking care of it, so the church will step in. I don't know that I said that right? I didn't know that I said that I didn't like it. I'm just recognizing that they're doing it. Uh and they're doing it because even they recognize that there's a broken society. Yeah, but we came first. Absolutely. Right. In the absence of leadership. That's a good question. I mean Cain and Abel came first. The sin came first, right? Sorry. Yeah, in the absence of leadership, uh anybody who thinks he can lead. would jump in. And that's what is going on with the public schools. And if the church fails to step in, then the sexual world is gonna do it. The school system is going to do it. And very often uh they tend to have a secular approach. But the family was originally put in place by God. If it's going to come together and it's going to work well, it has to be done by God's approach. And very often in church also we have many people in church who are dysfunctional. So very often they feel that they are not they don't have enough knowledge to be able to step in. But My appeal is that it star it starts with one step. For every Bill Gates you you see, you would suddenly know that there is some uh he has a mentor. We need to come up with that understanding that parents are the first mentors in the life of the elderly. But you said if the church doesn't do it then the world will step in. And that's not my experience. My experience is that the the the world isn't waiting for the church to see if the church is gonna step in or not. The world is already in whether we go for it or not Mm-hmm. And so uh you know, and that was true way back from the beginning. I mean w when the church showed up on the scene, it didn't show up to a world that was doing nothing to to to impact the next generation. They had all kinds of ideas about how they would impact the next generation in the Roman Empire, in the in the Greek Empire, in the the Persian Empire. You know, the world has its ideas and for us to say, well, well, you know, if we don't do it then the world's gonna step in I think is a is a faulty mentality. The world is not waiting around to see what the church does. The world is in and the world is influencing and it's doing it aggressively about every issue that's out there. Homosexuality, you know, about whether or not there is a God, about creation versus evolution. I mean, uh, sex outside of marriage on every issue they are in and they are in strong, and so I just don't think they're waiting for us. It's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, the beautifully accented man from uh originally from Ghana that you're hearing on the show today is Neil Achapong. He's the Um uh uh I put the accent on the wrong Chumpon Syllabo on that uh pronunciation of your name. I apologize. Uh he's uh pastor at Covenant Family Church in downtown. Frederick, right at the corner of Market and Second Street, I believe, right? That's right, right there. Wave high when you drive by. And your church has moved recently. Yeah, we're over on f on uh East Fourth Street now, two hundred six East Fourth Street, so we're only two blocks away from you now. Okay. Yeah. We're actually doing So here's the deal. On on Sundays now, Jonathan and uh and Neil, both of you. Yeah. Your job, Jonathan, is to get your congregation to sing so loud that we can hear. That they can he that they can hear you. And same thing, Neil, you gotta sing so loud that they're knocking on your door. Would you guys uh simmer down over here? Yeah. Well but going back, you know, the the Bible talks about again the the whole normative idea, you know, the Bible talks about training up the children in the way they should go. Yeah. Right. And if you i if you're feeding them the word and they won't depart from the way that they're supposed to go. Well who's that charge given to? That charge is given to the parents. So I think the normative ideal thing is that you know, the family is the building block for society. And the church should be supporting that. Yeah. And my concern is the world has stepped in. The secular, you know, world, the the school system, whatever, the state has stepped in and has well parents can't do it, we're gonna do it. And I get nervous sometimes the church is contributing to that mindset, okay The parents have abdicated responsibility in a lot of cases. We let them off the hook too easily. Okay, I see where you're going with this. And so But I think you've taken it too far. Should I let you give your argument first and then give a response? The thing is is that how am I taking it too far? Well well There's two things going on here, which I feel like are always going on in the church. The one thing is that we want to preach the gospel and reach the world for the gospel. The other thing is that we're wanting to protect are Christian kids from unchristian kids. And I'm not saying that you go that far, but I'm saying that I would disagree with you a hundred percent. Yeah, you have two things always going on and and one is that you're teaching those that are already in the church to do what is right But then the other thing is that you're preaching the gospel. And so certainly we need to teach the parents that are in the church to take responsibility, not abdicate it either to the church or to the top or to the public school system. But if we have if we have kids that are out there that are open, I mean the discipleship and evangelism, we gotta be doing both of those. And so discipleship, let's disciple the parents to take the responsibility, but but if there are kids that for whatever reason are stuck from broken homes, then let us not hesitate for a moment to get in there and and share the gospel because Uh all of the divorce today in society, all the the no-fault divorce has created a widowed society. All these single moms, it's just like they're widows and they're out there and they can barely make it financially Their kids aren't doing as well in school. I mean, it's a widowed society across the board. And so I say that that is a wide open opportunity for the for the church to come in and and say whatever we can do to help, let's do it. And and at the same time as the parents get saved, look, let's pee in marriages that are that are genuine and let's do the the parenting uh let's Let's take responsibility for the parenting. We'll swing back around to the prepared subject matter here at a moment. But the the church should be again, this is normative, ideal kind of stuff in my mind, all right, and you might disagree with me. The church, you as pastors Should be standing up on Sundays and you should be preaching the gospel. That is your primary job on Sunday during the worship service is to share the gospel with the people of God and those that might be around that aren't people of God yet, but they're they're interested or they're they're confused, they might think they're a Christian and they're not whatever. But you're you're charged with preaching the gospel. Okay. The people who are hearing you are charged with getting it. Yeah. I get the gospel. Yeah. Right? You give it, they get it. And then once they get it, they catch fire with it and they go live it. And through their living it, they have opportunity then to go evangelize the nations. So if you've got sixty-eight kids in your church, for example, Neil, you have sixty-eight little evangelists. Right? And so you don't have to say, let's figure out a pro I'm I'm not saying you're doing this, by the way. Maybe you are, maybe you're not, but I'm not I d we haven't gotten to that yet. I figure we get to this subject matter way later in the discussion. Uh but no. But no. Uh but if you equip those kids to be good little Christians And they're going out and they're living gospel centered lives and they're sharing their faith with others and people are like, Man, I punched you in the nose and you seemed like you didn't, you know, strike back the way kids normally would. What's that all about? Well, my pastor tells me that Jesus would have me do this, and I I listen to what the pastor says about Jesus because he's my savior. What is yet they have this huge opportunity. The kids are reaching the kids. The church doesn't have to top down create a program to reach the kids that bypasses the parents. See that's that's again, it's normative though. I'm s I understand there are realities. It's That is the basic thing that we are trying to do. For example, if I went down to a school system and said let's have a prayer time. It's against the rules. If I taught a kid how to have their own prayer club, then they can do it because they are allowed to. Now that is the approach that I believe that we need to take at the moment because there are too many regulations in our system that stops pastors, stops so many other people uh to get in. So if I can train a bench or of, say, twenty kids And they understand that we can pray. And prayer is important. And they've seen some results when they pray. And those kids start prayer clubs and schools. They start some other things to reach their own peers. I believe we will be able to infiltrate. The problem is when you go to church, for example And uh you ask the average pastor, what is the size of your congregation? He only counts adults. Mm-hmm. Yeah. But when we stand in the presence of God, there's no difference between an adult soul. And a child's soul. God is going to judge us. Interestingly though, when you ask Jonathan, at least when I've ha heard him answer those kinds of questions, he has a tendency to answer in terms of families. Yes. Right. We have X number of families. We have you know twenty families, fifty families, however many families you have at our family. Which is now. But I've it's in he doesn't say a number and count up the adults, it's he counts in his head how many families. So Which I think is a is a good model. I think that's actually speaking to what I'm saying, the idea of the mentality of the church towards the the hearers and the receivers of the message should be. And if a local church is built on a family, it is always better The reason is if if if daddy and mommy and all the kids are hearing from the same source, then it's very easy to model things in that family. Unfortunately today in society we have daddy go to church elsewhere, the kids are somewhere else and mommy goes elsewhere. Yeah, I want to talk about that. Maybe in next week's show I want to talk about that. But what Neil is coming from a perspective where he has in front of him Where three fifths of his congregation is youth. And so so w as he comes on the show today, as he's praying uh day in and day out, he's thinking This is what God's given me, what am I going to do with it? Whereas what you're talking about, Troy, is I feel like you're talking about a situation where the church is is a big church and there's families that that are saying, hey, how come you don't have a better youth program? And the church instead of in that situation saying, look, parents, you know, in where the kids are maybe like a third of the congregation or maybe a half of the congregation, look, parents, uh proper youth ministry is parenting, not a a a big youth ministry where we do all these fun games and and everybody's you know discipled by everybody else but a proper youth ministry is where the parents are doing the ministry And I agree with you that the tendency in churches, in order to look good, is to have this youth ministry that's, you know, like the best thing on the block, you know, and they do it not Not for outreach purposes, but they do it so that the parents that are coming feel like the church is going to take care of their kids for them. Yeah. And I I agree that that is a mentality that is s slipped into the church and that is a broken mentality and that that is driven by um uh kind of a seeker sensitive, you know, uh well I picked this church because it's got a better youth program than that church instead of saying that, you know, ultimately it's not up to a youth program and a church how my kids are going to turn out. It's up to how my wife and I Take care of them each and every day and what how we interact with them. in molding this kit starts with every parent becoming a mentor to his own child. Or some other parent will have to take another child and try to mentor that. Yeah, because as you were describing to me ahead of time, I was asking you, you're not describing a youth program that is this fun and gains thing. You're describing something that is mentoring intensive. Yes You know, and I'm not even sure how you can do it because you've got two thirds of your congregation. We what we have done is we already begun and we rec we took an age group. Right, because we can't go far down. So we took an age route. You can't go what? Like we can't go say far down with um because of the number of parents that are available, we have to just choose a certain block of people and start mentoring them. Sure. And then over a period then we've got to do that. Even though you do so much, right, I'm with you. Yeah. And what we did was to start in terms of professional work. How are these kids choosing which college to go? Are they making choices for the future? And then we put it one on one. I have a I have one boy, and he's not my son. And I'm actually mentoring the boy. And um I said, listen, even though I'm a pastor mentoring you, you don't need to be a pastor. And the first thing we're trying to do with I'm doing with him is to help him recognize all his abilities. What is it that you you can do best? The first thing he told me is pass or I play basketball. I say your height is not gonna make it work. I said let's look at other things. And a father's the one that has to communicate those things. Yes. And then most of the kids that we're dealing with, some of them have parents, but the parents are just there. They're not doing anything. So this is where we're saying let all the adults in the church step into some kind of relationships, some kind of mentorship program and start mentoring these young people. I'm excited to have a chance to talk about that more next week because Most churches are not doing that. And I and I talk to people who listen to this show and they and I know they're listening because they'll parrot back something they heard, they like something we did, don't like something we did. Usually it's you know something you said, Jonathan. I'm just kidding. Uh yeah, well but I know they're listening and I can hear it in their head right now. They say, Well, that's not my church. Let me ask you this. Does your church have a youth group? that is designed and configured in such a way that it would attract neighborhood kids in addition to your church community, right, with fun and games and things like that. Plus some teaching, right? You have that, but you don't have the adult equivalent. Does your church have something like that for teens and youth? Do you have vacation bible school for adults at your church? Do you have a Sunday evening rec program where Community adults will show up and have a good time. And oh, by the way, hear the gospel. Do you have that at your church too? If not, you're guilty as charged. I'm sorry. Just it's true. Putman Pulling and Heating is our sponsor. Thanks for listening. Jonathan Sweitzer, Neil Achampong. I'm Froy Skinner's The Faith Debate. Until next week. God bless. Faith and hope, words that walk hand in hand through the lives of everyone touched by breast cancer. Footman Plumbing honors the courageous battle being fought by the special women in your life by donating ten dollars from every October service call. Look for our technicians wearing pink bow ties. Putlandplumbing. com