The Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all for Kua, where faith community leaders wrestle. over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, Mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. Here's advice from the headlines. By the way, it's always a good place to get advice, headlines. Want millennials back in the pews? Stop trying to make church cool. Church can't rely on bedrock institution status if it wants to attract. Millennials. The black church can engage more black millennials by bringing politics back into the pulpit. That's just three of the millions of articles out there, and I'm not exaggerating. Millions. But rather than say focused on a bunch of internet blobs and opinion pieces. Today we'll look at what does the Bible have to say about how to deal with different demographic groups? What's the New Testament model for our young person's church? I'm Troy Skinner. And today we wrap up our four-part series on millennials with panelists Jonathan Sweitzer, co-founder of Cross Bridges in Frederick, and Michael Bartlett, the pastor of Collective Church in Frederick. And before we get into real meaty matter, yeah, I had a question I wanted to ask last week. I did not have time, so I'm going to ask it now. We asked you the kinds of questions that millennials have, Michael. Uh and and but in case you haven't missed and you've missed the first first few shows Uh Michael is a pastor of Collective Church, which is like 80 plus percent millennials uh Generation uh uh Z hybrid kind of thing there. I mean that's a young church. People are between the ages of like eighteen and thirty or something like that. So he's got a lot of 'em. It's a big church, close to three hundred people, and they're all they're all young. Uh well I mean all. Figuratively all. So he's got an interesting perspective on some of this. And I asked him last week a couple of different times it came similar questions came up. You know, what are the things that that they're hoping for? What are the things they're asking from the church? What kinds of questions are they asking the church? And they were all basically kind of experiential, you know, uh kinds of questions. Well how can you help me to understand my experience? How can you help me in my experience? Or, you know N so far I haven't heard a theological question. Do they ever ask theological questions? What is the nature of God? How is it possible that God is three and one at the same time? Uh I've legitimately never had any questions about the Trinity. Um I'll get emails every once in a while about it, but it's people who clearly have a background in church. The number one question we get What about the Shaq? Did they did they Yeah, so see the movie and start thinking? Finish the number one question and then we'll come back to the Shaq. I'll make the most important thing. is whether or not creation is real. And it's not because they're trying to push evolution. It's just they s people struggle, millennials struggle with the fact that God created everything. in six days and then rest of it. Knowing the generation and the kind of technological b background that they all were immersed in growing up, I thought for half a second you meant Is our experience real? Like are we living in a dream or some sort of computer program? Matrix. Yeah, the matrix. Exactly. And so they they it's not an evolution question though, it's just more of uh how does that work? How did God make everything out of nothing? Yeah, no one f they don't fight about evolution. Um but they just don't think God created it all. And so what's funny is like for us Right, because they don't fight Yeah, they're not i I mean, they're gonna have their opinions anyway. It's still the case that they yeah, that they have yeah, the mindset, right. And they'll just Google it if they don't like the answer. And they'll eventually find somebody who wrote a blog that fits their answer. And so For us, like when we ask those questions, I always when people ask me those questions always. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They don't Well, that's the American way. And that's not just millennials, that's all of us now. Yeah. You know, cable TV channels. It's it's you know, that's what I'm saying. When people agree with me, I find them to be very smart. I get nervous. Anyway, so Yeah, so we always tell them W what's the point of the Old Testament? You know what's funny because that's just a thought. think I value their opinions. I think they're really smart. And when I happen to agree with them then I feel like I'm smart. That's what I mean. That makes you feel smarter. The when we get asked that question I always point to w it's a non-essential. R realistically, a lot of the Old Testament, whether you think it's a fable or real, like that's another piece of that question that we get. So I think it's a fairy tale. Okay, fine. But what is it teaching us? This world is broken. We need a savior. You know, and so my goal isn't to get them all to believe right away that the old testament is one hundred percent real. I I will teach, I personally believe that it is. But that comes with fate. I trust is there is to one where they're wrestling with anything that's supernatural? For the most part no. I I mean they all We I rarely get questions about like the spiritual side of things. Um it's mostly the felt needs. Or or it goes back to like legalism, things they dealt with as kids where I get asked the second question I get asked most is, can I drink? And that's we have a small group that meets in a brewery. And so we're like, well, we hope so. But they've been told like drinking is a thing. So it's very it's interesting for non church. Which again I think is what the We've never done that. Hollywood gives that impression. That's the whole Hollywood drinking. I mean at my college I went to, there was no drinking, there was no dancing. I was like, I went to a very diverse public high school and I should have been college and I was like, I'm sorry, what? You can't dance here? But these were all kids who grew up in the church. um in the Midwest or in the Bible Bell. And they they all thought that was normal. And so, you know, for us like it's people aren't wrestling with the spiritual side of things yet. because most of them aren't sure they believe it's real. By the way, uh and this is not this might in the context might seem like a joke, it's not a joke. Uh we've never done a show on that. So If you listening right now go to a church or know a pastor who would want to uh defend that point of view, because that is a point of view that is still prevalent in certain areas. Um if you have a pastor or or or leaders in your church who would want to come on this show and talk about and defend the idea that, you know, Christians shouldn't drink alcohol. The Christians shouldn't you know, maybe dance. I'm not sure if anybody that goes that far anymore. I don't know. But if you've got somebody that's really strict on those kind of disciplines, uh we should do a show on that and give it a fair hearing. Uh just You should understand that's not where I am and I don't think that's where John is. I have like pictures of Amish people like running through my mind or some of the hard core Baptist traditions are are s probab some of them are still there. Yeah, the restoration movement that we came from as well. Um really? Yeah, like which was a shock to me. My my roommate grew up in a church where they they taught drinking was a sin. Um the irony now is he's a pastor and he also brews his own beer and his dad, who's an elder in the church growing up, like they have an okay relationship, but that is a tension they feel. Um so what's funny is like again, like that was the whole like I get this knowledge of the church. And I think it's a fair debate. I think those who advocate that are are wrong and I think I could be persuasive in my argument. But you know what? They obviously would think I'm wrong and they would believe they could be persuasive in their argument. I think that'd be an interesting show to do. So anyway, if you know so email me Troy Skinner at iHeartmedia. com Troy Scored you can connect with me via the website as well. Okay. Or Facebook for that matter. So Um the Shack. Yeah, so the the people who've watched that movie, they don't question the Trinity side of it. It's the female interpretation uh Papa, the the father of the Godhead is through most of the mov well it was a book first, but yeah through the most of the book that's the piece they want to know. But then do they r well so this is the this is the point is that They still come away from that movie with an impression about the Trinity, if they've watched it, that may or may not have, you know, biblical grounding. And so Again, the point is that they don't question those things. They just kind of accept it and they're they're like, who cares, whatever. This is what I really care about is based on what I've heard from you so far, they probably like the portrayal of God in the shack. This you know, very gregarious, kind, anything goes kind of they do. They do. And the the biggest feedback I get from that is they like the fact that it's not a guy. Because they f our w our women specifically do not feel like their voice is as valuable in the church. And and not all of them, but a decent amount of them. And again, like that comes from bad church experiences. We have people that go to our church now that grew up or went to church in a completely different state where women couldn't pass communion traits. Because that was like against what what that church belief scripture said. So that was their experience when they come into collective and we've got women who uh lead uh we have a female who leads our band most Sundays. We have what we call an MC spot where they talk about announcements. It's it's fifty percent male male female. We have women who lead teams, women who lead groups. But they like the idea that Maybe this church isn't as white and male as the portrayal of it seems. And that that comes down to politics, that comes down to what they've seen online, like again, it's a misunderstanding of the church. Um obviously diversity in the church isn't great anyways But for them they just like the funnel. That's not totally a misunderstanding. The reality is that there's still the egalitarian versus complementary, meaning meaning women are a complement to to men in marriage and in ministry as opposed to women are equal to the egalitarian approach, you know, in those things. And so So it's it's not just perception. The reality is that there's still at least, you know, there's still a large portion of conservative churches that that would be complementary. That's a good point to bring up because I do get asked that question a lot. When I sit down with young married couples, they ask that question. And they're not going to be able to do that. No, they don't they wouldn't know. If I use egalitarian and complementarian, they they wouldn't. So how do they phrase it? They will say it's always the the female will say What role can I have in this church? It's always like, what can I do in this church? And they don't I know where they're going with the question. I know what they're c trying to ask, but they won't Ask what's the women's role in this church? And out of curiosity, at the highest level, I don't know if you're elder led or how what your what your structure is like at the highest level Do you have female elders or so we are moving toward developing elders. We have we use a management team right now, which are five local professors. Yeah, I get that. But Oh yeah, 100%. Because right now that's not an issue because you don't have elders. Correct. Once you have them, they're all men. Yep. The women who look wait a minute. Yep You're just like all those are you more complimentary and then? Uh I for me I I when I read scripture about elders, to me it seems like it is Everything that it says is like it's h it's a husband or it's a man. Like and so for me, that's something that just my basis basic foundation of it is like, okay I would say complimentary and when it comes to elders. Will you have deacons? We follow that structure too or we don't call 'em deacon, we call 'em leader team leaders. Um or you are adventuely to have females there. Correct. Yeah. So the thing is we're still two or three years out from that. So the good news is for me, to be honest, is I've a few years to really dig into the subject. Because I've only done church planting. So I've never gone to a church that had elders. So for me, like that's the gap that we we we will run into that wall. You know, we have no issues starting new things, being exciting, thinking outside the box. There are things that we'll run into four or five ten, twenty years down the road. And so when you answer that question, then somebody sa is uh, you know, uh husband and wife are there and the woman says, you know, uh, what can I do in this church? How do you answer that? Uh I mean for us, like we women lead. Um we have no issue with women speaking or preaching or leading groups of people, m male, female, whatever. How often do you have a woman preach? Um what's funny is we haven't had that yet, and that's to be honest, that's mostly because I'm really terrible about getting ahead on sermons And so m my lack of experience in the church has led to me preaching most of our sermons, which is not our long term goal. Sure. And so we're I'm trying really hard this summer to move away from that. But but I'll tell them like as of right now The one thing is the based on my understanding of scripture is that we will not have women elders. But then the question is, well what uh what are elders? What do they do? And you're like, oh, you don't even okay, let's have that conversation. And most people most people aren't upset about that because you can show them I can show them like the scripture in the way that I understand it. Most of them aren't asking to be elders. They're just asking to be valuable. And so even even when they dig on those questions, we eventually hit a wall where their knowledge doesn't go beyond that. our our predominant crowd. Now there are people who grew up in the church who have good church experiences. I will like I'll answer those questions and then they will immediately go, I'm not going to be a part of this church. You know and and I a guy asked me once, like He he left his church 'cause he was frustrated in our in our network, and so I knew the church. He's like, a woman came and spoke about mental health and I was like, Was she a counselor? He's like, Yeah, totally. He's like, Well if you have an issue with women and a microphone Like collective won't be the church for you and we never saw him again. And so but he's a church person. Unchurched people, even as we walk down the road and answer these questions, eventually run into it where they don't have a basic understanding of like the church structure through structure or anything like that so there's a lot of knowledge. They're starting from scratch. Yes. And the reality is that's what happened in Corinth, that's what happened in Ephesus. Yeah. Right. All these these churches in the Bible, they were starting from scratch. It's hard. It's very hard. Yeah, that's uh Michael Bartlett's voice. He's the pastor of Collective Church in Frederick. Jonathan Sweitzer is also on the show again this week. He's the uh co-founder of Cross Bridges. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Yeah, it occurs to me that Um because you're starting so green with the people that are coming uh to collective church that you're experiencing almost like time-lapse photography, the history of the early church. You know, when all of a sudden they had to have these councils a couple hundred years in and then a hundred years after that, a hundred years after that, to wrestle with really serious questions that weren't on the table, nobody was worrying about 'em yet But as the church matures, like wait a minute, we have to figure this out. What how do we understand the humanity and divinity of Christ? How do we understand what church leadership should look like? How do we understand the Trinity And so you're going to have to deal with these questions, like you said, over the next ten years, what exactly is an elder and who can be that and how do we defend that and explain it in a way that won't be off putting to those that you want to still be on your side. So if you don't mind me asking, I mean this isn't central to the topic we're talking about. I'm curious Um how would how do you describe your theology? What's the what's the what's you know, what's the theology behind what collective church? Is it Arminian, Reformed? I think he called it restoration. Restoration movement And so that what does that mean? Yeah, so that came in the late eighteen hundreds, um, back when denominationals were so split where you could have four or five things in common with the Presbyterian down the road. But if you weren't, you know, old light, noncessary, and antiburger, like you couldn't preach in the other person's church. And so Thomas Campbell and Alexander Stone, who were Methodist and Presbyterian denominational pastors had this revelation, which they felt like was from God, that said like you we you need to restore the church back to the book of Acts. And so there is a big revival, lots of denominations, because not denominationalism wasn't really a thing. Like there were churches that were not affiliated, but they never said this is who we are. And they got together and they said that it was called the s um I think it's the Spring Ridge Revival in Kentucky. And they're like, let's do this, but let's restore it back to the book of Acts. And so some of the things that came out of that was where scripture speaks, we speak. We're scripture silent, we're silent. And in essentials unity, and non-essential is liberty, and all things love. And those are like the two things that we kind of say, like this is where we get our teaching from. You know, it's the Bible only and what does the Bible say about it? You know, and that gets tricky because gifts of the Spirit is probably a question we get pretty often and they'll say, Well what about this gift? And I have to say, well scripture never says it ends. And because scripture doesn't say like this thing stops, we have to assume it still exists in some c capacity. What does that look like? How did that change? We don't know. But um but for us there are people will ask questions and it's at the same time you wouldn't identify as a charismatic church. No. Uh Uh no. Um you know, it's funny because we have people the millennials specifically are tend to be more charismatic. Um I am not a charismatic person. And so it kind of mirrors me a little bit. I don't necessarily think that's right or wrong. Um we're trying to teach our people how to worship. We're trying to teach our people how to do these things. And so the more they get comfortable, the more you see kind of some of that emotion come out. Um but yeah, like just a non denominational Bible only church, um That doesn't that we kinda decide those things. So do you get into a first Corinthians fourteen where you're looking for everybody to come with a scripture or a psalm or you know a a word of encouragement for people? Like on a weekly basis? You say like in the church service or um no, because most of the people wouldn't know what to do with that what to do with that. And so our services are pretty planned out. They're they're pretty structured. Um And part of that is because trying to reach the people we're trying to reach, you know, we're an hour, some of those are thirty minutes. Like we we're pretty structured in that front. Um but we we do our best to mirror So what if like ten years from now as the people continue to grow in the Word of God and grow in these things uh they they kind of start paying attention to some of these other issues, you know, because they're just growing in in their understanding of the Word of God. You'd be open to Moving into what scripture describes along those lines? It it's it depends on our vision as a church. Our goal, we we say we're a church for the rest of us. You know, if you've never been to church or you struggle to find a church, like that's why we started collective. So our goal is always to reach unchurched people. Yeah, and that's not gonna go away. Yes. And so at some point we're gonna run into a tension where people who've been with us for ten years, who found faith in Jesus, who walk alongside this, at some point, either they're gonna wanna continue they're gonna wanna start getting more w of whatever they want, w you know, knowledge or more a deeper understanding of scripture. Or our hope is that we turn their attention toward, okay, go seek and save lost people. Um but like that's the church planning dilemma As you get older, you always run into this wall of people who are like, This isn't for me anymore because I feel like I'm too mature in my face and you're reaching so many non church people. So it's attention. Dividing points within the church, because you're talking about the essentials and non-essentials and stuff. One of the things that some people would say in their view is an essential would be the baptism question. Do you guys baptize infants or it's a believers-only baptism? Scripture's position. That's a great question. So again, we we go to the book of Acts, um, and so what we teach is scripture teaches us that baptism, the word, means immersion. And so we we trust that, you know, and you when you look at the history of the church and you see when baptism of infants came into play, it was hundreds of years later. Um a lot of it was ha t had to do with the fact that people believe that infants were born inheriting sin from their family and therefore baptism was the only way to save them. And so it leaned really heavy toward the baptism side, then of course we like swung the pendulum to the grace only side. And so we teach kind of from Acts two thirty eight, like when you have that moment where you realize Oh, I want Jesus to be my leader. Like that's when you make the decision to to be baptized. And so we we try to our best to teach people you pair that up with that faith moment. Um now that in Maryland We've we there are many people who won't go to collective because they grew up in the Catholic Church and although they don't necessarily go anymore, they want to go to a church like Collective, they still are like, wait, hold on, like you don't baptize babies. It's like, well We believe that the decision should be made by the person. Like you're making that for them. And so that's a tension. camp, but maybe other aspects of the Baptists. I mean that's definitive for the Baptist camp I guess. And others but and I'm the this is not this this the show for that subject, but just out of fairness for those that are squirming in their cars driving to church right You're the only one squirming, right? They would make arguments from the Book of Acts that would support infant baptism as well. So it's not quite as clear cut as picking a Yeah, I wasn't going to go there, but I know the passage that the passage is. that's in your gumbo is attractive to millennials at least in this moment. Sure. So I'm trying to figure out what that is. So they're not necessarily supporting that, but they're not put off by the baptism question. No, and I think most people want to have a moment where they've said, This is mine. Like and and that's I think the reason why we had so many decisions like that, because while they they appreciate their parents raising them in a church and and trying to instill faith in them They still millennials specifically, because millennials want to be heard. They want to to be believed in. So for them, I think we've seen where a lot of millennials like the idea of baptism because it's their own ownership. They want to be important. They want to be valuable. They want to be seen as like contributing members to the world. That's what they're fighting for. And so I think that's why baptism isn't weird for a lot of the people that go to our church because They get to say, I'm grabbing this thing and it's mine now and they celebrate it like crazy in our church and not everybody understands it and some people think it's really uncomfortable and there's the tensions of people who whose parents like raise them in the Catholic Church but they've decided I want to pursue faith on my own then they decide to get baptized and their parents hate me forten we don't have time to get into this so we're gonna raise it let you guys tease your websites again but it's interesting You've brought up the whole Catholic you know label a number of times. It seems like a lot of disaffected uh Catholics are drawn to uh Protestant tradition. Our generation, the the uh Time magazine uh did the article in the late nineties of the young, restless reformed. Right? And there seemed to be a sense that our generation when we kinda had our revival, they moved in the direction of Calvinism and and Reformation. But it feels to me like what you're describing is that you're you know, what you're seeing and may I don't know that we could say it's a whole generation, but that your generation isn't looking to buy into something that is like super rigid and structured, which would be more Calvinist and or Catholic, but they're looking to buy into something that they can choose, that they can, you know, kind of grow into which historically we're like a uh like a Baptist or a or a non um you know hierarchical kind of a kind of an approach and so And that's gonna be the last word. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening. Until next week, one hundred and a 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.