We deny that the content of the gospel includes obedience to the law. And that any work of obedience merits salvation. We deny that law keeping contributes in any way to justification before God or declaring the sinner righteous based on anything other than faith in Christ. We deny that the law can be separated from the love of the personal God who gave the law. We deny that citizenship in a God glorifying Christian nation or anything outside of the above affirmation has any saving power. And that is the final portion of Article 15 on the distinction between law and gospel, which finds itself within the middle and heading down the home stretch of the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel This is the Faith Debate. We've been working through this statement for a number of weeks now and gathered together at least one more time. Daniel Razby, David Forcy, and me, Troy Skinner. You can find me online at Household of FaithInCrist dot com. Of course you can find the show online at WFMD. dot com as well and thank you for spending part of your day with us here on the Faith Debate as we work through this statement. And I know that uh trust me even for us we get a little bit frustrated like man the this structure forces us into a box But I I think it's a good discipline and it's exposed some things. It even came up last week and the week before some things that would be fodder for other shows, topics that sure we might not have stumbled upon if not working through these sorts of things. And so that's good. And I gotta tell ya, this has been uh fighting words uh among the body and that and as a pastor, you know, who believes strongly in in agreement with the Apostle Paul that we have union in Christ. We have unity that has been won for us in Christ and we need to live that out and we need to uh to fight to defend uh what that should look like. And uh it's one thing to be poking holes in and going after those who are preaching a false gospel. But when we disagree about how politics should shape out or what the best path forward and what obedience to God best looks like, where there's maybe some room for some disagreement because we just don't know everything, I think we can have some grace. Um and on the show I think we demonstrated, I hope that we do, that we're forthright in our disagreements, right? I mean if if Daniel says something knuckleheaded or I say something knuckleheaded, we call each other on it Um and if we say something good we try to affirm e each other in that. Sometimes we do it playfully, sometimes we do it very directly. And that's all fine, but it's all in the spirit of building up, of edifying, of being iron sharpening iron It's not throwing pies in the face. It's not trying to trash somebody on social media, trying to diminish their ministry or their or or their personhood. You know, and so we're trying to model how we can talk about a very contentious issue that has been just hugely problematic within the American church at least for the last number of months, probably about two years I would say at least, it's been a a real problem. And so we're trying to at least model that and sh s and for those who say, oh, this is really simple. Because I've had have you had those conversations? What are they fighting about? It's so simple. And then they tell you what they think the simple answer is like, yeah, your answer is too simple. It's not that simple. And this just demonstrates these guys put a lot of thought into this statement. It's long. It's like I mean it's like ten, twelve pages or something. It's long. It's a lot of words. And they tried hard. And here we are picking it apart word by word. It's not easy. And I'm not well as we pick it apart, we're not saying we could do better. Right? We couldn't necessarily write this any better than they have. But because they've written it and they've and they're putting it out there for consumption, we're trying to say, okay, how could this be strengthened? How could how could this, you know, be improved in some way? What part should be taken out or whatever? So in that spirit Uh what do we think about the denial here on Article 15? We deny the content of the gospel includes obedience to the law. That's interesting because it feels like David was maybe thinking differently about that in last week's show, unless they're defining things differently. Because you're talking about you gotta start with the breaking of the law and sharing the gospel. You gotta share the bad news first. Well they're they're saying it uh the content of the gospel So so I I think what they're getting at here, which I would agree with, is that um that keeping the law is what saves. Right. And I agree with that. Yeah. Now now you don't know that you need saved until you know that you're a lawbreaker. And once you're saved, you should ob you should obey as well. And I think the I the process of ongoing sanctification by the power of the Holy Spirit is also part of the gospel message. And so I think Obedience to the law somehow does fit within a sharing of us. I mean when we when we are um Uh when we are enemies of God and dead in our sins, right, we love our sin, right? And so then when we uh repent of our sin when God saves us from it, he he turns our hearts so that we now love the law. Right. So I mean even even as a even sinners stumble across, you know stumble into abiding by the law from time to time. You know find some advantages in that and if not just a a a a a stumbling, I mean, by God's providence and his his uh you know, his common grace mm for for society to be able to function plus Even though it's a marred image, uh even the the unrepentant uh reprobate still bear some image of God on their person. They have a conscience until they are completely given over and their heart becomes so hardened that they don't even respond to their own conscience anymore. So there's some thing there it's not just a mere stumbling. Even that is But if you wanna call it stumbling, even that stumbling is ordained by God. Where I was going with that is also that, okay, so then even though I may You know, now I uh I love the law, but I am still in a uh broken body in a marred world, and so I still stumble in sin, right, in that regard. So um yeah and and then again just getting back to to what they're saying here that you know they're I think they're trying to be very clear, okay even if there is a civil government that is enforcing the moral law of God, right? It is not the keeping of that moral law of God. That saves anyone. So then clearly it's not only does it not save anybody, it doesn't even contribute towards saving or justifying anybody. It doesn't contribute in any way to justification to before God. Uh right, yeah. Keeping that law doesn't make your salvation better than it was or more complete than it was or anything like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And again they're they're they're leaving the uh Roman Catholics a curb on on this sort of language. Which, you know, we'll have that debate on a different shop. Article sixteen On civil disobedience. We're just talking about obedience. Now here's civil disobedience. We affirm that categorical opposition to civil disobedience is idolatry of the state. We affirm that civil disobedience is a proper Christian response to civil dictates, which, one, command what God forbids. 2. Forbid what God commands. 3. Overstep their jurisdiction. 4. Bind the conscience where God alone has jurisdiction. Or 5. Have no basis in raciality. Rationality. A uh just law is always a rational law, they put in parentheses. And we affirm that left or magistrates may and sometimes must disobey a lawless higher magistrate to obey God For example, I'm having a hard time speaking all of a sudden. For example, lesser magistrates such as state governments, counties, and municipalities must disregard any orders, statute, or ruling from a higher magistrate such as the federal government, I got something to say about that, instructing them to allow abortion. We affirm that civil disobedience, although sometimes necessary is rarely the normative relationship between a citizen and their civil government. I find it fascinating that these guys that are going to be very sharp and smart on because they're talking specifically in a USA context And they're all about the government and the church and American history and they're gonna point to a lot of things that Daniel Razby has pointed to about the founding of this country. And yet somehow they have this blind spot. that they don't understand that originally the federal government is supposed to be the lesser magistrate. The the way they've structured this is it's the general government, the big government that meets in Washington DC, is somehow the higher, better, bigger magistrate compared to the states. That was never the intention. The states were supposed to be the higher magistrate and the the what we call the federal government now was to be the lesser magistrate. Those roles have flipped and I find it just I don't I think to be understood in today's substance of the thing doesn't they're absolutely right in how they said this, other than I'm surprised that they didn't use this as an opportunity to Well a lot of Christians we tend to want it both ways, right? We want on the one hand states to be more powerful than the government. On the other hand we'd we would all vote for a national law against abortion. Right? So uh that's that's kind of the Are you suggesting that we like our cake so much we want to have it and eat it too? I think you're probably right. Um I I I would uh put myself in that camp and uh that's because abortion is murder and every government, no matter whether they're federal or state, should always prohibit murder and if the uh you know, one level is not doing that job particularly then those other levels should definitely be enforcing that. All right. Now the the uh denial here says we deny that men's consciences homes. Well, you have more to say on the uh information. Yeah, but this and then just kinda like in general, I I feel like There's not enough emphasis on the idea that we aren't citizens of the United States. We're citizens of heaven. And we always need to have that focus. that if to what extent to any extent any of these this involvement with the government, teaching by the government, if Christians' roles in government or voting or anything to a any of the extent that it ever applies, it is always far, far, far in a way subordinate to our place as citizens of Christ's kingdom. Right. Yeah. We're not we're not merely that you're not a citizen right you're not merely. And what supersedes that citizenship not only am I saying that not merely, I'm saying That's like the least important type of citizenship that we have, like far uh like for example But the Apostle Paul appeals to his Roman citizenship. He does, he does. Uh I agree. But like l let's say you you get in a room with uh some uh g uh believer in China, right? And then uh some uh buddy down the street that's a politician in in in in your town or whatever, you have a lot more in common with this believer in China who doesn't even speak your language. A lot more c in common with him than anybody that's your neighbor or your or or your country. Yeah, where it ultimately matters from a heavily perspective, I would say yes, but in a practical uh living out our life in the world manner, I'm not so sure because the person in China I don't speak his language. I didn't grow up in that context. I don't know their history the way I know my history and vice versa. Uh their family structures and units might be a little bit different than what I'm used to. They're gonna have cultural norms that are different. So I have an awful lot in common with my next door neighbor who doesn't profess to be a Christian. have a lot in common just because of proximity. We know a lot about traffic patterns in Frederick. There's a lot about politics in the area. So but spiritually it ultimately matters, yes, but I think proximate familiarity is is important too. I don't want to throw the baby out of the bathwater. I think there's very valid points that we're both making on this and I think that is something that's missing from this statement. I would have liked to see more discussion of the heavenly polity versus the earthly polity. And I agree and I can't believe I've even g s throwing any sort of hint at shade at that because I agree that 100%. I just don't want to go so. Regardless of how they would have addressed it, they don't seem to address that much at all in this whole statement Yeah. I don't think it's a I don't think it's a second, I think they're Uh related you would say they're unrelated. Maybe. So uh right, so our citizenship is in heaven. Um right, we are members of the the family of Gonzo, like I would agree in the same sense that uh that I have more in common with someone who I am not blood related to who's in Christ. I have, you know, all things in common with them, and I have, you know, nothing but earthly things in common with my relative who is not a believer. So um but uh I but which is more important, the heavenly things are the earthly things. Uh so i I think I I think every I mean, what we do in the body is of heavenly importance. What we do right, so I'm I'm a member of the family of God, right? But God has also made me a a fourcy, so I'm a member of the four C family by God's ordination. I'm a citizen of the United States by you know, by God's sovereign decree And I'm held responsible for what I do in the body, for what I do as my role in the Forcey family, for what I do as as a citizen of the United States. So I I I don't Right. I I don't disagree in the sense that okay we as Christians have a um uh like a a a bigger perspective on everything but but everything that we do Uh and th and this might be a good this might be a good topic to have more discussion on as well. Um because we might have a whole show or two on it. I'd I was more well something on the dual citizenship idea. I'll make a note and I'll put that on our list. We've got an ever growing list. Excellent. I've got a friend who's got who has just wro wrote like a whole big dissertation on that subject. I'll maybe I'll have to get a copy of that. We can go through that as a statement. And is he proximate? Could he make it into the studio? Um we'll go to the horse's mouth on that one if we can. If not then you know we'll trust you to Right. So I I d I was more complaining that they really didn't even address address this topic at all. And I feel like that would have been one of the main points that they want to get out of the way when they're discussing how we relate uh citizenship. And I don't know that that's necessarily like An accident or a blind spot. Well, it's a blind spot, but I think it's kind of baked into the cake to use an old phrase that was used on the talk shows for a long time that I got tired of hearing. Sorry I said that just now. But it it's kind of part of what I think is an undergirding problem with my pushback on this whole movement and this idea that it is so worldly uh focused. And I'm like, wait a minute, what about the heavenly focus? Where's that? And it feels like there's that's kind of missing a little bit. And I agree with you. And it's inter I'm I'm encouraged that you're agreeing So I'm not completely out in left field. I might be somewhere in shallow center, but I'm not completely out in left field. A lot of the things they're saying we we uh we all agree with, but uh they may be missing the point. There may be something far more important that's a deeper issue that they're not even addressing. That's all Yeah. Well the denial here is uh the men's consciences, homes, churches, or states are bound by legal or moral invention they deny this, uh uh are uh bound by these legal or moral inventions of men apart from the word of God. We further deny that civil authorities have the right to coerce or command obedience to the dictates of men apart from God's word. Moreover, we deny the authority of rulers to squelch civil disobedience if the free and necessary worship of and obedience to the triune God is being hindered. The only thing that comes to my mind here is speed limit laws and where they fit in. Because those are like man made kinds of laws that are not bound right, there's nothing in the Bible about how fast t one should travel. I don't think. No, but that is an extent the whole fa how fast one should travel that is based in a moral law 'cause it's based in the idea, well it it would be immoral to be driving in a reckless manner that endangers other people's lives unnecessarily. And so what is a reckless manner? Well we're trying to define reckless. On this road, reckless would be over sixty five. That would be reckless. Right. And my and my concern From a this is just a concern citizen. This isn't necessarily a biblical argument, but it kind of is. Uh it's so it's so arbitrary. It is. I think it I'd be okay with it, I think, if they were to set it up like they did with the um uh putting the fences on the roofs of the houses. So you're supposed to do that to protect your neighbor, somebody falls off and kills themselves or breaks a leg or whatever. And uh but there was no sanction for not having the fence. The sanction was if you didn't have the fence and somebody hurt themselves, right, then you should have had a fence So if they want to say, look, the guidelines are this road you shouldn't go any faster than 65 miles an hour and somebody's doing ninety and they get an accident, then it's like you got an accident, you're doing ninety, we said it should be sixty-five, you're getting you're getting whacked But if you're doing ninety and you're doing so safely, you should get whacked. I think that would be fall in line. But anyway in law school I learned about something called negligence per se. So when you're suing somebody and and you're saying, well you were negligent, you you're liable to that you owe me damages, y you're you already win the argument to begin with if you can prove they were breaking a law while they're doing it. 'Cause e even though you're not they're not being charged with a crime, but you can say, Hey, you were speeding and you hit me well by default you're already liable to me, you already owe me the money. It doesn't really matter whether you intended to do this or whatever, you were breaking the law and the government's already decreed that this will be requisite. So they we do have that kind of a but only on the s civil side and that comes p back plays back into my whole recommendation that that should be the main focus of uh of rest uh of government is restitution, you know, or or of criminal uh law is restitution rather than, you know, fines or punishment, you know, jail or time and things like that. Yeah. All right. Do you have anything else on Article sixteen or shall we move on to seventeen Go ahead and move on. All right. Article seventeen, the heading here is Methodology. We affirm that the kingdom of God does not advance by carnal means, but by the working of the Spirit in bringing men to repentance and faith in Jesus Christ. We affirm that cultures or culture, rather, culture affects law and that law also affects culture. We affirm that while political maneuvering and cultural expertise can be good and helpful God works most powerfully through bold proclamation of his truth by his people. We affirm that God uses means, yet is free to work without, above, and against them at his pleasure. And the denial says we deny that pragmatism should be the driving force behind the decision making of a Christian movement, which is interesting because I feel like almost definitively the uh American the the unofficial American religion over the last couple of generations has been pragmatism. Mm-hmm Well, that's the whole thing with the abortion m movement. Oh well let's just pass a six week ban because we can get that passed. Well that still leaves so many babies being killed, right? So that and that's well w whatever we can pass, that's gonna be good enough Yeah. Now as for the affirmation itself, I gotta say this might be uh a rarity, might be the only one I'm trying to think 'cause I've had other times like this. I don't know if I have any thoughts really about this one. I think it just yeah, okay, whatever. I I don't I'm not excited necessarily, like wow, although it's fine. But I'm not f there's nothing to push back on either. It's like, okay, good Come on. Like you agree? Sure. All right, well then will we have time maybe to squeeze one more in on this show then, and this is an interesting one. And uh From a war. This could be a whole series of shows probably. it uh this air is gonna be World War III or it may have already been over by then. Price might have already turned by then. Or or maybe there's it never cripples out into nothing. But in any case it's definitely relevant these just war is the heading just war Um we affirm that war is only to be waged one for a just cause by a just magistrate involving the protection of human life from persecution. I'm sure you can have something to say about that. Two, as a last resort when peaceful methods of conflict resolution have been diligently pursued and exhausted. Three, in pursuit of achievable goals Four, with the pure motive and intention of establishing peace and justice as quickly as possible, and five, by moral means that scrupulously avoid civilian casualties, and I got something to say about that. and only inflicts as much violence as is necessary for the achievement of the objective. We affirm that even when a war is just according to the above criteria Nations should be extremely cautious in discerning whether a proposed war is wise, taking every contingency into account We affirm that many wars throughout history have been waged for sinful purposes such as greed, revenge, and lust for power and fortune. There have been sinful wars in the past, I agree with that. Yeah, so I gotta say I know Daniel doesn't like this one, so not at all You got a little bit of time. Uh hit the highlights. What are some of the things you just don't like about those? I I I th I I I affirm that these are good th th these would be uh uh just ways of waging war, but I I d I don't I wouldn't say that this is the only way that you can or should wage war. And we know that this is the case. If only in specific circumstances there are exceptions, and maybe you could say the exception proves the rule, but there are exceptions. God commanded Israel to wipe out every man, woman and child in various Canaanite tribes. Well that's not minimizing civilian casualties, that's killing everybody. And it's not protecting human life from anybody, it's killing human life. So Th there are exceptions for that. And I I don't know that the Bible ever really prohibits nations conquesting other nations. per se, there's a lot of other m moral rules that apply that. A lot of it just deals with how Israel is supposed to interact with other nations. Doesn't really talk a lot about what other nations are supposed to do to each other. Um so I I don't know. Uh but yeah, I mean i i i if you are let's say you happen to be the king of a Christian country and you are a Christian and and you're considering going to war, and these are some considerations that would be reasonable for you to have. I'm I I'm not disagreeing with that. I'm I'm just I'm not willing to put my foot down and say these are the only messes you could ever wage eh I I don't know. I I don't think so I think the the whole especially the whole civilian casualty thing, I'm as a Star Trek fan, I'm reminded of the Star Trek episode where where Captain Kirk is telling this Th these aliens that have been waging pretend war and the computers decide who dies and then they get to just kill those people so that they don't have to destroy their infrastructure. And he's like, war is supposed to be evil. The i it's it is horrible. That's what makes it a thing to be avoided. If it's not evil and terrible, then you're not gonna wanna ever stop. And you've been having this war for five hundred years in that in that Yeah. And Daniel's on record on this show talking about some of these issues uh in previous episodes. If you want to find some old podcasts where we're talking about uh war issues and stuff, you can do that. And I think it's one of the things I made mention how I've We're making a list of things to talk about. I think this is something we're going to swing back and talk about um in this calendar year, probably. And I'm just going to finish this up. The only thing I want to say about this last one, and then you can finish that if you have anything. is um uh I think it's kind of sloppy language. We deny that war is ever a means by which the gospel or simply good ideas about government and society are to be spread. We deny that holy wars are ever morally permissible We deny that governments may coerce s civilian participation in unjust wars. Um I I I just I don't necessarily agree with some of uh Daniel's uh thoughts on the question of what's a just war's in today's context in the world. Uh but whatever you might say about this denial, I probably would agree with you because I just don't think this is this was written all that well. Yeah, I I think even you would agree there are exceptions to that. I agree. Maybe they didn't know how, they didn't have time They're waiting for somebody like us to tell them how to do it. I don't know. Anyway, or suggesting how they might not tell them, but suggest anyway. So we've made it through uh that many. We've got a few more, so we're gonna have to do at least one more show on this statement and uh we'll see if we can finish it up and if if it takes two more that's fine but one or two more shows max. Thank you, uh David Forcy, Daniel Rasby, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless.