This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the master of divinity. From Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh. Yeah. Troy Skinner. What does it mean to believe? How does a person come to believe? Is it mostly the inner? Intellect of the brain, the feelings of the emotional center, the inner voice of the will. What is the effect of sin on human reason? What's the relationship between what's physical and what's spiritual when it comes to our mind, our actions, our Fill in the blank. On the faith debate today, once again, two dear friends and brothers in Christ, for what is an intramural debate among those in what the Bible calls the body of Christ. First we have Jonathan Schweitzer Gospel teacher and preacher from an Arminian charismatic tradition who founded Crossroads Valley Church and co-founded the Faith Debate Show many years ago. And John suggested we have Andrew Messinger on the show saying that this young man is a strong president. Presbyterian thinker who looks at things, comes at things from a more reformed Calvinist tradition. So and if you don't know your your uh scores, uh your players without a scorecard, the uh more charismatic tradition would be a little bit more uh exuberant, a little more heightened emotional uh reaction to the message of the gospel, and the Reformed tradition quite a bit more heady. uh more about uh understanding paradigms and writing white papers and and publishing books and things like that. Though this is this is part of the problem with that those caricatures. is that it it says to both of us that the spirit of God was not the driver, right? It was your intellect that was the driver or it was my emotions that were the driver instead of the spirit of God. Like both of us I think our response would be w it wasn't my my mind, it wasn't my emotions. You know, I was I was responding to what the Spirit of God was leading me to do. And it's uh it's Hebrews four where it says that the word of God divides between soul and spirit, joint to marrow, judging the thoughts and motivations of the heart, which that would have to do with mind and will, right? Right. The thoughts and the motivations. Or what is motivation? Is motivation a will or is that an e an emotion? Kind of both of 'em. Well, we're going back to show one, it's our third show together. Sorry, there's so much overlap. But I think for our purposes we would say that that that that motive That that internal combustible engine that drives us to action, that compels us to behave, would be the will. So I would say motivation would probably fit Yeah. More in the will category based on our discussion. Yeah, except except I would say that I that I wake up in the morning and I'm not motivated to do anything, but I choose to do anything. Like like Again, like I need to dig into the meaning of that word motivation. You may choose logically or based on your emotions. Because I know when I wake up emotionally I never want to get out of bed. But I know I have to logically get up and go to work because if I don't, I'm gonna get fired. Right. So I think it was C. S. Lewis that said that the ho head controls the stomach through the chest. Right, and so the stomach is the the will, the passions no not the passions, it's it's the the will, the you know what you do, and that the head controls it through your emotions and so you so so your mind teaches the puppy dog of the emotions to do the right thing and the emotions give you the strength to make your choices. But I don't know that I agree with that because we on the previous two shows uh argued that sometimes it ha it initiates mentally, sometimes it initiates in the will. And I'm saying sometimes it's a good idea. the the person in their emotional center. Right. And once they make an emotional decision, then they'll find they'll intellectually find all of the reasons and excuses they need to do what they emotionally want to do. See clearly God says that because that's what marketing people say. Exactly. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, the gospel according to marketing. Yeah. Which of course is like the same. Matthew, marketing Luke and John. That was uh just weird. Pretty sure that's what it was. But the fact that they go after the emotions and like David says in Psalms, that word have I hidden my heart that I might not sin against you, um uh feels to me like like the heart is so important. In fact, in my experience, um People that are mature in Christ, you always sense that there's an emotional maturity too. But in my experience, those that that really press in Uh man, this is gonna be too broad a statement, but I'll say it and then ad admit that it's not totally accurate. That that really press in to to worshiping God with with all of their emotions. Um that there's a there's a softness and a gentleness in their spirit that um that is unique. It's not that I don't find it throughout the rest of the body of Christ, but that there is a softness and a gentleness in them in those places, both in their leadership, like on a s you know, when you're gathered corporately. uh that that they would describe as being sensitive to the Holy Spirit. But um Anyways, it's just something that I I just noted even again recently that And we can stumble into that sort of thing with people who aren't believers, I think, as well, maybe on rare rarer occasion, but because of you know again God's common grace He's orchestrated in such a way that we have a world within which we can share the gospel. So there are some kind, gentle souls out there that might be, you know, Buddhist or Muslim or Jewish or even consider themselves an atheist for that reason. That's right, that's right. So so we are having this discussion now round three because of a previous discussion uh that you guys had weeks ago. And you touched on it at the beginning of of our first show, but I didn't really let you expound on it because I had an agenda. Yeah to define things and make sure that we said you're violating my my will for my agenda. How do you feel about that? Well I don't know, but I'm gonna give you a piece of my mind in this second. So why you were not minding me for that? So why don't you guys tell that story of of you know why What led you to say, hey, you know what? We should bring this on to the faith debate. What was the nature of the discussion? On the public airway is very important for everyone to critique what we're doing. So I just came right out and asked the question in the room and he happened to poke his head in. And so I said, All right, Andrew, tell me what you think. And so tell me what you think. Can you trust your your mind as a believer more than you can trust your emotions as a believer and and why do you think what you think? Well I wish I could remember the reference to this verse, but there is a verse that says, um, whatever is good, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, think on these things. Yeah. It says, think on these things. Um it's uh Galatians, yeah, chapter five. That sounds about right. Um And in my mind I've studied Proverbs several times, and that's a lot about wisdom and knowledge and um you know the wise person does this and the fool does the opposite. And in in at least I've grown up in the idea that wisdom and knowledge are the most important aspects. and that they should guide your emotions. Um now I think there are some times when your emotional response or you know your emotions in general Trump your your logic. Because there can be times when your logic feeling like it's a political common thing. I do not mean the president. Yes, yes. Um I was going somewhere with that, but you just emotions trump right select because Right. But in general I think logic is necessary to differentiate between a proper emotional reaction and an improper emotional reaction. I tend to get very aggravated at um other people on the road. Some people just don't know how to drive. And it's frustrating. Um, but then there are other times when I'm frustrated for good reasons and I l legitimately should be angry. It's righteous anger the Bible describes that, uh like when Jesus turned over the tables in the temple. Um But I think that it takes logic to decide between those emotional reactions which one is right and which one is wrong. Because without that logic, how are we to know? How am I to know, oh, this is righteous anger and this is not. I mean for our you know, if I don't think about it, I could act out on my anger against other drivers and which would be sin because I didn't take the time to consider Is this the right thing to do? Yeah, and you and I have had this discussion so many times. I feel like the body of Christ divides along the Trinity and that the um the God people that that I associate with predestination and God's overarching sovereignty tend in more of an intellectual direction, that the Holy Spirit people tend in a more emotional direction, and that the evangelicals tend in more of a Christ direction, emphasizing that we need to go do you know, the work of the ministry that we need to go love the the the lost and we need to, you know, preach the gospel. And uh and so anyways, um I I feel like the verse that you shared uh is is a a profound verse, you know. Think on these things, whatever is no whatever is good. And another key one would be be therefore transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you can test and approve what God's will is, His good, pleasing, and perfect will. Right? And so, um, which I think is one of the strongest ones, uh, Romans 12, uh, verse 1 and 2. for um for the emphasis on the intellect being a lead in all of those things that we're transformed by the renewing of our minds right to test and approve what God's will is. And so did I just make your argument for you? Did I just give it up? I mean that's the strongest argument that verse I think is the strongest argument for it. Mm. And by the way, just because I do know that we have some faithful listeners who like to uh make sure that we're accurate. It I I I knew it wasn't Galatians, but I couldn't remember off the top of my head what it was, but we were quoting it. It was uh Philippians ch chapter four. Not even a little bit. But Philippians four verse eight. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable. If there is any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. But that comes after the passage where it says if you're anxious about anything, then pray, and the peace of God will guard your hearts and your minds in Christ Jesus. And so Uh so there's a an interaction, you know. In fact, previous to that he says, rejoice in the Lord, which is a choice to have an emotion. Which is really disconcerting because ha how do you choose an emotion? Emotions feel like they're responses to things that happen, you know, not you know, guides of of what happens. Right. Well we discussed earlier how love can be a choice. Yeah, clearly. that Christ had compassion on the masses and so he healed the man. He had compassion on the on the the woman and so he healed her. Right? That that feels to me like he's being led by an emotion in that moment. You know, but but it could be argued that well, he was perfect from the beginning, so he had he had no uh redemption to do in his soul. H his soul didn't need to be, you know, remade like ours do. Uh but um certainly there's a there's a trusting or or being led by an emotion there that's pretty significant. The other verse that you had out there, I don't know if you quoted it or not, but it was Romans twelve, two. Is that what you're going to do? Yeah. If you're not conform to the pattern of this world, you'll be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Then you'll be able to test and approve what God's will is, his good, pleasing, and perfect will. But that transformation comes after we're told that that now that we've been s we've been b back in Romans five Now that we've been justified by faith, we have peace with God and we rejoice. And so there aga again there the the interplay of like what comes first, the emotion or the you know the transformation maybe is guided by the intellect, but you know, the the initial response to the gospel is joy and peace, which are, you know, heavily laden with emotional content. Uh and so a and then it you know, and then it moves through there the whole will, you know, I do what I do not want to do and I hate it when I do it, and so we have to crucify the old man and become a slave to righteousness and so so the interplay in that whole passage, you know, that uh that who will save me from this body of sin, thanks be to God, Romans eight, which is so I mean it's one of the most emotional passages. that we are overcomers in Christ. Nothing can separate us from the love of God. Creation groans, you know, for the sons of God to be revealed, all of which is super emotional. One of the one of the heights of um encouragement uh which again has a strong emotional component in all of uh the New Testament. Uh and then he goes into this really rigorous intellectual discussion about Israel. and God and justice, you know, for nine, ten, eleven. Then he says, so therefore be ye transformed. And so what comes first? The heart, where God's showing us how much he loves us. And then the response that we need to be transformed so we start making sure that we do our intellectual work afterwards. See what I'm saying? Yeah, it's interesting that we're having we're having well, I'm tempted to say the chicken or the egg. But I can't remind Except we have three. So what, the yolk or the chicken or the I don't know I I think it's interesting that you know we're grappling with this. I mean obviously you're advocating what I was advocating. That's not that's not fair. Well I I'll say this, I don't know where I stand, but I'm trying to argue tonight From the direction of emotion. Right. Because I know that you guys would would tend in the direction of the intellect, but I'm not sure where I stand. I'm trying to figure out as a reasoned discussion. Right, which is using our mind to try to figure it out. So it's interesting how to do that. Well I'm enjoying it, so I don't know about you guys, but that's emotional. Well it leads me to something I wanted to say. John and I, we first met back in I don't know, probably two thousand two, I think it was I think it was the spring of two thousand two when we first met, so that's uh what, sixteen years now. Yeah, I remember it. Yeah, I'm getting better looking every day, you too, buddy. So Course we had nowhere to go but up, so you got more hair grown out of your nose and your fears and gray in the in the top. But but I think that uh we have been an interesting uh um what's right we've been good counter punchers for each other, I think, over the years. Right. And I think that you've always been a thinker But I think that you've given a higher place to your thinking than you might have when I first met you. Yeah, I don't think so, and I'll tell you why. Okay. Because my dad has always uh been a thinking charismatic and uh most other parts of the charismatic circles that we would walk in uh always kind of didn't know what to do with him. And so I was keenly aware that I followed him in that sense. Uh when I was at a Oren Roberts University, I I could tell that that there is a little bit of an orientation that if you're asking too many questions you're being divisive. You know, and and I you know I was just like, man, that can't be right because, you know, it's part of how I'm made personally that that I tend in that direction So I maybe I'm I'm learning to give more credence to it, but I think I've Yeah, and that and I think that's what I meant by it. I don't think that you were un I wasn't meaning to suggest you were unthinking. No, not at all. Yeah, yeah. But there's probably a shift. May maybe maybe be more comfortable embracing that aspect of who you are. And I'm supposed to blame you for that. That's what you're saying. Certainly. You know, like you almost hinted at it a second ago. I feel like years ago You were a thinker, but you almost not that you had to apologize for it, but there was a sense of you know, but I don't care if that'd pick up a reticence in it. You know? Whereas now I go no, I'm a thinker, of course I'm a thinker. They they can go hand in glove. You know, it's peanut butter and jelly. What are you talking about? There's no issues here. And uh and I've learned from you how to be a little more awakened to uh allowing emotion uh to be demonstrated. Uh I always have been one who's felt emotion. Right. But rather profoundly. Yes, my wife drives her crazy sometimes, I'm sure. I'd like to be there in those modes. Uh, but being a little more uh open about that, letting others see into so I th I guess that's the idea. You always had this thinking But you pulled the shades on the window that allowed people to see into your thinking a little bit. Yeah. That you're like sh shades are up now. And I uh and you're more along in that than I am on the emotional side. But you know, my shades are uh more transparent. They're not up, but they're they're uh the curtains are open but the shade's still there. But I think it's because yeah, you've challenged me to think about this. I remember one time Um that you know, you're talking about worship singing and sometimes in the songs, you know, it's talking about, you know, we raise our hands and worship to you and well if you're really identifying with the song and you're paying attention to what you're singing, you're gonna almost kind of involuntarily. Maybe you want to raise your hands because the song is telling you we raise our hands, we lift our voices. Or we bow down or you know we rejoice, we dance, you know, all that. But more introverted intellectual types are drawn to congregations that aren't going to raise their hands and they take on this persona, this personality. And I think they're all part of the body of Christ. I just wish that the local congregations would do a better job of each individual congregation representing the fullness of the body of Christ rather than you having to visit a half a dozen different churches in Frederick County to get a feel for what's going on in the body of Christ. Yeah and that's a whole discussion about unity in the body of Christ and and what does that look like that could distract us. But the but your point is is is well placed that I think most of us come to God differently and with a personality in and therefore the expressions of of emotion and will and uh intellect, you know, are gonna be a kaleidoscope of options. You know, it's interesting. Somebody that because I've had opportunity if you've listened to the show for any length of time you know I've had opportunity to preach uh on occasion throughout the area and uh one of my early mentors uh gave me advice that ties into this. Uh oh. When before I ever preached my first sermon Uh he wanted to kind of emotionally, I guess, and intellectually and prepare me for what I was going to do. And he said, look, there's three things that I want you to remember that you should always remember. One, don't try to say everything. You're gonna know so much more than you can deliver within the 20 minutes, thirty minutes, forty minutes, fifty minutes, depending on where you're preach preaching, how long they give you to preach. You're not gonna be able to say everything you know, so don't try to say everything. Uh always take people to the cross of Christ and be yourself. Which is harder than you think because first you have to know thyself. Who am I? Who you are. Accept who you are and be comfortable and just be that. So if you're kind of dry and and uh monotonous. Okay, that's who you are. Maybe you can try to be a little bit heightened, but if that's who you are, be that. You know, uh there are very famous Bible teachers that that are kind of kind of drop. Yeah well Jonathan Edwards is is notorious for that. Yeah, you're thinking of yeah, you're thinking of somebody who was I think known for being uh boisterous and loud and you can hear him from a mile away. Yeah. Uh but anyway So and it so we're gonna end on that note because we're wrapped up with can do one more show together, do you think? You bet, excellent. Absolutely. We'll come back next week. Thanks. Jonathan Sweitzer Andrew Messinger, I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening. Again, you can visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith, or you can go to WFMD. com. You can find the little menu button for the shows that are on the air and click on that and then you'll see in the drop down menu Faith Debate, click on that. There's probably other ways to get there too. those are the two I usually use. Uh anyway, once you go there you'll find links to podcasts of this show. You'll actually hear this very show up there within about a day and a half from now. And you'll find a preview of what's coming up in the coming weeks on the Faith Debate as well. And you can find bio information about you know me and pictures of the guests and things like that. That's all good reasons to go, don't you think? Till next week. God bless you.