Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Greg Lac. County where preaching with impacts is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate, sponsored by BMC Insurance, Cruise Holidays, and Footman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find news items and links to our podcast and the Faith Debate blog. You'll notice I don't call it my blog because my blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. Whatever you send me, I post within reason. Forty-five blog updates go up every single week. Nine blog updates per day, Monday through Friday Hop on in, see what other people are sending me. Read along even if you don't email me. On the Faith Debate today, we have back for a second week. Yes, Jonathan did his best to chase her away. But Dr. Kristen Largen is back From Lutheran Theological Seminary? I was the one trying to keep her. That's true. He was really nice. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. Very nice. Jonathan Sweiser is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. You can follow him, although I'm not sure why you'd want to, at Twitter. Uh on Twitter at SweitzerJonathan. Hey, just to return the favor, I think it's amazing to do forty-five blog posts on that thing a week. You you mention it all the time. Let me explain. It has to be it's not my work. Yes, but people will email me. I just copy I know you paste, yes. Copy, paste. And so it's short But a lot of it's not even good. But some of it is extraordinarily good. I mean that's almost like praying to Allah five times a day. I mean, I could never do it. Well I went to a comparative theology class once and I learned about the Islam tradition of praying five times and I examined my face and thought, What could I do? And I started blogging five times a day. That was a transition from heaven. Yeah, wasn't that nice? Very impressive. So So last week we were talking about comparative theology. And we're gonna talk more about it. Yeah, and we and I learned well I learned that there is a difference between comparative theology and comparative religion. I'm Still not sure that I learned what the difference is. Okay, here we go. I'm slow. Oh, you have it figured out? You gonna tell me? No, I'm just saying here we go because we'll talk it out and see how it's more confused afterwards. But if I uh part of what I understand f forget the distinction of of terms. Yeah. Comparative theology, uh as as the good doctor explained to us last week, is about a personal transformation in my approach in my religious life and my belief. So I'm going to examine what other people believe and do and see how that might inform what I believe and do. Well let me put it let me put an even sharper point on it. Um it's the belief that God is actually working in those other religions and can be sound there. And I I as a Christian have something to learn about God as I learn about um the way in which others worship a God who is different, not necessarily the same thing, but um I I have something to learn about my God. You know, Tillich, Paul Tillich, who's he's Lutheran, right? So I love Paul Tillich. He was a twentieth century theologian. He said God has not left himself unwitnessed. Yeah, one guy said it said it that there are dynamic equivalents in every culture of the world uh to what God has done in Christ. And so the uh the diligent missionary doesn't go in just preaching from his worldview, but he goes and listens to the culture into to their stories long enough until he finds the dynamic equivalence and then he says, that's what Christ did. And he did it in history just like what that story is telling and you know, so I think stories of scenarios where that happened in primitive cultures where once the dynamic equivalent was identified, you know, whole people groups just said, Yes, crisis is what we've been looking for, yes we want it kind of a common I mean that's it's kind of the the the Paul in Athens idea of the unknown God. But I mean another way to think about that is, you know, the the um I I'm thinking of an African Christian that I heard um a couple of years ago who said The missionaries didn't bring God to Africa. God was already there. Amen. Right? Sure. So I mean there's so there's something like that. So if you believe that even the fact that every culture on the face of the planet has a uh flood myth behind their culture means that that the revelation of God was there at some level, maybe it got a little bit confused, maybe it got a little bit muddied. But the point is that if you go looking for it then then you can draw it out and you can build on that as opposed to thinking that we're just building from scratch. I'm all about finer points. So I I think the way you said it was God has made himself known or made himself available in all the other religions. God has not left himself unwitnessed. Oh there you go. So and you're not pushing back on that, John? I'm surprised that you're not pushing back on that. No, wait, really? You don't know me. This is my miss here. I feel like every discussion I ever have with anybody, I'm assuming that there's some f where in their backgrounds itself, correct? Yeah. Not not in creation But in the in the faith tradition. In fact, I would even say this, that the very fact that they have a religious tradition shows that there's a God-shaped hole that they're trying to fill. That in and of itself is a reflection of the fact that God has not left himself without a witness. Maybe they went the wrong way, they were deceived, they you know they followed different directions, but the fact that they're looking for it, and for that matter Um, you know, even like like we say, you know, like about the Antichrist, he's gonna be followed because what he teaches looks so much like the truth. If it looks like the truth, it's because there's the echoes of the truth all through what he does. And what I think what I hear her saying is that those echoes of the truth are not just in the Antichrist, they're everywhere throughout the world. And it's a question of uh who is it? Um uh the one theologian said there's God against culture, God in culture. Yeah, right, exactly. God uh transforming culture. And and the idea is that when you go into a culture there's certain things you don't have to get rid of because they reflect good things in society and so so God just redeems them when they're good. There's other things that uh are against God and so you have to fight 'em, you gotta get rid of 'em, but there's other things that are kind of you know, questionable whether or not they're neutral and uh and so you have to be very careful because this is where you can get syncretistic You know, where you where you pull in things from the world that are pagan that maybe might not be good for Christianity, but maybe they are, and so you really gotta be led by the Spirit in the context of that. So we're talking about God Not leaving himself unwitnessed as far as the fact that he exists? Is that what we're saying? And even his character. And what he's like and what righteousness is. So you're saying I can't I'm I've how long are we doing this show? I am shocked. I'm shocked that this is the missionary side of me. If you've ever been on missions you know that that You go to another culture, you gotta live like this. So why do missions in a place that's a stronghold for Hinduism? They've got a witness for God already. Yeah, but a faulty one and one that that because it doesn't lead them to Christ ends up being uh poisonous and bad for them. Nevertheless, there are elements in their culture that um that reflect that there is a God, that morality is important, you know, uh some of these kinds of things. In fact, in Hindu cultures, they are way uh often more moral than we are here in the States anymore. And uh and their their their tendency in that direction is something that when you sit with them you n y you would need to say, you know, But that's a cultural d difference, not a religious difference. Hinduism isn't more moral than Christianity. It's not more moral than Christianity, but it's certainly more moral than the Christian West. Sorry. No, no. I just wanted to I mean I was going to say, well, here is one place. You'll be so happy that we found a disagreement. No, no, no. I mean I think again, uh the the the place that I would um I would not want to use the judgment language of faulty witness. And that that's that's clearly where we're going to be different and we can talk a little bit more about that. But I think Um again the the similar thing that that we keep saying is and and I I sort of heard you saying this. I don't know if you'd agree with this or not, the the Catholic Church, you know, when they had their um Second Vatican Council in the nineteen sixties. It was this really radical change, you know, 'cause for the thousands of years, right, they had said no salvation outside the church kind of period. And then Carl Rahner was was somebody who kind of uh uh uh they were in w informed by here said, Oh, they talked about this idea of an an unconscious longing for God, just like you were talking about. So people even if they didn't know Jesus by name If they were sort of moral people, if they seemed to be on a spiritual quest, we could trust that God was working in them and even maybe they could find salvation. I mean this was really radical, right, for the for the Catholic Church. And Rahner actually had this idea of what he called an anonymous Christian. Because of course, sort of like you were saying last week a little bit, the Holy Spirit isn't just a free agent, right? So it's not just some random spirit, it's the spirit of Christ, right? And so if you want to say that the spirit is at work in somebody, well it's not just any spirit, it's the spirit of Christ. And so if someone seems to be responding to that spirit Even if they don't know Jesus by name, but they seem to be moved by that spirit, could we call them an anonymous Christian? Now y you can imagine there's all kinds of problematic and I and I I don't even endorse that necessarily. But that's one way of kind of getting at this this issue of well, what what do we say about these people in other faith traditions who seem to be good people seem to be trying to be religious and and um moral. So can we make sure to come back to to the question about labeling other cultures as bad or not. But but just dealing specifically with this question about the Holy Spirit. Like I've I've said this. There's plenty of places around the earth where Christ has not been preached. That's right. Right And I've said that there's plenty of people that that from from the mere uh revelation of God in in creation itself are able to recognize God is higher than me, I can't reach him, he's gonna have to make a way, which is Abraham's faith that God Himself will provide the sacrifice. And I've said many times on this show that I'm I'm of the opinion that God knows the heart and that that's the key issue so that if the person heard the message of Christ, there'd be there'd be no time whatsoever before they said, Wow, that's that's exactly what I believe. Thank you for now telling me what it is that that I I didn't know how to put words on it. Just like the prophets in the Old Testament prophesied of Christ, but they saw through a glass darkly, then when he came, those that were uh of the right heart that You know, like Jesus said, if you believe Moses, you would believe me. They believed Moses, they knew the prophets, they studied them, they believed them, and they were like, Christ is it. It's clear. He's the one we've been looking for. So that's my opinion, is that Yeah, but is that how does that actually how it works in your church? I mean I don't know, maybe I had a different experience. I had a lot of people who they were coming to church, maybe you're a better preacher than I am, and they You know, they weren't sure. I mean I think sometimes the journey's a a lot longer than that. I I wouldn't want to say like just because somebody hears the name Christ, um they'll hear that they're gonna hear right away, right? I mean I think sometimes it takes a really long time. It does However, yeah. Yeah, that's a that's a interesting discussion of in and of itself. I'd say generally I agree with you. I bet there would be some qualifications to how I agree with you on that. That's probably true. So so I'll I'm gonna go back to something that was said in last week's show and pick up with that in in the same vein that we're talking about some of the differences I think. Yeah. Because you're saying there are some places where Christ hasn't been preached And you agreed. Um but last week uh Dr. Largen made the point something. You really can say Kristen. Something about the something of the idea about uh what'd she say exactly? She doesn't see it as her goal when she's interacting with Hindus, Buddhists, whatever, to convert somebody. Yeah, in the moment. She's not saying that. Well, not so I'm not even so sure that she meant in the moment. Good. Yeah, no, I didn't mean in the moment. I I have a I I think that my job, you know, the it's it's it's a question of you talked about defining terms. Uh the Great Commission. Yeah, yeah. Right. So one way to think about the Great Commission is to say, yeah, I really need to actually sort of have keep account and how many people are are are being baptized after I preach to them. And I you know maybe you've had the experience. I've been in a in a church when um uh missionaries have come to to talk about their work. You know, that's always exciting for the people. And and often they'll say, you know, when we had whatever two hundred people baptized. We you know, and this is a sign that their work has been really good. And, you know, this kind of relates to just what we were saying. I don't Uh i it's it's not me who's gonna convince anybody, right? Again, it's the Holy Spirit. And so I think my job is to live as faithfully as I can, to to tell my story, tell God's story. Um and and be a witness for that. But at at the end of the day there's no quiz, right? And and so I I don't know what if what if So are you called to preach Christ? Yeah, of course. Absolutely. In And to make disciples? Yeah, I yes, yes, I am called to do that. What I am not called to do is judge um what what a good disciple looks like. Really a spiritual man makes judgment about all things and that you will know them by the fruit. He doesn't he doesn't give us um some um uh yardsticks for some of that. Oh sure. And I mean if if we want to do that, I mean then You're talking about preaching Christ. I mean I also don't think the I don't I don't care about the pastor of uh Westboro Baptist Church if he calls himself a pastor or not. He's not preaching Christ. So just because you say the name, just because you have all the words right, doesn't mean that you're you're preaching Christ. Yeah, well I don't see I yeah, I actually have a lot of negative things to say. I was gonna go there go there later on about like issues of other religions. Like are there times that we can look at other religions like you just did with the Westboro Baptist guy and say, you know what what they're doing is harmful in a big way. And so in that sense, you know, like what we do that about ourselves too, right? Yeah, and so so it has to do with with style. Like when I go into a discussion with somebody from a rel other d from another religion, even on the show, I'm not going in uh with with an attitude in trying to create a tone that, you know, I'm just gonna tear them down. I'm gonna show them how bad they are. But I do look for both in what they do w both in what they share and what I share. Look for those things that man, I don't know, that's really harmful. And I I would say we need to avoid that, right? And so in that sense it doesn't hit the mark. I call that sin, you know, but I call it sin in the context not like you're just a sinner and you're so bad but in the context of saying, Well, that's the term that I use for missing the mark. But the point is that we can do better than that. You know, and if we can do better than that, then if we're not doing better than that we're often hurting people more you know, as much as we're helping them and so we have to Yeah w it it's incumbent upon us to be diligent about Yeah, I think I'm just so sensitive because I think, you know, Christians for too long when it comes to other religious traditions in the past and still have been the ones um in the glass houses casting stones, right? I mean so we we don't want to talk about um our own failings, the way that which which are you know it's uh you know kind of the moat in the log. I mean that there there's a way in which if i if you are um a believer Um, you're confessing yourself as a believer. In some ways you need to hold yourself to a higher standard. And and w when you want to talk about sin, you need to talk about your own sin first before you start pointing the finger. Uh the the uh Constantine's sword by James Carroll deals with the uh relationship between the Catholic Church and and Judaism. You know, from the very beginning it's okay, you know, almost exhaustive and it is exhausting, you know, to read it, but it goes through all the, you know, centuries. And uh I came away thinking to myself that it's no wonder that it's hard for us as believers, uh, to deal with, you know, like the spirit of the age. Because the spirit of the age right now uh has come to terms with the severe brokenness in Christendom those that called themselves the church. And if we don't if we don't live that and wear that openly in every any and everything that we do, then then we instantly lose credibility in our discussion with other religions. So we have to just like we just like we would expect the Jews to admit how bad they're they were in the old testament. You know, we're the younger brother and we're just as bad as they were. We proved it over the last two thousand years. I just have to ask you, what do you mean the Old Testament? I'm just curious. And uh Ahab and uh you know uh their own Ahaz one after another when they fell away and they didn't live according to the truth. And we say, Oh see what they did? They had the truth and they didn't live by it. And I would say, Man, we have done the same thing in the ch in the Christendom, the West, and and we're c we're nowhere we have nothing to point to to say we did better than you did. Because you know, I really again one of the things we talked about this last week, you know, the this the idea that you're even doing this radio program and that your blog gets um so many uh responses and Uh you know, I I think that one of the problems that the that the church faces in uh today, especially with the generation of young people, is they see Christians as these kind of um arrogant, narrow minded hypocrites and and that the Christian church is somehow It stands for only what it stands against. Do you know what I mean? I think we have an image problem and I think it's our own fault. Okay, however, I've been diligent on this show. A lot of times we fit the bill. Right. But the reality is that those that are against the church often are those that have been wounded by the worst parts of the church. and they have caricatured that into the whole church is that way and and it just doesn't fit for everybody that's out there. In fact I would say even even possibly a majority, uh, though I don't know. I don't know how to how to get at the percentages of that. But my point is is that there's an active group of people out there that are are giving their narrative of the West and the Church is the source of all evils on the earth. And that group is very influential in our society. And that being the case We um we can't expect people to not be influenced by when it's in every movie and it's in every uh uh you know um textbook and and it's it's pervasive out there. I can't get away from it. Yeah and I again I'd be interested in in the experience of your church. I I again was just thinking personally, you know, as I said I was a pastor for a a few years in in Colorado and you know I myself grew up in the church and I'm just thinking about the young people I know from my own pastoral context, these lovely, lovely human beings were then are now And they're in their mid-twenties, they were confirmed, you know, active, and then you know how did you go off to college? You kind of start your own life and you just sort of drift away from the church a little bit and they they weren't wounded by the church. Um they love the church in in some way, but they just can't really see why it would matter for them in their lives now and and they anything they hear about the church, again the church seems to be making some negative comment about gays and lesbians or about Muslims or about you know that w seem to be involved in political conversations and they you know and they just think, boy, you know, if Jesus walked up and tapped you on the shoulder, you you know, you wouldn't even recognize him. And I and I have to say I think some of that's true. Wouldn't you agree that that the university environment when they grow up and go off to college, even many of of what have been Christian universities but have have moved in uh less maybe a more secular direction. You know, i if they're they're they're teaching uh Nietzsche You know, and they're teaching these guys that that have spent the last two hundred years since the Enlightenment mocking Christianity with with no effort to be um to be uh just or fair in their conclusions, but with with an intention of tearing down everything that that Christianity represents to replace it with a secularism. And if that's the case, and they're be you know, and they're in an environment where sex is encouraged and they're an environment where drugs is encouraged, you know, and they're away from home and all of a sudden they're surrounded by other peers. Where all of a sudden we have a scenario that Uh can we expect there to be well many of our young people that we we and we tell 'em, you have to go to college because you cannot have a career. You cannot go on with your life unless you you know, you do the college thing. And I'm just saying I'm just saying that that environment Well, you know, I mean obviously right, I teach at a seminary. You can imagine I'm I'm I'm quite pro uh college and university. And and again, I think if there's a big difference. I mean my I I know the Lutheran College system, I know a lot of those schools, and none of them would fit that bill that you were just describing. So I don't want to say I'm sure there are places that are like that. I'm not trying to say that there aren't at all, but I also want to make it a little bit more. But would you say that most of your students have also come through a public school system that Th that repeatedly has shown itself to be uh hostile in its presentation of the Crusades, of the Salem witch trials, and not taking time to show a fair um a story that there's much of a fair story of the crusades. Um that's a whole dis that's a whole discussion that I think is worth having as well. Because certainly certainly the the caricature that's been uh presented about the crusades is less than accurate in my estimation. Nevertheless, it's uh very You know, and whether or not there was a just war, defensive war, you know, various things going on that were legitimate. Um all that being the case, uh again, they've been raised in a system where God was kicked out of the schools f you know, for a good sixty years now, sixty almost going on fifty plus years, uh where where there is no God in the schools and when he's presented Islam is presented very kindly. Um Judaism more kindly than Christianity, any other religion, but Christianity is always the imperial West imposing its heaviness. And if I'm told that often enough then then all it takes is a Christian to look at me sideways and I'm gonna be like, oh man, they're doing it again. It's true. I'm just saying that that we're we're not We're not so good at discerning the truth that if we're constantly told something about somebody like if if before you came in here I was told bad things about your character and bad things about who you were and bad things about the school where you came from, it would take me a little bit of time to get past that. Sure. And I'm just saying that that is pervasive. Mm-hmm. And society and that that story is issued. Jonathan, don't hold it against me, but attention. Um I mean I didn't tell you bad things about Her? Yeah, yeah, yeah. But you told her bad things about me. Yeah. He's Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by Dr. Kristen Largen, who is a theological uh um uh expert at the a Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg. She teaches all sorts of wonderful classes that I would probably get failing grades on a lot of the papers. No, I can't imagine. Say it isn't so. Anyway, what I've been reading lately, The Golden Booklet of the Christian Life by John Calvin. And actually if you've read John Calvin's Institutes and you've read the Golden Booklet of the Christian Life because didn't know until after I read it, but it's just an excerpt from the Institutes. So just repackaged by some publisher who wanted to make a lot of money. Anyway. And you could do many of those for the truth. I want to thank our sponsors, Putman Flaming and Heating, How can we make you smile? BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. Thank you for listening. Visit visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith. Till next week, God bless.