Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. This week we'll be talking about the complexities, navigating the complexities of Israel and the church. I had opportunity to be part of somebody else's podcast called Theology Throwdown and we're gonna listen to a snippet of that today. Uh hopefully it'll be um not only entertaining but uh encouraging at some level and interesting at some level and educational even, instructive at in some level because not everybody on the show is going to be agreeing with each other. If you've been listening to the show in recent uh weeks and months then you heard me um Back in I guess it was probably December ish time, uh spending a lot of time introducing you to the Christian podcast community. That is something that Faith Debate is now a part of. And I played a whole bunch of uh snippets and clips and promos and advertisements and stuff for the various programs that give you a sense of the kinds of things you can find at Christian Podcast Community. org. And one of the programs that you find there is Theology Throwdown. It's hosted by Andrew Rappaport. Andrew has other podcasts there too, called one's called The Rap Report. Uh one is called uh Apologetics Lie. He's got one so you want to be a podcaster. He's got he's got several over there. And Theology Throwdown is one of them and it's broadcast or put on the podcast platform um on average somewhere around once a month, something like that. And it's a longer form show than the faith debate. The faith debate's you know less than a half hour long every week. The allergy throw down, it's only like I said maybe once a month, but it's longer. It's always at least an hour, sometimes two, I think sometimes close to three. The time I was on it was nearly two and a half hours. I think it was somewhere around two hours and twenty minutes, two hours and fifteen minutes, something like that. So I'd encourage you to go find that. If you want to find the full thing, go to Christian Podcast Community dot org, find theology throw down, and you're looking for the episode that is titled Navigating the Complexities of Israel and the Church. And its date was, let's see, January twenty third, twenty twenty six. So that's the episode you'd be looking for. Listen to the whole thing But if you want to hear a snippet of it and my interaction with it, then that's what you're here for today. Um and I want to thank Andrew Rapoport particularly, he's been a a great aid in helping to get uh the faith debate uh on the right track here with the transition we've been through recently with changes with the radio stations and those how those changes have impacted the Faith Debate show. So Big heartfelt shout out to Andrew Epicorp. Other voices you're going to hear on this episode would include that of Seth Brickley He is a pastor. Um, and I think he's got a podcast called Tearing Down High Places, and he's with Truth Fellowship. And Jeff Kluer, he's a pastor with Cornerstone Church, uh also I think with Tearing Down High Places podcast. And Rebecca Birschwinger. I have a podcast called One Little Candle, and One Little Candle is part of the Christian podcast community, so you can find her at that same platform I just pointed to you a second ago. And as far as finding podcasts, the Faith Debate, because of all the changes Uh we had maybe a hundred of our most recent hundred of our podcasts available to you uh via the RSS feed that you connect to at WFMD. gov We've set up another RSS feed that you contact you connect with through Christian Podcast Community or through Household of Faith in Christ dot com And we're uploading a whole bunch of shows beyond just a hundred. I'm not sure exactly how many, but it's way more than a hundred. It's at least two hundred. Let's say that. Anyway, let's uh pick up the conversation on navigating the complexity of Israel and the church. And there's a lot of me in this one because I entered the fray for a theology throwdown. Let me bring Rebecca in. Yeah. Well I just got thinking about our the previous question. Um just kind of wanted to comment on that real quick. Sure. about um all the anti Semitism that we've seen on the rise and another thing I don't maybe and excuse me if someone did already say this or mention it, but I also believe that it is um God's that's the catalyst for returning more people to Israel. Um so many Jewish people are saying you know, they're making their um Aliah, is that how you say it? Um but they because they don't feel uh safe, they they would feel safer in Israel than they would in in other countries and it's really getting to be that way. I think that's gonna continue to drive more people to go to Israel. Um for the Jews, but Uh as far as uh Romans nine six goes, uh y uh it's obvious, I mean, God's sovereignty comes into play here, and I think that's what Paul was was stressing, is that Um, just because you happen to be ethnically Jewish or, you know, descendant of Abraham, it doesn't truly make you part of God's true people. It's not just lineage. Um it's but it's those who come to to faith in Jesus Christ and you will have Jewish believers and you will have Gentile believers. Um, but that doesn't mean that God's covenant promises to Israel that they've been nullified just because of the unbelief of many Jews and we know they're actually that it's gonna be fulfilled in the believing um remnants. And so and I like what Seth said too, because I was thinking the same thing. If God is is so done with Israel, then why is Jesus Christ returning to the Mount of Olives when he comes back? You know, because he's he's not done with Israel. He is still going to um you know, Israel will be dealt with, but three or four things really fast. Uh one as a point of uh clarification, perhaps an apology to you, Andrew. I wasn't trying to misconstrue the idea that you had painted Barbrush with covenant theology. I was just clarifying I think the point that you had made and amplifying it. But then adding perhaps the aside that I'm not even sure, uh if there's truth to it, then uh as far as you went, I would agree. But I'm not even sure that that's what it is. I'm going to piggyback that comment on what Jeff said. I think it's Jeff who said it. Uh he brought up that uh that Gadfly that Griff Joel Levin, so-called pastor, uh, he's disqualified many times over. He's not a pastor. I'm not even positive he's a Christian, although only God can know for sure. But If he's tethered to covenant theology in any way, he's tethered through it in the same way that Hitler was tethered to Christianity early in his rise to power. I mean the guy's a complete charlatan and he doesn't represent anything that's good and true at this point in his aimed at a lofty career. It's shocking how fast his fall has been. So those are the first two main points. A third quick point In the comment section here on the uh the feed somebody was I'm not sure they might have meant m saying it as a joke, but uh just in case they weren't saying it as a joke, they said, Please don't quote Andy Stanley for your position. So that would have been directed at me. I was using Andy Stanley as a negative example. I'm not using Andy Stanley failing to support my position. Never have, probably never will, unless he comes to repentance in some dramatic way. So now on to the question that was asked for this round, Robin. We're gonna about to I guess maybe have a real theology throwdown here because I would appear to be in the minority in this room. Which is maybe on the user. But when he asked who is Israel? I mean I'm not trying to be cheeky or give the Sunday school answer, but uh the best answer is Jesus is the true Israel. And so everything flows and I bring that up because everything flows from there Everybody who's connected and belonging to Christ, therefore, is spiritually speaking, is a descendant of Abraham. They are a child of Abraham. as important away as the ethnic people who are connected to Abraham are. And so I think that and and the reason I was concerned about the connection to Covenant Theology because Covenant because I w I would lean. I'm not sure that I'm a hardcore Covenant theology guy, I don't know I wouldn't check every single box. I definitely lean in that direction pretty s significantly. And I will say that covenant theology properly understood is most Emphasizing the redemptive historical aspects of the scriptures. So tying everything to redemptive history, Christ's move. in uh God's sovereign plan from the beginning, throughout history, has recorded for us in the Bible. And if you are focused on redemptive history, on the Christian focus that's throughout all the pages of the Bible, and you're gonna have this kind of a hatred aimed at Jews. Jews or the nation of Israel or somebody you don't like, your next door neighbor. That's not any kind of theology that will be embraced by dispensationalists Covenantalists, anything. So uh that's where my pushback was coming from before. Anyway, put a finer point on this. Those who are of the faith are the ones who are the sons of Abraham according to Galatians chapter three. And so I would say that those who are of the faith are Israel. That would include those uh saints from the Old Testament, saints from the New Testament, any saints that will come after us Should the Lord Terry and uh we pass away and more Christians come along. Anyone who is of the faith in Christ is a son of Abraham and therefore can be properly understood as Israel, but of course we have to define our terms because that label is misconstrued or used at least in different ways. Yeah, if you're raising your hand, you you want to speak to that. Yeah, just quickly I want to say to uh apologetic Jaws on there. Yes, uh the interracial marriage debate with Joel Webbin, God Logic, and Ruslan KD is very worth your your watch. I'm telling you, uh Ruslan KD and uh Godlogic just absolutely destroyed the uh No interracial marriage preference that uh Webin and Company uh put out there. So that was a really helpful uh debate that's online. Check that out. Uh I wanted to just interact a little bit with Troy on this. I would say, brother, that It can it can be true, on one hand, that there's a re redemptive arc throughout scripture and that Jesus is the true Israel. So when When you read the four servant songs of Isaiah 40 up to 53, you see that Christ is the true Israel who is fulfilling the servant songs. But in that arc, that redemp redemptive arc, you don't want to flatten out other passages that are absolutely about national Israel. Right? So one of the examples I would think of is in Jeremiah chapter 3. You have God calling Israel to return. And it's to a spiritual return of repentance, but also to scion. But what it talks about in the end times is that The Jewish people will no longer remember or care about the Ark of the Covenant. That's Jeremiah 3. 15. They it won't be missed. You won't fear about the Ark of the Covenant because in Christ there's a fulfillment of all that typology. The presence of God is now in the person of Christ You don't need the Ark of the Covenant, because you don't need a mercy seat. The blood of Jesus has sprinkled. But the very next verse is about Jerusalem. And it's kind of the polar opposite of Jeremiah 315, Jerusalem still is significant. That's the capital. That's where the millennial kingdom will um see the King, Jesus Christ, reigning. in Israel. So I think that what happens with covenant theology is that in an effort to focus on that grand meta narrative s of scripture where you see the redemptive arc across scripture, you can miss so much of the the careful detail that God put into his word. And I think that's what dispensationalists have done a better job at noticing. So that Israel will be a land There is a land promise from Genesis 12. 3. It's reiterated in Jeremiah 3. 16 that Jerusalem will be the capital. And Christ will reign from Jerusalem. So when we're seeing Israel and the land, we're we're just looking back carefully at the passages of Scripture. Not to say you are being careful. But that's why I think that um dispensationalism probably has a better grammatical historical hermeneutic, whereas the um the redemptive hermeneutic can miss some of that detail. So just throw that out there because we like debate in our school. Let me give my view, Troy, and I'm gonna and then I'm gonna ask you to interact with it to see. Because this is and and I think I think I've explained this at least to Seth and Jeff have may have heard this, but and I know the audience here who regularly listens. Um and and I should let's see we we have uh Brother Mike is saying blessings everyone. So he he's got it looks like he got a new uh youth channel there, Brother Mike BF S F instead of the uh your your old one, the um oh I forget what it was called now. So and care ministry, I forget. Sorry, brother. Um but uh But yeah, let me let me work this out because I do find this is maybe a different way of thinking of the the whole issue of who is Israel. And I think that um this is why I think uh as as we work this out, it's always good, especially where there's disagreement, to start in areas that we agree. and and then move to disagreement. And and as I've explained this to both covenant theologians and dispensationalists, I actually seem to find everyone seems to agree with me. Covenant theologians tell me I'm really, really leaky dispensationalist. Uh and the dispensationalists seem to say that, you know, well, that I'm a good dispensationalist because I they 'cause they agree Um but but let me explain it this way. So in as we go through and if you get my book What do we uh What Do We Believe, I have a a chapter on the church, right? And the the word church I work through because it changed over time, right? The the word ekklesia originally in Ephesus was a call of the m of all the men for voting. Okay, that's that's what it originally how we first find it used. It then became just a call for for a meeting. By the time of the first century after Christ, it's now being used specifically to define a gathering for the purpose of worshiping God. And so it became more specific. During the Middle Ages it became more specific in the identifying what we call the visible or invisible church. Now sometimes visible is referred to as local and invisible is related to as universal. So the visible local church and the invisible universal church. Now the way those terms are used are to explain that the the local church um is the the gathering of those that they come together for the purpose of you know of worshiping God, but they recognize that not everybody who goes to a building and that they might call church is a believer. So the local visible gathering or church is made up of believers and unbelievers. But the universal or invisible church refers to all believers everywhere in the world at this time. And so every believer in Christ, whether they're attending church or not, is a is in the universal invisible church. So the when we see that distinction, that there's that local gathering that's made up of believers and unbelievers, and a a gathering that there are a a a group that is only made up of believers. So we see that distinction. I will argue that we see the same distinction in Israel. And so I, instead of using, when speaking of Israel, use the terms visible and invisible or local and universal, I use the term for the visible local church would be a akin to national Israel. So this g is getting to that question, what's the difference of biblical Israel and the Israel today? So you have the the national Israel versus the spiritual Israel. So when we look at the passage that was asked about in Romans 9. 6, not all Israel are those who are descendants of Israel or or not all who are Israel are Israel. I think what the distinction being made is the distinction between national Israel and spiritual Israel. So spiritual Israel is the universal, invisible Israel, national Israel, the the those that are of the line of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Really it's the line of Jacob. Uh those are physical Israel, if you want to use that term, national Israel. Um but they're not necessarily believers. And so I the reason I make that distinction is because I f I find that people are doing an apples to orange discussion. They're comparing national visible Israel to the sp invisible church Right? And so if we make this distinction, I think it clarifies when we go through and say, just as we have visible, invisible church we have physical and spiritual Israel. So so Troy, what what do you think uh of that from now that you've you've heard my position, does that Clarify any for you. I think that your understanding and explanation of the history of the word ecclesia is uh close to my understanding. I don't think that there was a shift in usage in the first century AD or shortly thereafter. I think that shift in usage would have come before that. Uh the evidence for that would be the Septuagint, which uses that word in the Greek as a translation for Cahal. Cahal being the word for assembly or one of the words for assembly or gathering. And the Septuagint predates the arrival of Christ in his first coming by hundreds of years. And so yes, I do think that there's a historical connection to an ancient Greece. They used that word ecclesia as a civic gathering typically for voting or other sorts of forms of democracy or whatever, but it had a broader usage as well. It has a broader semantic domain than just that And so it wasn't an invention of the New Testament writers. It perhaps it was an invention of the Septuagint translators, that I don't know. But it certainly wasn't something that was added to extra biblically in the years after the canon was closed. So we might disagree there a little bit. The visible, invisible, the way that I've always liked to try to explain that to folks is visible and invisible has to do with our perspective. So the people of God as we see them are the visible church, but the people of God that God sees that we can't know for sure who they are would be the invisible. And so if you mean by local gathering The people who are in galocal gatherings scattered across the planet all collectively, perhaps I would say yes It's not just my local congregation that's the visible church, but it's all of the people presently walking the planet that have identified themselves as Christians that would be the visible church, those that are actually the elect, that are actually the chosen, that are actually saved, that we will actually see in heaven, that is the invisible church. And that wouldn't be just those who are alive and walking the planet now, but that would be all of our brothers and sisters in Christ. throughout all the ages in a past and to come. So all of those who God knows are the invisible church that's visible to him but not to us. And that which is visible only to us we can't be sure. That's why we share the gospel with everybody even if they profess to be particularly in America these days, even if they profess to be Christian, you share the gospel because the vast majority of them probably are not the invisible church. And then as far as the Israel, the distinction, I would say that distinction between visible and invisible as it relates to ancient Israel I would agree because they are the sons of Abraham. So if we look at it in those terms, those who are actually the spiritual sons of Abraham are the invisible And those who would appear on the surface, as far as we can see, with our own, you know, uh mundane eyeballs, who we think might be Israel slash church, maybe a better phrase, the saints The ones we think we can identify as the saints, those would be the visible, but not necessarily saved. Just because we think they might be saved doesn't mean anything So uh I I just gave you a lot 'cause I'm trying to react to everything you just said. So if I if I said things too quickly or said too much, let me know Yeah, no, I mean I th I think you're agreeing with me in because I mean you you as you said you wouldn't go and assume that just because someone's in a church they're saved. You wouldn't believe they're a Christian just because they go to church. But I think the I think where many people m have trouble in this discussion is thinking that well if they're born of a of a Jewish lineage then you're saying that they're you know that they're saved. We're not saying that with Christians, why would we s think that with with Jewish people. So I I mean obviously I I think that some Jewish people get saved. Uh right here, I believe I'm a believer and I'm you know from a Jewish background, right? So I don't I'm not against that But I think I have hearty agreement with you on that point. See, and I think this is where we can now we we can agree. Like I I can agree that invisible Israel, invisible church, that's God's people. I have no problem saying that, right? But I wouldn't say that all of Israel, nor would I say all the church, local Israel local church, are saved. Right? And so compared to that way, um that that becomes the thing that, you know, that it comes to. So w I think we m have to make that distinction between physical Israel, spiritual Israel, just as we do with You know, local and universal church. I I think I personally have found that to be helpful in in talking about these things. And here's a bit of an analogy that just popped into my head, so uh it's always risky to Throw something out there that you haven't even processed fully yet, but um oftentimes those that articulate some of the things I'm attempting to articulate will be accused of replacement theology, and I do not believe the church has replaced Israel. I believe that the people of quote unquote Israel have expanded. And so here's the analogy. When this country, the United States of America, was initially founded, we have the thirteen colonies which became the first thirteen states. So if we think of that as Old Testament Israel, and but now there's a whole bunch of extra states. and the far west and the you know even Alaska and Hawaii and maybe even Greenland soon, who knows? That's not to say that Illinois has replaced Connecticut. That just means that Illinois has been added to Connecticut as part of the United States. So there's an expansion to what we understand as the people of God in the New Testament uh phase with no denigration for those who came before us. In fact, you know we have more books of the Bible and more words of text in the Old Testament than we have in the new. I mean, our our faith is built on the the writings of giants of the faith, heroes of the faith. And so anybody that would denigrate that doesn't understand the Bible, doesn't understand dispensational or covenantal theology for that matter, and probably isn't If they don't repent from their negative attitudes towards these hateful attitudes towards people that they disagree with, then again, absent repentance, they're not Christian. Yeah. I'm going to jump in here because we're running out of time on the show. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930, WFMD. Before my voice in the theology throwdown audio that you were listening to, you heard the voice of Andrew Rappaport. You can find him at strivingforeternity. com. He's kind of the the figurehead, if you will, for the Christian podcast community And so his podcasts are there, uh one of them of course being the Theology Throwdown program that you were just listening to portions of. And he also has a one called the Rap Report and and one called Apologetics Live, and one called So You Want to Be a Podcaster, and probably some others that I'm forgetting right now. So I encourage you to check all that out You heard the voice of Seth Brickley on this episode as well. He has a podcast where he's involved with a podcast anyway called Turning Down, uh Tearing Down High Places. And he's with Truth Fellowship. I mentioned, I think, Jeff Cluer at the beginning of today's episode, but then his voice never showed up. But uh I think he was on last week and y you'll hear him in future weeks probably. as well. And Rebecca Berschwinger is the host of One Little Candle. Again, that's one of the podcasts you can hear at Christian Podcast community. I encourage you to check her out as well. This is all good stuff. And part of the reason I'm doing this is I spent a lot of time in December introducing you to the Christian podcast community in kind of short form bursts with their promos and advertisements and So like I said, we're kind of out of time for this episode, so we're going to continue next week with The next edition of the Faith Debate, and that would be about one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless