Following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. thirty WFMD and ninety-nine point nine HD two and worldwide at WWW dot Wfmd. com. Thanks so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us if you're listening to us live or part of your day if you're out and about listening to the podcast right now. Speaking of podcasts, you can access that at said www. wffd. com. You can also access the podcast and all sorts of other stuff about the show and the churches that are represented here on this show, which I'll get to in just a second, at household of faith in Christ. com. at Household of FaithInChrist. com. I'm Troy Skinner, the pastor of that church, Household of Faith in Christ, and uh my partners in crime on this show. And uh we represent kind of the leadership of uh of a number of churches that are working together, house churches that are working together. Got uh David and Daniel uh David um Forcey, Daniel Razby, trying to throw your names together at the same time. I'm getting myself all discombobulated here. And Imran Razby. Uh Imran and Daniel are with a church that's called, I think, the church that meets at Imran's house Uh David's um with a church that has yet to be named. We're gonna we're gonna actually do a contest on the show one day, I think, and see if we can come up with a name for your Uh the the the that's the good news. The bad news is whatever name we choose is what you're stuck with. So we've got to make sure it's a good one, right? And I I didn't do this last week, but I I I'd like to uh give a shout out. The the the Rasbies established a ministry years ago that has a lot of helpful uh information for family life particularly. They have a website for that. They don't have a website for their church, but they have a website for their ministry. And it's conqueredbylove. org Is their website, Conquered by Love Ministries, is the name of their organization, and conqueredbylove. org have some great resources. And we're actually going to spend some time. The plan is uh God willing and the creeks don't rise, uh to talk about some of the specific things uh that are related to the books that you've written on various topics that have to do with how to raise a family uh as a biblically informed you know Christian uh mother and father kind of thing. So If you were with us last week uh or if you were listening to the podcast, now you're hearing this one on the heels of uh that podcast. I know some people that do that, they listen to the series of shows in rapid succession. So uh welcome back. Hello. Um We were talking about being nice and and the broader culture and how the church should be interacting with um a world that insists we be nice and if you s tell the truth that maybe that's not nice and how do we navigate that. This week I want to kind of piggyback on that and talk more specifically about the kinds of problems that has caused for the institutional church, if you will, this past uh year or two trying to be so nice that if everybody, including the government, says you're not gonna meet, we're gonna sh we're gonna close our doors. Or if everybody says you gotta stay six feet apart, you're gonna do that. that might be worth talking about uh would be why have we gotten to a point where niceness is so important. What is it about niceness that, you know, that has somehow gotten it up to the the highest of priorities. Hmm. Do you have a re do you have a an answer to your question as you f as you maybe. I I mean my my thinking is that maybe maybe it has to do with the importance of people's feelings. Um which we I think you know we mentioned that last week. But um yeah, it you know i if if someone is nice that you know that makes me feel good if they're nice to me. Nice is easy. There's a book that was written a while ago in sales, Good is the enemy of great. I don't know if you guys ever heard of that. But niceness is the enemy of holy. You don't have to be holy if you're nice. Holy is set apart and separated for the love of God and the grace of God and glorification of God, whereas nice is just nice. And nice is easy. Anybody can be nice, but to be holy is hard. And that is a whole different world view that you're not going to be able to do that. is really lacking in the Western culture completely because to get along with everybody, just get along, to get along, because of all the uh diversification, the racism, the whatever else you can call up because everything can can be pointed to d divisiveness where holy is divisive. It is means set apart. And boy, I I probably should have done some homework. Maybe one of you if you if you're able to get a signal and you could look up really quick. What is the Maybe not the definition of today. The definition from fifty to a hundred years ago of nice, because I feel like it's changed. I don't think what we mean by the word nice because nice now is considered a good thing. So should we look for the No w no Webster eighteen twenty eight. Sure, yeah, look yeah, let's go way back. Because my my sense I'm gonna guess 'cause I have it. My guess is that it wasn't necessarily a compliment and now it is. Let me see if I am I right? So there it's an additive to uh to eat dainties or sweetmeats. Uh properly soft, whence, delicate Tender, dainty, sweet, fine, accurate, exact, precise, as nice proportions, nice symmetry, nice workmanship, uh, nice texture, nice tints of color. uh requiring scrupulous exactness, um or being over scrupulous or exact, or perceiving accurately that the smallest faults, errors or irregularities. The dis the the list is actually just just fourteen different definitions. One of which is trivial or unimportant. Another one is weak, foolish, or effeminate. I was just gonna say those first few words that you mentioned on that first definition sounded like effeminacy. Yeah. Weakness, softness, right? And to some extent preciseness or accuracy is that we have positive uses, but I I'd be willing to bet that If we were, you know, if we could get in the Wayback Machine and travel back in time a couple hundred years and some and you called somebody nice, they'd punch you in the nose for it. Mm-hmm. Wait, who you callin' nice? Not only is that, but l uh the context is important, but also just the tone. Nice. Nice. Oh n Nice. I mean there's so many different meanings of the same word. And nice is not uh not very precise. As as you said, there's fourteen different definitions for it. It's not a precise thing, even though one of the definitions is precise But it's interesting those those ones that were talking about, um th th soft, weak what what were some of those words? Weak, foolish, effeminate, um Easily injured, delicate, uh trivial, unimportant. Does that not describe our world today? We live in a nice world. Right? Our culture, our society is very, very nice. So everybody who was aiming for that, good job. You got us there. I hope you're proud of yourself. We're all a bunch of nicies now. A soft cushioned fall. Yeah, we're we're we're we're a bunch of pansies That's a flower, right? It is. I'm not sure why that's an insult to be called a flower. That's kinda what I showed you last week. Are they delicate flowers? Are they particularly delicate flowers? Are they? Uh but one of the things I said last week about um Jesus, we in our culture we have this perception of Jesus that Jesus was nice. And with all that weak, effeminate, you know, uh in uh easily injured, delicate, but to whatever extent Jesus acted in some of those manners when he was here the last time on earth. He is not what he's coming again. He's coming as the conquering king to destroy the world. That's what people are looking forward to with Jesus' second coming. And I think that's that is lost on the church today. Yeah, but also, where do we get this that Jesus was nice? It's from the current culture. There's nothing in the Bible that says that he was nice. Yeah, that the the word n I mean, it's an English word, so yeah, we we have we have to think is would there be any Hebrew or Greek words that could be glossed fairly as nice and maybe I don't know. I'd have to think about that. But we do have the fruit of the spirit, which includes gentleness and self-control and kindness and love and words that feel kind of Nice. So is that where the idea of nice comes from? Are we misunderstanding what gentleness and kindness and love are? A a a parent can love their child and punish them when they do something wrong. That's a form of love. So love doesn't always mean it's nice and gentle and and I think we've confused nice with meek. Right? I s I well, I think we've confused what meek means and therefore we've allowed ourselves to confuse it with nice. You guys agree with that? Yes. But also the culture is as all often stated that the only people that have to be nice are Christians Other people don't have to be nice. They can be mean, they can play hard, they can do all the nasty things they they want because they're not Christians. But if you're Christians, you have to be nice. You have to play nice. And they're able to play that card because Christians have been uh they've uh Generally speaking, not all Christians, hopefully not the four in this room, but and hopefully a lot of who hearing our voices as well. Uh have but too many I think have allowed themselves to be deluded into having a false idea of what it means to be a Christian. And so we've we we've begun to own that niceness, nicety, is a virtue for a Christian as the world defines niceness and and because we're sensitive to that, they're allowed to bludgeon us with that club. Because you don't want somebody to say, Oh, you're a hypocrite, right? That's one of the worst things a Christian could hear is Oh you're a hypocrite. And so you're you're all about being gentle and kind and meek and here you are not being very nice. I mean you you want those Christopher Columbus statues to stay up. That's not very nice to the indigenous people, is it? You know, like it's so you you get yourself boxed in on all of these issues. You don't want to show your little vaccination card to walk into the worship service? What? You're not nice? You're not going to be nice to the powers that be? You're going to force the police officers to have to do something to you or you're gonna force the you know y your neighbors to think badly of our congregation? Yeah, you have to attack the premise. And you know, it it's a false argument. Just like You know, we talked to last week and we've talked for the last several months about definitionless terms. It's so important to have the proper definition that we agree on. If somebody's gonna accuse you of something you have to agree on the terms to begin with. Uh otherwise there's no conversation to be had. And too uh people are too quick I think in our culture to make an assumption you say one or two words oh you're you're a this, you're that. Well hold on. First of all, what does this and that mean in your context? What's the definition? And then why? And let's get to that at the bottom of it, because if we don't agree on the terms, there really is no way to communicate. And what's what's been the root of of that? Um but I I'm I'm I'm thinking of like social media right now. Mm-hmm. Uh in general. And and anything where there's like uh where there are bites of information going out, either of you know what what somebody said or um you know, somebody sharing about themselves. It's all just little tiny pieces. Right. And so nothing is fleshed out. And so uh So uh yeah, I I I wonder if that has taken away from the ability in general for society to to desire and to have a you know, a a complete conversation where where everything is discussed. I don't know if I said it on this program, but if you go back and read um Thomas Paine uh um uh common sense, the book that was circulated throughout the American colonies right before the revolution. And it's not that long of a book. I think it's eighty or a hundred pages. But it's some really deep, complicated stuff at a huge uh uh uh a h a very high reading level and and and uh coherence uh level Such that if you circulated that or something like it among the general population, first of all, most people wouldn't even crack the book 'cause it's too long. Like you said, if someone would circulate, yeah. It wouldn't circulate. And the ones that did read it would be very confused by it because it's it's such a deep level. We just don't have that Education or the attention span to diagnose. the uh military commander that Jack is playing says, You can't handle the truth. We've jumped now. We're we live in in a in a reality where It it's not about handling the truth. We can't comprehend the truth. Right. Right. We can't speak the truth. We can't we you can't speak the truth if you don't know the truth. We Can't say grab the truth because you can't even read the truth. You can't understand the words on the page anymore. We're so dumbed down So worried about being nice that we don't know anything that's true. But I was just preaching on this topic actually very recently. I mean if you read First Corinthians, it says God hath made the wisdom of this world to be foolishness. And that's intentional. We shouldn't be surprised if you're not saved, you don't have the discerning wisdom. They really is no way for you to comprehend much of anything in this life without a foundation in in God, in Christ. So that it really has to start with there. Uh and God will save the ones he wants to save, but it it says very clearly, God has made the wise foolish. And the foolishness of God, if if it were, like the the most foolish part of God that could could be would be is wiser than the wisest of men. And that's I mean it's and there's a quote in there from Isaiah twenty uh twenty nine, I think, which talks about the one of the prophecies God says, I'm gonna do this. And so it really shouldn't surprise us when we see such little comprehension and like you said you can't handle uh or can't comprehend truth. Although I I I do feel like I want to be careful uh you know the the word fool the way we normally use it isn't exactly the way the Bible typically is using. It it has to do more with the like a sinful condition, right? Right. But in in the in the context of the passage in First Corinthians, it's talking about the gospel. And the saying, you know, the uh the gospel we preach is to the Jews a stumbling block and to the Gentiles or to the Greeks uh uh foolishness, but to them that are called the wisdom and the power of God. So they understand it. But everyone else that who's preached, if they're not gonna get saved, they really don't have a clue what's being said because their their ears are closed, their eyes are are uh sorry, the ears Ears are stopped and their eyes are are closed. They can't hear or see what's going on. Yeah, God yeah, God's standard is lost on them. His holiness, right, his way is completely lost. on them. But I mean there's a lot of uh unsaved individuals that are way smarter than me. So I I you know I'm not gonna say that they ha that I have a higher intelligence, but I do have a much better grasp on the truth Well, I actually have a grasp on the truth, the truth, capital T, the truth, that they don't have at all. Is it maybe because you fear God? Because wisdom starts with the fear of God. And that's sorely missing in this culture. There is no fear of God. And if there is no fear of God, then where does wisdom start? And so we we have a situation where the prevailing reality, sadly, and it's heartbreaking. My sense is that more than ninety percent of the churches in the West Do not proclaim the gospel, are led by pastors that might not even know what the gospel is, perhaps aren't even Christians themselves. I don't know for sure about that part. But as far as going to a church and hearing the gospel proclaimed on a regular basis, week in, week out, that is not happening in the overwhelming vast vast majority of churches, it seems to me. And how is that allowed to happen? Well we find out, you know, you got pastors that aren't writing their own sermons. You know, they're hir farming it out to organizations like Docent Group. And you can hear a one pastor do a sermon and then three days, you know, three weeks later hear another pastor do basically the exact same sermon how that happened. Because they bought it from the same place. And and those people writing those sermons for them might not be Christians. So then you're getting a bunch of Tony Robbins, you know, live your best life now, success happens to you if you only follow these five steps to a happy existence kind of stuff. Uh and that's what passes, and so we got the world around us is dumped down, but as far as Fear of God is is dumbed down in that sense, has no wisdom, has no sense of a fear of God, because the pastors aren't proclaiming the full counsel of God. They're not pref sometimes proclaiming any of the counsel of God. So is the only way to fix that is just everybody join a house church and I mean I uh is our way of doing things the only way we're gonna get ourselves out of this? Well I I think I think the the facts That the gospel is not being preached is one of the reasons that our culture has a misunderstanding of what it is to be a Christian. And that's why you say you know uh you you were saying that when something happens where oh oh you're breaking your standard, you know you're you're you're a hypocrite. Oh yes. The standard that you are perceiving which is based on the gospel that you think is is truth, which is not even the correct gospel. Because the real correct gospel is not even being preached. Uh we don't have an understanding of that because the church isn't doing its job. And you know why it's not preached? Because it's not nice. It doesn't pay. You know, well yeah, in today's economy, right? Today's world it doesn't pay, that's for sure. Although the you know, Yeah, that's why the prosperity gospel is so uh popular, because that does pay. And that and that's one reason why the house church motto I think is very useful i is because You don't have a lot of expenses. You don't have to be bringing in massive amounts of donations to keep the lights on and so you don't You don't have to worry quite as much about oh if I make people offended, they might not come here. And then we how are we going to have a church? Yeah. uh you know, buildings and and uh you know all sorts of things and they have plenty of saved uh uh congregation that's a lot of people Yeah, I'm not going to switch them, but there are a number I could name that are very successful, very big, and they have faithful, as far as I can tell, faithful ministers. There are several that plenty that I know of personally, and I'm sure there's others. uh many others. Uh so we're not making a blanket accusation, but I think in general that is one of the dangers when you get to be a very large church. Now you have overhead. And I think that's one thing that the early church was trying to not have is is a lot of overhead. And it allows you to be m um more bold in preaching because you're not you don't have a conflict of interest. I I think one of the so, you know, maybe not everybody needs to be in a house church, but every Christian does need to take ownership for the discipleship of their own household and and the discipleship of fellow Christians. Like there there should be that uh that responsibility that's that's t uh there is that responsibility that's taken on by every Christian. And so I think I think uh one of the main issues, the problems that's that's arisen within the and and sources of a lot of problems and issues as well in the the American Church is that there are designated people in charge of those things, good at those things, doing those things. And uh, you know, and so I just I just go and I attend and um you know some someone else reads their Bible and tells me what it says and um so I I think I think that you know, the the undoing of uh of the individual Christians hunger for the word on their own. And that's a real challenge and I've had to deal with uh recently actually. Um the idea of the programs are going to be the solution. We're gonna have a program for that with designated people that within the institution of the church So the church becomes like this amalgam of parachurch organizations under one housing unit as opposed to the you know the the the structure of the church is you've got elders who are responsible for teaching and leading uh involved in uh in the spiritual well being of their congregation, equipping them to then go be salt and light uh in the world. uh and if they want to do things among uh partnering with each other other christians or whatever that's fine but within the institution of the church is a problem. I have somebody that refused to to become a part of House of the Faith in Christ because we refuse to make a sa a a central pillar of of our quote unquote ministry uh the abortion issue. And I said I teach about it. I preach against it. I vlog about it. I've been very vocal over the years on the radio about that issue. I've gone and and uh stood vigil at abortion clinics in the past. I mean it's an important part of of what I do and it is I w would agree with anybody who would who would want to make the argument it is the most heinous sin in the history of the United States of America. I mean tens of millions of babies brutally slaughtered. So I agree with all that. But my job as the pastor isn't to organize efforts Yeah. To fight against that. It might be an individual Christian's call, might be you know it might be a vocation they're gonna take on, like they're gonna go about doing that. But my d I need to make sure, one, to your point, David, I only start and take care of my own family. I gotta I gotta be responsible for my own household, my wife, my my my son, uh myself. And then beyond that I've got to make sure that I'm preparing the sermons and being uh uh biblically faithful in that and I've gotta minister to the people in their needs, counsel them in their marriages and their life decisions and those sorts of things. And then whatever time I might have left over, then I can allocate that to other things like maybe abortion if I have time and that sort of thing. If I'm gonna take less time to prepare a good gospel message in order to go be involved in the abortion fight, I'm derelict of my primary duty. And explaining that to somebody was completely unacceptable and they they refused to join our church. I mean I agree with you because you can either be a church or an anti abortion ministry. You can't be an anti abortion church because that's not that that's not what a church is. Right. A church is to disciple the people and have leadership there. Anti abortion is really a ministry that's an offshoot of a church or offshoot of people that are Christians that have a heart for it and you can do it as as a person but not as the pastor. As a pastor your primary concern is the discipleship. And you can do it as a group of persons. You know, if you have a bunch of like minded people, then they might even all go to the same church and they might well want to do that together as brothers and sisters in Christ, but they don't need their pastor to organize it, to lead the charge for it, to help fund it. That's not what the church is for, so we've misunderstood. Well we've believe it or not, we've we've run out of darn time again. How do we do that? We need more time. Oh wait till next week. Well yeah next week we'll be back again, God willing, Freaks don't rise. Um the one who's talking about coming back next week, that's Daniel Razve, his father. Uh Imran Razby also on the show. David Forcy. They involved uh they're involved with house churches, as you've heard us talk about. So am I. Mine is called Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at household of faith in Christ. com. I'm Troy Skinner, by the way. You can also go to WFMD. com. Till next week, when the faith debate returns. Uh God bless. That'll be in about 167 and a half hours from right now.