Have to believe in anything, right? You can just study it just like any other subject and it's of course interesting and fascinating and you can have opinions, but they may not come out of your own personal faith commitments. But when you talk about comparative theology, usually in the field, we're talking about people who are coming at it from their own faith perspective. And so they're not even pretending to be neutral. Um, but they come at it with their own commitments, but they're trying to engage the other, religious other, um, with the idea that this can actually benefit their own faith in some way. So obviously because I'm at a seminary and most of my students are Christian I'm trying to show them that this kind of inner religious engagement is really important for their preparation as public ministers of the church and they need to understand That's fascinating. automatically lead in the direction of like a Unitarian perspective where we just say, you know, that all roads lead to God. That was a big issue here in Frederick with some of the uh different pastors that we interacted with that there was a little bit of a sense that uh that they wanted us when we came together to represent things that are worthy of unity in Frederick to stand on a platform that says we all worship the same God. Right? And I couldn't go there. No, of course not. I'm willing to to stand on a on a platform that says We celebrate our freedom of religion. Okay. Right. And we probably disagree with one another about theological things, but we we feel like there's a way we can work together in a community to do good things, right? And so So that's different. But what you're saying is that comparative theology uh doesn't try to be neutral but recognizes so so comparative theology is something that is engaged in by a religious person. Exactly. As opposed to comparative religions as somebody that some something engaged in by somebody that pretends to be a religious commitment. Well may or may not. I mean may or may not have any any religious commitment. I mean I could come as as a as a Christian or not and say, oh Well here's some apples and here's some oranges. Oh these are interesting. Here are the things they have in common, here are the things that are different, and at the end of the day put 'em down and walk away. But as a Christian, engaging in comparative theology I come and say, well, these are apples and oranges and I actually really, really like oranges. I mean now the the metaphor's kind of breaking down, but you know what I mean, right? I mean I have these preferences. No, they're not the same thing and You know, I think that's uh I'm I'm really glad that you mentioned this idea of, oh, is is the goal here to sort of say we're all we all believe the same thing and I don't I don't think that's at all helpful and I don't think it's all it's true So yeah, no, so we're we're not trying to we're not trying to do that at all. Very interesting. Yeah. So what is the goal? Yeah, so the goal is to say that as a Christian, I actually um can deepen my own Christian faith by learning something about Islam, worshiping with Islam uh Muslims, making friends with Muslims, that that actually not only is just good practically for the world, I mean I think you're right, when we live in a community we need to work together and help each other. We we have the same problems with homelessness and drug abuse and all these kind of things. So but I I want to say also theologically Um, I've got something that I can learn and grow in my own faith tradition as I learn and study another faith tradition. Yeah, so it's interesting because Right. We're just getting to know each other, so I don't even know I don't know any of your theological conclusions, you know, and and where you play out on things. And so like like this discussion helps us, you know, to kind of define that a little bit in terms of, you know, like how far can we go with people of other religions? And um and like you use a couple of terms there that or phrases that um that I f if it's okay I'd like to kinda draw them out a little bit. Like for example you're saying we can worship together with them. Yes. Like how d how does that work out? Like if you believe that you worship a different God, or maybe you don't believe that, but if you believe that you worship a different God, then how is it that you worship Like I don't know that I would describe what I did when I went to the Islamic Society as worshiping with them. I would say that I sat in on their worship service and observed a worship. And observed it. Yeah Which which is different from saying that I worship with them. Well, you know, I think that really varies in the situation. I mean, how would you feel if you went to a synagogue? Would you feel like you could say you worshipped in a synagogue? It would depend on the synagogue. Okay. Because my impression is that there are some synagogues where where they've uh given themselves the measure of freedom to to not follow real closely the Old Testament or necessarily to to put great stock in in in uh uh how the Old Testament was taught or the the distinctives that are in the Old Testament and so they use it kind of as a broad inspirational storybook. but not something that really defines, you know, who they are. It's a part of what defines who they are. But then there's other basically I'm defining the difference between say a conservative uh Jewish person and a reformed Jewish person. Okay. Right? And so the reformed Jewish person is is a lot more inclined to to say, well those rules apply back then but they really don't. you know, have any uh any application to the day and then it you know that that uh we have a lot more freedom to define for ourselves morality today. And the and so Uh so they approach the book differently and therefore they approach God differently. And so the one I think I would be inclined to say, well, I can't say that I'm worshiping with them, and the other one I think I'd I'd be more inclined to say I do worship with them, but again I think I would be I would be diligent to draw distinctions in my soul as the process was going on as to where they might you know because for me Jesus Christ is the Son of the living God. And if you reject Christ as the Son of the Living God, then you are You know, the biblical term is anti Christ. You're not saying you can only worship Jesus in a Christian church. I mean how come you you can't worship Jesus at another house of worship? No, that's a good that's a good distinction. I can do that anywhere. Okay. In fact, I'd say that when I was at the Islamic Society, Frederick, in my heart I was worshiping Jesus Christ. Okay. However That's a little bit of a stretch to me to say that I was worshiping with them. I could say that I was I was I was worshiping Christ while they were worshiping whatever they were worshiping. Okay. Like it's important to me Yeah, yeah, alongside them. It's important to me to draw that distinction just because I wouldn't want to give the impression to somebody that's not paying attention. Sure. I see what you're saying, yeah. While at the same i and and this is what this show has been all about, because I agree with you that we need to have these discussions. Right. We need to be able to interact with uh with other religions and leaders of other religions in a respectful way but but in a way that's not shallow. Well what I hear you saying and I think it's really important is W w you know when you said you don't want to give the impression, like again, this idea that well everyone's saying the same thing anyway, so it doesn't really matter. You're in a mosque, you're in a temple, you're in a synagogue, you're in a church, it's Well of course it's not all the same. And so what I hear you saying is you want to be really careful to honor that and I think that's really important. And then so I want to hold that, but then I also want to say Yeah. I believe in in the Spirit of God to be at work in all these kind of amazing ways that are often beyond our comprehension and understanding, and I want to be open to that. And I really believe when Jesus says the two things that you're supposed to do are love God and love your neighbor. Yeah. Period. Yeah. You know, and so when I'm honoring someone and loving them by showing them that I care about who they are, I want to know who they are, I want to know more about their faith. that there's a way in which, you know, God's at God's at work there and I'm, you know, this is part of the happy Lutheran part. I'm also very optimistic. I trust God that um that God's gonna give me the benefit of the doubt too. And if I if I make a mistake Sure. However we would define that or what say that would be. For the sake of love for my neighbor, I like to say God's gonna God's got some leeway to go with that. Yeah, I think I'm pretty comfortable with that. You know, I come from uh my dad was uh my grandfather was a Baptist minister that planned in thirteen Baptist churches and my dad went to Baptist Bible seminary. Okay. But he came out of it into the charismatic movement. Okay. And so I'm not Baptist Though I have a very strong background of of, you know, this intense rigor about we know what we believe and you know we're gonna prove it to everybody. Uh and so there's a there's a a strong biblical, you know, uh education uh background in me despite being charismatic. But all that being the case, um Where was I going with that? That um I don't find myself worried about making mistakes. I think Troy Troy would recognize that that that I'm I'm a lot quicker to just go for it, you know, and again to trust that God's gonna work it out. Though I do draw a distinction that Troy doesn't like that I don't see anywhere in scripture where it says that the Holy Spirit interacts with an unbeliever. Every place in scripture that I see reference to the Holy Spirit, it's always in the context of somebody who is not just a believer but a strong believer, and so the Holy Spirit is now free to be released upon him, whether it was David, you know, the different words. Yeah, but think about yeah, but think about in the New Testament like Nicodemus coming to Jesus by night, or think about the Ethiopian eunuch who's moved to be baptized. I mean I So I think we're we're not told that that that the presence of the Holy Spirit is involved until the point of of the decision. Like we're never never are we told that the Holy Spirit drew the unbeliever to be a little bit of a interesting is that this never says where This is where my faith tradition sort of informs my read of this. And of course how we read scripture. We so in in I'm Lutheran and so Luther Luther's interpretation of the um Apostles Creed, he talks about, by my own strength, I cannot come to my Lord Jesus Christ or believe in him, but the Holy Spirit calls, gathers. and enlightens me. I mean if it's just if it's up to me, if I'm so smart, if I'm on my own, can recognize God and come to God I mean that sort of says well what I don't need a safety. Sure, so I totally jumped into a discussion that gets us off track. And I'd wait to continue it, but I'm gonna defer to whether or not it would be better for I let it go be for a bit because it just illustrates the point that Jonathan's not afraid to make mistakes. No, no, no, no. That wasn't like an entree to you to continue. That's not what scripture tells us it was. We were throwing up the dolphin So anyways, I don't have to go there, but um it's a great discussion. Maybe we could even circle back around to that maybe in a different show or something. He's the senior pastor of Crosswitch Valley Chapel. We are joined this week by Dr. Kristen Largan, who is with Lutheran Theological Seminary. She teaches a whole bunch of classes, including systematic theology and comparative theology classes. And I'm still a little hung up on the semantic difference between comparative theology and comparative religion. Is it merely is it An academically accepted separation that the study of comparative religion is different. So so academia has assigned definitions to those terms that mean something. Right. Well it's not mere semantic preference. There's actual Well if you think about the words, right, I mean e you know, r religion and theology, even though um We have now other religious traditions. We there are some who would talk about Buddhist theology and others who wouldn't because nonetheless Theology typically has has um or even historically referred to those who are coming out of a belief uh they're uh coming out of a belief and speaking from their own personal belief. So there's there's not only an academic um discipline, but there's this personal faith conviction that comes out of it. And again, a scholar of religion Could be a Christian, could be a Hindu, could be anybody, but does not have to be. And their scholarship actually would sort of assume that th their own personal perspective wouldn't be brought in. It could be seen as a weakness. I mean if I'm a scholar and I'm trying to evaluate religious traditions Well suddenly the fact that I myself am a Christian and have a commitment to Christian beliefs, that can well well then how are you possibly going to evaluate Right, right. The idea being that anybody can actually get outside of their bias and claim to evaluate without bias. Nevertheless, that's the claim is that is that is that they're not showing bias in their they're they're attempting to be fully unbiased in their study. And they work diligently to do it, nevertheless. Yeah, we all know it's there. Yeah, right, right, right. I don't want to be too g bogged onto this and prove myself to be so dense, but so comparative religion is comparing the practices of the religions It can also compare doctrine. But let me let me again try to put it in the perspective of a student. Okay. So I again I'm teaching at a seminary the vast majority of my students are preparing for public ministry in one form or another. And so um I could you could easily imagine that I would teach them a course on the world's religions. And we would just talk about what is Hinduism, what is Islam, the thing we would be great information. what we believe. And that would be a comparative religion course? No. Right. No. No. That's comparative theology. If all we do is just talk about what they who what they are, what they believe It's an informational kind of course. Okay. Informational kind of let's use that. Information versus transformation. Let's try that. Okay. Comparative religion would be informational. Okay. Understand what I mean? We're just giving information. Right. What do they believe? Why do they believe it? When were they founded? Where were they founded? How many of them are right? Okay. Comparative theology aims for transformation of my own faith. So I want to say, I want to always be asking the so what question. So, okay, so um Muslims pray five times a day. They have five set prayer times a day. Well, what does that mean for my Christian understanding of prayer practice? How how does that challenge me? How does that cause me to think a new way about my own prayer life with God? Okay? So that's Comparative theology, it's the idea of you start at home in your own tradition, you go out, explore another land, and you bring that back home to you so that you see your own context in a new way. That's comparative theology. So the end goal isn't just that you can pass a test about what this religion believes or that religion believes, but the end goal is that your own faith has been positively. I was thinking that your that comparative theology uh leans in the direction, I guess, both of me being changed by what you believe, but also in the message of Christ, as it were, being brought to other people of other religions. So there there's kind of a a cross pollinization that's going on. Well of course, but the deal is I can't prescribe that. I mean I can't m my hope is always that when I when I talk to somebody about my faith and if if we're having a legitimate conversation. I mean I would hope that that would be the case, but I can't. Exactly. What I can control is my own openness to say this is how um this is how I've been changed, this is what it's meant to be. It's an attitude of humility in the context of discussions of other religions with people in other religions that says You know, I could probably learn something from it. Yeah. And I'm gonna try to do so. That's right. In the hopes that that they will uh reciprocate and in reciprocating that possibly the message of Christ could be Well and I mean and again, John, you pr you may not even agree with this fundamental premise. The the idea that I actually um I mean, because of course i if I I'm I'm always open to the idea that someone hears something about Jesus and and and is transformed um by who he is and and by the work of the Spirit in them um in in Jesus Christ. But I I mean there there's also a risk because I'm saying I'm open and I'm open to see what what the spirit's gonna work in me in that knowledge and conversation and I may have something to learn and I may be changed Yeah, no, well it's interesting because I'm a risk taker and so I d I don't mind you know, risk language for me is like But I it it's possible, it sounds like there may be a a distinction between us, but I don't know. I can't tell. I'm just getting to know you, so I don't want to assume anything. But maybe there's a just a distinction out there whether or not it represents how where you and I are, where one person is saying, look, I'll take that risk. Because I know that Jesus Christ is amazing, so I don't care, you know, how dangerous it gets or, you know, how difficult it gets. I'm gonna have the discussions. and I'm gonna let it go where somebody else might be saying, Well I'm taking the risk because uh maybe I'm wrong about Jesus. Yeah and no I'm So that's not what you're saying. I'm totally with you on that person. You're willing to take the risk because I have to be a little bit more because you can't grow and you're not afraid of of of the message of Christ. I feel like that's where we stand on this show at some level. I'm I'm hesitant to say that that's exactly where you're at, but from what you're describing that we say let's have the discussion because in having the discussion it strengthens us That's right. Because Christ himself had those discussions in public with people all the time, you know, where he's interacting with the religious leaders of the day. And if he did it, we need to be able to do it too and not somehow when we get in a setting like that turn into this rabid immature fearful you know reactionary but uh have to be that the only reason I would have a conversation with somebody of another faith is try to convert them And if i if they don't if they're not converted, if they don't come around to my way of belief, well then it's a fail somehow, you know, or it's not worth it somehow. And I just think, oh, that that's not going to help us at all. And that's very interesting because I Uh I still live with the mission of preaching Christ and making disciples in everything that I do. But the long view recognizes that if I'm going to be influential in in somebody else's path towards Christ, it's not going to be by me be by me beating them over the head. It's going to be by me being willing to hear them, them hear me. And in the context of that, uh there's a a recognition that while this guy's genuine, you know, he's really seeking the things of God. I have a lot of respect for how he approaches things and he's saying this, I'm gonna consider that, you know, a little bit more strongly. So so it has to do with with style of evangelism, it has to do with with uh the longevity of your view on how it is that we influence the world. Because you know, the kingdom of God is like yeast. And so a little bit, even, you know, things that we do with Frederick 48, things that we do with uh in other places in Frederick, there's a lot of things that I do where I'm recognizing that that we represent Christ. And so it's not just about me in the immediate moment winning somebody to Christ, but it's about who we are as as a people that represent Christ representing who he is in the fullness of who he is in discussions and humility and patience and kindness. And the result being that that cumulative effect is making a difference throughout the whole community. I don't know where you're at on that. I'm interested to see where you're at. Yeah, well I've been letting this run because I've been ta making some mental notes. I think we've got to come back to a lot of things to talk about Um at the st from the start of next week's show. Excellent. And it's interesting to me because I think Kristen is in the uh mean any disrespect. Stuck by using her first name. I mean she worked hard for a doctorate. We've got that out of the way. saying we're not and I'm wondering if you guys disagree more than than Jonathan. Like on that particular thing, I'm going to go to the explore that Interesting. I think there is some. Yeah. Well I I'm not saying we're looking for a fight. But I think that there's uh as we define our positions m uh more and more, I think you'll start to realize, no, way ah, okay, I don't agree with that. And that and that'll be fun for me to hear you guys uh exchange. Yeah. Uh Dr. Kristen Largen from uh Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg. Uh she's a teacher of a new bunch of classes there, systematic theology, uh comparative theology. She's a blogger, happylutheran. blogspot. com. You can follow us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. Um our C our sponsors, we have three of them now. Who are they? Cruise Holidays and BMC Insurance. Thanks for the help. What am I reading these days? You read that one? Yes, yes I have. Yeah. Good classic stuff right there. Yeah, always. Anyway, thanks so much for listening until next week God bless.