This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most Others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready. Ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh yeah. Troy Skinner. And welcome to the Faith Debate. I am Troy Skinner and I'm flying solo today. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, who's uh typically on the show, founder of Bridges in Frederick, uh drawing connections between uh those uh in the Secular not for profit world and the government agencies and the church communities and trying to get things done that will help serve all of us and our interests better. Anyway, he's not here today. Um holidays and all that sort of stuff getting in the way. But the show must go on, and uh it gives me a great opportunity to share something that I've uh been trying to figure out how I'm gonna incorporate this and today we're we're going to incorporate it We get mail here on the Faith Debate on occasion. Usually it's in the form of emails. Every once in a while it's a hard letter, you know, mail uh kind of thing. But uh usually it's, you know, uh question of a clarification about something that was said. Sometimes it's a criticism about the areas that we endeavored to talk about on this show. You can't make everybody happy, that's for sure. So I don't usually go out of my way to share those sort I respond to everything, but I don't go out of my way to share those sorts of things on the air all of the time. But this one I thought I would share because I think every single one of us at some level can relate to this email exchange and the the honesty and the transparency that uh is evident here from this wonderful listener. And I'm not gonna give uh her name because I don't think that would be uh appropriate. I didn't ask her for permission as one and um So anyway, I'm gonna read this and this is the uh initial uh email from a a show that apparently aired almost exactly one year ago today. It was her response. She finally caught it on the podcast. uh just a handful of weeks ago. So here's what she writes. She says, Hi Troy. I listened to some of your radio program podcasts and really enjoyed them. I was particularly interested in the one from January 8th, 2018, about how one moves from unbelief in Christ to belief. You and your panel touched on the subject of moving from mental ascent to genuine saving faith, but just barely I'm interested in knowing how one takes hold of Christ in the heart in a way that transforms. I've been stuck in this place for so long, for a long time, wanting the penny to drop. But that hasn't happened. I don't have intellectual problems with the Bible. It's that my heart hasn't been melted in a way that results in joy, peace, and a change of nature. I'm not looking for an experience, but a genuine heart change. And I don't think it's happened. I think I'd know if it had I've grown up immersed in Christianity, know the Bible inside and out, and attend a Bible-believing church. I know all about God, but can't seem to connect with him personally. I'm not sure if it's a spiritual or psychological problem or a mixture. I long to have a personal relationship with Jesus, but never have. And at age 66, it's way past time. He seems am abstract and distant to me, and I know that's not right, because he is, in reality, neither of those. Have you done any programs on this subject? I can't imagine that I'm the only one having a problem with this. Many thanks in advance for any help. you can offer. And so my response to that is to say, hello You who shall remain nameless. I appreciate that you took the time to write, particularly about such a deeply personal concern. It's an encouragement to me to me to hear that the Faith Debate show and podcast has made even a small positive impact in the life of at least one listener. The question about moving from unbelief to belief in Christ is a truly profound one. In the program that you've referenced, my recollection is that, out of deference to the panelists I didn't have an opportunity to share many of the things that were on my heart. Your email is giving me an opportunity to do so now. My response will likely be far too long. And yet it still won't say all that could be said. After all, volumes of books would be required to plumb the depths of such a topic. Since I am not intimately familiar with your situation, I will attempt to touch upon a few general items that will hopefully, by God's providence, help you provide some keys to your own understanding. As an aside, please let me add that I don't know your denominational background, so I ask your forgiveness if I should write anything that offends your sensibilities. And also, because I'm attempting to respond to you quickly, I will not have time to properly edit my words for the level of brevity and clarity I'd typically desire. I apologize. First, the question of conversion. Conversion occurs when there's a spiritual turning from dependence on ourselves and the gods of our own making to a dependence on the one true God. It involves turning from our sin by turning to the one who bears our sin. It involves a change in values from those embraced by the world to those embraced by our Creator. It involves a change of mind that leads to a change in direction and a change in the patterns that define one's life. When converted, a person experiences an intellectual change and a change of affections. It seems that you claim to have experienced an intellectual change while not experiencing an emotional change. I'll of course take your word regarding the state of your mind and offer you a hug regarding the state of your heart. My hug is to encourage you to attend to your will. This might appear to be changing the subject and to drift from the thrust of your question. However, I suggest that if your mind is right, but your heart is a question mark, then it could be that your will is what needs to be addressed. What is that Christian's will? Jesus teaches his followers that their will is to be in accord with God's will, and that they should pray for his will to be done on earth as it is in heaven. Therefore Questions of our will are not ultimately about our will, but are rather about God's will. What is it that God wills for us? Obedience. To what? To his word. In all areas of our life. To be clear, it's not as though we're in right relationship with the Father because of our obedience. No, we're in right relationship with the Father because He has graciously transferred to us Christ's obedience. This is so important. And we must be reminded of this profundity. And we are reminded of this profundity far too infrequently. Christ's disciples trust that the Son is the truth correlating to the mind or thoughts, because he proved his trustworthiness at the cross. Christ's disciples understand that the Son is the life. correlating to the heart, our experiences, because he laid down his life at the cross. And Christ's disciples follow after the Son as the only way correlating to the will, our behaviors Because he made a path to the Father at the cross. It's all about the cross. God's plan of redemption centers on the cross. One might even say that the cross is the crux of the matter. Little wordplay there I wrote all of this because I see your question couched in language concerned with belief, which ties directly to conversion. But what if yours really isn't a struggle with a question of conversion and belief? What if instead you struggle with questions of assurance? I wonder. If so, you're not alone. Nearly every believer throughout history has struggled with questions about the assurance of their salvation. But once born again, there is no re-entering the womb. Whether one feels born again or not doesn't change the facts. When a child is chided by the world into falsely thinking that he or she was adopted This doesn't change the facts of his or her birth parents, and so too with the Christ follower when he or she is chided by the world into falsely thinking that he or she has not been born of God. Here's another analogy. I'm married. In my if my wife or I should one day begin to feel less uh warm and fuzzy toward one another, would this mean that we're no longer married? Of course not. We could each turn to the wedding album or th our wedding video or even testimony of guests who attended our wedding to remind our minds that we are in fact married. But this is merely intellectual ascent. What about those loving feelings? What if the heart's not in it? How does one work to warm up a cold marriage, so that one's heart melts in ways that bring joy, peace, and change into the home? How do we come to enjoy all the blessings intended for the marital relationship? The answer is that we do what we're called to do in our marriages. We are called to serve our spouse, whether we feel any loving attitudes about the service or not. In time, my experience has shown me, the loving attitudes begin to take root and are then fertilized by the additional service actions that almost always follow. You ever hear the line, smile until you're happy, or fake it until you make it? It works in marriage and it works in our God relationship. I've had friends tell me that they don't love their wife anymore. I respond by telling them, well then you better get right home and start loving her. Love is a verb. Love is an action. Certainly this action results in a feeling that we've all come to call love. So they are related understandings, but still different. In one sense, love as action is the cause, while in another sense, love as emotion is the effect. This effect can tend to provide motivation for more of the cause, and so there is a circular element, to be sure. Practically speaking, what does this all mean? I suggest that you consider finding ways to press in to God that involve actions. These actions of your will need to be in alignment with the will of God. What does he call you to do? Pray more, serve others, fast for a season, tithe faithfully, study longer, work harder, be still in contemplation, forgive others, show love to yourself Squash areas of temptation. Be bold. Be quiet. Practice patience and kindness. Speak truth. All of these Some things that maybe only you know. Whatever you've been taught from God's Word to do in service to God, do those things. By doing so, your focus will not be on you, but on God, seeking to find solutions by examining only our affections or lack thereof for God will prove dissatisfying. Seek instead to find solutions by examining your Creator's affections for you. Focus on God, what he thinks, feels, and does. Because that's where there's satisfaction to be found. Final thoughts. If God still feels hidden from you in many ways, just keep in mind that this is part of the curse found in Genesis chapter 3. Recall that Adam and Eve were sent from God's presence in the garden so that God became hidden from them. The work of destroying this curse was finished at the cross. But the fullness of experiencing all that Christ accomplished for us, well, that still awaits. For now we see through a glass only dimly. So ask God to keep you from the temptations of the accuser who is whispering doubts in your ear, such as, are you sure you believe? Why don't you always feel like you believe? If you don't believe in your heart, then maybe it's not real. You should trust your heart, right? What does your heart tell you? These are lies The heart is deceitful above all things. We are not to follow our heart, but instead we need to have God lead our heart. And lastly, if you'd like to read, I believe there's a book titled To Be Told by Dan Allender that might help you discover ways to blend your intellect, emotions, and actions. If you like movies, I believe the Fireproof will help to drive home the illustration that I've offered as a comparison of our relationships in marriage to our relationship with God. God bless you. He made you. He loves you. He saved you. He has a plan for you. He has prepared a place for you. So that's how the first exchange uh went, and then she responded. And so here's what she said in response to my response. Troy, thank you for your prompt and kind response. No need to worry about offending me, just so you know, I attended uh a non-denominational Bible church uh called the First Evangelical for most of my life Many of the pastors were from Dallas Theological Seminary, so I have a pre-mill pre-trib heritage. If you're a fan of the faith this is an aside by the way, if you're a fan of the faith debate, then those labels mean something to you because you've heard us talk about these things for over the years. Anyway, back to the email. Currently I'm visiting a PCA Presbyterian church since my former church went contemporary. My concern is that I haven't been born again because I haven't had a change of nature or change of any kind, in fact. I think I'm still living in the land of mental ascent. I've never had any evidence of the Spirit's work in my life. No joy, peace, gratitude, humility, generosity. It's not just a dry spell. I've never exhibited the fruits of the Spirit, and that terrifies me I think that perhaps deep down I know that I should believe because I'm aware of what happens to those who don't Yet my heart remains blank, cold, and unchanged, and therefore unregenerate, I'm afraid. My experience of faking it till you make it hasn't panned out. I've done the things you suggest as far as actions go, but my heart remains the same, full of despair and hopelessness. When I set my mind to trust, I fail because I'm trying to do it in the flesh by willpower rather than from a genuine love for God because of what He has done for me. I have a relative who married a woman he didn't love because his father approved of her and he wanted to please him For twenty-five years he tried to gin up love by acting toward his wife as if he loved her, but it didn't work, and they finally divorced and are much happier. So I doubt the conventional wisdom that acting as though something is true makes it so. I have never married, so I'm not able to internalize the marriage analogy you referenced in your last paragraph I'm at my wit's end and don't know what to do. I can't imagine I'm the only person who is tortured like this. I ask God every day to give me the new birth. the Holy Spirit, faith, and to help me trust and rest in Him. I read the Bible, but honestly, it's just words on a page. I can't connect with God and I'm afraid that my heart is hardened beyond repair. I'm terrified that I'll die and go to hell. I'm sorry to be so bleak, but that's where I am. I've talked to pastors and counselors And they don't understand. They seem to presume I'm saved simply because I'm concerned about it. But so were King Saul, Cain, and Judas. I'm afraid I'm like them. Thank you again for your response and for taking the time to write. And so here was my response to that. So we're in round two now. So dear fill in the blank. There are several brief responses I'd like to share with you. First, I am currently working to put together a panel to talk about exactly your situation I agree that you're not alone and many might benefit from such a program, so I thank you for your suggestion. Second, there are many good pastors in the PCA. I hope that your new pastor is one of them Lean on him for direct and personal guidance on these questions. He might tell you what many pastors before him have told others. If you're asking the question that you are, then you have evidence that you're saved from your sin Believe him. Third, my comments regarding fake it till you make it will admittedly only take someone so far. However, the main thrust that I intended to convey with the sharing of my thoughts was one of focus. On whom do we focus? I'll touch on that in my next paragraph. So here's that paragraph. Fourth, we're not saved by our own willpower. or our feelings about our salvation. Or anything that has to do with us. Please, please accept the loving context for this next comment that I write. Your message uses the words me, my, and I about four dozen times. This is normal and totally understandable. So I'm not offering any condemnation by pointing this out. It's just that there's an obvious illustration available to us when we compare this with the half dozen references that you made to God. What's more, not one of these God references was to Jesus Christ or the Father. You might want to peel back the onion on this and see if there's any significance to it. If we keep searching for answers about our salvation in our willpower, in our fruit, in our experiences, then we will be sorely and continually disappointed. The answers to your salvation are found in the Messiah and his will, his power, his fruit, his experience. Fifth, there's a lie that's been thrust upon us by the culture of contemporary society. Love often involves feelings of satisfying bliss and happiness. This is true. However, love is more truly about commitment to service and sacrifice. Too many people seek divorce when they don't feel what the world suggests that they should feel. And that's hogwash. For example, there are times when I haven't felt particularly happy with my children Or could even be sure that I liked my children at any given moment. However, I always love my children. Always Even if I don't feel like I do, this might possibly be the same scenario for you with regards to God. Food for thought. Finally, based upon what you've written, I have reason to believe that you are born again. I don't know you well, of course, but I know God and you seem to know him too. So let me remind you of some things God has said to us. He says that He has chosen the elect. He says that not one of those whom he has predestined will be lost. He says that he loves you and has a plan for you. He is there for you, with you, even in you. When you say, I believe, please help my unbelief. My sense is that you have an issue of assurance, not an issue of salvation. And so then I said, here's a video for you, my dear sister, and I sent her a uh uh a video uh that talks about uh assurance and salvation questions, that sort of thing, and I thought it would be helpful. um to her and what I will try to do if I can hopefully remember is on the podcast, on the Faith Debate website uh for this episode, I will include that link. Uh so that if you go to the WFMG. com and the Faith of Eight page there, you'll f you'll be able to look at the same link I sent to her. And I ended that email by saying, please pray for me. I'll be praying for you. And time tells me that I have to wrap and there There was some more exchange, uh couple I think a couple more exchanges. So we'll do those in next week's show. And I mentioned in this most recent exchange that I read to you that I'm working on uh putting together a panel to talk about this And my hope is that actually that panel will happen in the coming weeks. So next week we'll finish up uh with the exchange and then uh get into discussion about it and hopefully talk about it for at least a week or two. It depends on on what kind of a panel I can put together to talk about this sort of question about salvation and particularly about assurance. of salvation. So if you are where this uh lovely woman uh finds herself, unfortunately, right now, then uh these these shows are for you. Um Next week, uh I don't we won't have John Schweitzer with me next week either, but uh he will be back the week after that. I'm I'm pretty sure of that, and he will be part of the panel that talks about this. At least that's my aim and my hope. Uh until next week. Thank you so much for listening. Again, you can find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith, or you can go to the little drop-down menu of what's on the air on the homepage for WFMD or any page, I think. It has little the menu bar goes across toward the top. Click on that, scroll down to you find Faith Fate. Click on there and there you go. You find a a rundown of of of shows that have recently aired. You'll find a link to all the podcasts uh for the past couple of years anyway or up there and a link to the audio vault where there's more podcasts to be found. and a uh a teaser for what's going to be on the show next week. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. Happy New Year, God bless