Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Um hosting this show for a long time now and I've got a rare treat uh last week's show, the week before that, this week's show, and hopefully at least one more show after this, maybe a couple more shows after this. We'll have to see how how scheduling works, but uh Dr. Russell T. Fuller is uh on the show and I'm emphasizing the T. If you hear him in other interviews, he doesn't typically emphasize the T But his website is RussellT Fuller dot com, so I want you to remember what his web address is. So it's Dr. Russell T Fuller, it's on the show. If you missed the last two weeks It's it's a dynamic uh QA interview kind of a thing with a great backstory of a profile encouraged in a highly charged, highly political situation uh in a Christian context, a at a uh ostensibly Christian seminary. Ostensibly might be mean. But you understand what I'm saying here. And he had to make a hard choice that was going to cost him his job. He made that choice. It cost him his job. And now we're this week we're talking about the aftermath, the immediate aftermath of that. If you missed the last two shows, I encourage you to go find them on podcasts. with us through Household of Faithinchr. com. That's probably the easiest way to access all the various ways of listening to the podcast. So picking up where we left off, we already began some of the immediate aftermath. Uh Southern Seminary tried to get you to sign a non-disclosure agreement or a non-disparagement agreement in fairness, that's what they call it. And uh you didn't sign it, and so you lost benefits and all sorts of financial uh perks that go along with uh In my view, you should have then you're due and they were taken from you. Okay, that's what earned the bridge. And so you don't sign this agreement and you end up going public in a pretty public way talking to somebody who's been at kind of the if not at the tip of the sphere o along that leading edge uh of the sphere in these fights. John Harris with Conversations That Matter and he's on a YouTube channel. He's written a couple of books now on some of these issues and stuff and he's a he's a good voice. He's a good man on these sorts of things. So you do the interview with him Now the next thing I guess we to talk about the response to those interviews you do with John Harris. Yeah, let me just tell you a couple of things about the John Harris interviews. Uh it was right during COVID, so it was really difficult uh getting all the uh things together for us to have the interview. But once we had the interview, John tells me, okay, we're going to drop these interviews over a week period. So there's three interviews, they're going to be dropped and so forth. And He asked me, says what are the what do you think they're how they're going to respond? And I said, um they'll tack they'll attack me personally, but the details of the professors that I'm saying are teaching critical race theory. And also we had Black Lives Matter stuff being promoted in classes as well, by the way, which that's another issue. But anyway, let's let's relate it though Then again we had professors teaching postmodernism, we had teachers uh teaching Bible as mythology and so forth. And so I said what they'll do is they they will not They will not address any of my statements directly, because they can't. I have it in writing It's on the internet and so forth. They will not challenge that. They'll attack me personally, is what they'll do. That's all they can do. Because they they cannot debate this. They can't debate this issue. Because the facts weren't on their side, so they're gonna have just a bunch of bluster. That's right. So uh uh John tells me then, he goes, Well, I'll tell you what they're gonna do, they're gonna attack me and they're gonna start calling me a Neo-Confederate and and so forth, which sort of surprised me. I thought You mean you're gonna attack the interviewer? So I have a little bit of doubt in my mind that John was right on that. Having done this show as long as I have and some of the pushback I've gotten on less politically charged issues That's so true because the accusation I'm sure was, John, how would you platform such a guy? You must be a bad guy yourself and we're gonna out you too. That's what they were going to say. So if the if you if you watch my interviews with John Harris, again you can see him on YouTube. The last one I told John Harris, and again you can watch this, I said, listen, any of the people who were in that room that day I gave the speech against Matt Hall, including Al Moller Would like to publicly debate me on this, I'll be more than happy. We'll have a you know a correct uh uh debate platform. We'll follow it, I'll be more than happy to publicly debate anybody in that room, any of the full professors, or Al Moeller himself in particular. I'll be more than willing to go on the public record. We can do this live on YouTube. Let's have a public debate. But I said but let me tell you, John, None of them will do it. Not one of them. And of course they did. But they did give a response. And their response was a series of four interviews. And you can see these on YouTube And they're really quite hilarious because they get these guys on that I went after and said, look, they're teaching heretical doctrine. And they they'll say to them like, You believe the Bible, don't you? Yes, I believe the Bible. Okay, good, good, good. And you know Tell us your story of your life and so forth. But they would never say, hey, Russell Fuller says you said this. Respond to that. Russell Fuller pointed out in your book that you're teaching critical race theory Show us where Russell Fuller is wrong on this. They never even mentioned my name on any of the ones. And what I felt was really interesting, if you go to YouTube. If you look at my interviews with John Harris, there is a list of comments from the people, both pro and con. Those who loved the interview, those who did not like the interview. Southern Seminary wouldn't let anybody comment on theirs. They were so canned. They were so um they turned off comments. Okay, no comments. No comments. Because it was a PR stunt and it really backfired on them. It backfired so badly that when Tom Rush, the trustee who would become upset and and say, look, Russell Fuller's right, what he's telling you is the absolute truth. When he did that, they didn't respond to Tom Rush's. They had learned their lesson that the way they were responding was a disaster. But again, they will publicly uh and the other guys in the room will come out publicly saying, Russell has this wrong. They won't say it publicly. They'll say it privately and so forth. But they won't in any way, in a public manner, say I'm wrong. Because again, I have laid out the I've written about it, I've shown in their dissertations and in their books where this is wrong. So this is not debatable. So it's gotta make you feel good in in the moment you're like, yeah, okay. I feel intellectually vindicated and you know the the evidence is clearly on my side and so I've I've won the debate But you're still without a job. And so in the abstract it feels good, but in the practical it's like, okay, I gotta slay this to my wife and there's all those sorts of things, but I'm gonna kinda spoil the ending a little bit. There is a happy ending on this. But before we pivot to talking about that happy ending, we've now heard in the last two almost two and a half shows now, The Faith Debate, all this drama All this turbulence, I mean you admit it, you're speaking against what the school is doing and you're shaking. You can have that moment of doubt self doubt like, can I really do this? Maybe I should chicken out last minute and somehow you screwed up the courage. to do the right thing in spite of all the odds and all the power players, power brokers really involved in all of this. What I know the easy answer. The easy answer is, well the Holy Spirit Yeah. And that's true. That's why it's the easy answer. It's true. But there are a lot of men and women for that matter, but men in your situation that I think are believers, I or I have no reason to doubt that they're actual believers. There might have been men he said a third of the people voted the right way-ish, right? And a third of a two-thirds didn't The two thirds who didn't, it doesn't necessarily mean that they're not actually believers, but they were going against their conscience maybe, or they didn't have the insight uh they weren't availing themselves of the uh insight that the Holy Spirit could bring. What was different about you and the others, because they were probably nervous too. What was different about You and this is it, you like patting yourself on the back. What's some of your backstory? Is there anything that you can think of that made you and the others who joined you voting the right way and and taking the stand publicly? Well some of them had done this publicly, but taking the stand, doing the right thing. What's different What was missing from the others? You know, I can't tell you what's missing from the others. It's very difficult. I I think, you know, now some of them I did speak to later And they they would admit what I said was the truth. I uh they But they didn't vote with you. No. Oh no. Even though they would admit Well so do they regret that now? Are they repentant for that? They realize they voted with the lie? I I voted in support of a lie. That's what they have to admit to themselves. If they're saying you had the truth Then they have to admit logically they voted with the light. But is there any contrition? Uh no. I think they like their job a whole lot I'm gonna get maybe hate mail, but now uh maybe I need to retract what I said before. Maybe they're not Holy Spirit filled. I mean if they don't if they're not convicted, even at this stage of things so much more has come out, and they're even gonna go so far as to say, Hey, Russ, my good buddy, you were right The next thing coming out of their mouth should be and I was so wrong and I'm so sorry. I I know God will forgive me 'cause I've asked him for forgiveness, and I'm trusting in his grace and mercy and I and I hope you can forgive me as a brother in Christ. Those should have been the next words out of their mouth. And that wasn't that's very Very pastorally very concerning to me. But let me let me just w about me, this I'll just tell you this. I've noticed uh being a Christian since nineteen seventy-five And being in academics for quite a few years, I I've noticed many schools moving away from the faith. And then when you look at history, you see many denominations, you see many schools going away from the faith. There's always a slide and it's never in the conservative direction. There's a slide to the left, and then you gotta fight to pull it back in the right direction. And so to me, I really felt at the end of the day there was there was a couple of issues. And this is why I I I spoke out. One, I'm sitting here knowing that these guys will corrupt students, and yet I'll do nothing. I say I love these students. And yet I I would people are corrupting them, and they did corrupt, and they're still corrupting them And I don't warn these students, I don't do anything on their behalf to uh protect them. This this is unacceptable. So that's I've got to love my neighbor Right? That's a big one thing right there. I've got to love my neighbor. But the next one m is very big to me too. Here's the way I felt, no joke. Do I love my job more than I love the Lord? I know this so the two things are the The answer to the question, what's the greatest command? Love God and love your neighbor. Those were the two things. I honestly felt if I didn't stand up and say what I said, I was being unfaithful to the Lord. And to be quite honest, with you I wouldn't be able to sleep at night. Um there was just no way. So there you are having trouble sleeping I was already I knew if I don't say something And could you sleep better in immediate aftermath? Absolutely. A little post traumatic stress disorder. A little bit. But no, I can at night I can lay down and I can say, look, I might not have done everything perfectly and I can always go back and do stuff better, you know. But at the end of the day, if you if you were to say to me, would you go Go back and do it over again so that you can, you know make now really what because first of all if I went back and did it again I'd probably make some other mistakes. But No. I I would uh I would do the same thing. I knew I was gonna lose my job. So what m if I wanted to keep my job, I knew how to play the game. So you did the right thing and now I asked this next question Knowing the answer, but I'm gonna ask it anyway. Let me just tell you one for another story. Um one kind of stud that A student looks at me and he says to me, Um, I hear we're hiring a new Old Testament uh professor, and he was the one who teaches the Bible's teaching mythology. His name is Dominic Fernandez. And Uh he says, What do you think about that hire? And I I couldn't just say, Oh, no, it's it's okay. Everything's just fine. I shook my head, no. And then I said to him, he teaches That the Bible teaches mythology? That's unacceptable. And the student looked at me and said, Dr. Floyd, that's why I asked you. I knew I'd give a straight answer. So one time when they were uh when I was being called into the office and being uh taken over to Kohl's for my stand. I the student did not turn me into the administration. I did. And I said, look I said, let me make something very clear to you guys. If any student comes up to me and asks me about this professor, and they come in good faith, I'm going to tell them the truth. And tell them this guy is outside. And I was told You can't do that. If you do that, we'll fire you. And I said, you might as well fire me today. Because if any student Ask my opinion. They're gonna get the truth. I will not lie to these students. That's what I said. And that got the wrath of the administration, Al Moeller and the administration on me. So, uh again I knew I was gonna get fired. And there's an example of why doctor Russell T. Fuller is on the Faith Debate program today. You can find him online at Russell T Fuller dot com. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online, Household of Faith in Christ dot Of course we're on WFMD, so you can follow along at WFMD. com as well. So sort of playfully tease a second ago. I already know the answer to this question, we're going to ask it anyway. I can't ask it the way I'm going to ask it anyway, even though I know the answer. Clearly a man of such strong principles and a commitment to maintaining a high level, uh high caliber character Fire me if you have to, gosh darn it. I'm going to do the right thing. Clearly that means you must have your whole life been a Christian, grown up in a Christian church, and you had a foundation very, very early. Your whole family was a church going, Bible believing, Bible. something, God is the truth kind of situation. Am I right? No, I was not raised in the Christian hold. My parents, uh you know, I'm still Uh they're the greatest. I loved my parents, but I was not raised in a Christian home. Uh I I'll tell you what, I I used to when I when my father for some reason would take me from ch to church from time to time, before we used to go to Atlanta Falcon football games, and from time to time You mean like on Christmas and Easter or a little more than that? No, a little bit more than that. For some reason, I think it was the way he was brought up, he felt well we better go to church before we go to the football game. Don't ask me what don't ask me to explain he's like paying some sort of a penance against right before that. Or you do it. And uh and I remember the pastor preaching about Abraham and Honest. And I I'm not I'm not joking with you. I thought he was talking about Abraham Lincoln. I thought, man, I didn't know Lincoln was such a good guy, you know. But that's what how little I knew about the Christian faith. And I couldn't hardly tell you the difference between Jesus and Moses. But When a a friend of mine in school one day, I was a good friend with him, he says, Hey, you wanna go to church with me tonight? I went, Yeah, I'm going to church with you. And I heard the gospel that night. And all of a sudden it was like, whoa All of a sudden it was like it one time I was nothing made sense. And then when I heard the gospel at age fifteen, it was like I didn't understand it fully, but yet The Holy Spirit just got a hold of me and it was like, yes, I am I am in sin. I need to repent of my sins and turn in faith to Christ Jesus, who died on my behalf. in order that God would see his righteousness, not mine, because I have no righteousness. Now in age fifteen you can't rack up as much sin as you know uh i as uh someone else who's had more years obviously but man at that point I felt like I mean, I truly deserved hell for all eternity, but Christ took my place and now because of what he did, God can accept me. And that was unbelievable, you know, and and after that you know, I tried imperfectly but tried to live the Christian life. And I wish I could say that I always stood for the truth, stood for what's right, you know, all my years. There were times where, you know, if I could go back, I should have said something then And or you know, so th I don't want people to think out there, you know, Fuller was always you know, and hopefully I'm not giving that impression. I'm just thinking this was a highly charged dramatic situation in your life and you did the right thing when so many others didn't in that moment and haven't in similar moments, which explains a lot of what's wrong in the world today when people will not take a stand for what is right and true And so I'm curious as a follow up to see your friend invites you to church, you hear the gospel and you're like transformed. So did you immediately start going to church with your friend every week after that? Yeah, I did. Uh immediately I'm I'm going to church every week, which my parents are like, what's going on here? And then I start doing something I I start reading the Bible, I start studying it very seriously. You know, I would uh all of a sudden, you know, I was going to just a r uh a big secular uh high school that uh in the Atlanta area. And people knew I had changed. And they would ask me questions and I felt I had to answer those questions. So I was driven to study and I wasn't the greatest student. I would study the sports pages. I could I can stud still tell you almost all the numbers of the Minnesota Vikings in nineteen sixty nine. Let's not do that tonight. I'll give you one uh uh you were from Georgia. Why the Minnesota Vikings? Falcons were terrible back in those days. But anyway Uh and they're still not very good. But um uh so anyway, I I I started really studying the Word of God. And And that was the rest of my life. So so for since basically nineteen seventy-five to today, n nothing I want to do more than study the Word of God and now teach the Word of God like I've done for almost thirty years now. When we started this track of our conversation you mentioned that your dad would take you to church on occasion as a down payment towards a future penance you would have to pay for a phone to a football game. Uh so he would have I guess identified at least nominally as a Christian N nominally. There was no evidence of him being committed to it, but if somebody asked him, are you a Christian? He would have said yes. Probably 'cause he was a churchgoer. Probably. Probably would. Okay. You said your dad specifically because I'm wondering, did your mom go to church with you or where was she on? No, she wasn't at that time. Now she is a professing Christian today. Where in the past that was not true. And that becomes the case for your father as well? No, not really. Uh my mother yes, my father no. And and he passed on uh just last year, but but he had had dementia for a long time, so it was a very difficult situation. Wow. the one who actually took you to church, at least on occasion, and now you have reason to wonder. I mean, I don't know how you feel about this. God knows for sure those who are his, we're not in a position to say, but you don't have any strong reason to be hopeful about his eternal destiny, but you can kinda hope against hope that he's among the elect kind of thing, right? So so your mom has become, I'm assuming, rather devout, being your mom, right? She feels at least some pressure from her son. Was your conversion related to hers? No, not at the time. No. No. She wasn't one of the ones noticing a change in you and asking a question. No, sh I think she recognized a change in me as well. But still it would be years later before you would start to see some fruit in in her life and so forth. If you're fifteen, you decide, you know, I think I'm a Christian. And you become serious and you dive in, and now you do know the difference between Moses and Jesus. And you know that Abraham in the Bible is not Abraham Lincoln. And all these really cool light bulbs start going off in your head. And so you graduate from high school and at that point, do you know I'm somehow gonna do professionally something that's related to church work or you weren't sure yet? Not quite sure. Yeah, I went in and I my my undergrad degree is in business, but at that school what I did notice is people carrying around these Greek New Testaments and I looked at those things and I'm like You saw these where? At at the school I went to Uh I so it was a secular school? No, no, no. I went to a Christian school. Oh okay. Okay. And so I You God snapped me there for a minute. Again, uh uh my degree is in business and then but I saw these guys carrying around Greek New Testaments and I said, that's what I want to be able to read. And so uh after I got my degree in that, uh I worked one year at Georgia Pacific at their headquarters downtown. So you took the Greek while you were getting your bachelor's. Correct. Bachelor. And I really enjoy it. And so after working one year at Georgia Pacific's headquarters in Atlanta at the time, uh they're not there anymore. Um Uh the building is not that not they're not there. And um I went back and started doing work in Greek and Hebrew and really spent the rest of my life studying Greek and Hebrew in Old Testament. So you get your bachelors from a Christian school. You didn't mention the name of Eden. University. Oh okay. So hardcore hyper conservative reputation. Right? So uh you weren't dealing with any liberalism there. Uh and to this day you're not gonna deal with any liberalism there to my knowledge. So that gave you kind of ideological conservative biblical spine that probably served you well. I would read people like Machin there and others who had taken stands. Machin lost his job. You know, he was kicked out of Presbyterian Church, USA and so forth. So I'd read about these guys and I noticed they took s you know, they took stands and uh so A lot of the people I was reading uh at Bob Jones and even on my own, um, I I thought were great people of the faith. And so I thought, you know, looking back do you think that that is part of what became formative for you when you needed to take a stand? Yeah, no question. No question Um, you know, Bob Jones uh university, like any school, had its faults, okay? And uh but yet Uh they at least exposed me to some very good Christian literature for which I'm greatly indebted to them for that. Very cool. We're gonna have to pause there because believe it or not, this episode is now over the faith debate. Dr. Russell T. Fuller online at RussellTfuller. com. I'm Troy Skinner. Find me online at householdfaith in Christ. com. And of course we're on WFMD, so go to the website for the radio station as well, WFMD. com. We'll continue this conversation on next week's edition of the Faith Debate about a 167 and a half hours from Right now, God bless.