Welcome to the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 9 30, WFMD online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. I'm Froy Skinner. Our sponsors are Hilo Auto Sales online at hiloauto. com. And tire prose of Frederick. On the panel this week, you're going to have a voice you've never heard before, and a voice you have uh heard a couple of times in the past. A voice you've never heard before is that of Tim May. Uh I don't know if you've ever heard that voice my first time. I'm looking a little bit nervous. Nervous of being on the radio? Very much so, very much so. But thank you. Thank you for inviting me. Why am I here? Tim May is the uh the host of Mid or co-host I guess of of Mid-Maryland Lun. It airs Monday through Friday on WFMD between three and six. And he is also the pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. And Jefferson. A lot of people know that, but not everybody probably knows that. Well, you've had the wool pulled over their eyes for quite some time. Guarantee it And uh he's been on the show before. I I think this is um the third recording session, because uh a little peep behind the curtain, we record a number of shows at a time usually. This is the third recording session with uh Bernie Beale from Great Commission Families online at uh GC uh families dot org, I believe, is that right? Yes. Yes. Perfect. JCFamilies. org. So this this is probably we typically I don't have encountered them, but we typically do maybe three, four, five recordings at a time. So this is maybe your eighth, ninth, tenth Appearance on the show. I believe so. You're like a veteran. Yeah, it's good to see you, Troy. So here's my question. I have a series of questions and then we'll we'll pause for some uh back and forth commentary. What should Christians think about the national anthem, American flag controversy that's been in the news this year with the NFL players taking a knee and all that sort of stuff? What should Christians think about the Confederate flag controversy, which was a big deal a couple of years ago, or maybe it was a year ago. It's all a blur to me. What about the Amer uh the uh the Maryland state flag? What about Frederick's City flag, which depicts the clustered spires, a religious symbol on the city emblem and city flag. What should Christians think about all of these sorts of things, all of these symbols? Uh even statues, statues of those like Even Christopher Columbus. They don't even have to necessarily be Confederate soldiers or generals or or religious symbols. What should Christians think about all of this. And there's nobody that I know and I don't I'm not saying that sometimes I'll I'm prone to hyperbole and I say things just for effect. This is not for effect truly Seriously, there is no one that knows more about the flags of America and Maryland than Bernie Beale Well th there are scholars. No. But I I none. Okay. Go on you, Barney. Here's my claim to faint. So what what are you? What do you do? I'm an evangelist who loves history And what what I do is look at history and I try to find accurate history. And so my motif is ITO, as in in their own words. That's the acronym I DOW So I would t I would tow you around the Capitol, for instance, and I would show you the evidence of America's Christian heritage, not by saying what I think, but saying what the founding fathers said. I stand in front of the statue and tell tell him what he said But what so what what what must the Christian think? My first reaction to that is is know more of the true history. And there's always more. deferring to the weaker brother and a way of deferring to the weaker brother, for instance the uh the Confederate battle flag. That that wasn't the national flag of the Confederate States of America, but it's taken on a meaning that goes way beyond what it even meant at the time to those people. And so when I do uh flags at battlefields, I use the actual USA and CSA flags at the time, which was not the Confederate battle flag. So that's kind of how I actually go to better history because I can imagine if I stood up with a Confederate battle flag at Antietam saying, Okay, Robert E. Lee was over here and held up that flag, somebody walking across the way won't know or understand the true history and will react. Um And so my deferring to the weaker brother or if he's not a Christian, the weaker person is to actually go into deeper history and use the CSA flag. I guess nation for lack of a better word for the Confederacy was the Don't Tread on Me. Was that the first thing that's the first thing that I think? No. No, it looked a lot like the American flag. That's part of the history of it that makes it so interesting. At Manassas, you know, the CSA's got their flag. Um and the first national flag, um, I would say looks like a lot like the Texas flag, which is one star and then a red and white. Well they have It it varies as their states increase. They had uh upwards to thirteen, fifteen stars. They were hopeful about Kentucky and and Tennessee, so they put 'em in even though they didn't really they weren't really part of the Confederacy yet. And they used the flag for their battle flag. It was three, it was red, white, red. So it was just a a r uh red, white, red. So three stripes and stars. And so the US flag at the time had thirty-four stars and thirteen red and white stripes. Unless you'd got a good stiff wind, you couldn't tell which flag was which So bat that's where the battle flags came in. Uh I had a great question there as you were talking about they couldn't tell one from another. I I just wonder th the the battle flag of Virginia, was that not the bars and stars or the SARS and bars Uh that was the battle flag. Right, exactly. So that's where it's a big thing. But in the generations after the Civil War it took on a symbolic meaning of the lost cause. Exactly. And then that's associated with slavery and that's problematic. Correct. As a Christian. So that's why I don't use it personally. But but I understand it's it's proper historical context. Now this is not the flag, but it's related to the issue. Uh the statues. Do you think that Robert E. Lee's statues and Stonewall Jackson's statues uh should Stay up, come down. Yes, here's why. Well i may I l let me uh just answer your first question 'cause I because I have a somewhat different perspective on this. I don't believe that any flag of any nation or any statue of any any person uh belongs in a church. Uh I I know this may be my only uh I mean as a as a for as a dunker or as a brethren, uh I don't want any other symbols in there other than uh the the symbols of Christ. And I'm not even really sure that uh there's such a symbol. But uh again That does not please don't take that to mean that I don't respect and love and and have fought for the flag of our country. It just means that I think i uh you have to place it in proper perspective and what you're actually honoring. And we'll get into that later I'm sure. Yeah, you and I are in agreement on that point and it does tie into something we will be talking about. So Well I have to jump in, sure. Mostly to agree, or pretty much to agree, as an evangelist. I do talk a lot about America's spiritual heritage, uh the quoting the founding fathers, what they said about God, but especially evangelistically, I want to bring it to the point of I live here on earth, but my citizenship is in heaven. The place of my birth I didn't choose, so I want to use it for good and godly purposes, ultimately to get people into heaven. Uh so we we cannot deify our founding fathers, our nation, um our founding documents, any flag, uh but we can use them just as Paul did. He used his Roman citizenship for the advancement of the gospel in his particular case so he didn't get killed. And I think we'll talk more about the kinds of things you two are both alluding to right now in next week's show. Okay. So uh maybe we'll touch on it as we get deeper into this show, but Could finish your you had a thought I think on you were back here. Yeah, several several things. First of all, there's always more history. If you if you go to these men's men and what they said, for instance, there's a a bat I think it's a Baptist church Um, you know, might uh actually I'm not sure. It might be Methodist Church in in Richmond area, somewhere around there, that uh African American church that has a stained glass window of Stonewall Jackson. Well how the world did that happen? Well it's because that he was very keen to have the gospel spread among the African Americans in his area and he gave money for that church. So generations later, which is now many generations ago, that church put a put a uh put him up in a stained glass window. Now to merely fight for the Confederacy as being the only justification to remove someone from history, you know, like Stalin did, he would airbrush people out, um that that's not adequate. uh did something very negative and did not repent. A good example is the guy who founded the KKK. You he repented of that? He looked back and it's a great story of redemption. Yeah, because Bedford Forest and Bedford Forest was they got two crazy and violent You know, for him, he's like, wait a minute, this isn't what I thought we were about. I'm out of here. But historically you're saying it so well Uh we cannot erase and not and that that's that's a lot of monster that everybody says you cannot erase history. But the it's gonna go deeper with me as a as a pastor, is uh I have an objection to statues and yet I respect them. For example, uh th there seemed to be during the time that Troy you you might remember and Bernie, this is something for you to think about. Okay. Cemeteries Have cemeteries are we glorifying what? Uh we as believers that uh we're so do if we put these huge monuments and statues up in the uh Mount Oliver, which is a gorgeous cemetery But if you'll see these uh these wonderful monuments, you think to yourself, well, why are we why is this here? And I think we get away from the idea as as a believer, as a Christian, that there's anything there. And are we not uh you know w are we not thinking the wrong way that somehow this is is the dedicated to s someone who's not here I I maybe I've gotten into a little strange thinking there, but I want people to think about it. When you go to a cemetery and and people I guess for some reason or money they decide to put these beautiful uh edifices up and and yet I think well there's no one here So if I see a statue of someone I I have respect for it. Uh in a in a cemetery, I think, well that's nice, but uh again, uh the purpose it serves I think is it is totally wrong. It's it's encouraging people to come to the cemetery Well we as believers there's nothing here. Well it's kinda like a funeral. Funeral isn't for the dead, it's not a good thing. It's for the living. the American history, heritage. And um I I'm always learning as well, the Amish. They uh make sure no headstone looks any different than anybody else. Reminds me of the the common soldier headstone at at Arlington. Dunkers the same way. Dunkers. Flat peace, nothing there to even the churches uh as in Dunkirk Church. We had no uh steeples And another thought on this that uh is uh ironic that you bring it up, twenty years ago yesterday, my father passed away. And uh they say, you know, some someone like Your father influences you not every day not just every day you're alive, every day for the rest of your life. Exactly. And my father has. The reason I'm an evangelist is because of my father's influence in my life. The reason I'm an evangelist uses history is because of my mother's influence in my life. They both had powerful spiritual and and educational influence on my life. Um but on the day my father died, we lived about an hour away, my mother called, Dad's breathe is last. He stopped breathing, that was her euphemism. And when we pulled into the driveway less than an hour later I said to the kids, fought four children, all teenagers at the time, I said to the children, My Dad's not here. His body's here, but he's not here And you could smile. You could really smile inward. I know it's hard to do through the tears and through the through the personal emotions because of the separation. But but I I uh I'm so blessed because I'm asked to uh to perform so many funerals a year that I can just see the eyes uh that are tearful yet knowing you know the final victory's coming. And we forget that. And uh again that's real life Yeah, we agree, but not like those battles. Okay, we went a different direction, but take us where you want us to go. And we're not going to tie it because this isn't the main point of what we're talking about, but as a spiritual thought, I'll throw it out there for your consideration later, or f you know for the listener for your consideration later. Uh I hear, understand, and appreciate the point of view you both had about uh uh gravesites and and dead bodies and that sort of thing. However I would want to throw out there for some additional thought the the danger of taking that too far. I don't know that I'm again it's semantic, it's splitting hairs. But I don't know that I'm comfortable saying that uh that dead body isn't the person because we're devaluing the reality that we are our physical bodies. We're not merely physical bodies. We are uh in spirit we we uh we are breathed have life breathed into our bodies by God, so we uh we have a spiritual us. And that soul, that eternal soul continues to live after the body. Dies, but that body is still us. It was the tent And the tent will be resurrected. But it's in Christ. Yeah, I and I'm not I I would disagree with you. Uh I I I don't think that that is bo I don't think that is the person. It is the shell, it it is the uh the tent. But uh I don't believe that uh uh that that uh should be taken that way that we you know, you respect it certainly because you know, but I don't believe that uh uh w you should be mourning for that body because that body doesn't mean anything now. Because the real life Yeah, well I would yeah, I would agree you'd want to mourn for the body, but you mourn for the person having passed and you mourn for what that means for the family and those that are left behind having to deal with all of that mourning But I uh um I get nervous about uh a heightened spirituality at the expense of the physical that we all touch with our senses. I I'm just not I'm not comfortable saying that it's just a shell. It's the body. It's what we can recognize. Right. But it's it's part of who we are. Who we were Here here's the here's the reason I have that. The the ten in in services today, uh whether I like it or not, is it is cremation. Um and the pictures and beautiful videos are are seeming to bring so much more peace because you're seeing the person uh when they were alive on earth. And in and when you s when you compare that to someone casketed, uh there seems to be uh seems to be a a easier Easier way to to appreciate uh the new life. And I that's what I've seen. That's the trending. So it's uh I would say fifty percent of all funerals now are cremations. And that doesn't uh take away from the the physical body that was there. It's the fact that now you have the videos and you have the picture. And uh Troy as as a minister, uh uh when I preach a funeral or a memorial service or celebration of life or going home service I prefer not to have a casket even opened. Oh yeah, I'm not a fan of open caskets um for a variety of reasons. huge huge group. I I'm not demean you if you have chosen that and I'll respect your wishes. It's just that uh it it it it doesn't flow with our with our faith. Uh and uh so I see that uh a little bit differently. And I think it's changing. I I really do. I think it's gonna be uh right now in Baltimore, uh many of the cemeteries will not accept cascade bodies And that's due to several things. One would be space, obviously. And two would be the fact that uh, you know, uh it's uh it's not what people want. And Arlington and Arlington National Cemetery is similar as well. They're brig they're building large columbariums because there's so much limited they keep buying out the the neighbors, so to speak. The redemption is in the end, everyone is given a re who's who's a believer in Christ is given me. Is given a a renewed body or a spiritual body So the body is part of our identity as well. But I'm not saying that we should venerate the body or or bow down to the body or Or anything like that. But anyway, we're getting off. Troy, I'm going to help you with the reset. Back to Jackson and Lee and their statues. Tim is a pastor of a Pleasant View Church of the Brethren in Jefferson. He's also co-host of Mid-Maryland Live here on WFMD, and this is the Frederick Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So you were about to say Um, Jackson and Lee, most people don't realize they are Americans. Um, though they've fought against America. they were um oh what's the word Congress made it official. I've forgotten the years around nineteen oh yeah well after the war genera generation and a half after the war made it official that all Confederate soldiers are soldiers And a way to illustrate that kind of a fun little story, twenty years ago as the DC Metro Director for Campus Crusade for Christ, we realized that in the summer there were s about ten thousand interns, college students that came to DC. So we created an outreach project to them and one of the One of the ways we connected with students, we we organized these day trips to places here on the east coast that they would love to see. Baltimore Inner Harbor. uh Williamsburg, Gettysburg. So that was we gave them a list and and Gettysburg was always picked. You know, 'cause people from Michigan always heard about it. People from Texas always heard about it. Want to see for themselves. So I'd be taking, you know, several carloads of college students, at least at first it got to be more later, but um up to Gettysburg. And and because I'm the local guy, I'd be telling them about the battle and the and some spiritual lessons. But at some point, invariably, someone would ask me, one of the college students, Well Mr. Beal Which side are you for? Exactly. And I gave an answer. It was kind of one of those things where I wonder if Jesus gave that. An answer that that caused him to think. Because people from the north need to remember those were Americans, the CSA and the USA. And uh it is it is significant. They were some were reburied there. They weren't buried there during the war. It was it was decades later. Uh re patriotic uh re uh reinterment? No, I'm thinking of the word where repatriation. Repatriation where the government came in and said, you know, because at the time if you said that Bernie that uh I'm an American you would only have represented the North because they were considered uh until Congress said, Yes, you are American soldiers and yes you have all the benefits and everything from that point forward. Uh it's fascinating because it's almost like a trick question. Don't you know did you think that uh as though their sides. As kids we uh lived in Frederick uh and uh it was very normal to go to Gettysburg once or twice a summer at least. And we would play in the Devil's Den and we would do all these neat things, but we always had to pick sides. And of course as kids you don't really know the the the the background. Uh y y y you know, it it's pounded into your head by your parents or by your teachers. And you're confused. And uh it would cause uh well I always got to be a uh a a Confederate and and my brothers always got to be Northerners and and I kept winning though. So I I it would we we just didn't play. But I think what you've done and and T Troy I want to say a a little uh commercial for for Bernie. I I don't think people know how much impact you have uh in your commission uh as as the great commission and uh d y I've only known you for a short while I know your background of course but uh You are uh friends if you ever have the opportunity his I he doesn't pay me for this study. Uh that uh please make arrangements after the show if you want. Please, uh I want you to get your word out even more 'cause uh I think you bring so much knowledge and history that people need to know so that when you make these decisions, when you you know, when people ask you and you make decisions about flags or statues uh that you know the l uh the word of the Lord. And I think that's what's uh I'm willing to believe really that's your historian that's Alan Evangelist really, but that's that matters not. But anyhow, end of the commercial. Well can I tell a fun story? Please. 'Cause at the end of uh like our outreach events, I don't call them tours because we have a purpose more than just uh you learn knowledge, we want you to uh take steps of faith spiritually. And sometimes it's because we're giving evangelistic flyers that are location specific to people at that terror site. But sometimes at the end someone will say to me, How d how do you know all this stuff? And I say, It's my mother's fault. When my sister and I when we were little, maybe nine, ten, eleven, twelve, uh one older sister, we'd be driving along and mom and dad in the front seat And mom would say, Fred, pull over. There's one of those historical markers up ahead. Then she'd look in the back seat and say, Kids, won't this be fun? We'll find out why they put it there. And I would my sister and I look at each other and say, Mom, not again. But you know what I did to my kids? Same thing. Same thing. And that's how you learn stuff. Just keep reading more and always know there's more than what you know so far. Without question Yeah. I've uh had the privilege of doing one of the tours uh with Bernie a a few years ago. He does an excellent job. So here's a plug. Here's uh so y uh so let's see, Bernie has to pay Tim. Yes. And now he has to pay me. He does a great job, and there's a variety of different kinds of tours. Downtown DC tour you. Gettysburg Antina Monacosy. So if you have family coming to visit from out of town and they kinda want to see the area of the h history that's here, call Bernie and arrange a tour. Uh if if you're with a church group or a youth group and you think that there's some benefit to this, and I would argue that there is, call Bernie, arrange a tour. Um and I don't know if you've changed your price as much, but I gotta tell you it's the bargain of the century, at least what what what I was asked about. Well if it wasn't for Troy, I wasn't even gonna go Troy. Troy's a marketing guy isn't Bernie. Sustain your ministry, Bernie. No, anyway. It's valuable. It is Bernie Beale with Great Commission Families. Uh Tim May with uh Pleasant View Church of Brethren and WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner again. Thanks to our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales online at hiloautosales. com and TireProza Frederick. Thank you. I encourage you to visit us online, WFMD. com Keywordface. There you'll find all sorts of stuff, including links to podcasts like this one. Don't try to find the comments podcast for this show immediately. Give it maybe forty-eight hours and it should be there. Until next week, 167 And a half hours from now, God bless