This is the face debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Show sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales. Online at hiloautosales. com. Entire pros of Frederick. The show is online at WFMD. Can I say this slower? WFM. M D that's W and then F as in Frederick and M D as in Maryland dot com. It's amazing how when I point that out you go, Oh, that makes sense. W F M D, Frederick Maryland, that makes sense. I oh I get it now. Uh the last two weeks and now three weeks in a row we've had the same panel put together, Tim May. We're used to hearing him Monday through Friday in the afternoons from three to six. Don't be confused. It is not a weekday afternoon. It is Sunday morning. Uh Tim May, uh thank you for being on the show. Hi, honor. In addition to being on that afternoon show uh every weekday, he's the pastor. And uh you gotta be busy preaching here a little bit, so we'll we'll keep we won't keep you too long this morning. We'll let you run off and I'll make it I'm sure they won't start without me. Yeah, you got that going for you, right? Yeah. And uh Bernie Beale is the uh co-founder along with his wife Linda of Great Commission Families. They are online at gcfamilies. org And they do all sorts of stuff. For example, are you interested in learning spiritual life lessons from Gettysburg and Antietam? Bernie's your guy. How about you want to know about uh Francis Scott Key and uh what a passionate Christian patriot he was Bernie's your guy. How about taking a trip over to Harper's Ferry and learning about the confluence of history from George Washington to Booker T. Washington? Who's your guy? Bernie. Okay. How about uh I think it's a bicycle tour, right? On the CNO Canal. Very family friendly. We we can do just a three mile trek or a six mile trek, so it's For families with young kids. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And downs uh downtown DC stuff and the battlefields, uh you do you you do like pretty much every battlefield in the area, right? Yeah, spe uh lesser known in among civil war People generally, so I that's right here in Frederick. And one of the things that Bernie will do is he'll help you to understand, you know, the cherry blossoms in D C. Did you know they helped illustrate the gospel? Sure do. Might be a good reason for chopping them down for the uh secularists out there. Oh my goodness. Uh did you know that uh spiritual lessons can be learned from the Titanic? I didn't know that. Yeah, so we should get rid of that movie. I'm looking forward to it. Cross. So it's like he's sacrificing his money. One of the things that uh Bernie's big on is he he emphasized the idea that history is his story. And and and and he emphasizes it my way of looking at it, you have size both sides of that. His, meaning God, and story. You're big into stories and telling people stories. Stories of the founders, stories of people that came after the founders, how they connect to people that are in the Bible, connect to Jesus. uh the person of Jesus himself, all these sorts of things. Um let me let me start there as kind of a broad question. Tim, before we got on the air for for this show, Tim was uh kind of thinking out loud. Um The founders. Were they Christian? Were they religious? Is it fair to say that um that our I that the idea that we've all come to kind of believe is almost a caricature of our of our founding fathers It's kind of a fair caricature that they truly were interested in spiritual things, religious things, the Bible specifically. To answer those kinds of questions, I prefer to find out primary resources. What did that person you know if we stand in front of a statue uh in DC, for instance in the crypt of the uh under the rotunda the in the Capitol, U. S. Capitol, there's thirteen statues, one from each state. So Maryland's represented And one of the four signers of the Declaration of Independence for Maryland has his statue right there. So let me share you a quote from Charles Carroll of Carrollton. He was probably one of the wealthiest men in America. And he was the only Roman Catholic signer, but among the others there was thirty Episcopalians, so they held sway. Uh twenty Congregationalists, eleven Presbyterians And two Quakers. It's often said that there was a deist or two among them. I want to get to that when we get to Ben Franklin here in a moment. But here's what Charles Carroll said in a letter late in life to his he in fact he was the last signer to pass away. Um and late in life he wrote to his children, On the mercy of my Redeemer I rely for salvation, and on his merits, not on the works I have done in obedience to his precepts, for even these I fear a fallacy and a mixture that will rend unavailing. So those are the words of Charles Carroll. So a historian may look back and have a perspective, but I want to look back and know what did he say for himself. Well well taken Bernie, I I I think that uh you know I I want our founders who have been Christian strong Christians and you know even Episcopalians. I mean we're stroking Episcopalian friends. But uh uh What about the the the contest that always is always brought forward that uh you know we had Muslims and we had uh uh atheists and uh you know w did they? Did we Or are these just people wishing to uh wishing that? There were precious few Muslims and atheists. There were a good number of Jewish people. Um but I I said about uh well there's not a deist or two among them. Yes. A deist says God is, but he's he's not around anymore. A theist says God is and he's active. A Christian theist says God is, he's active. and he came in person, Jesus Christ. So that's three distinct theological distinctions. And it uh Ben Franklin and Thomas Jefferson often pointed to as the deist among them. They didn't talk like deists, because deists believed the clockmaker thing of uh God wound up the world and then walked away. um and uh the declaration of independence, these are words that Thomas Jefferson put into writing and he ex in in in personal letters he expressed as well a clear perspective that um that God is involved now in our in our world. Uh at the Jefferson Memorial, for instance, it says this, God who gave us life gave us liberty. Can the liberties of a nation be secure when we have removed a conviction that these liberties are the gift of God? Indeed I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just, and that his justice cannot sleep forever Another quote nearby says, Almighty God hath created the mind free, all attempts to influence it by temporal punishments or birthens, which is archaic for burdens our departure from the plan of the holy author of our religion. Well who's the holy author? That's Jesus. And at the Constitutional Convention, Ben Franklin, he was I think he was eighty, eighty one by that time. Uh he He spoke up. There's a kind of a famous thing and and uh I think I'd like to read this uh quote from him because he's often pointed to as well he wasn't a real Christian. Uh he kind of believed you know, something about God. But listen to what he said, and this was recorded at the Constitutional Convention when they were when they had reached an impasse, quite frankly. Bang Franklin said, in this situation of this assembly, groping as it were in the dark to find political truth, and scarce able to distinguish it when presented to us How has it happened, sir, that we have not hitherto once thought of humbly applying to the Father of Lights to illuminate our understandings? In the beginning of the contest with Great Britain, we were sensible of danger. We had daily in in this room prayer for divine protection. Our prayers, sir, were heard, and they were graciously answered. All of us who were engaged in the struggle must have have observed frequent instances of superintendent providence in our favor. To that time providence we owe this happy opportunity of consulting in peace on the means of establishing our future national felicity. And now have we forgotten our powerful friend? I have lived long, sir, and the longer I live, the more convincing proofs I see of this truth, that God governs in the fairs of men. And if a sparrow cannot fall to the ground without his notice Is it probable that the empire an empire can arise without his aid? We have been assured, sir, in the sacred writings, that except the Lord build the house, they labor in vain that build it. He goes on, but that sounds like a man who believes God governs in the affairs of men. Well that's his words. Uh God governs in the affairs of men. So that's not a deist. Uh he wasn't orthodox in all his beliefs, and certainly they weren't trying to create a Christian nation in a political sense. But they were trying to build that uh vote of liberty for anyone to be here. Um and uh their words um formed a Christian nation in the sense that It's uh Christian principles that are now for anyone to live here. And I think one last quote along those lines uh with international people who come to DC. Um they're usually amazed, especially if they're studying in America, I meet often with international students. And I start quoting the Founding Fathers and they their eyes get big And they they're kinda like, I always thought America had these Christian roots, but I never hear about it 'cause they're studying in secular universities. Uh and I point out to them, this is kind of my gospel close with them Um I tell them that, you know, now that you've been in DC, you have a friend in DC, you know, 'cause it's not what you know, it's who you know. Now you know me. But I but then I go on. But you know that's eternally true. It's not what you know, it's who you know when you stand before the judgment seat of God. And I point out that The most stable thing in the universe is God Himself. And right now America has the oldest government in the universe. Like people from China they can say, Well our culture is you know, thousands of years old and ours is only a few hundred years old few a few centuries old. But our government is very stable and I would suggest it's because it's based on God Himself, the most stable thing in the universe. God the Father gave the law. That reflects the legislative branch. God the Son carries out or execute God's plan. That's the executive branch. And God the Holy Spirit gives discernment that reflects the judicial branch. So there's inherent stability in the form of our government, whether or not you believe anything about God. So our our founding fathers created a nation that would be a blessing to all, Christian or not. So you don't have to believe in God to benefit from the structure uh which is patterned after biblical principles. And that's just one small example. They say the Constitution is secular, but you can go through and quote all kinds of verses, especially in Deuteronomy, the giving of the law, the second time, the repeating of the law that Moses gave to the children of Israel. uh that there's principles that are in there that are in the Constitution. He's Bernie Beale with Great Commission Families online at GCfamilies. org, Tim May from the Mid Maryland Live program, Monday through Friday here on WFMB between three and six in the afternoon and also he's the pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren in Jefferson. I'm Froy Skinner and this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I sometimes get concerned that uh everybody on the panel today is a Christian. So I'm going to use we. We as Christians, I mean not us individually the three of us, but we, the broader Christians, we we end up taking our our eye off the the true ball and get distracted by things that We're making the wrong arguments. I we no one can know the heart of another individual and the salvation situation of any other individual except for God. So to try to debate whether or not Thomas Jefferson or Ben Franklin or George Washington or any of these folks uh were Christian or not, we can't know. But what we can know is whether or not their words, their writings, their thinking reflected the principles that are espoused in the Christian scriptures. And Bernie's got a zillion quotes. He's he's shared a couple of them already that show that that's the case. So wouldn't we be better, sir, rather than say, look I don't care if they were Christians or not, I mean I care for their eternal salvation, but for for the conversation we're having, I I'm not gonna make that the centerpiece of my argument. It doesn't matter if if uh Ben Franklin is truly eternally saved, uh if what he believed as far as the foundation of this country is rooted in all the things that Christians would say are true. So can't we can't we do better by shifting the argument and say, look their thinking was kind of Christian and the the their ideals were rooted, whether they even knew it or not, was rooted in a Christian upbringing and a Christian culture that surrounded them. And if we were to make that argument Then we have less problem, I think, dealing with the Elizabeth Warrens of the world who, you know, a couple months ago uh was trying to uh have somebody pass a religious test. It's a violation of the Constitution. Yeah, somebody saying, Oh, you know what, you're too you're too too firmly committed to your Christian beliefs, uh I'm not so sure that's a good thing for us. Um I don't know. I'm kind of open-ended, but do you have a response? I think that First of all, I don't uh I I'd rather stay with the way I am. I I like to think this country was founded on Judeo Christian uh Judeo Christian values and uh those individuals. I've seen nothing you know, one of the ways to uh to evaluate someone's Christianity or their love of of Christ is to to read and believe them and and I much prefer to believe that they were. Again Uh I think we as humans uh emotionalize too much and uh we take it personally when someone says, Oh well they really weren't Christian. Well I don't think it matters whether they were or weren't because we know what they and how they felt and what they said So whether or not they actually uh you know wore that banner themselves, I I don't remember any of the f f uh l beginners of the country, that's one way to say it. Uh uh or actually that uh that religious and yet I know that so many presidents and Bernie does this very well will tell you the words and quotes from uh the presidents of the United States where they come out and say, you know, by by God's grace, by this of the Lord, so that we mean it may be stronger for us. I think you're right, Troy. I I think the argument is is is really silly uh in that we bog ourselves down on file you know whether or not uh uh it it it satisfies someone else. You said something that's and it hasn't really I and I'm gonna spend a lot of time thinking about this so thinking out loud, which is always dangerous. But talking about uh Judeo Christian principles being the foundation of this of this country, based on what Bernie you said just a few minutes ago about the the stability with the Father, the Son and the Holy Spirit providing kind of the foundation for the three branches of government. That's that's not Judeo Christian. That's Christian. Well it it's argued. They go together. You can't separate Trinity's in the Old Testament. Yes it is. Oh no absolutely. But is is there a reason why we feel I mean it's In fact, the most direct quote of the three branches is Isaiah 3322, Old Testament. But w is there an aspect of the founding of this country that's rooted in something that we wouldn't identify as Christian, but would identify as ju uh Jewish, as Judeo? Uh well the decalogue, the Ten Commandments. But that's Christian. Uh that's Old Testament. But the Christians embrace the Old Testament. Yes. So That that's why we often say Judeo Christian, 'cause it's not just Christian, it's we have our roots. Jesus was ju I remember sharing with one of my neighbors years ago in Fairfax, Virginia. At Christmas time we'd come around and do the Christmas carols and give Christmas cookies. And you know, they smiled politely. And then Bertie leaned forward and says, Bertie, you you know we're Christian, right? And I said, Oh yeah, Jesus was Jewish. I'm sorry. You know we're Jewish, right? I said, Oh yeah, Jesus was Jewish. And all his disciples said, Yeah, you're right. They kind of went from there, but that's yeah, but I I guess maybe I'm not making my point very clear. Again, I'm thinking it out loud here, like I said is dangerous. But people at your church, yes, uh, Tim. Uh Pleasant View, Church of the Brethren They get baptized and uh have a credible profession of faith and they participate in the in the Lord's table, and they do so because they are Christians or because they are Judeo Christians? Well I think all Christian I think all Christians are Jude Judeo Christians. Christians who don't read the Old Testament are missing out. We are we per we we are often called New Testament people, but uh you know the reflection in the New Testament comes from the Old Testament Yeah. I I guess my my th I guess it's a semantic argument, yes. But I uh the Old Testament is is Christian too. It's not like the New Testament is Christian and the Old Testament is Jewish. The Old Testament and the New Testament are Christian. Well there's there's but there's Judaism in the New Testament also. I mean what I I think that's uh but maybe it's maybe it's uh you know may ma maybe there's the reason I'm asking is maybe there is something that is Jewish and not really Christian as part of our foundation. That's the point I'm trying to get at. Is there a Judeo-only aspect to where Christians would say, yeah, that's not really Christian? That's more the Jewish only Part of our tradition. I I don't think you can do that, 'cause even Paul in the New Testament talked about um Gentile believers are grafted in Sure. To the to the uh God's people. So are we is it is it a form of political correctness then to say that w our our nation is founded on Judeo Christian principles rather than just saying Christian principles? Is there is there a reason why we don't want to just say Christian? Because I think I I I I don't know that it matters, but I do think Joy that they it is both because they were Jewish leaders, they were Jew Jewish individuals, and their influence is great also, uh as the uh Christians were And uh, you know, the old testament uh quotes from Isaiah or Deuteronomy, certainly uh uh you know, w we will fall back once why not? Right. Yeah, all truth is Christian truth. So any truth the Jews had that is true is is is Christian. So why do we have to add the Judeo? It's superfluous. It is. So that's why we don't know. Well I commented earlier that the Constitution has uh lots of uh thoughts that flow from Deuteronomy Yeah, I touched on it uh in in passing kind of just teasing the different things that Bernie touches on, but I want to c swing back. Uh take a couple minutes and talk about the cherry blossoms in DC. Oh the cherry blossoms, what a wonderful story of reconciliation, the gospel message uh flows from any story of reconciliation. So um in nineteen twelve, the same year the Titanic sank, just to give you a little historical context the um uh I haven't reviewed the details, but I think it was the mayor of Tokyo or the mayor's wife gave a gift to the m to the first lady of America of like a handful of cherry blossom trees planted in DC. So you can still go and see the the very oldest ones. And um that was a very nice gift Uh but then not long after that. Well, I guess thirty. How long do cherry trees live? Um I don't know. Pretty much till they die. Yeah, they pretty much till they die. There's some craggy ones down there that uh somewhere they've got a sign that says uh original planting or old maybe it's the oldest plantings. Um but j you know, thirty years go by and Pearl Harbor happens. And there's more by that time there were more cherry trees uh had been planted, you know, gifts exchanged, that kind of thing and and uh landscaping. more cherry trees. And my mother tells the story she was four years old when Pearl Harbor happened. And in Damascus, Maryland, she knew men that were like day workers going into DC to help build things. Uh like the Pentagon for instance. They laid the cornerstone of the Pentagon in nineteen forty-one on September eleventh, sixty years to the days when the plane hit it. So there's a lot of building going on in DC. And she said she knew men that would put a hatchet in their pail, lunch pail, and then during their lunch hour they'd go over to the cherry blossoms and chop 'em down. And so you've heard the story about George Washington chopping down? Well there were really were cherry trees chopped down in Washington DC. Um I mean that's that's a confident true history. Did they lie about it? No, I don't think so. Because everybody everybody's so angry at the Japanese. Then the war is over and um and reconciliation began to happen. Uh and so replacement cherry trees and gifts were exchanged between Japan uh in the um in the fifties. Uh and so just as the the the whole principle of reconciliation, nations need to reconcile, people need to reconcile, uh and ultimately the grand reconciliation we all need is with God And the cherry blossoms are are an interesting um symbol for that need because the reason they're honored so highly in Japan is the cherry blossoms um are just for a week or two for an individual tree and different trees are different times. So there's about a two week period that these beautiful blossoms are down there and then they're gone. And that's like life. Beautiful but brief. And the prophet Isaiah in the Old Testament uh the Jewish Bible uh said that the grass withers, the flower fades, but the word of God lives forever. So it's interesting to see something that's very ephemeral. Point us to the reality that there is an eternity. Um said that it's uh So it's it's not that the trees themselves represent anything in Christianity, but they're you can draw from the trees. Yeah, I look for analysis, I look for analogies in history. Yeah, so the secularists don't have to go chop down the cherry trees necessarily, right? There's no there's no specific Christian connection So the cherry trees are safe. Yeah, well think about the world today. Japan and the United States are are friends, allies. Germany and the United States, friends, allies How is this possible? England. In fact with that we have a special relationship. Google that phrase. That means the United States and the United Kingdom. We have what's called a special relationship. Churchill coined the phrase it had already been in play since World War I in concept. But uh we yeah, we have a special relationship Church Hill. He he was voted the most uh prominent um British person of the twentieth century, and his mother was an American. I didn't know that. His mother was American. I didn't know that. Is there anything you don't know? Oh yes. I forget stuff all the time and my kids tell me, Dad you told that story differently last time. I don't know. I don't think we have And you missed my quote. Yeah, well I haven't seen the movie yet, so don't tell me what happened. Yeah, I don't want to know how it ends. But maybe uh we can do one more show with this panel and we can start kick it off with uh with what we can learn about spiritual matters as it relates to Titan to the Titanic. Oh that's not Anytime there's death on the line, you can have the gospel on the line. And anytime life is on the line, you can uh you can talk about the gospel as well. Anytime anything's on the line. You got it, brother. There you go. Well I got somebody on the line. I'm gonna have to go answer that phone call and uh and then we'll come back and and do the show again next week. Tim May, thank you my friend for being on the show for uh working overtime, working the sixth day this week. Wow. Uh he's the pastor also of Pleasant View uh Church of the Brethren in addition to being co host of Mid Maryland Live on WFMD Weekdays. from three till six. And Bernie Beal, he is co-founder with his wife Linda of Great Commission Families. They are online at GCfamilies. org. We are online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find uh uh links to you can see the upcoming show lineup is gonna be what's gonna be next week's show. You can also find links to podcasts and previous shows up there. I want to thank our longtime sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales, online at hilo autosales dot com and Tire Pros uh Frederick. Um and I'm gonna hit it Quick fifteen seconds because I know that Tim busts his shops every every day, Monday through Friday on the show. But in all seriousness, what Frank Mitchell's a good guy. Be nice to Frank, give him a hug when you see him. If anybody needs a hug, more than Tim Mitchell, uh than him. Frank Mitchell. Christian Mitchell and Fran and Frank May. Uh Frank Mitchell. I don't know who that is. If anybody ever needed a hug, it was Frank Mitchell. So give Frank a hug. That's my positive thought today. So next week, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from now, God bless. The time of the colours and your second