This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the Master of Divinity. From Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Dr. Tony Campbell is running for United States Senator for Maryland, and somehow in his busy schedule, he got lost, couldn't find his way. out of Frederick and stumbled into the studio for the third week in a row. It's I mean it's not a very well kept secret. You know, we we end up uh doing the same panel like uh you know three or four weeks in a row usually. So uh what happens is we bring in uh our guest panel for an evening and we uh spend time hashing things out over the course of a couple of hours and you get to hear that playback over the course of about a month. on the radio. So anyway, thanks for hanging in there with us. And I mentioned her twice and this we might actually hear her voice. We'll have to see, but uh Angela McIntosh Oh uh and she's leaning in. Hello. There she is. We got a hello. Maybe we'll get more out of her later. She started to get fired up with that pro life stuff last year. So and capital punishment and all that? I see I've seen steam. So maybe we'll find something to to rope her into coming in. Now there's a friendship here. You're you know, Angela is is is helping to advocate for your candidacy. And you mentioned last week uh you uh Lindsey Graham and some other uh people that you've kind of rubbed elbows with. I'm wondering, are friendships formed? Do you are you f uh the or is it just not that kind of uh environment where you can like Are you making friends with other politicians and with Republican Central Committee people and local politicians, things like that? I've been on the Central Committee on and off for twenty years, so I I A pretty good network of folks uh across the state. Um But beyond what you already had coming into the to running for Senate, did have you made like I'm I'm three years from now will somebody still be your friend. Yeah, I I've met four or five people that that are that are you know right away if if people are good. And and do you gravitate towards them? Hm, you know. So I want you to say three or four? Yeah. Out of like one one of them one of them here, Angela Out of how many millions have you met now? Uh at least at least three or four thousand. You know, but you know, but you but you don't you don't really get a chance to Yeah, in campaigning you I mean you get a chance to make a you know a fifteen, twenty second impression. You know. Yeah. Un unless you unless you again gravitate toward toward someone And y and you have conversations, uh, and you've kinda figure out how people how people are and and what makes them tech and what their interests are. Um And so, you know, Angela, being quiet over here, is, you know, you know, rock solid, you know, really good person. a g a true believer in Jesus. And uh you know, and you you figure that out pretty quickly, you know, and that's that's and I've been into it personally for for years myself and uh All Christians are called to pray. Some of them are more committed to doing so than others, and then those that are really committed that we call prayer warriors, and that is Angela. Most definitely a prayer warrior. So you want her in your corner. Right. So you know you mentioned last week I think it was Michael Steele and you just mentioned Angela. I don't Uh uh my daughter met Michael Steele, I haven't. Uh and I obviously know Angela well. I'm getting to know you. And something that the three of you all have in common is that you're you're thoughtful, um, you're measured Um there's a certain decorum about you. And those are exactly the kinds of things that are negative charges leveled at the president for not having those style points going for him. So he has I think Uh full disclosure, I mean I'm a I'm a registered Republican, so there you have it, listener. Um however, um in the last presidential cycle, I voted for my wife. I wrote her name in Uh, because I just didn't feel like in good conscience that I could vote for either one of the candidates because I didn't feel like I could trust either one of them. Uh it's interesting now that, you know, some time has passed, I'm still not so sure exactly how much I want to trust President Trump. However If the proof is in the pudding, so far the pudding's not so bad. Right. You know, he surrounded himself with a cabinet that is for the most part Pretty good. Uh I think the senior staff he now has in place is pretty good. I think he had some hiccups early on. He had some rookies and rubs in there at first. They kind of screwed things up for him. Uh I I think that he's getting his sea legs on the international stage and he's starting to have an impact there. That's really interesting to kind of watch Uh Neil Gorsuch uh you know on the Supreme Court is is a win for conservatives for sure and Christians who believe in pro life and all those sorts of things. Um Yeah, he I don't know that his his his tax uh reform stuff went anywhere near far enough, but at least he got some sort of victory there and took some of the teeth out of Obamacare which is which is a win and so there's some wins there and there's some other things I I don't want to do a whole litany of things and I don't want to start s sounding like Sean Hannity all of a sudden and uh talk about all the horrible things that Barack Obama did and all the wonderful things that Donald Trump has done. But he's had some wins. So the substance, you know, th the steak is there in large measure, but the sizzle is a little off putting. Yes. So What do we what do we do with that? What do we uh what do Christians what do we do with that? How important is that style? How important is him as the figurehead of our country being You know, the tweeter in chief and some of the controversial things that he does and says and th how important should that be to us? Uh I think it's I think I don't think it's that important. I think we have to understand Would you have said that three years ago? Yeah, because I knew what Donald Trump was. I don't mean like him specifically. I just I'm feeling like there's a change in perspective taking place in our culture right now. This is a time this this is a momentous time that we talked about in history books for generations And I find people saying things that I don't think they would have said three years ago. So it's hard to put you on the spot. I'm saying things I wouldn't have said three years ago. So no, I you know you S someone who's been a around what uh the president's over seventy, he has a particular way of doing things. He has uh a way of of of how he interacts with the world. Um the thing I find comforting uh from a Christian perspective is you know he is he's he seems like he's wrestling between what he knows to be true and how he actually is. You know, the Jerusalem stuff. The um you know, hi him him actually having a an open conversation about faith. Um I think he knows what is true, but his actions sometimes are not like that. And is it I mean and and I and what I guess what I go back to is As a person of faith, as a Christian, what do I expect from my government? I don't sp I don't expect my government to be Christian. I hope it will be moral, but You know, when Jesus says basically given a Cesar of what is Cesar, given to God is what is God, that there's a distinction of there's a distinction of responsibilities between a church and a state. So my so my worldview is that I hope that the people who are around the president are good Christians that can lead them in a proper direction. Um that the policies that he make not only benefits people in their liberty, meaning of economic financial liberty, but also protects their uh moral liberty meaning First Amendment kind of things. Um and I think the President's moved on that on on a lot of levels um that have made things better for people of faith. to be in this country as opp as opposed to what the last administration was doing. So um I think the outcomes of what the president is doing is b is beneficial to to Christians. Um Whether Donald Trump meets your version of Christianity? That's another question. So, you know, what do I expect from my government? What do I expect from my leaders of my government? And and and and that that that understanding of that distinction that helps me. Well see well that's a level of nuance that's absent in most political discourse these days because most people they go, rah, rah, it's a Christian nation founded on Judeo Christian values And you know, and uh I don't if you don't want to answer this, because this could be a third rail, but I'll I I'm not running for opposite, so I can say it. There's no such thing as a Christian nation because Christ says himself that, you know, my kingdom is not of this world. Right. Now we can have nations that are more godly or moral, it th to use your word, you know, that we can behave in a more godly way, that we can have our principles be more in alignment with what the Bible would have them be. But that doesn't make it a Christian nation either. It's just a nation that happens to be subscribing to uh more more in alignment with God's will than other nations. I'm not sure if sure if you're going quite that far, but I think it's under it's important to understand what the founders wanted. They they expected people of faith to be involved in government. That's why they have the first amendment there for two reasons. One is is to protect individual prerogative for belief and the other one is not to have a church state, right? An Anglican church, Church of England kind of thing going on. Um So because of those because of the protection of of both sides of the First Amendment, the founders I don't think never dreamed of uh of faith being absent from government. The question is what is the proper role of faith in government? Um so even in beginning as like seventeen uh ninety eight Basically the first treaty that our government ever had was with basically Muslims in in the the the kind of the Middle East. Um basically saying and and and then tr basically the treaty was We're not gonna mess with you, don't mess with us. We're not saying we are a Christian nation. We we prescribe to follow these principles, but as far as our nation state, we are not gonna go out and and have any crusades anytime soon Right. That was Thomas Jefferson. And leave our ships alone. Yeah, basically. Stop pirating our ships. So it was like we're not gonna we're not gonna go and proselytize to to the world. That's not our mission Our mission is to have a nation state that then promo that protects the liberty of our citizens, not to promote stuff from in other parts of the world. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I have a uh I have a little bit of a theory on on Donald Trump and uh well nobody can know what he's heart. Uh I don't know if he uh if he was a Christian uh earlier in life or not. It's hard to know if he is a Christian now, but he certainly would profess to be a Christian. And as a candidate for president he was uh at least a nominal Christian And so my theory is that I'm not so sure if he actually was a Christian, that he's really understood exactly what his faith is all about. I don't think he was a a real good practicing Christian. Uh but he surrounded himself with people like Mike Pence and some other real Hardcore believers as far as I can tell. Mm-hmm. Um, you know, Ben Carson and uh yeah, there's there's different people that I think have had an influence on him where he's beginning to look I think his worldview, even though he's, you know, seventies f what, seventy, seventy one years old, however old he is now, that he's uh he's kind of evolving a new worldview as though he's a twenty two year old mm-hmm in some ways, which is kind of fascinating to watch unfold. You know, uh and you could tell he doesn't speak the lingo. When he was on the campaign trail and he was referencing you know two Corinthians, you know, and people were mocking him. Which by the way, there's nothing wrong with that. A lot of Christians in other parts of the world will reference it exactly that way. But in America that's not the kind of way that Christians usually talk and so he kinda exposed himself. Uh so I I think that he's either Uh you know, kind of a this is gonna sound demeaning, I don't mean it that way, but you're kinda like a baby Christian who's beginning to grow up or maybe somebody who thought he was a Christian but didn't even know what that meant, so he's just culturally Christian. And now he's beginning to realize what it really means and maybe he's undergoing a conversion process. We can certainly hope and pray for that for everyone, not just President Trump. Well and there are a lot of folks who who have been look there are folks who have been in the church for decades who are still baby Christians. Uh people have been in church for decades that aren't Christians. Right. So you know, I've met some. So, you know, I I I think that again, you know, kind of circling back to what I said earlier, I think the president has surrounded himself with with solid people You know, and you can see the policies moving towards the protection of faith, the protec you know, kind of easing the restrictions that were going on during the last administration. And And if that is what our if that is the least that our government can do is to push that needle needle back towards um you know, people of, you know, Christians, people of faith having that freedom. Then that's you know it's a it's worth the four or eight years that uh Mr. Trump will be in office. Now uh before we transition I do want to talk about your chaplaincy experience a little bit, but I uh just real so real quick uh QA on this sort of thing. We haven't talked about Israel at all, and that obviously has a lot to do with faith, and a lot of Christians in the ev evangelical world are very interested in that sort of thing. Uh does your platform carve out a position on Should we have our embassy in Jerusalem? Should there be a two-state solution? Like w w do you have that articulated in any way? Uh anytime that anytime that you anytime that any any state basically gives in to outside forces, um you have an insecure state. And so my my response to m the I guess a sec second part of your question is that Israel shouldn't negotiate. Because that never works out well. Anytime you appease a tyrant or someone who wants to take over your territory, it doesn't work out well. Um so I think that the move to Jerusalem by President Trump was fantastic. Should've happened a long time ago. But um sometimes it's not about doing it's not about the right thing that you do, it's about having a political will to make the decision And uh and and the president doesn't really care what the media thinks or what the you know, kind of the the talking head experts, you know, he doesn't really care what they think. Yeah. Yeah, it it's it's I have a I have some friends that have spent a lot of time on Facebook going back and forth on this particular issue because there's also, you know, i in the uh In the territories where the settlements are, there's a lot of displaced and inconvenienced and threatened Christians among the the the Muslims and the non-Israelis. uh sort of thing. It's a really complex issue. I actually for different reasons, I agree. I got myself in trouble with a good friend of mine. He really came after me on on online. Because I think that uh the president made the right call, but my reasoning was it's just an acknowledgement of what is. Right. I don't think we make a we don't make any advances for the positives, we ignore the truth. And the truth of the matter is that the centers of government power for the nation state of Israel are in Jerusalem. Every aspect of their political power as a nation is in Jerusalem. So for us to pretend it's not there, well it might as well say the emperor has no clothes. I mean what is is. Now if we don't think it should be there, that's a different question. Let's have that discussion. Right. And let's talk about the them needing to maybe move it. But while it's there, that's like somebody saying, Oh The United States Capitol is not in Washington DC, it's in Chicago. And we're gonna put our embassy there. Well who are you kidding? So that was kind of my argument. Let's let's just deal with reality. So okay, so you were a chaplain in the army. Yes. For how long? Four years. Four years. Okay, how'd that go for ya? I I enjoyed the ministry. Um most of being a chaplain is being present. Um as you know our job isn't to uh proselytize, it isn't to it's if a soldier in an airman comes to me and have a qua a theological question and I will share my worldview. Um and and I will tell 'em that Jesus Christ is the answer. But I As a chaplain, you are not empowered to go out and to try to switch people's belief systems, right? Because that's a first amendment issue. Um now that was fine. Um being being you know, being uh understanding that role and and and and being there for the soldiers and airmen and their families was was more important. Now where things kinda went sideways for me um was when the Department of Arm Department of the Army wanted to change the paradigms of how of how we can pray and say that we couldn't pray in Jesus' name anymore. Hmm. In a way that the chaplain the chaplaincy works is that you have to be endorsed by your faith tradition in order for the army to accept you as a chaplain. And so if I would have done that. You can't be endorsed. I can't be endorsed by my catch point too. But and for a Christian, I mean I think anybody who's listening to the show long enough understands the import of that. For a Christian, if you're not praying in the power of the name of Jesus Christ, you're not praying. Right So you might as well just talk to uh you know, a dead stump over there because there's there's there's no effectiveness in that. So and that wasn't the case when you started, but it was When when it came time for you to leave. And so that was that was a change in policy. And so Um I had to I thought about that and prayed over it and as much as I like having rank on my shoulder and being a chaplain, it was You know, you gotta deser you gotta decide where your priorities are. And how long ago was that that you left? Two thousand eleven. Okay, so it's not that long ago. Really? Yeah. Wow. Okay, so that was the life changing Decision they have to make. So what does that say for those that stayed? It wasn't life changing. It was well well there's there's a whole there's a whole variety of chaplains. I mean they're a Wiccan chaplain I mean they're you know But are there any there can't be, by definition, any Christian chaplains left. They can't pray in Jesus' name, they can't be able to do that. Well there's different theologies that Christians have. Oh so if you happen to be more uh you know, more um liberal in your theology, then y you don't that wouldn't affect you as well. Wow. So I've always to be honest, uh even before they made these changes, my whole life I've, you know, kind of thought about these sorts of things and there was a time when, you know, that was a potential career path to consider. I never seriously considered, but was on the on the table as a in the field of options. And I could never envision myself doing it because I was like, I don't think I could pretend to play it that straight. You know, did you ever feel like you were in a straight jacket as a chaplain? Uh different times in I I think a lot of chappens if you pull them aside and talk to him confidentially. Uh you know, I've had commanders who would come up to me and say, Well, you know, make sure you get you give a generic prayer. Yeah. And so they're giving you an order, basically. Well, they're giving you a suggestion that That makes they may come back and revisit you if you do not have followed up. It's wonderful. That's the suggestion. No, it it wasn't a UCMJ order. It was a uh It was a would you please do this chaplain or out or else we will have another conversation later? Wow. Yes, I don't know what that means for the future of the chaplain say. I guess we're gonna have Christian soldiers who will not have a Christian a true Bible believing the believing the fundamentals of the faith, Christian chaplain available to them on the battlefield. Does it depend on I I think it depends who's in the that's one of the reasons why elections matter. Because when if you have someone like President Trump I'm sure that that policy does not exist anymore. But the last administration that policy existed. Oh, so it can just be on the whim of the of the commander in chief. Yes. Because then that goes out. That goes that then that that directive goes down to the DOD and Department of the Army. Well, i if you're on the if you're on a liberal side of the First Amendment, then that means that if I prayed in Jesus' name, then that means that does that mean that I am offending someone else's First Amendment rights Yeah. So that's the if if there is a reasonable logical thought process of that, besides the fact that you know maybe some people are judged Not Christian and evil. If we're just talking looking at First Amendment issues, that could be a possible reason. Not to sound too radical if that's going to be the case though. I'd rather have no prophets than false prophets. Right. I mean, look what happened in the Old Testament with all the false prophets. I mean that that comes to no good. your Christian liberty is lim limited because of improper application of the First Amendment. Hm. Fascinating times we live in, right? Well, it it's interesting time we've got like, you know, thirty to sixty seconds left in the show and uh Jonathan Schweitzer showed up And our schedule is like now I don't know. I don't no pressure either way. I don't sh uh uh should I promote that we're gonna do one more show and John can join the conversation or does your schedule not allow for that? I can do that. Okay. So we'll be back next week John Schweitzer and maybe Angela will chime in again, give us a little bit more than some hellos and a couple of sentences here and there. Uh and uh Tony Campbell, who's running for Senate, United States Senate in the state of Maryland, as a Republican, so he's a shoe-in Shoe and shoe and to win. He's gonna run away with ninety eight percent of the vote. I've I'm feeling that's a prediction. We'll find out if I'm a false prophet or not. Anyway, thank you so much. Uh do you have a website, right? Campbell for Maryland dot com. Campbell two L is like the soup, the number for Maryland spelled out dot com. I mean fortunately in today's day and age you just type in you know your name and boom so you don't have to worry about it. And you can Google search the Faith Debate or you can go to WFMD. com keyword faith. That'll take you to the Faith Debate page of the WFMD website where you'll find uh a listing of upcoming shows, my bio, John's bio, and if you want to see just how darn good looking we are You go to that page when John shows up. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. We'll be back then. God bless you.