The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to Faith Debate. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on NewsRadio 930 W. WFMD. We're online at WFMD. com. You can also hear this show, not just on the AM, but on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. I'm Troy Skinner, been hosting this Face Debate show for about 17 and a half years now. Started when I was three. And I'm joined this week by it it's not a sin to lie like that, is it? I might have to repent later. Uh Imran Razby and Daniel Razby are on the show this week. We are sons, David Forcy, so one of us will have to Talk in a really deep voice for portions of the show today. I can't even get as deep as him when I'd want try to. Yeah, it just comes to him naturally. Anyway Um it I don't know if I mentioned this or not already, so I will now in case I didn't. Uh Household of Faith in Christ dot com is probably the easiest, best centralized place to get in touch with all of us, but I do want to give a shout out to a parachurch organization ministry that the RASVIS established years ago, Conquered by Love Ministries, and their website is conqueredbylove. org. You can check them out. And actually I haven't mentioned this to you guys yet, but I I want us to uh take some time talking about the kinds of things that that particular ministry uh focuses on and and and do a series of faith debate shows on that so we can talk about that more later. They're learning about it as you are. See how that's the well oil machine that we are around here. So This week, we started to touch on it a little bit the last couple of weeks, just as a side. So we didn't really go deep on it. But last week we were talking about truth. And related to truth I mean a lot of the stuff and the debates about what's true, what's not true has to do with the whole COVID narrative and all things r related to COVID. And if somebody doesn't agree with what you're saying, then you're a conspiracy theorist. And if you don't agree with them, well then they're a conspiracy theorist, or they've bought into a conspiracy or So we got businesses requiring masks, even sometimes when the government's not telling they have to require the masks, which is interesting, or possibly even requiring the shots. And asking for some sort of documentation to show that you've gotten the shots. And you know, they were doing temperature checks all the way back in twenty twenty. Um and the well go ahead. A lot a lot of it's not even consistent. I mean there's a sporting event I was hearing about where they had three lines. They had one line for people who had vaccines. uh had vaccination cars they could go in without being checked. In another line for people who had a proof of a recent negative test and they could go in without being checked. In a third line for people who didn't have those, they could do a rapid test. But if you and there was one guy who had his vaccine card that went to test it and he went in the rapid test line and got a positive result and turned right back around and went to the vaccine line and didn't get didn't get checked and he was allowed in. So It's not really logical at this point because if you're vaccinated, you can carry the thing and so on. So a lot of it is really just driven by fear and emotion. Well I have a friend who's sick. Uh and went to get the tests and by the way the tests, you know, uh sometimes I wonder if they could test the turni turnip and it would test positive possibly. I mean, I I I don't know. But It is what we it is what it is, as they say. It's it's it's what we have to work with. Right. And so she was sick, she is sick, and so she went to get tested and she tested positive for COVID. And so she informed her employer that she was sick, so she you know, she'd have to be out for ten days 'cause that was their policy. But of course their Shorthanded, a lot of people left because they didn't want to live by the policy of getting the shots, so they have fewer employees on staff now, and so they need all hands on deck as often as possible. And they said Yeah, well how sick are you? And she said, Well, I'm sick. I mean my nose is running, I've got a sore throat, a fever, I'm I'm you know, achy, whatever. I'm I'm not feeling well. I I I'm I'm well You know, you got the you you got the shot, so tell you what, uh you can come back to work in five days instead of ten days. What if I'm still feeling sick in five days? Oh don't worry about it, you got the shot, so it's fine. Come in. With symptoms. Wow. Co it so to your point makes no sense. But anyway, on this business thing, I want to start here and 'cause this might be the whole show possibly, and if not, I've got some other uh you know, uh cannonballs uh ready to fire It's been very common, and to be honest, it's where I've been most of my adult life. But I'm questioning myself a lot more in recent years, like re-examining why I've landed, where I've landed on some things. The business wants to require vaccine passports or they want to do temperature checks or what have you. They want you to make sure you stand, you know, six, eight feet apart, whatever it is. a common response from people who would probably ideologically agree with the three of us most of the time, because it's kind of a libertarian kind of a response that, well, you know, it's their business to do whatever they can do whatever they want. And boy, that just feels wrong to me suddenly. And so I'm not sure that there's a biblical case be made that because it's their business they can do what they want. What do you guys think? Before I go off any further on that, what do you think? There is a difference between a business voluntarily making a rule, no shirt, no shoes, no service, for example, and the government putting pressure on the business and saying you Okay, well we won't mandate it, but if you do this, we'll give you extra tax credits or we'll make your life easier or w if you don't do it, we're gonna audit you more, we'll have more inspections. So the government can put a lot of pressure whether there's an actual mandate or not. that makes the businesses feel like it is in their best interests to do these things. Right. So that is a little bit different. Now it's the government doing it instead of the business. And even if they don't put that kind of pressure, if they have put the fear of COVID in somebody so much so with all the media outlets saying it that the business owner is fear afraid for their life. That's almost the same thing 'cause the government has put that pressure on in in the same uh vein. But yeah, as as far as far as a b biblical perspective There are objective truths in the Bible. There is objective right and wrong. You don't just get to get decide as an individual or as a business owner, hey, I'm gonna do this or I'm not gonna do that. Well you have to follow God's law And that includes uh for example, you can't decide on in in the in the biblical law that oh, I'm a farmer and I don't want the poor people to glean the edges of my field. We you don't get to decide that. They get they have to clean the edge of the field. That's what the Bible says, right? So it's not like, oh well I'm a I'm the farmer. I get to do well no, God has rules for what to do. But he also has you know rules for the people that are agreing that you can't do certain things. So I think i in America a lot of times we're we uh we have the tendency, ooh it's my freedom, it's oh it's America, it's it's my my liberty, my freedom Well no, it's it's God. God gave you all these things and he gave rules and regulations around how you use what he's given you. Now there's not a whole lot of day of Bible verses that deal with masks, for example, although there is one that says if you're a leper, you should cover your upper lip. So if you're symptomatic, if you if you're gonna be making people sick, then you should be staying away from them and doing your best not to make them sick. So there are some Bible verses that deal with that. But uh there's not a whole lot that deals with like businesses and what they should require. I think the principles are there though, and that's what I'm hoping will so we can call you you wanted to sh jump in at this point? So because you and I might have some a uh a lot of alignment here. Now is is this kind of how you've been thinking for years and years or have you kind of come into where you're thinking about this over the last two or three years? More more uh I've kind of I kinda still feel like a business can do whatever they want and in in at least in America there's a legal right for them to do whatever they want and they can refuse service. But the person can also refuse to to shop there and and so on. That's what I'm hearing a lot. And so here's here's I'm I'm this is a work in progress. This is not a well formulated uh view on my part. Yeah, very dangerous. I might listen back to this in ten years and be like, oh my gosh, what were you saying? Why did you put that out there? But I'm just, you know, being transparent. So we would say that, let's say you own a restaurant. And somebody who comes in with a skin color you don't like, and you say, sorry, I'm not going to serve you, we would say, you can't do that. I would not say that. You would not say that. I would say the Bible would be a good idea. Right, which is why you shouldn't be allowed to do it. I think in the b from a biblical perspective, no, they shouldn't. As far as in a in a um constitutional perspective, there's really no nothing preventing that. If that's true, then the Constitution is an ungodly document because We have rights and liberties and freedoms for one reason only. Why do we need freedom and liberty? So that we can go about our business of fulfilling our responsibilities. We have responsibilities before God and we need the freedom to do it. And so if anybody's gonna squash my freedom to do what God tells me to do, and part of what God tells me to do is to go out and work and feed my family, right? Earn a living so I can feed my family. That's my responsibility as And so if if there's any rules in place that are going to keep me from being able to do that, that's an ungodly rule. It should be rejected, it should be fought against. That's why fascism is is dangerous and bad and ungodly. So I don't think it's right for a restaurant to say no. I agree with you. It's not right for them to do that. So Troy, what about a swimming pool that is women's only and they don't want men there because of modesty and stuff And so they refuse service to a man that wants to come and swim. No, I I think things can be uh I would say a more dramatic thing that's been in the news in recent years than even that would be, you know, the cake bakers. who don't want to decorate a cake for, you know, a um uh a ceremony that's going to recognize two same sex individuals coming together in what they would call a marriage. I can't do that because I'm putting my artistic You know, sign and seal is I'm I'm not gonna serve you that way. But they have the right to refuse it because God would tell them not to do that. And and they actually say if this is a country based on English common law, which originally it was, but it was influenced strongly by English common law, and English common law was deeply steeped in biblical law Mm-hmm. Then the biblical principles are really when we when you get rid of the Bible, you lose English common law, you use The Constitution? You lose all the case law leading up until now. Everything's a living, breathing document, you can make it mean whatever you want, and there's no standard. But if the standard is God, his expectation that clarifies everything for me. Mm-hmm. Absolutely. But in that situation well in the in the cake baker situation they actually said you can pick any cake that's already made on display or you can buy it. We're just not gonna make a specific cake for you to celebrate homosexuality because that's against my religion. So they weren't refusing service to them Okay, they're refusing to do it specifically because of artistic value. Now on the swimming pool thing that I just said, if it's a women's only swimming pool so women can feel comfortable and not be ogul and not have to do that why would you s refuse service to a man? Because then you're Yeah, but sorry. No, but reducing service to half the population. That's kind of uh But the point there though is that the motive for that sort of a rule is one of modesty and respect for women so they're not being oogled. You want to protect them, and we are called to protect the weaker vessel, if you will. And so I'm totally fine. Why we should have separate bathrooms for the same reason. So the motives matter. And that's where as a Christian you can be consistent and say the motives matter, but the motives need to be Christian in nature and biblically based. Right. Right. B if you don't have a Christian foundation, that's where you get things like Oh well, you know, I'm a racist and so I say I have certain motives for not wanting those people in my shop. Okay, well That's your own motives and and as somebody who is not a believer, the only real logical answer you can give to that is, huh, well I guess that's your opinion, then nothing I can do about it. But God does have something to say about these things and that's why it's it's really important. And because we've got to remember, you know, the the the founders of this country uh were overwhelmingly, you know, weaned on the Bible. They learned how to read probably by reading scripture. Sure You know, they uh the people the framers of the Constitution, they were the generation that was, you know, right on the heels of the first great awakening. I mean it's a i it culturally things were so different. And they even warned us today, like, you know, this is this form of government is only for a godly people, you know, people who are going to respect the Bible of God. Otherwise this is not going to work. And that's why when we try to export it to other countries, it doesn't work. Right. And and they they didn't intend for us to have freedom of all religions. It was freedom of different denominations of Christianity. That was the design and and belief of the founders And and so I think when you we have Freedom to worship the one God is what it was. It wasn't that freedom to have any religion you want. Yeah, right. And so if you have that um that mindset, then you're gonna have consistency with what types of services you do and don't provide as your business. Um And and I and I think all of those restrictions if you go if you're going to have restrictions in your business of who you serve in the east of the base of the Bible. That really is the only reason you can You can base that. So I started out by saying we wanted to talk about COVID and the conspiracies and stuff, and we took a little bit of a planned uh detour to talk about the business question. I don't know if we have a whole lot more to say. I think we've all said what we want to say and we I think we mostly kind of agree and where we agree to disagree we can pick that up some other time. But getting back to the the COVID stuff in the last half of today's show, um we've dealt with um a lot of Which are purported to be true put forward as true a particular narrative. Not talking about the facts per se, but the spin. In the old days we would call it spin, today we call it well, it's the truth. And you can't question it. And you can't question it. And so we're not allowed to question things like, you know Some people are concerned about the so-called migrant crisis. Is there really a crisis or not? And what's the well you're not allowed to. You have to welcome the sojourner no matter what is it becomes an argument. And if you say anything otherwise, well then you're just, you know, a bigot or something like that Um early on we were told that the uh you know the Wuhan flu as people were calling it back then uh began at a wet market. And uh there it seems like there's zero reason to think that that's true now. Uh but that was the prevailing or and if you said anything to suggest that There was something not true about that that had happened in the lab and something like that, like, oh, you're just trying to blame the Chinese people and you're gonna cause all sorts of of hatred against American Chinese people and it's gonna be horrible. Um and then they've conflated, you know, they they've changed and they've conflated things. So now it used to be people died with COVID. But have you noticed they subtly changed that? They don't say that people have died with COVID. Now they're saying they died from COVID, even if they didn't die from COVID. They were more careful about but now they've just shifted a little bit. Uh and they were You know, they used to be a case. Uh when somebody was sick, they were a case. If you had a case of the flu, you had a case of pneumonia, you had a case of cancer, whatever, you know, it means you had it. But then it was well, we're gonna count test results, which you may not even have any symptoms and so then cases stopped being Illnesses. And then for for a long while they said that you should not wear a mask ever. And then it only unless you're in the hospital working and then it was oh everybody needs to wear masks and then later some Some studies came out saying maybe masks aren't that helpful unless they're s certain kind and worn in a certain way. And then, you know, pe people pushed back and said, Oh, don't follow those studies. Now we wear two masks. So there there's a lot of different conflating And here's here's my take and I want to get your response after I I give you my hot take. So the things we've already mentioned and you throw out there all the controversy about treatment, particularly you know, early treatment approaches. You know, the the degradation of hydroxychloroquine and uh ivermectin uh as a as a horse paste Um people you know, people who want to tout the the value of using vitamin C and vitamin D saying like what are you a witch doctor? You think vitamins are gonna solve it? Um You go to the hospital and they try to force Remdesivir on you, even though it has the most pathetic um track record ever. Um And then all these requirements for the mass that don't work, in my opinion. I mean the the the data seems clear that they're not make having any positive effect. In fact, you can make an argument they're having a negative, a net negative effect. With all that said, here's my hot take. I think the Christian message should be love your neighbor. Take off your mask. Reject the injections. Homeschool your kids. Hear here. And because all I'm hearing from the big voices in the big in the evangelical world, something they'll call big Eva is love your neighbor. Put on the mask. Do what the government says. Is it that big of a deal? It's such a small gesture to you know if it's gonna make your if it's to make your neighbor feel more comfortable wear the mask, love your neighbor and wear the mask. And I'm like, well if it's If it's such a small gesture, how about the small gesture of taking it off so I can diffuse the atmosphere of fear I can let people breathe actually fresh air for a change and so. But not many people are saying that. And you agreed right away, which is encouraging, but Yeah. What's the downside to that sort of love your neighbor argument? And there is there is a biblical basis for being careful when you're sick and not others keeping your distance, keeping your face covered, all that for when you're symptomatic or when you've been exposed to something like that. There there's biblical a basis for that. But there's not a biblical basis for having the fear run o run your life and to be all um concerned about uh you know, the the the religion of COVID, which has become much of a religion now, you have to sacrifice to the altar of triple masks or triple vaccines or whatever. I've heard people call it the cult of COVID stand. You know, it's Yeah. So particularly in the church. Now I if somebody wants to wear the mask, fine, whatever. Be honest, if there's somebody I know, I'm gonna try to talk to them and say, look, you don't even understand how much damage that mask is doing. It's not protecting you the way you think it is Because you think it's protecting you somewhat and it's not. Uh the data would seem clear on that. I know that anybody who listens to this that uh is is a consumer of the mainstream narrative thinks I'm an idiot right now. Okay, that's fine. You can you can think that. I I know for a fact You thinking I'm an idiot, you're wrong on that one. Um But the churches fine, if you want to wear masks I'll talk to you about it, but I'm not going to make you wear a mask to come worship God. Like where's the biblical precedent for that? To put some sort of requirement on somebody to come to worship God? to cover your face and worship God. That's worshiping Satan. And there's several places you can even look that up and show that. That is absolutely unbiblical to worship God with your face covered. Hm. I haven't heard that argument yet. I like that. I'm gonna have to look that particularly. A lot of occult occult rituals that involve covering your head and your face. standing six feet apart from each other and in a circle and I've begun to joke and say we have to stand six six six feet apart. Yeah. That's what they've been doing for years and years and years. And we're doing that in the meantime now. And there's and there's a lot of speaking of conspiracy theory. There's a lot of people that say, Oh, the vaccine is the mark of the beast. And and what I would say to that is It it I don't think the this vaccine is is the mark of the beast. I think I think that it's certainly a dry run to get the population used to the idea that you must do what the government says in order to be allowed to transact in the economy and I think that's something that when people get desensitized enough to that Uh and that's that's a problem. And I I think maybe we'd we we have some different views of eschatology which we can But I don't I don't disagree with, you know, desensitizing against you know the government opposing things for you to be able to buy and sell and all that sort of stuff. It seems not just reasonable, it seems true. Right, it just is, it seems. But it all comes back to what we talked about the last couple of weeks is the truth. What is the truth? See, the people in power are inf are imposing their truth, which is not true, on the public. And to give me how much time do we have? Um, just a couple of minutes. Okay. Give you a real life example. Um our family had r you know realized before it was the mainstream news that hey this covet thing is coming to the US and we didn't know anything about it, how dangerous it was, how contagious it was. It's a lot of things from overseas uh news that we were hearing. We're talking about January twenty twenty, like before before the Before the before the media and the U. I remember that season well. Before the media and the US even talked about talk about it, other countries were talking about it and we heard about that. The only person in America talking about it at the time was Tucker Carlson. So we actually decided to, hey Let's make masks because we're gonna need them and we created a business and we made masks. We were taken off of all the platforms. We could not sell masks Because uh Fauci said no masks are needed. So Amazon took our mask down. Wow. Um eBay took our masks down. Ebay took our masks down. And we even we even posted them on a conservative um platform like a competitor to Amazon, a very small website. And not only did that get taken down, they got deplatformed by their credit card processor saying you're selling medical inf misinformation to wear a mask. This was before uh it you know became cool to wear masks and everybody you know and and there it wasn't like you could buy them in the store because they was everything all sold out. From my point of view it was never cool to wear masks. For the record. But at that point we didn't we didn't know how dangerous it was. Right, no, yeah. So we figured it we could say a five percent death rate, they were saying at the time. So we could provide a service were saying twenty percent death rate. Which is like, you know, that's like Half the planet dies kind of death rate twenty percent. Right. So so we were we were trying to provide a service to people and we were not allowed to Because the people in power had decided on a different truth, which is not true at at all, and shut it down. W m and uh my thing is in this country where you can do whatever business you want so long as it's legal How when when did m making masks become illegal? It's not a drug. Right. If there's no legislation against masks, but the platforms, the the uh uh the pay pay paying platforms they shut people down. But you saying that you got shut down by all these things, you must be a conspiracy theorist. They think they targeted you. Why would they want to target you? But they're not targeting you, right? They're targeting Anything that distracts from whatever the narrative they're trying to push is, no matter how big or small you are. And and just to so Etty, for example, took us down and then we finally were able to get them To re when we we're going to have to do that. No, once Fauci decided that masks were okay, that we needed to have wear masks, then all these places. But within the week there were thirty-five thousand separate sellers on FC basing masks. Oh. Unbelievable. Well there you I mean other I mean I hear so many of these kinds of anecdotal personal stories and it just reinforces what I know to be true. What do I know to be true? I said love your neighbor and I listed some things. You know, you want to really love your neighbor? Study God's Word. Absolutely. You come to know Jesus Christ. You you will know the truth. You repent from your sin, you recognize what righteousness really is, you understand that there is a hope in a future and that there is a maker who has a plan for your life, and that all of that is centered on the cross, it's all possible because of what Christ said on the cross. That change it's a game changer. It's a game changer. And I mean history bears that out, right? I mean the last two thousand years of I mean even our our uh even our our time, our our marking of the years is marked by that event. So Anyway, we're going to wrap this up. Till next week. This is the Fate Debate Imron and Daniel Razzi. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.