This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in midst corner, weighing in with a master of divinity. from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh. Yeah. Troy Skinner. And we're gonna have extra fun today because John Schweitzer's not here. I get to talk to him when John's not around. And John can hear this later. I'm just joking. In the studio today, I don't know if we'll hear her voice, but a good friend of mine, Angela McIntosh, is here, and she's here with her good friend, Dr. Tony Campbell, who is running for U. S. Senate. He wants to represent you in the Senate chambers if you live in the state of Maryland. I mean you might be listening in West Virginia or Pennsylvania or Virginia or Delaware. But yeah, when you go to work in Maryland or or if you're traveling through, yeah, mention your friends. Point at the little yard sign and say, see that guy right there? Vote for him. Right. So we were talking last week um uh about some general uh political philosophy, uh a little bit of your background, your bio. You uh not only are a preacher's kid, but your preacher's kid times two, both your parents are pastors. Um you went to Liberty, you have a master's of any degree, you have a doctorate, so you're you know, you're uh averagely intelligent. As you may And we were talking about the public education system and I got a little bit uh fiery on some of that and uh so did you and and then I had some parting comment and I was wrapping up the show and then Tony said, Oh if you got thirty more seconds then I said I do next week. Right. And so here we are. So what was the what were those thirty seconds gonna be on? Well y y you mentioned about uh the president and and I think that The the president has done a a really good job on the economy, on foreign policy, um because one of the things that I I think that the president understands is sometimes in foreign policy you have to punch the bullies in the nose and especially in in parts of the world where you have to earn respect before they negotiate with you. And the president has done a very good job of of reading people and and kind of understanding the psychology of of uh different actors. Um So I think he's done a fantastic job so far. You know, we'll we'll see what happens. Um you know, uh running in Maryland, uh you know, being a fan of Donald Trump that works in Western Maryland, the eastern shore and southern Maryland Um, but in the I ninety five quarter, not so much. Um, so you know Is there any part of you that's surprised that the president has had The successes in the areas you just mentioned? No, not really, because uh you know, remember when this whole presidential campaign started and there was uh seventeen people on a stage? There was Ten on the main stage and there were seven on the in on the little kitty stage. Um and Donald Trump was in the middle of that. And fifteen other establishment folks that had They had elected the fi they elected experience, they had been on a stage before, they had debated and all that stuff, and Trump went through 'em one by one, just knocked them off. So, you know, his his understanding of running for president and what it really means is it's fifty different states. It's not a national election. It is uh a reality TV show for two years that the camera's always on you. You're always on you I mean it's That's the that's what running for president is. And he he excelled at that. He excelled at the marketing of himself to win an election. He just mentioned something that uh I was joking about uh right before we uh started this show about we've got to do something about so many candidates running for the same office. Um there were what, sixteen or twenty Republican candidates were president at one point. Like what was the peak number I think? Seventeen yes. So I mean that's a lot. And there's eleven people running on the Republican side in the pr in the primary for U. S. Senate in Maryland. And there's I think nine maybe Democrats. Eight or nine. So that's twenty people running for Senate, for the same Senate seat in Mar I I'm all for everybody running, but I mean if everybody's running for ourselves, everybody gets one vote. There's different levels of running. In this primary there are probably three or four people that have been active out of the out of the eleven Republicans Um So what are they guys doing? Twiddling their thumb? Well, you know, any person can put their two hundred ninety dollars down and run for US Senate in Maryland. You don't have to have any senator requirements or or any other kind of metric to to qualify to be to be on a ballot. What what do you think the I mean I don't want you to get inside psychoanalyzing them and I'm not trying to bait you into saying something negative about those guys, but just in a general sense, what might be some reasons that a guy like me, let's say plunk down my three hundred bucks and said put my name on the ballot. Why why would I want to do that? Uh maybe as you were ta as we were talking about last time that there are issues that you want to talk about. Um, you know, the the gentleman is running on the Democrat side, uh Siegel, right? Yeah, uh was wanted to talk about the Middle East. And The question is that how much time do you put into running a on an issue campaign and how much how much visibility, how much uh how much you're going to move the needle have it put for your three hundred bucks and put your name on a ballot for US Senate. You know? So there's there's there's a there's that trade off of energy you put in versus what you're gonna get out of it. And so, you know, there's there's a number of people who just wanted to see their name on the ballot. They wanted to talk about a particular issue. Uh, you know, my my purpose is to run a deep end carton. You know, that's that's the end goal that that I that I envision. How all consuming is this? Is it a full time like sixty five hour a week commitment This has been five months at least forty, fifty hours a week. Okay. Cross crossing this day putting ten thousand miles in my car so far? So like I'm thinking of some other people like uh Dan Bongino uh made a lot of hay when he ran uh for Congress in in uh Maryland a few years back and he turned that into a secondary career. He wrote a book that did very well. Now he's one of the talking heads on Fox News Channel all the time and he you know he's uh he's very quick witted and he's very very sassy and so that plays well. Um and part of me wonders if he had that in the back of his mind all along, like, hey, if I don't win this, at least I've got a future in media. Um I don't I don't get the sense from you that you're n I don't think you're that flashy, so you don't strike me as a I wanna be a T V guy. So No, I if you don't win, what will the payoff of Benford You know, basically working a full time job for nothing for a year. Well, I've you know, I've done media, so that's that doesn't scare me. Um I guess the takeaway for me is I I'm not as I said last time, I'm not going into this thinking I'm going to lose. Um but if that happens, if that's not the path that God has me on, then I will go back to teaching my children at child at the university. You know, I I I love doing that. So um this is this is the process, you know, we'll we'll we'll see what happens but Uh I feel I feel good about our our chances of winning the primary and and then uh June twenty seventh, shift gears and and uh the the Manning uh Chelsea Manning will be gone and it'll be Ben Cardin and and And we'll take it from there. And again, I don't want to paint a negative picture, but if you should happen to not win, stop it, Troy. The experience well the experience so far has been such would would you run again? Uh work in the same office, a different office? I don't know. You know, this has been again uh forty, fifty hours a week for five months. Uh this isn't running I mean look there's a lot of people who who are putting good time, good quality time in running for state delegates, state senator. um local offices and and and they're working just as hard as I am. The difference in this race is the issues that I'm talking about and then the number of the the travel that I have to do to reach the people to to win the primary. Um I don't know if that's something that I would do again, not not on a statewide level. you know. Um I think you just yeah, you look at opportunities that that that come up. I mean I'm a political scientist. I I'm I wouldn't have done this race for US Senate unless I looked at the numbers and thought that there was a path to victory So um and I've always thought that, you know, ever since um you know, ever since uh Michael Steele did in two thousand six, you know, that an African American conservative could win uh statewide because it's about the margins, you know. Do you you know, just like Larry Hogan has to do, you know, Western Maryland, Eastern Shore, Southern Maryland. You have to get a certain amount of uh certain amount of votes to offset your losses in Prince George's County, Baltimore City, and Montgomery County. You know, the the quote the two question marks are Can you get 65% in Baltimore County? Can you get can you win Howard County? Can you get 55% in Howard County? Those are the two those are the two main variables. Because you know what's gonna happen in in in Prince Rose County and and and Falmer City in Montgomery County. But the question here is for me is can I make it seventy thirty instead of ninety ten Now you mentioned Michael Steele, which allows me that t transition to something I mentioned last week I want to talk about in this week's show. Um I was raised chocolate saying that you called somebody black but then in high school it changed chocolate. You can't be you can't call them black anymore But then you gotta be careful because some uh people who are uh black aren't f they don't consider themselves African American. Exactly. And so you call them African American, they're insulted. I'm I'm from Jamaica or something like that. It's like you cannot win. So anyway, but you're, you know, uh chocolate to use your word. Um as Michael Steele is. Right. Are are you One, are you getting any like really nasty pushback from people who are calling you a sellout or an Uncle Tom or something like that? And on the positive side, are you feeling like you're getting some traction and maybe you'll be able to, for lack of a better way of putting it, steal some of the African American vote? That they would typically go to a Democrat. Uh we're not there yet. Um I know from from previous experience. That there is folks, I mean, they're going to throw out those those names. I mean they did it with Michael Steele. They called him an Oreo when he ran for US Senate. Um I can't wait for somebody to do that to me. Yeah, because I'll I'll have I'll have my glass of milk and I'll be like, Bring it. You know. That's the worst you're gonna you're gonna do. So you're gonna you're gonna play right into it. Self evasing humor. It's about it it's about being comfortable in yourself and knowing that that's what the other side is going to do. Is your family conservative politically? Uh yeah. Okay, so they're all kind of a hundred percent behind what you're doing. Well they were conservative Democrats, meaning pro life. Pro Second Amendment. No. Um but now the Republicans existed for Republicans in the same time. Gotcha. Okay. Yeah. So they were the red dog Democrats back when such a thing existed. Well they still exist. I mean uh Eastern Baltimore County. I mean, it went from all Democrats to all Republican last time. Uh and those folks, they they are you know, they're They're conservative Democrats. You know, they're they're as pro Second Amendment, pro life as as anybody else, or any any Republican, probably more. Well to be honest, socially conservative it's not that hard to find people that are uh more socially conservative than your typical Republican these days. It's beginning to lean more and more in a I'll be uh polite, in a centrist direction. So um and we've had some candidates at the top of the ticket, you know. Um John McCain I think could have run as a Democrat if he wanted to and made some hay Uh, but that's not to say he couldn't overrun as a republic again and make some hay, which he did. Right. But I mean there's there's such a blurring of the lines at some point that there's not a distinctiveness to the conservatism or or maybe a a a real hard commitment to those conservative principles. And I think that for me, I when I'm talking politics on the show, it's a rare opportunity for me to kind of show my wave my flag and my colors on this. Um When the Republican Party doesn't stand for conservatism, there's no conservative difference. And there's a very small percentage, it seems to me, of of elected Republicans. not of Republicans as a whole maybe, but elected Republicans who end up governing and and uh being lawmakers as As conservatives. Well and the way it's gonna be different. Well the way it f the way it plays out for me and this is uh segue to one of the things that is important to me. So I was at a Republican uh two Republican events, statewide Republican events in the last let's say a month or so, uh Lindsay Graham and George Allen. Uh Lindsey Graham, people can think what they want, but you know, Sitting Senator, um, and George Allen, who's a former senator, former governor of Virginia. Two nice guys, both Republicans. Um they both said something that annoys me, no to no end, talking about jobs. Now jobs are very important. Um but we're conservatives. And so if our economic economic platform is about a job or government eater helping to create jobs or getting out of the way of people creating jobs. The the the low the lowest common denominator of that whole discussion as you were saying last hour is we're using the same wording. We're so using the same narrative, talking about jobs. And that's what the Democrats talk about. So we're not talking about success. We're not talking about them though Trump does that. He talks jobs all the time. That's a big part of what his talking points are when he's out of the stump and doing his little pepper alleys and stuff. Well i you're right. And and that is that is something that I I don't agree with. I mean we're supposed to be conservatives. We're supposed to be people who who champion uh success and liberty and freedom and all those things and for me a talking about jobs as being the end all of economic activity What's the difference between working a job and making your wage and getting a wage from a welfare check? It's the same thing because all you're doing is being a consumer. You're taking that money, you way or that wage, or whatever or those resources that government gives you, and you're going out and you're buying a flat screen TV You're not creating wealth, you're not creating a legacy, you're not having property. The whole point of this government, this republic was the protection of property. That's what John Locke wrote about. He wasn't wrong about a wage. He wrote about property, life, liberty, and estate. And so If we don't even address basic economic principles of success versus subsistence, what's the difference between a Republican and a Democrat? I don't see it. That's the voice of Tony Campbell. He's running for U. S. Senate in Maryland. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I want to put a uh uh a a faith debate spin on some of the things we're talking about now. Because It's true. I w I mean politically and culturally I uh I would share your your worldview on these points. I think it's true that all these good things don't happen. But I would say that also bad things happen when we put this welfare state guaranteed job, guaranteed phone, guaranteed whatever, and there becomes like an internal dry rot. uh that takes place within the human condition because we we we don't thrive if we don't have purpose, if we're not striving, if we don't feel like what we do in life matters. Right. And if if everything's handed to me, including my job then it doesn't really matter what I do. I don't have to go earn anything. And so the the the human dignity is diminished. To be honest, I think that's a big part of what's wrong with the uh the poverty stricken inner cities that are primarily uh African American. They're devastated because they've been robbed s systematically for several generations now. Uh post I'm not talking about the r the uh the the slavery part. I'm talking post slavery, post civil rights act. Yeah, I'm talking over the last fifty, sixty years They've been robbed of their dignity because, oh, you can't you can't do it for yourself, we're gonna do it for you. And then all the things that come out and then all the other stuff, the I think the systemic racism, it's I don't think it's a coincidence that the the overwhelming majority of abortion clinics are in black communities, for example. So that's a that's a religious issue. I think that's a that's a Christian distinctive because a Christian is all about that we were created for a purpose. You know, we are to have dominion over the creation. We're to go out there and to multiply and be creative. We are image bearers of God, the Bible tells us. And God's not sitting back waiting for people to do things for him. He's an active God, he's a present God, he's an involved God. When we tell these people, don't be active, don't be present, don't be involved, just sit over on the sidelines and let me take care of you. Right. Well and the the other part of that too is uh we've lost the sanctity for life. And the dignity that you're talking about, if if there if that doesn't exist, then Why should life be important? And we and we and we s our society is so disposable about life. It's no wonder that we have discipline problems in schools and we have a rise in in in these in these incidents of shootings. Because it's because other people don't matter. Yeah, it's funny, whenever there's a shootings all sorts of different talking points come out, but one of the common ones from our side, you know, you're on my side of things, is the video games and hip hop music and there might be something to that But no you're right. It's that we've we've lost the value of of human life in more profound ways than dehumanized figures on a video game. You know, when when we look at ourselves as just shells, that the human soul has no importance, that human existence doesn't really mean anything. In fact We're now training up our our kids to think that they're a problem. Mm-hmm. Because you're causing you know CO CO two emissions. You're you're wrecking the climate. The world's gonna go to Pardon my language, but hell in a handbasket because you exist. Stop breathing now. And so when you have such a negative a uh view of yourself and then of others, it's not that big of a deal to to snuff them out because what? Who who they're nothing? Well and and it's and it's the way that we educate our children too because then you know if i i if there's something that happens, it's it's not There's no accountability or responsibility. It's it's because there's something wrong. There's something defective. Now on the life question, if you can if respond to this r relative quick quickly, maybe within sixty to ninety seconds. Are you following what's going on in Oklahoma on the uh on the uh pro wife issue. Do you pay any attention at all over there? I have a friend who's very active, that's the only reason I know about it. But it's a big political issue there right now in their primary season. And uh it's interesting because what's going on is In conservative circles, there's a war going on in Oklahoma that's pitting the traditional pro-life movement people with the abolitionist movement. What do you mean by abolition? We shouldn't have this pro their their argument is that the pro-life language has gotten too soft, too accommodating that we're fighting the war on near terms. On the pro quote unquote pro choice terms and we've already lost the war before it's begun and we need to have more of a abolitionist and they're stealing stealing. They're borrowing, they're making use of a lot of the ideas and rhetoric that took place during the abolitionist movement for uh slavery. Right. So anyway. Well you don't find that if you haven't been following it. You're not running for the what's going on in Maryland. I can have I haven't I haven't really, but I I think that Um my my view on that is that if you're pro life, you're pro life, which means that you're y you're not for abortions. And you're not forced to suicide and you're not for the death penalty. And I know that thing people do some heinous things in our society. But a life is sacred. A life is what God has given us, and I don't want the government to have the responsibility to take any life. Uh uh I'm gonna wrap up with my own thoughts. We only got a few seconds left. But on that point, years ago I was a hundred percent like absolutely locked up militantly in agreement with you. Now I'm still in agreement with you, just not militantly. And here's what changed for me. I used to think that It's totally wrong to have capital punishment. And then I had to wrestle with some aspects of Scripture that made it difficult for me to hold that view. But now my nuanced view is I believe the Bible gives the governing authorities th that kind of authority. However Our government authorities are so screwed up and not trustworthy i in an honest way and in a judgment way. You can't trust their judgment, you can't trust their honesty. Because it's no good people. have happened we that we know of for a fact. So anyway, so uh you do another show next week? Sure. I still we haven't talked about your chaplain experience, so I definitely want to do that. Okay. Okay. And we got some other political things I'm sure we'll talk about. Maybe we'll talk Angela in the coming on the show next week. We'll see. This is the Faith Debate Online at WFMD. com keyword faith. We're also gonna have this uh show via podcast on the Faith Debate uh on the uh WFMD Facebook page within the next couple of days or so, give us just a little bit of time. I can't do that myself, I'm dependent on our webmaster to get some things prepared for. For me. So if not up there in time, blame him. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.