Welcome to the Frederick Bay Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to you by O I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. First time joining us, this is the roadmap for the show. Frederic Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss. their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. In that spirit we will seriously wrestle with important ideas and might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that we face in this world. Uh back this week from last week, our uh our three panelists, Tony Fish, the spiritual leader at Unity Church in Frederick, Dr. Charles Van Meter, a leading layperson who leads a community Bible study that's been around for years in Frederick and is also chief Last week we were talking about the idea of truth. Is there a universal truth? And um That led this in discussion that uh you know, I'm not sure that we came here. I was right on that issue. And so was I. Uh everybody was right, right? Yeah. Anyway. But one of the things that kept wanting to come up uh in in the show, kept rearing its head, was the idea of uh of of the consequences of your view of the truth. And from a Christian perspective that centers on the person of Jesus Christ and someone's view uh of him and his work. Uh and if you don't have a proper uh truthful understanding of that then you face great difficulties in the hereafter, to put it mildly. That I think would be a a pretty uh pretty flimsy way of trying to s uh provide a synopsis of what uh John Schweitzer and uh Charlie Van Mitter uh said in last week's show. Um and uh Tony Fish wasn't uh quite so sure that that was the case. So we're gonna talk this week uh and try to focus more centrally on Jesus. Who was he, perhaps? How was he different from us? Last week we talked about uh Tony's uh unity tradition, teaching that uh all people have some divinity in them. Uh so how are we different from Jesus? Uh do we have a need for Jesus? And if so, uh why and how do we know that? That's an awful lot, but that kind of gives you the kind of the ballpark sense of where the those provide the perimeter for the discussion. We're gonna try to stay within that, which is I think broad enough that we should be able to do that. So I'm going to start uh with what I think will be a pretty traditional mainline uh Protestant uh description of Jesus, and I'm gonna let uh Charlie Van Mieter do that because I'm I'm anticipating he will do that. Somebody comes to you and says, Who is Jesus? You say? spoke of as the Son of God, but we know from scripture and from particularly the gospels, John in particular, for somebody who was looking for a quick reference point, uh that he is God himself that came incarnate in the flesh to demonstrate who God is. We have uh seen him, the scriptures tell us we've seen him full of grace and truth, that truth being that he is God. And to me, Jesus is the focus of or history focuses. He establishes time in B C A D He everybody in the world knows him, uh, in one form or another, whether they believe him or not, it's another story, but everybody knows Jesus. He's the single most important person that has ever existed. Uh Jesus um in his person uh it requires us to give thought to him. And when we think about him, we have to come to grips with the fact that this is a person that existed in time There's no question. History books reflect on the fact that he existed. Scriptures uh reflect on the fact he existed. He came. He said some things, he did some things, and he challenges us to evaluate those things and form an opinion on him. And he did such dramatic things that you either have to, like C. S. Lewis would say, you either have to believe him or think he's a lunatic. And depending on what you believe on him will determine your destiny. There is no two ways around it. If you believe the wrong thing, you are destined for hell, and there is a real hell, and Jesus spoke of that hell And it's the it is the separation from God and it's forever. And if you believe in him, he says, I'm the resurrection of the life. You have purpose, you have meaning, and you have life eternal, which is Him. Well Tony I saw you in a couple of places nodding, a couple of places smiling. Uh so I'm not sure if that was an agreement or a disagreement. My smiles and my nods were that I absolutely agree with Charlie that Jesus is probably the m single most influential man that has been in this planet for most of us. Um Time does. We we separate our timing now. Um B C E N B C and and um when is it B C and A D now? Yeah. Um and and so it's it's part of that process Where we and and we have to decide, we absolutely have to decide how we see this this Jesus. Where Charlie and I disagree is in The God incarnate versus Jesus, the man who lived the perfect life for for us, for for unity, um, there are three elements of this Jesus thing. There is Jesus, the man that was born. There is the Jesus Christ and there is the Christ Jesus. And it may sound as though I'm splitting hairs, but each one of them is is has a role to play. Jesus was a man. just like all of us are human beings, and in his ability to stay connected and centered in God, where he constantly throughout the Bible and throughout the New Testament points us In the Gospels point us. It is not I but the Father. It is not I but the Father. The Father does. He kept pointing us back to God And so he lived that connection. And so therefore he lived this life and this death and the resurrection. the most in perfect order. In perfect order. And became what we call Jesus the Christ, the ideal man, the ideal that is in God. Once he died and w resurrected and then went back into spirit, ascended, he then became for all of us that place that we can go, that spirit that we can reach out to to say. This is the way I want to live, this is the way I want to die, and this is the way I want to be reborn. So it's a different assumption, and yet he is the way, the truth, and the life And it's the pattern we should follow. Right, John? I think for the most part I I'm agreeing uh with Charlie um in the the distinction that uh that Tony makes between what she believes and what we believe is is probably true. The the point is is that I believe that Christ in the beginning was the word, the word was with God, the word was God. That he was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of man. The light shines in the darkness, but the darkness does not know him. that he came into that which was his own, but his own did not receive him, that Christ is the truth, and the reason why he was rejected is because he is the truth. And those people that rejected the truth rejected him because he is the truth, that that we have seen the glory of God, who came from the Father full of grace and truth, that that that is Christ, he came full of grace and truth, and that that God sent his son to die, his only son, his only begotten son, because mankind cannot do, as Tony was uh was so eloquently saying, mankind cannot live. according to the truth. Mankind cannot be Christ like in and of themselves. Um again I I just feel like that's too prideful. It it it it gives us too much ability and and that that's why we needed Christ. Christ is the one that rejuvenates us. Our spirit is not pure until we believe in Christ. And then that first resurrection that Charlie was talking about earlier, we we are guaranteed eternal life because of what Christ accomplished on the cross. And I guess my my process, my my process of thinking here and my faith tells me that the Christ that we that we all are um affirming is the is the perfection of of God's image of man. It is the perfection of the process. Which which brought to us. So when I hold on to Christ, when I hold on to Christ, um and when I believe in in the Christ's consciousness, that Christ's spirit, um, I am in fact not relying upon myself totally. I am relying upon that Christ consciousness to to be with me, through me, in me, and leading me in the next step. in the next decision, in the next point in my life. Now I don't want to s speak in uh for John and Charlie, so if I say something I'm uh I'm gonna try to encapsulate some things I would anticipate you saying so I want to ask Tony a question. I I would anticipate that you would say you would agree with Tony that uh Jesus uh um is fully man, as she was saying, Jesus is a man like we're man, he he he was but the question I want to ask you is Uh I think I know what John and Charlie's answer. I'll give them a chance to answer this question, but I'm going to ask you what first. From a from a unity uh uh tradition uh viewpoint, uh how was it that Jesus was able to attain the perfection? Good question. Excellent question. And it's gonna probably separate us a little further. Okay? True. Right? Because because now that's okay. The goal show. That's what we're here for is to discuss this. Is that um the the dis the incarnation of that Christ consciousness into form of Jesus was a ds was a a process much like we're gonna not like this one reincarnation. I thought you were gonna I I saw you going there. Our soul that that sense of of of the essence The soul learns, knows, holds. And so Jesus in his being born in this in that time in that place brought into his li into this reality, into this dimension, full knowing. We talk about the veil of of forgetfulness. As he came into this, he brought it in and then grew Okay, not because he was God incarnate differently than we are all. potentially God. So so you're you're almost Buddhist. You're you're basically you're saying that he finally arrived at the enlightenment And he got released into Nirvana, if you will, finally because he he arrived at that spot. He came back here fully aware. The reason why I have such a hard time with that belief system is 'cause it has created the most divided society on the face of the planet. Which one is that? The of uh reincarnation. Buddhism, Hinduism. It has created a society that believes that you Where this person over here is poor because of something that happened in a previous life and they're just paying their karma and this person over here is rich because they did something better in their previous life and as a result it accepts the differences, the different economic levels in a way that has created the most divided society on the face of the world. And that is always the case. That is karma. And that is karma. Which is not necessarily the same thing. But that's not the necessarily the same thing as the system. I want a system like the United States where we can where we can uh work hard and we can uh we can grow. In fact you're the one that's saying that we can be redeemed and that we can grow. And you're the one that is saying let's just get it clear. Okay, this this gets it clear. There is a difference between reincarnation And locked in karma. My by by saying reincarnation, I'm saying that I am reborn. I come back. Okay? I d I am not saying that I come back and am locked into A caste system, like the Hindus say, that is not where I'm going with that. Okay? So we need to be don't don't make that judgment. Okay. Well, let me just respond to that. All I'm saying is that is that those places on the planet that have believed what you are s are b are saying about reincarnation, um, and I believe that W when I read the Dalai Lama, he believes the same way that that what you're saying. It's not a locked in karma. That's right. But what I'm saying is that that belief system that you're saying that you agree with is the belief system that has created a horrendously divided society. It can. Well I think have you ever been there? I've got friends that have been there. It is hell. And it can be it's horrendous over there. And Johnny it can create that. That's dangerous. I would I d I just don't want to allow that. But I grew up in a in a in a Christian belief. That said that y you gotta be you know, it's bad to be rich. You gotta stay poor Now I'm not claiming that for all Christians. The Bible doesn't teach that. I know that. I'm just saying. I'm just saying pretty good pretty well off. I'm just saying that there was a system in place. So we gotta be careful about these systems. Yeah, he has been very patient. Well You know, I think we're we're dealing here with Gnostic teaching that's been around forever. You know, this idea that Jesus was a man and the spirit descended on him and all this business. This has been around and been condemned multiple times in various forms. And we're not dealing with anything particularly new here. And I think it's important that we draw our attention back to what the original discussion was, and that's the person of Jesus. Jesus is not some spirits you can tap into and all of a sudden become uh some divine being and work your way into some uh d different level of karma or different level of salvation or different level of heaven. He says very clearly in John eight, verse 24. I told you that you would die in your sins if you do not believe that I am the one I claim to be. He did miracles. He raised people from the dead, he healed the sick, he he died and rose again himself. He did things that point to the fact you have got to look at this person and come to grips with who he is And you've got to come to grips with the fact that you're a sinner. I don't care what kind of spirit you have or what kind of spirit you're tapping into, this stuff It it's Gnostic teaching, it's false teaching. It's the very thing that got the nation of Israel into the exile because they believed their false prophets and didn't believe the true God. So the teaching of Scripture and the the essence of this program and for the listeners that are hearing is you've got to make a decision about who this person is. Not on some metaphysical teaching, not on some esoteric stuff, not on these sweet talks about the spirit here, the spirit there. You've got to come to grips with the teachings of Jesus. He either was a nut and he s when he said that he was God And he was deceiving you, or he is. If he is, then you have to make a decision on that. If he is a lunatic and didn't do all this stuff, then You have to make a decision on that. All the the many of you that are out there, according to the latest Arbatron ratings, by the way. Uh you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The voice you heard uh most recently was uh Charlie Van Meter, who uh who leads a uh longstanding uh community bible study in the area, also teaches an adult Sunday school class at uh Good News uh Presbyterian. Uh John Sweitzer is on the panel again this week, the pastor at Crosswoods Valley Chapel, and uh Tony Fish who is the spiritual leader at Unity Church. uh in Frederick as well. And we're talking about now the person of Jesus and it has led into some things about uh karma and reincarnation and some other things that that I think uh tie into this obviously from uh from a unity perspective and and uh and Charlie just responded to that. And now I know that Tony wanted to respond to Charlie's response, so I'll give you a chance to do that. I love these response two responses. It's healthy. It is healthy and and I'm I'm excited about it. I f I find that I I I just keep thinking, Charlie, that we're It except for that one point and and for you that's a big sticking point and I and I want to honor that. I recognize that. Other than to say that for me Jesus is The best example, the best model, the best process for finding God. I absolutely believe that. That's my belief. And so I would ask, as I'm willing to honor and open yours, I would at least ask for this period of time that that we at least allow an honoring, that there that there is another way to look at Jesus for this moment. Because he did do those things. He did walk on it. I don't argue at all that he created the miracles. that he did the healings and then he said, These things that I do and greater ye can do also, all of you. And so if I if I'm buying this and if he speaks the truth, then I have to look at that and say, He told me. in his own words, that I can pull from myself when I am in the same connected space with God that he was. And he told me that that's the truth, that I can do that. then that's where I come from my good and that's where he gives me. He showed me how to live. He showed me how to die standing for his in his integrity and in his connection with God. And he showed me then how to be deaf. to to to overcome that death in that process. John Sweitzer is on the on deck circle. Uh Charlie Van Mieter is in the batter's box. Uh ready to swing. Well, you know, I I I'm not here to condemn you. I'm here to say you can believe what you like. But I'm here to say that what you're saying is condemning people that hear it and believe it. Because you're teaching a false doctrine. You're teaching that there's another way to God other than through the belief in the death of Jesus Christ. for your sin and his righteous life that he lived for you. The scripture's clear that God is very angry. If you sin, you die. I come back to that question. If you sin, you die. How do you get around that death? There's no you can't do anything about it. God's going to say, did you sin? The answer is going to be yes. Well then you die. Jesus is standing right in the corner. He says, if you believe in me, I'll take that death on me for you. That's the importance of the person of Jesus. He died for me. Otherwise I have to die for myself. It's extremely important that the listening audience understand the difference. If you face God someday and you've sinned, you're going to have to face your death. It's a spiritual death, it's a second death. There's no way to get around it. No matter what you think of Jesus otherwise, you have to recognize his person that he died for you. That's extremely important in in in any belief system. He made it clear at the cross. Very graphic. And the last thing I'll say, I'll give it to John. I'm sorry, John. I think it's important to keep in mind that one of the difficulties we have today is people are searching for a self-centered way to God. Oh, I can do this and I can do that and I can get this and I can get that. And they are missing the m the most critical thing that God's provided for us, and that's His Word. When his word is taught and it's discussed, like I mentioned in John, you see the divinity of God and see what he did, you have to come to grips with this person. Scripture is very clear. It's obvious to me that this is not based in unity. The scripture is not held at that esteem. Um I'm gonna I'm gonna say that I agree with Charlie again. I uh I feel like his tone is a bit less gracious than uh than Christ's would be. But I but I mean the the the meat of what he's saying I completely agree with in uh Tony eight Um w with the kindness of hearts I would say that I really do think that that what you're teaching uh could condemn people to hell. And um Uh I weep internally about that. I uh uh uh uh nevertheless um I want to again have the discussion just because I think it's valuable. My c my question as I hear you talk is this How do you know what part of what the Bible teaches is true about Christ and which part is not? Because clearly you've thrown out a significant part of what the Bible claims about Christ. Because clearly the Bible teaches that Christ is the the one and only Son of God, the the way, the truth, and the life. No man comes to the Father but through me, that that you must believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. You know, all these kinds of things How do you decide which part to not believe and which part 'cause clearly you y you're you're saying he's the highest, he's the best, he's the greatest. But but you're cutting out some parts and I'm I'm I'm not quite following like what we're allowed to cut out and what we what we're not allowed to cut out. I think we I think John we all do that. We all cut out parts of the Bible. I we don't think I am, but I'd like you I I hope you'd show me. Do you have slaves? Because the biblical view of of slavery is an extremely enlightened view of slavery and it was But it's our cry from what we had in the United States. In the United States slavery was horrendous. I'm not arguing. And it was not biblical. All my point is is that is that the biblical perspective on slavery was extremely dignifying and allowed a way for them to to earn the way out of it. And there's a lot of poor people today that are in bankruptcy and on the street. that would would would die for an opportunity to have that form of slavery. And well I'm telling you I'm not sure about that form of slavery. And I think what let me go back to your question. We'll have to discuss that some other time. You probably did. Let me go back to your question. How do I decide which parts of the Bible I believe and I don't believe or I say are true or not true. Um I look at I look at the At the research that's been done, I look at the context of the book, I look at the timing at the work that's been done by folks who go back to original text. And I then pray on it. And I look at what For me and for these individuals makes sense and mouths at my center. You know, he may be a good thing. Positive, loving, and consistent. Yeah, this is part of what we needed to get to in that last discussion about absolute truth because Unfortunately I think that your perspective on absolute truth leads to greater division than it does to unity. Uh because if if if you if you agree i if if you and I can't agree on an absolute truth then To whatever extent we disagree, we have to part ways. And and if everybody on the planet like for example, clearly Hitler had an absolute truth Yes, he did. That you and I would have to outright condemn and as a society condemn. We we can't allow it. And my point is is that to the extent that we don't have a standard But we're all kind of feeling our own standard. I I just think emotions uh and feelings in an internal way They just can't be trusted. And um there's certainly a lot of uh uh a lot of scholarship that has proven, you know, there's five hundred plus manuscripts out there that that are in agreement, you know, in scripture not changing and uh those that that approach scripture trying to prove that it doesn't say what it really did or somebody changed it tend to come to the scriptures already not believing them and trying to find a way to prove that they don't believe them. And and in that concerns me because they come with an agenda. And I fact do believe in the teachings of Jesus But you still cut out those parts that you don't feel like and and that's my concern. And you and I'm not sure and you and I don't interpret them the same way. And so my position is to allow your judgment And not judge yours. We can talk about 'em, but I'm not going to judge your position. Right. Because that says I and I do agree that I do judge your position. And I have to admit that. I clearly judge you. Nevertheless, I love you like crazy. That's right. The point is judge me already. All three of you, Charlie Van Meter, uh John Sweitzer, and Tony Fish for being on the Frederick Faith Debate. Uh I'm Troy Skinner and this is then Frederick's News Radio uh nine thirty WFMD's presentation of The front of crazy debate. Douglas.