This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all form, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters. Than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. In this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh. The book Renewing Your Mind Daily. Brand new. It's been written by a local, Rowan Stewart. His book seeks to extract key elements of what he calls kingdom culture from a combination of testimony, personal experience, and biblical events. It's a call away from conforming to the traditions of the world and a call to being transformed by the renewing of your mind. I was introduced by Rowan, uh to Rowan by Bob Miller, who is Frederick's Morning Mayor, host of WFMB's Morning News Express. And so back on the panel, it's a two-person panel, just me and Rowan today. Rowan Stewart, author of Renewing Your Mind Daily. By the way, you can visit us online at WFMB. com. keyword faith. And if you listen to last week's show or if you recently listened to the podcast of last week's show, you'll know that I teased uh saying that we would let you know how you could get your hands on the book if you're interested because we kind of ran out of time. at the end of last week's show to to do that justice. So I'm gonna give you a chance, Rowan, to tell people, you know, anybody who might wanna purchase this for themselves as a gift, if you want to su i if it's not for no other reason than supporting a local author. I mean it's pretty cool. Um you know, we've had a handful of authors come on this show over the years, but not that many. You know. Um like I said last week we we're coming up on our fifteenth anniversary of of the Faith Debate Show and we've probably had Maybe a half a dozen or so local authors on. So it's a big deal if somebody writes a book. So if I want to get my hands on Renewing Your Mind Daily, which was a six year labor of love, how do I do that Well yes, please Google Renew Your Mind Daily by Rowan Stewart and you'll see the links for either Amazon, you'll see uh links for Zuland Press, the publisher. So you could just click on that Zool and Press link and that will take you to their bookstore where you can purchase the book. Or you can just go to Amazon and Type the name of the book in Renewing Your Mind Daily by Ron Stewart and you'll see get the full details and the opportunity to purchase. And Rowan is spelled R-O-H-A-N. Rowan. It kind of looks like Rohan, but it's Rowan. That's correct. Rowan R, Stewart. What's the R stand for? The R stands for Roderick. Roderick. Rodrigue. Roderick. Rodrigue. Like a like a Spanish name kinda. Like like Rodriguez. Oh, okay Yeah, you hear Roderick, but you don't hear Roderick so much, so Okay. Very unique, very cool. Now, if you don't mind me asking, you don't have to get into details, but how's the launch of the book gone so far? It's it's been out for a just a little while now. Just about two weeks, yes. I think it's going pretty well. Lots of my friends have inquired about it and purchased. So it's it's going pretty well. Okay. Now did you have to well I'm above my expectation I should say. Oh well well praise God then, right? So I I I imagine that you this sort of thing is an independent personal project, so you don't need to get uh approval from anybody in your church leadership, but Did you seek uh the input or advice or the blessing of people in your your your pastor or other leaders in your life that did did you run the manuscript past them, for example, or anything like that? I I didn't and that's my bad. I I I should have done that. I should have. Yes. I should I should have done that. But I didn't. Because you know, I I could I could leverage uh so much uh wisdom and a and knowledge. And and thing like that. So uh hopefully uh book two I'll I'll do just that. Yeah, as an aside, uh touching on this as a little rabbit trail. Um if you're a Christian And you go to church and you read your Bible and you pray and you do all those sorts of things, good for you, keep doing that. But I'll be willing to bet you there's something that even though you do all those things well, Mr. and Mrs. Christian. Uh you do those things well. I'll bet you you don't do a good job of of availing yourself of the wisdom of the leadership in your church. If you're gonna move from one house to another, that's a big life change. Did you talk to about talk about that with your pastor before he made that decision? If you're gonna change jobs, you're gonna move from one job to another, that's a pretty big life change. Did you talk to a pastor about it, just to get his opinion? You're gonna spend six years writing a book. Did you talk to your pastor about it? If you're going to do these major things, avail yourself. I mean, they're they're under-shepherds of Christ. They're there to provide wisdom and input and uh an encouragement and prayer and uh or or warning and counsel depending on the situation. We do not do a good job uh as a body of believers uh turning to our leaders and say, Hey, I know you love me, you care about me, you share the gospel with me on a regular basis. You you meet with me. I I know that you're there for me. I got this big thing I'm going through. What do you think? So there's my rabbit trail. Do you want to add anything to my rabbit trail or Oh oh yes, definitely I I I fully concur. with you Troy. You know, and and if I could go back I'd I had wonderful pastors like like Pastor John Kenny and and now Pastor uh uh Benny Ferguson and and looking back I I could have leveraged s a wealth of knowledge from from these two two great men of God. But for some reason I uh on on one side I'm kinda independent. and want to do things my way. But looking back, I I should have done that. I I totally agree with you. Well and I and I wasn't singling meaning to single you out or or pick on you out because we're all guilty of it. I've moved many times in my life, not once for any of those moves that I go to my pastor and say, Hey, what do you think about this move that we're thinking about? Well I think we're all guilty of it. So it's just a reminder that uh, you know There's more than just ha hearing their preaching and more than just having their pastoral visitations in a general sense. They're they're there to help to shepherd us, to lead us and support us. So anyway. So, um you wrote this book and it had a number of uh of of uh of reasons and people that inspired you and you mentioned I I can't remember how you say his name, but a friend of yours to Kuma Evelek. Chukuma. Chukuma. Short and short and shooks. Chooks. Chooks. Chooks. So Chooks is a friend and he was a a big motivator or inspiration or s had he was part of a spark anyway. And I guess somehow he was related to a story about nine eleven or something. I don't know. There was something that happened be between last show and this show where nine eleven came up And I didn't get the the the gist of it, but it was something important. So what what was that about? What's what's the nine eleven connection? Yes, so the nine eleven connection. First first I I uh went to apply for a job and They basically uh give gave me the the invitation to to come in and interview and they told me if I got there like a minute late. they wouldn't interview me because this job is time sensitive. So I left my house pretty early and for some reason I I thought I had you know I was making good time. So I went there and I was exactly one minute late. And they told me no. They turned me down for that interview. And I was so disappointed. I just say, how could I do that? I should have left like like like one hour give myself even one hour to get make sure I get there on time and and and you may just you you remember that I came here five thirty today then My interview will use like six but I made sure I came like three minutes early. So so so on this uh particular occasion I got there one minute late and they said no. We're not gonna interview because this job is time time sensitive. So I I was just disappointed. So I went and I uh went down the street that same day and and I just saw sort of a business place and I said, let me go apply So I went over there, applied for the job, and got it, right? Um that's where I met Chooks So I I'm I'm beginning to contact the dots. Maybe God didn't want me at this other job. He is what he wanted me. You know, but things that I learned. So so Chooks was just a a f faithful man of God. He was he was fasting, he was praying. In his break time you would see him just just gobbling up scriptures. Yeah the this the New Testament Bible and he was just reading it, reading Scriptures like, you know, I've never seen before. And and then he was fasting for the entire day, just eating once per day at six six PM. Okay, so I say okay yeah this guy's really it's kinda it's it's kinda crazy. I mean he's just dedicated his entire life to to this lifestyle of fasting and praying. Anyway He called me one day and he mentioned to me, Ron, I just had a dream and I'm so excited about the dream and I'm gonna I'm I'm eagerly awaiting the fruition of that dream And and the details that he described to me I was saying that this guy is now I know he's really crazy. Because did he expect that dream to come come through? Especially with the the the the the s the the specific way that he he he uh detail this dream. I'm saying no it's not gonna happen. That's what I said. So basically Within within weeks, a few months, a matter of fact, someone from Nigeria came and invited him to his church. His friend's church. So he went and that was where you began to see the the the fruition of his dream, the dream coming to coming alive, coming to fruition right before his eyes. So then he mentioned to me, and yes A few months after I saw the exact thing that he told me come to fruition. It was on that day that I said, God. I want to know you like Tooks knows you. So what I started to to pray and fast. I wasn't fasting the entire day. I probably just wasn't bold enough. But like four hours each day, like from eight to twelve. And that time I would would would would would pray, just make sure that I'm not doing nothing else is getting my attention. I would just pray. Read scriptures, put in my CDs. I love Paul Wilbur. And I would just worship. Holy, holy, holy You know, sounds like those. And and read scriptures. And then I began to have the same experiences. So I began to and then I say, Yes, God You are no respect of person. Revelations through dreams were just coming. And but this one one dream I want to mention is about 911. I was I found myself in this in this building. And I was close to the the the staircase and I looked up and I for some reason I could see the very top of the building. And there was fire. And it it it was getting more ferocious. So I got scared. And as I ran down the spiral staircases, I'm running down and I'm frantically running down these staircases And it's like it just the end I could just not see the exit anyway. Finally I got to the exit and then I just see a lot of people. I couldn't number them. A massive amount of people. And they were looking up to the sky. So I went out and I started to look up to the sky all of a sudden. This building like touched the sky. And there was a thick black smoke at the top. And and and then I saw people jumping out. From from the top and of course you're jumping from that high. By the time you hit the ground, you're dead. People are dropping. I see the faces right now, dropping right in front of me. Dead And I'm saying, what's going on that these people would do s such drastic things, taking their own lives by, by, by jumping from so high? I couldn't understand it But then the building started to crumble from the top. And then everyone started to run. Run for our lives because with the debris and the dust and and everything that's coming It was just moving everything out of its path. So anyway, it's a dream, right? She's going fast. So I ran to a place of safety. We all ran to a place of safety. And then when when the dust settled, I said, okay, I want to go back to ground zero. I want to see what's what's what's going on. So I went back and I started to climb on on the rocks. And debris and stuff. And below my feet was just uncomfortable dead bodies. And I said, whoa, and I woke up And I I started to think, okay, it's a church. So we had a couple of functions, you know, church brothers and sisters get together, like do birthdays and stuff like that. And I was telling a couple of friends that this is my dream and I think God's about to shake up the church Well little did I know. September eleventh came and when it happened, uh when I went into work and I realized that I a play and I did the building. And then I was saying, Oh, it's just an accident. And then the second plane hit the building. I said, Oh no, this is not an accident. And then I saw people jumping out. And the dream didn't even dawn on me because the dream was um Janu about January of 2001. Now it's September eleventh. So I I I I forgot about the dream basically. But then when I saw the building begin to crumble from the top and then the people running, I said yes I said, God, there's nothing hid from your face. You know everything. You have everything in the palm of your hands. You you you own yesterday, today, and tomorrow. But you allow Certain things that happen to fulfill your purposes. This didn't catch you by surprise, God. You know everything And and and and so, you know, e and after the event even a couple of my friends, one of my friend in in particular, uh Michael His parents were like were telling him that, you know what? For Rowan to have such precise knowledge, tragedy, he must have been a part. of of of those those culprits. He must have been a part of them. Why he have all this knowledge. That's that's what she said. But thank God my my friend told her no It is the gift of the Holy Spirit. It's the Holy Spirit that reveals these things. So it was quite quite quite uh you know interesting to me that that the monk would have that that idea. But you know, thank God my friend knew otherwise. The guest on this week's and last week's and next week's version of the Faith Debate Show is Rowan Stewart. He's written a book called Renewing Your Mind Daily. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner And you can also find us online at WFMD. com. So uh connecting the dots on that story, so you're feeling like God orchestrated something that you end up being 60 seconds late to a job interview which caused you to not get that job, so you got a different job. And there's a a song from the eighties by the way where it says, sixty-one seconds is all it takes for a nine to five man to be more than one minute late So you were uh a minute late and you didn't get the job and you meet your uh your friend Chooks and he shares with you his habit of of fasting and prayer and how it and th that gave him visions and dreams. So you followed after his pattern, started having visions and dreams of your own. One of them was this kind of this premonition dream of nine eleven. Which has helped to encourage you that God is in control of all things. He knows the beginning from the end and that sort of thing. Had you shared the dream uh before nine eleven? With anyone? Yes, I shared the dream with a number of my friends prior to nine eleven. So I got the dream in in January and I've been sharing with my close friends ever since. And I can remember One July we had like a birthday celebrations a birthday celebration and I will you know I started to tell a few friends about it. So yes. Speaking of birthday celebrations today is my son's birthday. So happy birthday, Tyler. Happy birthday to you, Tyler. So that's why there was some suspicion, like, wait a minute, he told us all these details, you know, few months ago and here it happened. And you mentioned that you thought that you know the message might be that like God was, you know, bringing some sort of a crisis or a judgment or something on the church. Yes. I mean in a sense there could be some aspect of that because the church definitely had a a bit of a momentary what felt like the beginnings of an awakening. It lasted about a day and a half. But it did seem to do that. And it certainly was it certainly was a uh a a a uh what's the word I wanna look for? It was a dramatic uh uh had a dramatic impact on our culture and a and upon the nation, uh, that lasted longer perhaps than the impact it had on the church. Yes. Uh in fact I think it had some negative impact on the church in the immediate aftermath too. I think the uh the motivation to be overly ecumenical where uh Christians and and non Christians were coming together to worship together as though Christians and non Christians worship the same God. So that that was not in from a Christian's perspective, not a glowing moment for for the church. Right. Um and by the way you're talking about you know your f uh your friend Chooks and uh eating one one day or one hour or at the same hour every day. one meal and you were doing uh you know meals at particular times and having long times in between. You guys were ahead of the curve. You know what's really popular these last couple of years is it's called intermittent fasting. Are you familiar with intermittent fasting? People do it to uh to lose weight m mostly, you know, so they they eat one meal and they might they may me they might eat a small meal early to hold them over and then they eat one larger meal and then they don't eat for like twelve hours or eighteen hours or so you guys were you and you you were way ahead of your time. You didn't even know it. Yes, sir. So uh how much time we have left? We have uh We ha we have a handful of minutes. So y rather than getting any any details about the book, I do I don't wanna have you give away everything in the book, but I do want to give people a smattering, kind of a a smackerel to uh to quote Winnie the Pooh A smackerel, a taste. And so we're gonna get get some taste, some hors d'oeuvres of the book in in next week's show. But w with the time we have left on this week's show. What are some of the main theological or inspirational points uh that you're hoping that a reader of your book will come away from. Like you know what is the what's the motive the prime motivator for the book? Yes, yes, thank you to the prime motivator for the book is to just uh awaken the the church again, awaken believers again. That that it's more yes, I I'm not saying that we we can't get into heaven. If if, you know, um we we don't a da adopt uh uh a lifestyle of of fasting and stuff like that. I'm not saying that we can't get into to heaven, but what I'm saying is If for example, if if if I go to the ATM machine, I need to access funds. But I could I could stop myself by not inserting my bank card and and putting my PIN number in. I could starve myself. Right? So so so the kingdom is is like that too. We have keys. Jesus Christ saying I've given you the keys to the kingdom. So we have keys, and these are keys. When we draw into the presence of God, when we get intimate with God in fasting and prayer, these are the keys that access access greatness. No no the the point I wanna people, you know my audience to to take from the book is this is a book that's point pointing us back to fasting and praying and reading scriptures and worshiping God, putting your CDs and just worship God God loves worship. By the time you start worshiping God, you will fill that atmosphere with this with the spirit. And this is what we need. A lot of times I'm worshiping and things are being deposited in in my mind Some things like like you know, simple fixes on my house, how to resolve things or who to connect to it. And these are just dropping in my spirit. Out of worship. I've I've seen a lot of things that that puzzled me and when I started worship I'm just enlightened. So that's where we get enlightened from, right? You go into worship and and reading scriptures, it just enlightens you. So again, I want people to understand that that we we're living in a culture today that's predominantly uh the focus on on on self. The the lust of the eyes, the the the lust of of of of the pride and the loss of the eyes and the loss of the flesh It's it this wave is carrying us away from the culture of the kingdom of God. So we need to come back, deny self. Taking up our cross and following Jesus Christ. So the book wants it. The book starts out with this, with forgiveness, showing us, giving us an example, a testimony. of of a couple who who went through uh uh uh uh went through turmoil in their marriage, but how they resolve it by just clinging to God and and just just waiting for God to give them to show them how to resolve the issue. It's all there detailed in in in the first chapter about forgiveness. The it also goes into love, unconditional love. So these are the things that we need to come back to as the church. It's not an eye for an eye but but forgiveness and an unconditional love. So there's a teaser for some of the kinds of things we'll hear next week's show. And uh at the beginning of this week's show you heard how you can purchase the book. Um and again I've done it two shows in a row. Next week I'll do better. We will uh have time at the end of the show as well as maybe at the beginning of the show to tell you how to buy the book or we probably out of time. Renewing your mind daily is the name of the book. Just Google it. Rowan Stewart, R-O-H-A-N. Rowan Stewart, he's the author. You know, Google Renewing Your Mind Daily, Rowan Stewart, and I'm sure you can figure out How to buy the book. You're sophisticated for crying out loud. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMB. I am Troy Skinner. Thank you so much, Roman, for being on the show again. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.