Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope. in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Our sponsors, Futman Plumbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile. Our show's online at WFMD dot com, keyword faith. You could also see us on the um Facebook page for WFMD. Not sure how all that works. I guess you if you're on Facebook you know how to do that. You just type in WFMD and it takes you there, I guess, right? Something like that? See, I got I got an expert who can help me figure that out. And you can email me Troy Skinner at iHeartMedia dot com The person who said yep there, that's Hilary Papuches. She is the social media doctor. Hi, Troy. And you can follow y you can be followed, right? I I can be followed. That sounds so strange. Yeah, I can be followed as social media uh doctor on Twitter. Um you can find me Hilary Capuches. Just first you'll find me. So social media doctor all the whole thing, yes. Social underscore media underscore DR. Okay. A little more specific. And you can check that. You can check her out online at um the smdoctor. com. Correct. And if you go there, because that might be easy to remember, go to S go to is it the SM doctor, right? The word the how you like the. Oh, is that weird? I've never nobody's ever pointed that out. The SM doctor. I have a tendency to use V when the next word begins with a vowel. Otherwise I usually say that. But anyhow. Interesting. But anyway. Tomato tomato. So V S M Doctor Dot com dot com. And if they go there, they can see what your Twitter handle is. Exactly. Is that the right lingo? That is correct. Absolutely. You're really catching on there, so I'm really proud of you. Yeah, I know. You're easily impressed. Thanks for having me on. So Hilary is um uh uh a self avowed not sure what I believe person. Right, yes, that is and uh If you've been listening to this show for any length of time, by the way, we're celebrating now eleven years and entering our twelfth year of doing this show. Happy Thanksgiving, everyone. Happy Thanksgiving, Double Campbell. I am uh if you've been listening, you know that I'm a Christian. I would fall in the Protestant camp on things. I would probably fall into the uh conservative evangelical camp as long as you properly identify and define those terms, because those can be pejorative if they're used. uh unfairly. I want to be miscellaneous. So you're miscellaneous. You're in the check other box. I'm in the other box. Yeah. Yeah. The problem with checking the other box though is it always has explained. I know, then you have to read a whole paragraph. I know, that's so true, Troy. You're so funny. Okay, so We're talking about um well last week we talked a l a little bit about, you know, your perceptions of what Christianity stands for and what your uh concerns with that are. And so far I feel like I've done a pretty good job of saying the things you're concerned about don't even exist. Right, exactly. You're taking away all my fears and anxieties. So you have like no reason Not to, right? Not to, at this stage. Now we haven't figured out every possible objection you might have. Right. But so far the things that you've pushed back again and I I I I'm I'm being a little bit tongue in cheek But seriously I feel like the things that you put up as well, I don't like this about Christianity, I don't like that about Christianity. Yeah. Uh I've I feel like I don't like it, I just I'm not I'm not willing to embrace that and join the you can't like fully sign up. You know what I mean? Yeah I'm not gonna sign up for something that believes that or does this. And so far I've been kind of making the point, hopefully somewhat persuasively, that what you're reacting against isn't Christianity Right. What do you think I'm reacting against, right? Well I think you're reacting against church entity. Ooh That's my own term as far as far as I know it's my own we need a definite I don't think that the if I stole that from somewhere I apologize but I don't think I've read that or heard that. I think I think that's my I I uh but again, if I'm wrong, email me Troy Skinner at iHeartMedia dot com or t or tweet at uh Hillary and let her know that uh Troy's an idiot. He got this from so and so who sent it back to the case. We'll let it be known on the microphone. But anyway, in America particularly, but I think the West, I think it's fair to say just in the West, uh uh churchianity is very popular. And go on what is it? So church and um You live in the suburbs, you go to a megachurch, you join a prayer group, you do a Bible study, you live the good life, you try your best to be a good person. Uh you say all the right words. You know how to pray with these and ths when appropriate. Um you uh can do a a a masterful job of reading a scripture uh passage in church maybe. You're comfortable praying out loud, you know, all these indicators that oh They are an A plus C. You're part of the team. Right. And that's a complete misunderstanding of what the faith is all about. Yeah. The faith isn't about all the team members really. I mean not that the body of Christ is not critical. Isn't that just about the head coach? But it's about Jesus Christ. There you go. And so he's more than the head coach, right? He is he is He's the manager. He is the team, and only those who are in Christ are on the team. Okay. It's I know, it gets it it's a philosophical thing is whatever, but but too many people are misunderstood. So what passes for Christianity is really just cultural and it's not necessarily biblical. So we talked last week about the sinner's prayer. And I I know I made some people mad, I'm sure I did. That's fine. Hey, I'm right. They'll forgive you. I'm right. When they come to realize I'm right, they will forgive me. Uh but the Bible has nothing, no language at all like that. None. Really? What does None. Well There's no Jesus, I want to invite you into my heart. Forgive me for all my sins, I trust you as my Lord and Savior. Those words do not exist in the Bible. It's just something made up. The concepts are kind of there about the idea that you should, you know, uh, believe in your heart and and uh and confess with your mouth and those sorts so there's some concepts there But there's nothing about pray this prayer and you're in. In fact, some some uh traditions uh in the Christian uh um world would say that, you know, uh when you're baptized you're saved. And I'm gonna make some people mad at this too. Bible says nothing about when you're baptized, you're saved. Now there is something significant. I believe the Bible does support that something significant and spiritually real is happening in baptism. But you can be saved And then get baptized six months later. Doesn't mean that you weren't s saved as a kind of a colloquial term, right? Born again, saved, saved, a Christian a true Christian, a believer in Christ, a follower of the way You know whatever language you want to use there, you are truly that even if you don't get baptized for six months. Or ever, really. What if you're in a desert and there's no water? Right. What are you gonna do? Are you damned eternally? But that is not an excuse, listener, for saying, Well, I'm a Christian but I've never been baptized, so the Troy Skinner on the radio said it was okay. If you truly are a Christian, then you're not bound to do anything. We talked about this last week. There's no rules you have to follow. However, if you are truly a Christian, you want to follow. Out of loving gratitude, what your Savior has done for you, what God has done to rescue you from your sin, you want to do what he says you should do. And Jesus says you should be baptized if you're a believer. So if you call yourself a Christian, you've never been baptized, shame on you Go get baptized. So we're saying that in a loving way or like okay, good. Yeah. Little tough love, but you know, shame on you. Tough love is good. Yeah. Parents give tough love, you know. It's important. And if you feel like listening to this show is all the uh religious teaching you need, oh Literally, God help you. But if you're one of you're listening to the radio preachers or the TV evangelists and that sort of thing and you're reading your books and doing your devotionals and so you don't go to church because you get all you need. from you know staying at home and worshiping. Shame on you too. Why? Because you're robbing a local congregation of Christ's body from what you can bring to the table. You don't think there are people out there who need your intellectual insight, who need your loving arms wrapped around them during tough times, who need your prayers uttered publicly, who need you to fill the seats so the pastor doesn't feel like a fool preaching to a bunch of empty wooden pews? You are needed. So if you're staying home, shame on you. Go find a church. Hmm. If you need and if you need help finding a church, email me. I'd be glad to help you find a church. There are several really good ones in Frederick County. And the surrounding area. So you think you actually have to go to the church to be like fully committed to Jesus? Is that correct? If you are fully committed to Jesus, you will end up going to church right now. You will want to. You'll want to. You will want to. And if you don't want to, there's a deeper issue going on there that probably should be examined and talked about. Like why don't you want to go to church? Hm. Because it's early, because it you know what I mean? It's inconvenient. I mean I could think of a million reasons. Yeah. Well, you know I could be right dress. I could be really pithy and and sassy here and say, well it was really inconvenient for Jesus to hang on the cross. Ooh, whammy, that's so true. Good point. Anyway. So is that what you say though? Like is that something like if a child had a objection 'cause I don't have any kids, so I'd have to about this. Well here's the Do I say that if they're like, Well, I don't want to go to church and be like, Well, Jesus is hungry on the crowd, that's what I'm supposed to say. I will say this, you know, Christians get criticized and oftentimes rightfully so for being too judging And so oftentimes you get you know quoted you get Bible verses out of context quoted at you and say, you know, judge not lest ye be judged, you know. Right. The problem is the context, that's not what that passage that's not what that verse is meaning to say. The fact of the matter is, and I'm saying this for you because you've probably heard that sort of a thing, and you're like, what what are we supposed to believe? Right. Those who aren't believers, those who don't profess to be Christian. Right. We have no reason we have no biblical grounds for judging them. We are to love them, demonstrate grace to them, be winsome, be prepared to give a reason for the for the faith and the hope and the joy that we have in Jesus Christ. But we are not to be judging walking around saying, Oh Hilary Papuchus, you dirty sinner who does this or does that You're not professing to be a Christian. Right. So I need to be explaining to you in loving terms, and I mean this by the way, I'm not making this I truly try to live this. I need to be expressing to you my heartfelt concern for your eternal Why do you care so much about my eternal destination? You know, why do you care about that? Because Jesus Okay, if the whole this is like an overused cliche kind of example. If the whole world is dying of thirst and I have discovered the place of water. Mm-hmm. Am I not gonna want to lead you to that place of water? How hard hearted and cold would I have to be to say, Well, forget Hitlery letter die of thirst. What do I care? Yeah. But what if I you know, what if I was like not a nice person to you You know, the other thing is the you know the cliche gets used a lot as, you know, I'm just I'm just one beggar to another showing you where there's food. So the only reason I wouldn't want to share it with you is somehow I feel like I'm better than you. Do you think that happens frequent do you think that happens like in the religious communities? Like do you feel like there's always some one person like thinks they're better than other people? Well I think everybody thinks they're better than everybody. Yeah. As a natural instinct, right? I don't want to be better than anybody. You know, so we have a tendency to think that way get better uh like the hierarchy or be like all up in the church you know be all extra political. No no I'm not talking about That. I'm I'm I I'm saying that would be wrong. Right, right. So I'm agreeing with you. So I think it's I think that's like another turn off that I have sometimes. So you're saying go to the go to the church, you know, support, put your butt in the seat and like listen to the message and be there, have your body there, your mind there. But at the same time it's like then there's all this humanly error type of things going on in churches all the time, scandal that Um that makes you kind of feel like you you're like, well what the heck? Like they're just completely missing the message. Yeah, well and that becomes the important thing. If you're looking for a church, not just you Hilary, but anyone's looking for a church. Maybe somebody listening. Right. Because they they don't exist. Because they're run by humans and humans are not perfect. Yeah, and we all have well we're all gonna have slightly different ways of how we view things and understand things, so no church's theology is absolutely one hundred percent perfect. Right. Uh is it ever evolving? No Or not really? No. Constantly. And reformed people have a tendency to say reformed and always reforming Oh. Yeah, you're constantly trying to Is that like a born again thing? Like is that a a born again Christian type of variety or a Um Well yeah Reformed people would would be comfortable with the whole born again language, but not all born agains would consider themselves reformed. Okay. I just don't know. I don't have that much experience with So I'll give you the things like that. There was a split um you know there's one church, always one church, but there have been splits within that one church, unfortunately. So you know, a thousand years in there's a split between the East and the West. The Eastern Church and the and the Western Church was pretty much the Roman Catholic Church. Right. And then about five hundred years after that, there's another big split, the Protestant Reformation. Right, yes. Well The the the fact of the matter is to say that there was a reformation is probably not as helpful as we would like it to be. The reality is it was more like a whole bunch of brush fires breaking out all over Europe at the same time. And so There wasn't really a reformation so much as there were a whole bunch of reformations like plural happening. No, no, but just different different pockets of ch Lots of change, a lot of people breaking away from or challenging, not really breaking away the Roman Catholic Church kicked the Protest kicked the Protestants out But the the the reformers weren't all working together. Luther was up in Germany doing his thing and and then he had Zwingli doing his thing uh in in Northern Europe or the the Netherlands area. And then shortly after that you have guys like John Calvin leading the Reformation in France and and Geneva and things like that. And then and then there's the Reformation in in uh in England with the Anglican tradition springing from that. See all these different they all kinda happened around the same time because um things were ripe for there to be reform. Right. And everybody was recognizing, but they didn't all do it necessarily together. So you have this Lutheran tradition that is Protestant and they believe in being born again. Okay. But then you also have where I was to s shorten this. Where I would fall will be more on the Calvinist side of things, John Calvin, and people who adhere to that camp are called the Reformed within the Reformation. So uh they would also be comfortable with the born again language. Okay. And what all do they believe that's Like makes them unique Christians, I guess. Or is that making it usually the the difference is there is where you start to get into theological hair splits. So they're gonna have a different view on what the meaning and import of the uh Lord's Supper is, uh what's happening in and during baptism, um, you know, how church um leadership should be structured. Should it have, you know, a hierarchy? Should it be a a a a a body of of elected leaders? You know, there's should be congregational. There's all these different so church governments gonna be a little bit different, view of the sacraments gonna be a little bit different. Oh, is that like uh the wine versus like juice? Like in the church, well some some traditions believe that the the the the bread and the wine literally become the body and blood of Jesus. We just can't see it with our senses. We can't grasp it with our physical senses, but it doesn't but it's true nonetheless. Others say no, no, no, they're merely symbolic. Right. Others say no, it's not merely symbolic, but they don't all s actually don't actually become the body and blood, but symbolically and spiritually they are. So that's the So those are three main So anyway, so all those sorts of things people are gonna say, well I agree more with this nuance or that nuance. Mm-hmm. And then John Sweitzer is not here this week, but his you know his his tradition is more uh puts more emphasis on the leading of the Holy Spirit um and uh and some of the what are called the charismatic gifts. So they're gonna be a little more emphasizing the the idea of there being present day prophecy and healing in a way that is uh uh uh more emphasized than some of the other Protestant traditions and so forth. So anyway, see how all these other reasons. But they all the Protestants would have hold in common the need to be born again. Mm-hmm uh and would would say that the Bible is their authority until recent times, until the last generation. where the mainline Protestant uh traditions have um begun to drift from commitment to the Bible. Okay But up until the last generation, everybody was saying, oh, the Bible says, the Bible says, the Bible says, and this last generation or generation and a half, it's it's begun to drift into Well, all kind of depends on the historical context of what we want to mean with the Bible. And the Bible can mean different things to different people, and you start to water down the authority of Scripture and you start having lots of So do you take the Bible like literally? Well or figure like Define define literal. Like um It says It says grab that coffee in front of you and you like will grab that coffee in front of you. Okay, yeah. Well the Bible doesn't doesn't say that, but I will say that every truth that the Bible puts forward is literally true. Is that literally every sentence? But every abbreviation. But every word in the Bible is not meant to be taken woodenly literal. Because there's metaphor. Right. Right, there's simile. There's lots of poetry in the Bible. Poetry as is as a genre is not a literal genre. There's apocalyptic language which is not is about as far from literal as as you can read. Right. Oh my gosh. So uh there but there is prose and there's historical narrative and some of those things we should take more literally Uh but no, we need to be this is a b a big debate uh right now, not to get sidetracked, but there's a big debate of how to understand the first couple of chapters of Genesis, the first book of the Bible. Oh wow. Because it's a heavily poetic prose. Mm-hmm. So is it poetry or is it prose? And if it's prose, you're gonna take it a little more literal. If it's poetry, you're gonna have a little bit more information. You can yeah, you can maybe see but the bottom line is If you're gonna say that um I don't know, I can't I'm drawing a blank right now, but if you come up with a metaphor, the point of the metaphor is that God loves people. Mm-hmm. And that is the point of the metaphor, the point is God loves people. And God loving people, that is literally true. So Well thank you for that. So hopefully that helps. That helps a lot. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner, and I am joined this week by Hilary Papuchis, the social media doctor. And speaking of social media You had some questions off air and I wanted to see if I could try to respond to them. I'm not sure what to expect here, but you had some questions about hashtag blessed or praying online or something. I mean I am a s social media person, so I do this like all the time. I've really watch trends and things that happen on social media and see what people are talking about and see what people are sharing. Um and I mean number one, people are sharing about their families. That's number one. Um but then I also see a lot of things like you know, g mm asking for prayers and stuff like that via Facebook, like and to me like if I have a situation with my family or like a personal tragedy or something like that. Like I don't necessarily want to put that stuff out there. Um but I don't know, like what are your thoughts and feelings on that since you are of the religious community. Like, do you think that it's an effective way to get out, I guess, prayer requests? Well or is it like a little bit Are you showing like too much? Well I don't know that Christians are any under any obligation to put prayer requests out on social media. Right, but I think but I don't think there's any prohibition for it Uh either. And I think part of it would depend on who do you like if you're gonna send out a tweet, it's your followers that see it, correct? Right. So if you kinda know who your followers are and you feel like, okay, these peop people I want to know about this prayer request. Right You know, if you have ten thousand followers and you couldn't possibly know them all personally and you're sending out something personal, is there wisdom in that I'm not sure. Right. But I don't think there's anything necessarily wrong with it. Putting on Facebook, same thing. You kind of know who your friends are on Facebook, right? Yes, that's true. So you want to put it out there. I mean but Just when I see it, because I'm not like A question at this point in time. Um I don't know. After the Frederick Face maybe maybe I will be but So does it just it causes question for you or offends you or what's the offend mean necessarily. It just I guess just 'cause I was raised with a place where you just don't like air your dirty laundry per se. And not saying that like people gr grandma's getting sick or whatever is your dirty laundry, but I don't know, I guess we were just made to be more, I guess, personal, like things personal, like closer to your chest? There is some wisdom and I I will say this. Some people, you know, they become Christians and they get so filled with love and acceptance and they're washed clean of their sin and they and they feel like they've now d dived into this pool of absolute love and acceptance of others. And I want to warn you, uh not all Christians are No Christian is fully sanctified to the point of glorification yet. So all Christians are still flawed, sinful people. Right. And so they're still gonna have attitudes and biases and and hang ups and things that Maybe they won't have in ten years, but they have them now because they're they're still growing and progressing in their faith. And so you're gonna expect that, oh, everybody's got this wonderfully mature Christian Oh God. Yeah, that'd be awful Some people are gonna love you in that situation and love you through that situation and help to restore your marriage hopefully and all that. But others may holy cow, you said what? You did what? I can't believe you did that, I can't believe you said that in church of all places I mean I guess it's the appropriate place to say something like that, but at the same time. In that particular case, I would say it's too much sharing because it's not just you that's impacted. Right. It's a sin that you shared in with somebody else. So now you've exposed that person's sin, maybe they didn't weren't ready for that. And you've exposed your spouse in a very vulnerable emotional way that's probably not fair unless you got permission to do it. And if there are kids involved Or co workers that know you and your f and your spouse. I mean it's more complicated than just fessing up your sin in a public forum. So in that case I would say that's oversharing. Right. Um or standing up and saying, um, I spent seventeen hours in the last week viewing online photography. Right, exactly. Probably not the best thing to do publicly. But it doesn't mean you shouldn't find somebody that can help you work through that that you can trust Right. A a mentor, your pastor, an elder or some other leader in your church and say, I'm wrestling with and too many Christians will err on the other side. W uh my concern for the Christian church is not so much what you're saying where they're oversharing. My concern is we're too prone to wear masks and be dishonest about our struggles even with ourselves. Yeah. And so we won't admit that we've got a porn addiction or that I'm flirting with the secretary at work or that I've got road rage issues or Right. You know, whatever those Things are. Oops, hold on a second. Well I realize that I messed up a technical issue and I'm gonna have to fix that now. Here we go. Now we're on track. Sorry about that. That's okay. Little behind the scenes action. So I think there's wiz and I think if somebody is oversharing and hopefully their pastor is a Facebook friend of theirs or is following them on Twitter, they'll be able to say, Hey, uh Hillary Hm. Appreciate where you're coming from on this, but that's probably not something you need to broadcast to the universe. Right, exactly. I mean I think that and not just When I see stuff like that, it's not that I'm offended by it. I just think that if it was if it it is me, I have to live with myself every day. But it's like If I want to have a r a conversation with God or or whomever this person in my life is or entity in my life is, 'cause I just don't want to put it I I refuse to put a label on it. But um it's something like personal to me like that I'll be sitting in my car, I'll be driving, I'll be thinking or listening to a a song like I like I like Christian music, like I think it's really uplifting and part of it, you know, when I do go to churches or wherever It's interesting 'cause a lot of it I don't like. I love the I love the music. Like I I love some of it, but some of it I can't stand I mean I don't love all of it, but I like kind of the alternative rock variety. I don't know why. It's just kind of random and it I'm always well you like that genre. No, it's not. I mean it's like they don't even mention Exactly. You wouldn't know it was Christian unless the the genre was identical. But I like I like that kind of like where they sneak it in there. I like that. That's it it appeals to me. But when I'm having like a an issue or fr you know, something I'm wrestling with, like, that's something I'm gonna just take time to kind of meditate on, I guess, kind of do my yoga, like get centered and kind of just have that Conversation with myself, like and w with God or whomever it's a good idea. if they already have it a renewed appreciation and then if they've never had it, the beginnings of an appreciation for community. This is something I don't want to share, Troy. If you were to become a Christian. Right. And I was saying, you know, no pressure here. No, it's fine. I have so many ways we got about a minute left in this show, so if you want to convert right now, we've got about a minute. Oh my gosh, let's go Uh but otherwise, seriously, if you were to become a Christian in ten years, you and I having the same conversation, I think you'd give me different answers. Oh yeah, definitely. I mean I know myself. You know? So anyway. All right, like I said, about a minute less, I'm gonna put a wrap on this edition of the Faith Debate Show. Hilary Papuchius, you can find her online at the smdoctor. com. Did that for you? I loved it. Did that for you. Uh she's the social media doctor. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Valley Church. He is very silent this week. He didn't speak hardly at all. It's because he's not here. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile Uh once again I invite you to visit us online, WFMD. com. Keywordface takes you right to our page. And you can find us on Facebook with some uh regularity. I don't know, once, twice a week we'll do something online on the Facebook page usually, WFMD's Facebook page. And you can follow you Yes. What is it again? Social underscore media underscore DR. Social Media Doctor. That's a lot to remember. Anyway, what have I been reading lately? This is uh, oh I could go on a rant on this. Dr. Spencer Johnson, Who Moved My Cheese? Very popular. I do not recommend. Till next week. God bless.