Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Flipman, Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? My name is Troy Skinner, joined this week by The always affable Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and I'm not sure if you're affable, but we're hoping you're unflappable. Um Matt Thompson, who is the outreach coordinator or outreach pastor, and I'm blending your titles now. Outreach pastor at Calvary Assembly in Frederick. And the coordinator for the Convoy of Hope event is coming up in Frederick uh at the fairgrounds on June eighteenth, Father's Day weekend. And I'm gonna I'm gonna be asking some pointed questions probably at some point, but so that the people have a sense of context, one of my best friends in the whole world, one of my lifelong friends, almost lifelong, I've known him for uh the vast majority of my life, is a muckity muck with convoy of hope He's uh I forget what his title is exactly. It might be Muckity Muck, I'm not sure. Uh Chief Muckity Muck. Yeah, Chief Yeah, Chief Muckity Muck. But he's uh his job is to go on site and coordinate emergency disaster response uh things. That's that's one of the big things that Convoy Pope does all around the world. Sure, that's kind of their key mark. Yeah, that's their big thing. They went to like they were in Haiti after the the um uh earthquake there and they were down in New Orleans during the after the Katrina hurricane and you know, that sort of thing. And he's goes down there and the stories he tells about I mean That's not my ministry, I'll tell you that. Conway Pope's been recognized as one of the premier volunteer mobilization organizations in America. That that's they they are it's pretty amazing. Like people were critical of the government's response with FEMA and stuff after Katrina. A convoy of hope was there on the ground responding way before FEMA even got the phone call, I think. I mean it was they're on they're on top of it. And I and I've You he you have a friend, he's a he's a muckity muck somewhere, right? And you kinda take it for granted. So he's motivated. Well, somebody gave me uh a Convoy of Hope book once. I don't know if it was you maybe, Matt. Somebody gave me a book about Convoy of Hope. Tell me how the story ends and then I'll tell you if it was me. Uh I don't remember how it ends. I mean how it ends. Okay. But anyway, so I'm reading this book And all of a sudden you see this picture. I'm like, hey, that's Nick. That's my bo he's pictured in this book. Then later on he's pictured again. Later on he's quoted in the book. I'm like, oh, he really is a mucky mug. Look at that. So anyway, Convoy of Hope is doing a lot of great work, I think, around the world, this this uh responding to needs. And then part of it's a this is disaster uh kind of this acute disaster where all of a sudden out of nowhere, bang, disaster strikes. Which is hopefully not us. Right. But there's this other sort of disaster Where it's not acute, it's just ongoing disaster. Life feels like a disaster. You can't pay your bills, you can't provide for your kids, you're not sure how you're gonna make rent next week, or You know, all those sorts of things. When people are living in a constant state of disaster, we think in terms of oh, those poor people in Haiti, those poor people in New Orleans, there are poor people in Frederick. Yeah. And I spoke to 'em today. And Matt and his association now with Convoy of Hope is bringing an event to Frederick to basically do disaster relief, if you will, if you will, for people on a given day. Right? That's a good way to put it. So I'm gonna give you a minute to explain what it is and then I'm gonna spend the rest of the show tearing everything to shreds. That's my goal. All right. Let's have it. So so Convoy Pope, as you may have heard, uh, is is essentially a big carnival kind of atmosphere, Jonathan, and and we're gonna have a good time that day. It's It's targeted toward the poor and the working poor of Frederick County, which working poor is is uh ever growing and and not far at all from home. Uh so so these guests will come free. All-inclusive, we'll have a kids' carnival, free haircuts by licensed stylists, and free photography, uh free health care, free dental care, free job fare. Uh community services organizations will be there giving information and education because often the working poor aren't familiar with what services are available, so we want to make sure that we educate them. Uh the one of the big one of the big draws is free groceries. We'll have a ton of free groceries to give away. Every adult will walk away with several bags of groceries uh free entertainment, free giveaways, uh the list goes on and on and on. At at the end of the day they'll also uh have the opportunity for prayer if they would like that. So we're we're kind of hitting all the different angles from financial needs and emotional needs and and uh spiritual needs uh across the board we wanna we wanna try to be a solution. You know the big the big word that comes to my mind is Jubilee This is a Jubilee event. You know, normally when when churches are giving, you know, uh to the poor, that there's a lot more uh careful delineation between who should receive and who shouldn't receive. But this day, convoy of hope, there will be no questions asked. Everybody that comes will get a free bag of groceries and will have a opportunity for all this other free stuff. with no questions asked. And that is an uncommon thing. And I would say it's something that should not be done all the time. But when it is done once a year and it's done with with an abundance of love and and care. It is a beautiful thing and it's something that that is a great expression of a community that really has a big heart. Uh and I'm excited about that part of it. You guys you introduced me Troy as the the outreach pastor at Calvary Assembly. And if you call me today at Calvary Assembly and say, Matt Um can I'm down and out and and life stacked against me, I'm I'm being evicted. I can't just freely write a check from Calvary Assembly. That's not how our parameters are set there. We We obviously have have to have some kind of parameters. So I understand that stress and and that's something that weighs heavy on me. Convoy hope, different story. Completely different story. It show up with a heartbeat and and you're in. Now one of the critiques or criticisms could be that what's to stop somebody who makes three hundred thousand dollars a year to show up and get a bag full of groceries and walk out. Absolutely not. Nothing whatsoever. If they feel like it's gonna make them feel better, they're making three hundred thousand dollars a year then they can deal with looking themselves in the mirror at the end of the day. Well see and and people have asked me that because that's legitimate. Uh and and I'm sure that it happens. Actually people like that we're trying to get them to give uh you know ten thousand dollars or so to the event. And and as uh as the Christian, I want them to come and and be nurtured by p potentially a thousand other Christian volunteers from our local churches. They're gonna love on them just the same and uh and I'm not the one that's gonna have to convict them. I'm not the one the one that's got to look in the mirror at the end of the night and I I'm I I mean if that's the case and they they feel obliged to do that. You know? I mean if they're gonna if they're so you know, uh uh unwilling to spend their own money that they would come and take groceries from a situation like that. That would be unusual and uh I'm sure that they would need Much more than we'll be offering. Now that person might be more rare, but there could be somebody that's making fifty, sixty thousand dollars a year that feels like, well, I'm I'm not in desperate straight, but hey, free bag of groceries, a free bag of groceries got that too, right? And and can I maybe enlighten you a little bit about what I hear on a day-to-day basis? There are people making fifty and sixty thousand dollars a year that can't keep food on the table right now. And I think as a pastor, how my goodness, fifty, sixty thousand, how you doing that? But Troy, two years ago people are are signing off on paperwork for mortgages that are a couple thousand dollars a month and it's no big deal 'cause mom and dad are both pulling down good numbers, right? Frederick County, there's there's an affluent population in Frederick County where a hundred thousand dollars a year isn't necessarily out of the picture. Well, if one of those income goes away, you're quickly cut in half. And oftentimes that that second income is now working at sixty percent just to get a job. So what breaks my heart to think sixty thousand scenario where s where a person like that Right. And what do you do? You sell your house? Now one of the good things uh that would come from, you know, the potential of having a three hundred thousand dollar earner in line grabbing groceries is that the person who is in really desperate straits doesn't necessarily have to feel a stigma. Correct. Because people could assume, you know, they might be Scrooge. They might not be poor. They just might have a cold heart. But maybe there's no there's no it's not an automatic the people that are there uh are admitting to having a need. They don't have to be more vulnerable than they're comfortable being. Right. So there's so there's an advantage to that. So I can see that. Now you meant you're a pastor. You're a pastor. Um you're you're involved in this event somehow, some way, shape, or form, aren't you, Jonathan? Yeah. Yeah. If nothing else, it's like a cheerleader. I'm trying to play a free safety and just help out wherever there's need. So you're a couple of pastors, you mentioned about all the Christian volunteers and you're trying to meet their physical and and economic and spiritual needs. So I mean sounds a little churchy, is uh a little bit too of too much of a spiritual event for maybe a secular community? It may be for some. Uh but here's here's the way it's gonna play out that day and I I would challenge you to come and and see for yourself if it's going to be. Uh we are in in no way driving our Christianity vocally that day, so to speak. There will be several opportunities where where people can hear the gospel message presented. if they choose to. Um but there's no obligation. You can walk away. The the the driving force of this is we want to show you what Christ has done by by loving you, by serving you all day long. So I think you'll feel that through this through the event throughout the day. Uh when you leave, there'll there'll be a prayer tent just so people kind of know how this works. You'll you'll walk out through our our prayer tent, our connections tent. And we'll have volunteers that will ask you from from a variety of different churches, uh, did you have a good time today and is there anything we can pray with you about? And if the answer is yes, You've you've asked us then to pray with you and and we'll we'll help meet that spiritual need. And if no, no harm, no foul, no no questions asked, just the same will we'll uh scort you out and help you load your groceries in your car. You know, and this is this is the way that I think that um care for the poor should happen. Right? There shouldn't be a sense that that those organizations that are more evangelical uh have to muzzle themselves when they're in the environment. But it should also be the case that when people come to receive the help, there's not this sense that somehow they're they're having something forced on them, at least this particular event. That there's just a free sense that we're just we're just, you know, fellow Americans and we're gonna love one another. This event also provides an opportunity that if you want more than that and you do want some kind of prayer or something like that, then you're free to get it. But it's not in a forced kind of a way. There's a sense of of you get to choose, you get to say, yes, I want that as well, or no, I don't want that as well. And that seems to me like a very um uh healthy balance for a city to to strike where they're not pushing, you know, uh people that want spiritual help, you know, away say, sorry, we you know, we're not interested in that, but we're also not um not forcing something on you either. And so it's a it's a healthy balance. It's really profound the way that they've uh they've struck me. And as a pastor, I can't separate that. My my life is such that I understand the reason I am who I am and I've I've got so much good in my life is because of Christ So is it my responsibility to force that down your throat? Absolutely not. But I also feel compelled, and if I truly want to help you, Troy, that's a big part of why I'm healthy, is because of Christ. So if you ask me I want to have that freedom and at Convoy Pope I'll have that freedom to tell you if you ask. Now I'm sure you've had some people who have been either critical or have have questioned whether it's spiritual enough. Maybe it's too much on the physical need and not enough on the spiritual need. Uh y Jonathan, you feel like there's a balance there. Yeah, the biggest um critique of it that's come from people that don't think it's spiritual enough has been precisely on this question of whether or not it is irresponsible to give food away or or resources away to people that you haven't screened ahead of time. And uh I would say if we're doing it all the time, it would be absolutely irresponsible. But once a year in a Jubilee type event I I'm just not convinced that it's a bad thing. I I I think it's a beautiful, beautiful expression of of love. I've been fortunate enough to help with this event in Hagerstown and the second year we did it in Hagerstown Driving nasty rain, horrible miserable day. And uh and we still had a a huge turn on. Almost three thousand guests came that day And our our takeaway at the end of the day is I am pretty confident that the numbers of people manipulating that in the driving rain for a couple bags of groceries and I I think that that number was pretty low. So I'm willing to sacrifice a few that may come and manipulate for the good I mean we're talking five thousand guests. So so maybe what ten percent manipulates, maybe five hundred people. That's and I think that's a stretch. Manipulate it Well guess what? What other event can I put on where in one day I can put a thousand Christians on one site serving the needs of forty five hundred poor working poor? And in the year of Jubilee in Scripture, there's there's biblical uh uh foundation for this. In the year of Jubilee they would cancel all debts. And all land that you sold or that you what you went bankrupt on would go back to the original owner. Every fifty years. That is huge. Uh and apparently God did not think that that was an irresponsible thing to do. Apparently God thought that that was a justice thing. And so again, for a an event like this that is a once a year kind of a thing, um, I feel like uh simply leans in that direction. Should people think of this as a Christian event? We some of the marketing that we're doing is is we we want people to think of of this as a day of compassion. And there'll be a lot of people there that are not professing Christians. that are showing significant amounts of compassion. There are business owners, there there's county agencies here that heaven forbid present themselves as a as a faith based entity. But They show up every day with compassion in their hearts with with serving the poor and the working poor. So it's a day of compassion But but the driving force is the the faith community, the the the Christians and the churches of uh Frederick County. What do you mean by Christian event. Well, it um it's it seems like there's a straddling of of trying to make sure that nobody's offended, trying to make sure that those who would want to be involved with and support and celebrate a Christian event would be able to do so with this event. But those that would be offended by that Would it would be not Christian enough that they would feel like, okay, yeah, this is not really a Christian event. And I'm wondering So which which should people receive it as as a primarily not Christian event, primarily Christian event? I'm going to try to be like Jesus here in my response. If you can tell me whether or not the United States is a Christian nation, then I will answer for you. What was founded as a Christian nation, then I will answer for you whether or not Convoy of Hope is Christian. I think that there are a ton of Christians that participated in the founding of the nation and the principles that are that come out of the Bible helped to found a large portion of that. And that is the case with Convoy of Hope as well. That there's that that the the principles of scripture drive so much of it. But at the end of the day, there will be people that are participating and that are offering things there that are not uh believers and uh that are just wanting to, you know, celebrate that we are citizens together in Frederick and we want to help those people. And so I feel that once again, this is why I feel like this is such a profound um uh balance of this particular issue because Yeah, you know, we have freedom freedom of religion in the United States, but we also have freedom of speech speech and freedom of conscience, and somehow we bring all that together in the public square While we care for one another, serve one another, and those kinds of things. And I feel like this particular event is a great balance of that He's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Matt Thompson is outreach pastor at Calvary Assembly and coordinator for the Convoy of Hope event coming up on June 18th at the Frederick County Fairgrounds. Uh Jonathan, you made it a point several times uh in the first half of the show about, you know uh on this one day a year. Yeah, yeah. You know So y you've really emphasized that point. Why in your mind just one day? Why not every day? Why is it appropriate one day a year and not three hundred and sixty five days a year? What would be the Because if a man scripture puts it this way, if a man doesn't work no, yeah, if a man doesn't work, he does he shouldn't eat. Uh there there's clearly the sense uh in scripture that that people should work hard and in the context of working hard should should receive a reward that will be the basis of their making a living for themselves. And uh there are plenty of drug addicts, there are plenty of drunks, there are plenty of um of people who would give themselves to laziness. and um irresponsibility that must not be be uh of the opinion that they can do so and just get a free ride. Proverbs even puts it this way, that that a man's hunger is what drives him to work. Drives him to labor and to work each day. And I think that that's an appropriate thing and that we need to make sure that we don't discourage that by you know, giving way too much. See and and here's another perspective, Jonathan, I appreciate that one. I w I wouldn't have wouldn't have gone that way, but as a pastor one of the w we've just hit on one little piece of of the the complexity of Convoy of Hope, the the one day event and and with regard to serving the needs of the poor and the working poor. As a pastor, what I'm also trying to do is try to make this an everyday event for my congregation. I want my congregation to number one understand that there is a significant need in Frederick County. There are people that can't feed their kids consistently every day. So By this event, by me to getting my congregation and in Calvary Assembly does a great job of this in in general, and I think Frederick County in general does a great job of this. Yeah, this is good. But I I want to get my congregation out of my pew, out of my church, and into the community where they see this this need. And so many times as congregants we think Well, I can't preach and I can't sing and I don't have a ton of money, so what good am I? Not the case. Biblically speaking, not the case. So I want I want my people and my church to understand that God has gifted us and and given us abilities that people need. They need us to love them and smile at them and serve them. So this is kind of a platform for our people to see how they can do this every day in their own neighborhood, their own kids, their their own schools, their own co-workers. So I I think I think that it should be an everyday event. And and one other facet, I'm I'm talking a lot here, but I want to make sure we don't miss this. We're we're using Convoy of Pope Uh our our intention is that this is a springboard, this is a catalyst for long term synergy and and long term effectiveness with the organizations and the the entities in Frederick County that are existing, we want this to to drive to uh uh a year-long process. The the foundational principle of Calm Boy of Hope is that what people see on June eighteenth is only ten percent of our effort. The other the other percent is is planning and preparation and then just as much planning and preparation on the back end for long-term connections and and processes. Yeah, so so the part that I'm saying is just a one-day is this Jubilee free giveaway. But all the rest the the reality is that people uh don't come into a place of being hurting only one day the one day of the year. In fact That's the big problem with most of these charities is that they get all this help with Christmas cash for kids at Christmas time. They get all this help, you know, and all this fundraising happens at Christmas time. But the needs, you know, uh you y you can't plan when crisis is gonna hit a family and all of a sudden they get kicked out of their home and and uh something happens, you know, or somebody gets sick in a way that they can't afford it. And so all that being the case Um and again this is this is a big driving passion of mine. This is this in fact I feel like is what my role with Convoy of Hope is is to is to try to uh to help facilitate the the momentum that the convoy of hope develops for one day being released into the rest of the the year uh year round in Frederick and and uh it's gonna take a lot of wisdom and a lot of people being willing to find ways to work together even when it's not this big emotional high on this one day of the year, but it's just the sense of of consistently being uh givers and and caring for the And it might actually be more on the same page than than uh at first blush it seems. I think Jonathan's concern with the with the one day of not doing the event every single day, um, is not what you're talking about with the everyday with your church. Because your church, I'm assuming if they're going to get out of the pews and go out in the community, they're going to develop relationships. And inside of relationship there could be accountability. Correct. But with this one day event, there is no relationship. So there's no opportunity for accountability. So you can't just you can't do that every is that Well that that that has truth to it and and part of the connections tan as people leave is if they're looking for this place as a As a pastor at Calvary, if you call and you need help, one of my first questions is are you connected to a local church somewhere? Capitol Hill, we're talking about this now. You know, the the faith-based initiatives, part part of what we need to do is get the churches back involved in all day everyday life of of the poor and the needs in the community. So so we want to help drive this this all day. And and the other thing is You know, if we've got a thousand people on site that day, we've got these organizations in town that are three sixty-five, and I want to drive my volunteers. I can't meet all the needs from Calvary. But I can drive my people to the Religious Coalition and the Rescue Mission and and these other agencies. Yeah, I got to thinking that that what happens to somebody in crisis Is that the you know, if if a crisis happened to me right now, I've got family that that lives just thirty minutes away. I got I got three brothers that are that are well off, you know, that that uh I've got my mom and dad and they all live w like thirty minutes away. And so if I got kicked out of my house I've got a major support structure. You know, for that matter I got you guys. You know, and I'd I'd be knocking on your door because I got to do it. Not that you're inviting yourself in or anything. You know, but I but I got I got an extensive network of support. But people that are in crisis that all of a sudden can't pay for what they have to pay for, for whatever reason, they've they've they've not connected with a network of relationships that support them. And a big part of the long-term solution is to help them to get reconnected to the to the you know, the the net of people that are in Frederick and and that's what what he's getting at is is with a connections ten at an event like this to to help facilitate So they can get job training, so that they can get emotional support, so that they can get, you know, help, you know, people helping out with kids or helping out, you know, whatever it is where, you know, all those details happen. In the context of the case, we have to do it. Speaking of details, so the the great place to start is on our website, www. Hope the number four Frederick. com. Hope for Frederick. com. June 18th at the Frederick Fairgrounds. Uh, we'll have a volunteer rally Friday night. Just show up. Uh talk to your local pastor if you're connected to the church, if you're part of a Boy Scout or something like that. Just check the website. There's emails and phone numbers from there. Hope. The number four, Frederick. com. And off the top of your head, you know the times of the Friday thing and the Saturday. It'll be seven o'clock Friday night. Okay. And then Saturday, the volunteer we ask the volunteers to be there at seven A. M. We'll Tell you everything that's happening, you'll get to pick where you want to jump in that day, and by four o'clock you'll be out the door on your way home. Okay. Now Jonathan, I don't give you opportunity to do this very often. People want to connect with Crossroads Valley Chapel, they do what? They can go to cvchapel. org and uh that'll give information, directions, and uh how to connect with us, or they can meet us on Sunday morning. at ten o'clock at Crestwood Middle School. So it's C V Chapel. It's not C V C Happel, it's C V Chapel. That's correct. I appreciate you uh It could be C D Happy though if you wanted it to be, right? You're just a little bit happy today. Just clarify too much. Oh, you know what? We didn't do a word of the week again. Oh no. Verbally challenged helping them. As the old commercial used to say, people judge you by the words you use. Or forget to use. Anyway, thank you, Jonathan Sweiser, Cedar Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh Matt Thompson, Outreach Pastor of Calvary Assembly and coordinator of Frederick's uh um convoy of hope event on june eighteenth. I'm Froy Skinner. This show has been brought to us once again by Putman Fleming Heating. How can we make you smile? As always, I encourage you to visit us online at WFMB. com keyword faith. You'll find the daily blog. You'll also find a link to podcasts of this and other shows that are even better. than this one. Hard to imagine, but even better than this one. Every show gets better and better. It does. Every show better than the last? Yeah. Well then other shows won't be better than this one. This is the best show we've done so far Anyway, thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless.