Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Flumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner, your lovable Quite gorgeous, according to my wife, host and moderator. Not according to anybody else, but according to my wife. Last week you used the word affable and unflappable all at the same time. I know. Very impressive. Those could have been words of the week. They could have been. We we need we need a word of the week for this week. I didn't do my homework. You have a word of the week spontaneously? Unflappable? Unflappable, okay. Is that correct? Proselytize? Proselytize. No, really? Unflappable? Oh proselytize is your word of the week. Yeah. Oh, whoa, whoa, whoa. I thought he was using that word to define unflappable and I was like, whoa Wow. Just before we went on the air, he's telling us about this really cool book, you know, that describes how dumb people are. And all of a sudden I was like, And you just proved it. There it is Happy Sunday morning. Anyway, Jonathan Schweitzer, the uh the one who's thoroughly confused by uh the word proselytize. That's sorry. Uh he's senior pastor of Crosswitz Valley Chapel, and the one who confused Jonathan with the word proselytize is Matt Thompson. He is the Outreach Pastor at Calvary Assembly and also the the coordinator and basically the man driving, the driving force behind Frederick's Convoy of Hope event coming up in just a a few weeks now, June 18th, Father's Day weekend at Frederick County Fairgrounds. Um okay, so who wants to define proselytize? Well, I think he should because he's the one that brought it up. Well see how unflappable he is in defining proselytize. Uh I uh H is it possible to define it by how we're not going to use it a convoy of hope? Is that legal yet? Sh sh uh sure. Why not? We're not legalists here. No, I've I've heard that rumor in the in the community What that we're legalist? But you're not legalist, of course, nor are you ultra-conservative Republicans. Proselytize The second part I'm not quite so sure about. I'm pretty conservative and I do have a tendency to vote Republican. But if we had our coffee we are good to go I I've heard you use proselytize on the show before and I appreciate that word. And I would define that word. So you're a regular listener to the show. I try my best. Put his name on the list. We got five or six of them out there. We're we're good to go, man. We should have a party just for the listeners. We should. We would have a fake debate party. We'll just reserve a booth at a restaurant somewhere. That's right. Anyway, proselytize. I would define that as as my efforts to convert you to my faith. Is that accurate? Yeah, I think you're s you're smarter than I am. Come on. Yeah, I think that's a pretty good generic like, you know, layman's definition. Webster wouldn't define it that way probably. I'm certainly committed to to evangelizing, but I don't know that I'm committed to proselytizing, you know, and evangelizing that I would be a witness for my faith, that I would that I would anticipate, you know, and look for opportunities to uh to uh fight for the truth. you know, and specifically driving in the direction of fighting for the truth of Christ and what he accomplished for us on the cross. But proselytizing I feel like is used in the sense like every time you're around somebody, all they ever talk about is Jesus and they can't talk about anything else. They're always trying to strong arm you into being a Christian. 'Cause if you're not, you know, they're not gonna quite be your friend, but they're gonna be gonna be your friend, but they're not gonna has a used car salesman feel to it. Totally, yeah. My dad was a used car salesman, so I can say that. Well, people say that about evangelicals Precise people will use it pejoratively, but that doesn't mean that that's what you as an evangelical how you would understand that descriptive word, right? So anyway, by the way, I do not want to forget again what I'm reading, I typically at the end of the show, but I've been forgetting lately. So I forgot last week. Doctor Seuss always needs to be a good thing. Of entering into a series of books, not realizing how darn big the series was Uh Ted Decker, who I think is a is a barbless prolific. He writes like three books a year. It's unbelievable. Literally three books a year come out by him. Uh and he wrote uh what's called the Circle Series that has four books in it. But he also wrote the Lost Book series, which has six books in it. He also wrote the Paradise series, which has three books in it. And he also wrote uh Books that if you go to his website I think are listed as other books. There's four of them. So so maybe the word for the week could be ghostwriter. But I don't think well maybe. I don't know. But Anyway, he's pretty good. That that'd be hard for the thing. But the point is the Paradise series, the Lost Book series, the the Circle series, and these other books that kind of don't belong to a C are kind of standalones, are all part of the larger uh history chronicles series, which I did not know. So the point is you think you're gonna read a series of four books and you're done and all of a sudden It's a series of seventeen books. Wow. Anyway, you sound exasperated. You look exasperated. It's like I want to move on, but I I'm trapped. I have to finish the series. So anyway, uh the Lost Book series, uh Renegade and Chaos are the middle two, and I recently read those. So I'm working my way through. I'm gonna be done soon. And you recommend 'em. Um I don't recommend against them. I would say if you've never read Ted Decker before, if you read the Lost Book series, you won't become a fan. Probably the weakest of the Ped Decker books I've read so much. I'm currently reading the works of Friedrich Nietzsche. I don't recommend them at all. No, I I would say not. He's funny. Very hard to understand. Really? You feel like you don't think so? I think it's very hard to follow. And then if you do follow, you don't end up in a place you agree with anyway, so what's the point? The point is now you know what those that don't agree with you really believe. The the thing that's amazing to me is people that don't agree with like evangelical Christians think Nietzsche is phenomenal. They love the guy. And so, anyways. I don't know. I I could be mistaken, but I'm pretty sure that it's Nietzsche that I read once and he had one sentence that had like eighty-two words in it. One sentence! Nice. Where's the punctuation I'd ask you? Well, for the record, the Apostle Paul was the exact same way. It's just that the uh the people that came later added punctuation where there is no punctuation in Hebrew. Well there is no punctuation in Hebrew of the run on time. So the whole Old Testament had no punctuation. Now Paul writes in the New Testament of course, but there was no punctuation at all in the Old Testament. Yeah, figure all that out. Yeah. Anyway, we're not here to talk about that. We're here to talk about The convoy of hope. I don't know. There's an event coming up June eighteenth at the Ferdinand Fairgrounds where uh there'll be groceries, free haircuts, uh uh dental services, medical checkups. Troy has been watching. Financial advice plastic surgery. Can you help him with that? I I'm not even sure the best insurance in the world. Not radio for a reason. I gotta try early. He's been on the show too many times. We'll have you back on. It'll like when? That's right. In five years. Next year you'll ask me what are you going to go on? In five years. It'll be one of those rolling five year cycles. When they pay off the national debt, we'll have you. But the point is there's there are needy people in Frederick, you know, the families that are hurting, that are unemployed, they you know, maybe they were making a uh a go of it barely and then lost their job and now they're really scrambling and And times are tough, so maybe giving in other circles isn't as good either. So some of these agencies or different places that might have met that need in the past isn't able to do it so much, so it's even more uh urgent that these people get help now. Can I just say the Religious Coalition and Department of Service Social Services together have lost about two hundred thousand dollars of funding, uh, you know, partially because the commissioners uh have uh cut funds, but partially it's coming down through through federal funding that has been cut. And so The need is bigger and at the same time there there's less of these uh more public resources. And so and that's this year. Last year there was what, $140,000 cut. So so year over year population is growing, poor and working poor are growing, jobs are going away. Yeah. So if you want to get more of the specifics and details about the event, w hope for Frederick. com, Frederick. com. Yes. So you can get some of the details and stuff because we spent quite a bit of time on the details last week and we don't want to do the same show two weeks in a row, but but we'll get it you get it just. It's it's big event with a bunch of free stuff for those who are in need. Correct. And it's Uh and if that includes you, come on out. Nobody's gonna be able to do it. Now it's got a um uh uh a bunch of Christians involved. Some would argue it's a Christian event, others would argue I'm not so sure it's a Christian event. And there's this blended or balanced approach that uh Matt and John are are both uh very happy with And we talked about that at length last week. Okay. Now we talked about the need for this event. Okay. Uh amplify that just a little bit, if you could, shortly, in thirty or sixty seconds. Amplify the the the real need that the community has You can pick up the phone and call any local nonprofit and they will they will easily identify the need for you. The uh people are struggling putting food on the table, paying the rent, paying the electric, the fuel is is going out of control Uh and and as you as you indicated, so many people were already paycheck to paycheck and barely surviving and then you know, mom loses job or maybe we w you know, single mom already struggling and and now fuel prices are gone up. People just can't they can't make ends meet. So everything ends up ends up upside down from I I'm living out of my car, I'm living in a tent, to I can't you know, I c I can't put food on the table for my kids. So if we have this need and it's real and I don't think anybody's gonna disagree that there's real need out there and it's maybe it's m it's uh uh uh a greater need now than it has been before. Okay. Why do we need this event to address it? Is this um is there a pox on your houses? Is Calvary Assembly is Crossroads Valley Chapel? Are the other churches in the area not doing their job well enough that We need to organize this extra event because the churches aren't responding to the need? Well here's one of the things that drives me to this, Troy, is is I think so many churches in Frederick are doing wonderful things. They're they're writing the big checks, they're doing the events, they're their congregants are living living out this faith day to day. They're they're they're meeting needs in their own sphere of influence. I think the issue lies for Calvary Assembly and and I'm sure for for Crossroads In that there's not many platforms where we can do this jointly. And anybody would agree, any any anybody that has any clue with finances would agree if we put all these things together and we do one joint effort We don't each have to pay for inflatables. We don't each have to do all the legwork to get all the the entities that are involved in this. It's it's unified effort Um w we're sharing the load across so there's a significantly bigger impact when we do it this way. And why haven't we done it before? I don't know. I mean seriously. Uh I think the reason that that this has never been done before is because Um previous to George Bush, there was a sense that faith-based organizations uh somehow were persona non grata in uh in helping out with the poor. Because uh evangelicals generally want the opportunity to offer to people to prayer, to offer to people to uh you know to hear about Christ, uh there's a sense that that that we weren't really allowed to be there. And that has kept, I'd say, for a good thirty years, um, evangelicals from feeling the freedom to really press into the public square to help. in cities like this to really make a difference. Now uh that would be a sweepingly inadequate generalization, right? Uh and I recognize that to be the case. Nevertheless, that's generally the case. So so here Uh since nine years ago, no, eleven years ago, George Bush opened up the door to faith-based organizations uh participating with government funds and with uh with working together with those uh those other organizations that that are taking care of the poor, there's been the growth and I feel like basically Convoy of Hope has stepped into that and says said, look Now that that's the case, let's really bring evangelicals and everybody else together to really make a big impact all together. And so Uh the time is ripe and it's taken about eleven years for for this organization to really grow in the uh in the political climate that has made it okay to do that and so it's really it's really stepping up. And now's the time. And I've I've got a way different answer than that. That's good. That's a smart answer. I've just I've just got Matt's answer. I think a lot of the churches have tried this Troy but but if I'm doing it, it's Matt Thompson at Calvary Assembly and I've got all that stigma that goes with that And I can't, no matter how hard I try and no matter how much I promise, I can't separate that from Calvary Assembly. Yeah, yeah, yeah. You're those Calvary people up there off of Route 26, aren't you? Yeah. And and and no matter what I do, that's who I'm identified with. Which Let me just tell you I I like that. Right, I'm with you. So so Convoy of Hope is kind of that neutral branding where we can all jump on board and say it's not Calvary Sandless, it's not Crossroads, it's not it's not even denominationally bound. So a lot of a lot of us are saying this is good. I don't I don't need to to scratch my back with this event. I'll I'll do my own church event of some other type for my marketing or my own church growth so to speak. But this is one of those corporate events where we can all kind of rally behind this neutral brand. You know, in this question of whether or not doing something unified is better than doing it decentralized, uh, is is a a great debate in and of itself. And I don't know that I know the answer to that. I think in general that that keeping things decentralized where you take care of your neighbor and I'll take care of my neighbor and the church that is on that street corner is reaching out to those people around it. In general, that is a great approach. you know, to to helping people, you know, to take care of the needs. But I think there's a time and a place where you can come together in a unified way that can help to breed an impact. In in fact I kinda feel like it's like a heartbeat. You know, like everybody come together in unity to to try to improve the the efficiency of the work. You can't see the hand motions. Matt's totally impressed with me. All right, and the but or but then you you come apart and you decentralize and you do your work. I kind of feel like in the process of coming together and then decentralizing and coming together that somehow it increases and improves efficiency and helps to keep things as a society where they should be. And this is just a good time to come together and what do you think the biblical models for this are. What are some examples of the thing that you would point I mean, you've mentioned the Jubilee in previous shows as as an example, certainly from the Old Testament. Um, you know, something that's talked about a lot in evangelical circles is the Acts Church. You know, the church in Acts. Is there an example of How the church behaves and acts. Is there a church uh an example of how Paul taking up collections for the poor ties in? Well to Jonathan and I have actually sold everything we own and we've donated it to Convoy of Hope. I'm lying. I did not do that. Okay, uh uh Carol, my wife, uh I'll be home shortly. Don't worry. What that means is that Matt and Jonathan will be in line looking for the free groceries. Right, right, right. Well you know, it's interesting because you're kinda driving at the New Testament again, and I think it's good to drive to the New Testament, but I want to start in the Old Testament if I can. Again. Um The people of Israel wanted a king, which meant that they'd be more unified. Apparently God wore God felt like the ideal was that they would be twelve tribes separate and they would only come together for two main purposes. One was for worship and and uh in and in the context of worship was taking care of the poor That was a big part of their tithes and offerings. But then the other reason they came together was for the context of war. And um it's it's very interesting that this i there there wasn't in the Old Testament a great emphasis on major unity. In fact there was a sense that God kind of didn't want it, but because the Israelites wanted it, he would let them have it. There's something about unity that I think can breed uh pride, everybody look at us, how great we are, look at these great things that we've done. That that I think is part of what we see in the New Testament church is we don't see this monolithic church coming together, but we just see people just spreading out and doing it. Doing the stuff, decentralized, you know, wherever it is. And you even hear in in uh Rome uh at the time of um of uh when there's all the um disease and and and such is rampant in the city that the only people that were helping out the people that were most diseased were Christians that would go right into the midst of where bubonic plague or different things are going on and they would serve those people. Well I think that this is this is part of what has made Christianity so um strong uh around the world is this willingness just to go for it, no matter where it is. We don't have to be unified. Christ is in me, I can make a difference right here where I am right now. And I I've got a couple of different things that that I'd like to touch on and I think it's Matthew twenty five that says And I'm I think I'm gonna quote this word for word, but I might be a little bit off. Something like, uh I was hungry and you gave me bags of groceries and a free hot lunch, and I was thirsty and you gave me ice cold Pepsi and I think that's Matthew twenty five. That's Matthew Thompson twenty five. That sounds like a pretty cool event. Guinness will be on the table. That's better than clowns coming out of a Volkswagen right there. Uh John weird. John ten ten says I've I've come that they may have life and and have it to the full. And and as a pastor and as a as somebody that's been impacted by Christ and his love and and all the things that he's done for me that I can't earn. that I can't qualify for that have been beyond my control, so to speak. Um this event for me is a chance to share that with with other people by by my actions, by my deeds, by serving them and and if if asked and if given the opportunity by introducing them to Christ. I can't wait to take my boys to be a part of it and to serve in this way. I get a bunch of people saying, well can I bring my kids? Yeah. Well the Boy Scouts are gonna be there. Like it's gonna be other ways. There's other things as well throughout the year that I get to take them to that that are a big deal like that where they get to really see that they can make a difference, that they can participate in those things. The boys of Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Cross Rosalie Chapel, Matt Thompson is outreach pastor at Calvary Assembly and also coordinator for the Convoy of Uh Hope event coming up in just a few weeks, June eighteenth uh at the Frederick County Fairgrounds. Um you've been behind the scenes working toward this event for a long time now, talking to lots of people and Jonathan's been out there kind of you know doing what he can to help rally troops and cheerlead and and provide some Some biblical perspective is his way on things. And so he's entered into lots of conversations with lots of different people in different contexts. What have been the best arguments that you've heard in support of doing this? There are a lot of uh arguments are tough. There's uh it it's fun to pitch this to people and to explain what convoy is and watch their eyes light up, Troy. It's People have been waiting for this vehicle. There's I know so many pastors in town that have been praying for this opportunity and they just didn't know what it looked like or they couldn't figure out how to do it. But But this has been their hearts. I can think of one pastor in particular that's for seven years he's been pursuing God, saying, God, this is what we need. This is we need the unity. We need this the So this vehicle is fun to watch people light up and and say, I want to be a part of that, I want to own this. You know, when they pitched it uh at the at Dutz's daughter at the event with people in Frederick that are uh movers and shakers. Yeah, you know, uh the the argument that I hear is i i it's almost like there is no argument It it's just like, wow, yeah. You know, like that's the extent of the argument. Yeah. Y you know, like like it's just this gut level response that says Yeah, I want to be a part of this. Yeah. So many people that I've talked to haven't thought about should I or shouldn't I, they immediately think, Where and who else can I bring? You know, one of the things that I think has been so effective with this particular event is that we have we're bringing in from outside of town uh these the convoy of hope people that are that are nationally working with this stuff and they are super well organized. And uh and they have they have thought through everything. You know, what do you need to do, what do you not need to do, so that there's very little thinking. They tell up how many Sharpies we need to have. Literally. It's like franchising. Yeah. They bring in the model, the business model, here's what you need to do, it's how many volunteers you're gonna need. Plug and play. And and that's something that I feel like pastors in Frederick have been crying out for. We need the wisdom of how to take things to the next level to to be more impactful and really helping to make a difference in Frederick. And so so this is not just an event that people in Frederick are doing, but it's an event that is bringing into Frederick resources and wisdom that helps Frederick as a whole to be a better uh to work better together and and again it's just another great argument for why it's And the national the national coordinator and I have have grown to be good friends over the last several years and and one of the first things he says is I landed here on an airplane and I'm leaving. This is your city, you own it. Frederick City, you need to own this. Frederick Churches, you own it. It's your city. I'll I'll give you the the turnkey organizational structure, but then I'm going home. Now it hasn't all been lollipops and cherry blossoms, right? Not everybody you've talked to is first response is how how and when and where and w do I get involved. You've had some people have pushed back. What have been some of the more Uh the the arguments that have resounded with you and like, huh, that's actually a pretty good argument. We might want to make sure we think through that. What have been what have been some of those things? Uh one of the first things that comes to mind is is that we don't qualify people. We don't ask for documentation of citizenship, nor do we ask for documentation of income. Uh those those have been probably the the loudest And when we just explain th it's our choice for this particular event and we've talked about this before on the show that, you know, that's not appropriate for every scenario. Um People people get it. They understand. And and the neat thing is if they don't, I'm not here to try to twist your ear into joining us. If if God has not called your church to do this, then don't. If you don't feel like this is the right event for you, then then you shouldn't do it. And on the other side, a very big argument has been that this had better not just be something that's a big one day feel good event, but there needs to be uh the result of organizations and uh uh churches working together in Frederick in more ways, more extensive ways and uh f uh that that it releases resources back into all of these people that are on the ground, like the religious coalition that are doing this stuff day in and day out. guys over at the rescue mission. I mean they they do this year round, right? And so for us to show up for one big day, what they need is not for us to show up for one big day. What they need is for us to help to leverage this event. to to get volunteers and resources into their, you know, i into those missions on a regular basis. We'll talk about That's that's a big argument. Yeah, the religious coalition and the Christian connection and all this, a lot of Christians involved, you guys, Christian pastors. What about other religiously motivated people? What if you're, you know uh Are there gonna be Jewish people, Muslim people, Hindus, Buddhist? Like uh as or is this m more Christian than that? Or is But we Our target audience is the the churches of Frederick County and and part of the reason we do that is because that's our connection. We are pastors of Christian churches in Frederick County. So that's our target, that's our push. Right. That's who you know. Right. That's who we know and that's who's driving it. Do we exclude others No, you're like uh like I said, there'll be Boy Scouts there. I don't ask the Boy Scouts what faith they are. Um so you know from from Don't ask, don't tell. That's a whole nother story. That's a whole nother story. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. But I think that principle kind of applies, yeah. Anyone that wants to come and be a part of that part of it is welcome to do so and to to uh be in the tent that uh of organizations that help people, you know, and to volunteer and to help out. We'll n we'll need a lot of volunteers that day. Yeah. All right. You guys are a not-for-profit of 501. 501c3, yes. And and our website will have all that information. Uh hope the number four frederick. com can you get everything everything you need there. Okay A website again is uh for for you is cvchappel. com, also cvchapel dot com that'll work. Um Hopefor Frederick dot com is the website for the event. Again the June eighteenth, starting at well the volunteers get there at Seven, what time does the public show up? Like ten or something like that? Uh gates open at ten. But you'll want to be there early, there'll be a line. And the neat thing that we haven't talked about is the very next day we're gonna have a big community church service on Sunday, June 19th. That's gonna be awesome. At the fairgrounds. Who's preaching A lot of people. We have a two hundred man choir there that day, uh with the biggest. Oh, so it'll be like a Baptist church service. It'll go all day. No. No, it'll go about an hour and a half. Um, but who's I do know who's preaching that day. Give me a second, I'll figure it out. Well we don't have a whole lot of time. We've got like thirty seconds left in the show. Yeah, I'm not gonna remember it quick enough. June eighteenth, seven o'clock at the fairgrounds and and uh we'll have you home by f by four. Okay, that sounds cool. Anyway, Jonathan Sweiss is Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Matt Thompson, outreach pastor of Calvary Assembly and coordinator for the Convoy of Hope event. Coming up June 18th at the Frederick County Fairgrounds I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening to the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, wfmd. com Keyword Faith. I can connect to the daily blog there and also podcasts of this and other shows like it. Again, thanks so much for listening. Till next week. God bless.