Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Thank you for starting part of your Sunday morning with us here on the radio if you're listening live or spending part of whatever day it happens to be if you are listening via podcast. There's more and more pla places to to do that these days to listen to shows on podcast. Whatever your favorite podcast, Podcamp Blake, can't get the marbles out of my mouth this morning. podcast platform you prefer. You can but if you don't have one you prefer, I would encourage you to check out Sermon Audio. Uh all of the Faith Debate shows end up making their way over to sermonaudio. com uh under the household of faith in christ um uh portion of that website. Also put them all on odysse. com so there's a place you can definitely find and of course wfmd. com that should go without saying. This is uh the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the host of the show for in our twentieth year, if you can believe it, and uh the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ. Joined this week by Daniel Rasby. He's uh with a house church in the Thurmont area and uh part of a ministry that started years ago by his His father Imran, known to his friends as Raz, called the uh Concord by Love Ministries online at ConcordBylove dot org. Uh David Forstey, he's a pastor in the area as well, a multi-location church that that meets all over the place, mostly in uh Washington and and Frederick counties, but uh even in West Virginia and Um I don't know if he's met in Singapore just yet, but um Only only one place at a time, Troy. Oh one place at a time? Just just just to be clear, this isn't Multiple locations all in. Okay. Multiple campuses. So every every week he meets somewhere else and maybe a after after this week's show, maybe he'll start doing some shows in Singapore or in China somewhere because we are joined by uh Moses Fu, I believe, is uh the name that I was given out. I'm I'm gonna guess it gave me an Anglican uh Anglicized version, easy to pronounce version of your name, no? Yes, most does foo. F U, yeah. I is that how people in Singapore know you as well, or do you have a more exotic sounding name? Yes. People should call me Moses. They do, okay. All right. So uh you're here visiting the United States um I I overheard a little bit as we're getting ready in the studio to learn something about how American companies that try to do things in a Christian way, how they do things so you can take that back home with you? Is that the idea? Did I catch that right? That yes, that's right. 2017, this is my first visit to US because my church pastor, Jerry, uh he bring uh twenty people uh that This group is uh Chinese Christian and uh entrepreneurship people. So Pastor Jerry has a vision that uh US have uh a very um traditional and original teaching in biblical way to run business and also uh a lot of uh resources, spiritual uh universities, Christian universities and also some uh organizations. So he wants to bring the people come to experience to learn. That's the best way to learn to on the sport and meet the people and uh ask the question on the sport, how they run business in Christian way. special like uh chicken filet, it didn't open on Sunday. Mm-hmm. So it's a miracle that beat the McDonald and the uh KFC for the single uh single shop uh Uh interest uh the the uh the rate. Yeah, yeah, so so it's a good uh chance for them To learn at the this platform. So every year we will run this ministry. No. But after COVID we didn't recover yet, yeah Well I'm glad you can learn some things from them because we have nothing to teach you here. We're going to be asking you a lot of questions so we can learn uh from you. So you live in Singapore now. Yes. And you also spent some time living in China, is my understanding. Yes, my parents still live in China. I still do. So how long ago did you leave China for Singapore? Uh twenty in two thousand Three. So the while twenty years. Twenty years. Okay. You're a young you're a young man, so you you were you a child when you moved to Singapore Twenty years. Well I was twenty. Do you mind my asking how old you are? So forty. You're f does he look forty to you? Goodness gracious, I gotta get some s single for son. Goodness. You look like you're thirty max. Seriously. Thank you. Okay, so um pop quiz, what do you know about Singapore? David? Daniel? Singapore's in Asia. Yeah. Like Ind Indonesia kinda, right? It's close to Malaysia, right? Yes. And they have several languages that they speak. Mandarin or an and English and Malay and Tamil. Right. Excellent. Well how many of those do you speak? Um I speak English, um Mandarin and some a little bit Malay and yeah, so Indian Tamil I'm not very familiar, yeah. I don't speak any. Absolutely. Anyway. It's a motif culture of English trade. Yeah, exactly. You can listen to this show, right? That's I have ample evidence that I don't even speak English well. That's pretty cool. So what's the main language in Singapore? Official language, working language is English. Is it really? Yeah. Wow. That's because of the British influence I guess from over the years, right? 'Cause um not only because the founding father of uh Singapore's Li Guang Yo that uh feel that uh every people should have the common language because we have different ethic ethnic groups. So if we all use our native language that will be very hard to work together. So he forced the nation to have one common language. At that time Western countries are delivering economic very fast. So English is the first choice. So everybody. And even he closed down a lot of Chinese schools in Singapore to let the people to learn English. So that's a significant difference from China, I would imagine. What are some of the cultural differences between Singapore and China? Uh all right, uh what's uh differences. I think uh Singapore is a miracle because previously they are a fish village. But Li Guang Yu as a founding father set a very clear target to to set the people united together Um even though they were from different uh countries, but we have a common dream that to build Singapore become a better living place. So it's called racial harmony. Racial harmony means every religion be respect, every uh language and culture be respect. If you're working to Singapore, every tongue Councils. We will have one church, one Chinese temple, one Muslim temple So we respect each other. That's uh racial harmony in in Singapore. I think you said it started out as a like a fishing village. Is that correctly? So that makes sense. It's like an island nation, right? And it's it's my understanding is there's a lot of people in a very small amount of space. Yeah. And so what is that similar to like what people would experience in Japan, maybe what's something uh like is it like the inner part of New York City or something like that. What what does it feel like? The population density, what does it feel like to live there? Um in the Asian yeah of Singapore uh people call it Skampom village. Gumbong means It's more like uh American culture's uh um old tradition that the people were living together as family. So the neighborhood relations were very close to each other. They will share food. They won't close the door at the night. Nobody was thief be the thief to st steal your things, everything like peaceful. Yeah kind of and it's like that now? Now it's totally different. Because after government building the uh the houses to everybody, then all the fish village disappear then people start to be more uh privacy. and uh follow the Western cultures that individualism come out. So this kind of uh uh community life slowly um Now what has brought about the the the growth to make it so big and so highly densely populated? Has it just been lots of babies? Or has a lot of people from other parts of the world have moved to Singapore? It's the immigration uh countries. That's that is why uh living there for twenty years because I um joined the education system in Singapore uh as uh polytechnic students. Even though those knowledge I already know those math uh physics. I already learned from high school but uh in order to get a better job and better life I tr I get a chance to join Singapore and get the um green card in Singapore and get married in Singapore and they signed a contract with me to some way of scholarship to support my uh school fees. So they uh they occupy my six years working there. After six years I got child, I married there, so we were living there. Naturally. So that there's a way of Singapore government attract foreign talents to living in Singapore. Now the the foreign talents that have moved there, do do most of them look kind of like you? Are they mostly Indonesian and Asian or is it Europeans and Africans and people from the Americas as well. How cosmopolitan does 'cause you mentioned the diversity and everybody trying to get along and stuff and that's a big challenge in this country, as I'm sure you know, and a lot of that's driven by the way people look, you know, people who have uh darker skin, lighter skin, you know, different looking eyes, different looking noses. It causes all sorts of problems in this country. Do you have that in Singapore or everybody kind of looks like they might be Asian of some variety. Yeah, there's one million uh Chinese midline uh background people there. Okay. Overall um when we are six six million maybe? Yes, six million. So one over six is from Mila China. Okay. But uh overall the Chinese group is seventy six percent Why China Singapore government want to um allow so many mainland China people immigrate? It is because they want to keep this society and the country uh high percentage of Chinese. It is because Singapore independent from Malaysia is because Malaysia government uh actually uh is uh Malay government. They will put Malay people first. That is why they they scare about the power of Singapore. The Chinese group is so high percentage to influence back to the Malaysia. to unite other states of Malaysia. You wouldn't think they'd be that worried, you're only six million people. But they have over a billion people I think in China. Yeah, they just Let Li Guango to be independent, not your as your original plan is he want to join the Malaysia Union, but they be rejected. So Singapore independence is forced to, have to. It's not no choice because they're not except by the Malaysia. Well I don't know about you guys, but to me Singapore is quite a bit more cosmopolitan than I would have guessed. Uh and uh the the the the diversity it seems like it might mostly f uh be more cultural and religious diversity as opposed to what we would think of as ethnic diversities uh in an American context, that's my guess. I had to look it up on a map to refresh my memory. Apparently Singapore is it it's kinda sorta halfway between Australia and China. Right? It's it's kind of a way of of thinking about where you find it on a globe. uh somewhere. It's just a dot. If you find a an actual globe, like if you have one in your house it spins and you try to find it's just a dot on the globe. It's it's really small six million people there. So it's like a it's like a floating city, right? Yes, yes. Many people in and out. But during COVID nineteen, um many uh investment coming to Singapore because they trust the financial and uh the the the simple government because uh the they very good in anti uh anti corruption. Yeah. Government have very high pay. And they use this pay to anti corruption. And the government is parliamentary, I understand. Is that right It's a parliament? Yeah, Parliament. Yeah. Okay. So modeled after the uh United Kingdom, the British government. Okay. So that gives us some toehold of understanding some of the cultural and political things. So now I want to transf transition into the things we mostly were thinking we'd be talking about on the faith debate, and that's the faith things. Uh I'm I'm gonna guess that in Singapore most people aren't Christian. Right? It's it's it's not like microscopic, but it's most people would be like probably Buddhist, Hindu, something like that. Right? Or or even Muslim? I think it's uh around Around five percent to seven percent is faithful Christians, but it's growing. Yeah, it's growing. Faithful Christians. Yeah, faithful Well that's the higher percentage we have in America. Yeah, the word faithful in front of Christians and it's a percentage plummet in in this country anyway. Yeah. Alright, so the the mix of those who are Christian, they would be I guess the the kind of mix we see everywhere else, of Roman Catholics, Lutherans, Anglicans, Methodists, like all all sorts of all different denominations. They have own uh church system. And what faith tradition best describes what your background or your current belief system is. Okay, we are a church group are very special in Singapore because we are immigrants. So we build this church uh by our pastor that they think that Chinese people have Chinese cultures. But if we join any denomination in local Singapore church we don't get fulfilled our needs in our Chinese culture way. So they feel that we need to stand up to build up Chinese culture church. Especially for Chinese groups that especially from mainland China. Yeah. Hm. So we call it independent immigration church Now that feels like that could be a whole rabbit uh trail to go down. I'm making a note about that so I can follow up. But in the meantime, we're a little past halfway through this episode and Daniel and David haven't had almost any chance at all to speak. Do you have any questions or thoughts you want to do? Right. How are you to defining that, meaning that? Uh okay. Based on his uh we really know they'll be saved. They uh follow the teaching of the Bible. Yeah, they uh attend the church regularly. Uh it's not just uh So they're actually attending with regularity. Yeah. Yeah, that I don't I don't know what the percentage are in this country. Do you know? I I don't know, but I would not say it's that high. Yeah, I don't think so. I would say maybe even almost half of Americans would call themselves Christian if you asked them. Yeah. But if you then you ask what do you mean by that, most of them don't go to church at all or even the ones that do, they think that they're saved because they go to church, because they don't understand the gospel. So there are very few. It's it's interesting if six in ten Americans might identify as Christian, let's say and even five percent of them are faithful Christian. Compare that as a percentage of those who identify as Christians being faithful, it it's much smaller than what's described in Singapore, where let's say it's you know I don't know, twenty percent are are Christian, but five to seven percent of the population are faithful. Well five to seven percent of you know, fifteen to twenty percent of the population is pretty good percentage compared to here. So that's it's interesting. I I I I wanna maybe Dive down into that uh a little bit and maybe see if we can figure out why that might be. Because that's that's uh uh it seems like those who identify as Christian where you are are maybe three times as likely to be faithful. The only about Google, according to Google, according to Pew Research actually. Okay. Half of people who identify as Christians uh a attend church at least once a week. So if they say they're Christian, only half of those people are even attending church regularly. By regularly they're saying once a once a week is regular or once a month is regular? But like we've talked about in the show before, many of them could not describe the gospel to you if you Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah. And that's the difference that Moses seems to be saying is that The these people that are faithful Christians, they actually do know the gospel. That's why they're attending church because they want to learn more, but they're very sure that they're saved. Yeah. Well I want to share some testimony that uh I experienced in Singapore because I'm the um overseas students in Singapore to study first. And my wife also, same situation. She go into a nurse scholarship. Um they have beef friend beef friender a program running by the local Singapore church. A befriender program? Yes. Means the one family will take care of a few overseas students. maybe from China or from other countries, Myanmar, but my wife is taken care of by one family. That very faithful. And uh throughout the years they never mentioned what the job they do. She know that when she moved in house, they were driving the car and help her to carry those heavy things from the level up with n without the lips. So you say take care of. This isn't like what you hear about sometimes in the States where you're gonna sponsor some family and all that means is you send a donation every month, right? This is they're actually involved in the life. They're helping to carry heavy. And also invite some family meetings to let them sit down with their children together to have dinner, have some sharing, what difficulties you're having in school, in their life, they can offer help. That's befriend family's program. Then slowly this relationship build up. They will invite they will invite them to the church and preach the gospel to them. That in the natural way because you have relationship. It's not rushing to you must trust. Because we have cultural shock. We didn't educate in Min Lai China that God created this world. We believe the evolution, that we were monkey. So if you directly to teach a mainline China student, God create us, God love you. We were a culture shock. We were stuck there and don't know what are you doing. And Saying. So they will do this kind of relationship. So the Steve Render program isn't not s specifically for Christians might even need specifically for not Christians. Like somebody moves to Singapore and they they need some help and the church contacts them somehow. They are target to those uh There's potential Christian people that to want to be able to do. And then they say we we would like to be a s of service to you as a church. We've got a family that would be able to help you move and learn the area. faithful and uh mature Christian. They they may be elders, they may be some leaders, cell group leaders in the church. They they have very mature and a stable uh car uh marriage and uh uh th uh peaceful family life. And does it matter if the family is already Christian or not? Like if they're already Christian, think, Oh, just come to our church. Like is it is it targeting non believers mostly? Is that what it's targeting? Interesting. Mm. Interesting uh idea. Do you guys have any uh qu I I dominated the show, uh but I'm just trying to lay the background. Do you guys have any We have about um I don't know, three or four minutes left in this episode. We can sneak into questions before we go off with some rabbit. Is that how you uh came to Christ also through that you said your wife experienced the befriender program. But you were you in that program too? Uh there's uh this one uh of my uh lecture, um overseas student uh department uh teacher that invited me to watch a movie that the Passion of Christ. They're very famous. And uh I get some crying but I don't understand that much. But I have very uh deep impression about uh these Jesus So one year later another student uh activity she invited me to attend again. She is a local Singapore faithful Christian. So I don't know he he should pray and uh helping those students and it also invite me to some different families, yeah. So Passion of the Christ? Yes, Passion of Christ. Mel Mel Gibson, yeah. So There's one sharing, she invited me that uh the the the student leader saying that they go to the mission trip. That's the first time I hear this term mission trip. What's that? He said he go to those uh uh Southeasia Asia countries um to give to help building house, to give some Christmas gifts, everything. And uh he reflects back our life in Singapore that many people complain about uh uh some facilities in the school or campus. He say those things is small things but When I go to there, those poor people and needed, really didn't take care of, that is more meaningful things we do. So that really enlightened me that I want to know why, what's the motivation you have to do that kind of things, which I never do before. So he He shared with me after the session and he invited me to the church. So I I get in uh uh deeper uh a tried by him because he said do you think that evolution is correct? If evolution is correct, the human being Human health should even be better person, better we, more healthy, but how come this world is become more corrupted and our body health is even worse? So I never think about these things. So sh then he added if you want to know more please come to my church that our pastor is from mainland China. It's Peking University and his wife is from Tsinghua University, the most famous two university in China. So I said, Wow. This kind of intellectual person become church leaders. Well, you know what we're hearing here on the show today is what is we've only heard about and talked about but never seen is the church is growing in Asia Even though it's dying in the West. And we're seeing some example of how that is and why that is. We're gonna pick this up on next week's show. We're gonna talk about that Chinese culture church thing that caught my ear. We'll talk about the general status of the church in China and in Singapore because Moses Fu is in a position to help us understand that and and uh see how it relates to the government, particularly maybe the the Chinese Communist Party led government on mainland China and some other issues as well. Uh Daniel Razby and David Forcy on the show as uh as normal on this show as well. Thank you guys for being part of it. And uh in the corner over there, uh we got uh Imran Raz Razvy's uh feeding us some stats and data from Google and Pew Research. We appreciate that. Anyway, till next week. God bless