Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. us. Well I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate and pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Uh we're online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And Daniel Rasby, find him online at Concordby Love dot org. He's one of the pastors of the Church of Peace at Imran. House and David Forcy, uh he's uh a pastor in the area of the unnamed church. Um it's a it's a house church that meets at the house. The house that meets at David's house, but that's not always accurate. It's not true. Sometimes you're not that David's home is where the heart is. If David's heart is in the house, he's home. Wow. Wow. So if we carve his heart out with a spoon and bring it to your house is That's his house. Well if there is if there are any deer at his house, a female deer is called a heart, H A R T. Oh so we could take one of those doe. I thought a doe was a deer, a female deer. A heart. Well in the in the King James they call it a heart. So we get the song wrong. So it's not doe remi, it's heart remi. I thought it was a male deer. Heart? Yeah. Uh you're right. Heart is an LD, I'm sorry. Ah, a doe is a female so it's a hind a hind would be a would be a female deer. If it's a heart. Heart and a hind and then a doe and a buck. Right. Depending on uh those must come from two different root sources. Language. I don't yeah. I just like in English that we can borrow from all over the place. Yeah, and that I think is what makes uh ours one of the most difficult languages to really proficient. That that and the fact that uh we now seem feel like slang is pretty acceptable overall as a culture. So that means we can add new words. You know, add uh add infinitum. And we are not agreeing this on the definitions of words either, where they can change now because they're fluid. And social media has so exploded that there are so many terms now that the young whippersnappers are using on social media and idea what they're talking. Now sometimes if they just use a particular acronym or or bizarre term and it's got a surrounding context, I can usually like Okay. I think that probably means something along these lines. Yeah, but like sometimes they use three, four, five of these terms in one social but media Post as I I have no idea. Language evolves, right? So I could say this to you. That drainway may look barry at first, but it's dreaming squatty. If you go down it becoming ram whamble you get royal and end up be quite a bucketary. I see a tat squatty, what Don't stop taking about new or you'll never become Uofy. These are all English words. They're all actual valid English words in the dictionary I want you to post that on social media. I don't have a social media. Send it to me so I can post it. And they have meanings and I can tell you what the meaning of each of those words is because I practice that sentence uh quite a lot But my point is you can go through an underbridge dictionary and you can get a whole bunch of words that are not common use. Hey, if if if you guys are listening to this uh uh and and you and your uh wife's not in the car, so you c uh so you it won't be spoiled, you can go and tell her tell her when you get home She looks quite poker tudinous. Pocratudinous sounds awful, right? Sound like an insult, but it means quite pretty or beautiful or whatever. So go tell your wife that she's poker tudinous today. And uh she might uh slap you until you tell her what the definition is and then she might slap you again. Pulpster Cunitus. Anyway. Alright, so the schedule topic for today We're halfway done with the show. Uh and and and Daniel actually brought this up uh a number of months ago and I think we'll get around to talking about this. Uh you know, uh as time allows and time as it turns out begins to allow today. We'll see if we can do this in one show if we're gonna need multiple episodes for this. But the general question is, why does it seem As though there's an epidemic of Protestants leaving for Roman Catholicism or uh Eastern or Eastern Orthodoxy, those those non-Protestant traditions First of all, I phrase it that way, why does it seem as though? 'Cause do we think that in fact there is an epidemic? I'm I I'm not sure Uh, what to make of that? I uh yeah, I think uh I mean, I I know a lot more people than I used to. uh who are who've moved towards and and it's moves towards orthodoxy or you know Eastern Orthodoxy. Uh I I haven't seen much in the way of moving Towards Roman Catholic, but I There have been a lot of celebrities and a lot of well known theologians that have moved in that direction over the last few decades and especially in the last few years. But but I I've seen a lot of movement towards uh like the Anglican. tradition right, which is not papal but is very Roman Catholic in many, many ways. Okay. Well for our discussion, let's just say that there is this this unusual trend towards Protestants leaving. uh to go Eastern Orthodox or go Roman Catholic or um well I guess or Anglican I guess we'll include that into the mix. Well that's a different different type of protest. So what what we owe this to? What's going on? I think there there's a there's a probably a number of reasons. Um one is I think very, very effective marketing on the behalf of the Catholic Church. in that um you know the we're all we all really should be one church. The protest is over. Look we signed this joint statement of face with the Lutherans and they did. You can look it up and it's very Christian. Well so what kind of I mean that's gotta be undercutting their marketing. A lot of people have not a lot of people have not uh looked that deeply at it, right? So we're not But you know, there are I didn't say that for a fact by the way, I think that's an accurate statement. Pope Francis is not saved. He there's no way. There's no way something that has had very long term stability. Something that has been the same for a very long time. American church. That's the perception. Because they haven't been the same for a very long time. Like the veneration of Mary i that's relatively new. Right. Well, uh and I'm not necessarily thinking the Roman Catholic Church. Oh, the change of the Vatican II. That's last century. That's not that long ago. And Troy sounds like Troy's also talking more about Orthodoxy. Um you have more connections with the Eastern Orthodox Church. It sounds like that. I know which historically just is uh we should get an Eastern Orthodox person on here to have this debate, but it's just it doesn't hold up uh under scrutiny when you look at it. But I I I think a lot of it has to do with uh They haven't changed much in a thousand years, but they don't go back two thousand years without changes. I I I think a lot of it has to do with um with with practice. Um liturgy. They like the spells and bells, as they say? Well more strict boundaries. Mm-hmm. Because if you grew up in a non denominational Southern Baptist whatever, you know megachurch in Virginia or Alabama or something, you you kind of get a very freewheeling, you know, flexible boundaries type of feel from a lot of those churches rightly or wrongly, even some of the ones that are more biblically f uh founded in some of their teachings, if everything feels a lot more a lot less rigid and humans Strive and and desire strong, strict boundaries of what they can and cannot do. What are we talking about the Roman Catholics or Eastern Orthodox Either way. Oh, because Eastern Orthodox, they're not rigid. I mean you come and go as you want on their worship services. You walk people Come late, leave early. Like there's no rigidity. The services are rigid though. They're always a certain format. They are just they read from certain prayers and and they they have very very much uh more strict uh liter liturgy. Okay, so there's a consistent structure to what is going on. Then and I don't know and they've been doing it that way for a very long time. You know, i in the Protestant church, you know, w some of the more liturgical uh denominations will be w Presbyterians, for example, and they're they're gonna be a lot more rigid in their s worship services. And it feels some people it not having the spirit necessarily could feel more or less spiritual in one of those categories and and humans well and for I mean we just like with kids, right? I if you if you're raising children and you don't give them any rules at all, they're gonna flounder. In fact, you know, contrary to what they might tell you, kids actually do want rules. If you give them rules and they're you're very specific and strict on those rules, not to overburden them with many rules that shouldn't apply, but if if you're consistent in applying the rules kids respond much better to that form of parenting than no rules at all. And in a lot of the non-denominational churches or the modern uh Baptist or Charismatic churches in America are much more freewheeling, well whatever you want, you know, you got a freedom in in in Christ to do this and that and the other thing and how you worship doesn't really matter just as long as it's from the heart and this And people desire more structure than that and they think, Well, we shouldn't be making the rules. God should be making the rules. So where's a church that really bases on what they say God makes and they never change it? Well the marketing from the Catholic Church is that they haven't. And the Orthodox Church does not seem to have changed as much, so that's why people are drawn to that. I I I'm tempted to want to respond to, but I don't want to gloss over. Um uh David chimed in really quickly when you started to go down that path. He said, Yeah, that's already true, but that's not really what I think is causing the shift So what do you think it is? If it's not they're looking for the liturgy and the familiarity of the structure and those sorts of what do you think it is? Well, no, I I think it is the Oh you do think it's that. So what did you mean when you said I don't think it's bad? Is it Andrew? It but it's not it wasn't just marketing th is what he was saying. Yeah, and it's not it's not a it's not a theological thing. It's uh it's a it's a practice thing. So uh yeah, so uh I think with the um the instability of the American family. I think that's part of the problem. Um, I think right, there there's not you don't there's not roots. And security and something consistent to hold on to there for many, many many years. Wouldn't that be tree for tr tree? True for the Eastern Orthodox and Roman Catholics too? Why aren't they storming the the the doors of the Protestant churches? Uh well, so uh I I think a few reasons. Um I things like um so you you could say alright like the fundamentalists. have a lot of rules, right? And they've been real consistent for a long time. Right. But they they're not cool. They have a really bad name right now, right? And and things that are Things that are uh really old, right? Not out of date, right? Fundamentalists are just out of date, but things that are uh at least have the appearance or the feeling of being really old, right? Are are much are much more interesting, are much cooler. And there are many people that buy into the argument that we have the original, whether it's Catholic or Eastern Orthodox or Anabaptist. Maybe. But we have the original doctrines and and before the Church Fathers messed it all up for us and and the and and and stuff and before the everything else. Uh isn't that the reformed claim though, right? That There was. The Reformation back to what the Bible was. A lot of people have been back in the apostolic. But there has been a very big lack of of teaching on what the reasons for the Reformation were And so many people grew up and they well why aren't we Catholic? Well why shouldn't it be one church? I mean wha let's just and the Catholic church has been signing these joint statements of faith with the Lutherans and and trying to get other it's the there there's a whole campaign and the the protest is over, the protest is over. We actually agree. There and there are it's not just lay people, there are pastors that are becoming Catholics Right? Um, you know, there's just some some more famous ones like you know, Scott Hahn and and and uh somebody else with a really long name that I can't remember right now. Um there were Presbyterian ministers, I think. One the other guy was an Anglican minister and he became Catholic. Um and then there's some more high profile people that weren't necessarily pastors, like the Donut Man. You heard of the Donut Man, you know who that is? I think I only heard of it you mentioned it once before. Yeah, he was he was like a Like a children's church teacher, like you know, the the the the kids' songs in Sunday school, like I'm in the Lord's Army or or Zacchaeus was a wee wee little man, he knows those types of songs. He would go around to churches and sing them to kids and teach kids about Jesus and stuff, kinda little Sunday school sessions. And he went around a whole whole bunch of Protestant churches and then a few years ago he became Catholic. Um and I'm not sure why I didn't look into too many uh details he gave on why You know, in the non-theologian area, some famous people like Candace Owens, for example, conservative right-wing uh uh commentator, podcaster, uh YouTuber, Candace Owens, she became Catholic recently. Um And who do you think those people are becoming chantless? Why is it attractive to them? And I I think I think the reasons are are pretty clear. I think those is some of those same reasons, I think they feel like there's more structure, there's more um tradition. and there's less man choosing what to do, it's more because it's tradition, the assumption is made that God is the one that chose it. Then it could be a wrong assumption, but the assumption is made that if It's always been done this way or for a very, very long time this way. Why we should come around and say it should be done differently? That's not on us. of the you know, the larger evangelical Protestant movement in general trying to meet the culture where it is rather than right and and make it comfortable for the culture. Rather than saying, No, like we're we're the church, we have a culture. Right, and and this is what it's like. I don't I I don't know. I I I'm I'm Clearly you guys are more in in tune with this than I am, and so I'm probably missing some huge things. I uh I see it as just part of the larger issue It's the same thing that has people leaving the Protestant tradition for orthodoxy or the Catholicism is the same kinds of thing that's causing the leave for wokeism You know, they're they're abandoning biblical gospel truth for something that feels like the flavor of the day to them. Okay, but but people aren't leaving to become Catholics because they hate God or they they feel like people aren't becoming Christians or they hate God either, they would say. Well many of them are s would say that that Christianity has ruined everything and and they would not they would not like Catholics either Ed Stetzer, um what's the Veggie Tales guys? Uh Bill Fisher. These guys still call themselves Christians. They don't hate God, and yet they're about as woke as they come. Right? And they've they've left They've they've left the re f uh the Reformation. They may still call themselves Protestants, but they've left the Reformation. Another example may be uh Josh Harris. I kissed dating goodbye, you know, that's a good thing. Yeah, he's apost he's apostate. Well that would be w when I when you say people leaving for Wilkes and that's what comes to mind. He somebody like him where But he doesn't even identify as a Christian anymore. He rejects it. Exactly. That's that's my point. I feel m like th that's more common when people leave the the Protestant church to become more liberal or more woke is usually because they don't they they want less and less historical traditions of of Christianity where the people leaving to become Catholics They may or may not be saved, but they but their desire uh is to become more godly and to stick to more Christian traditions. from from our forefathers. And there might be something to that because I think that the uh the the it it's not a Christian church, uh the fighting words for those over here what I'm gonna say next, uh but the LDS, the the the Mormon uh quote unquote church. Um they've had some challenges uh over the last you know decades plus with uh some dwindling membership and some infighting and some problems going on. And it seems like a lot of that is happening because they've begun to deviate from their some of their cultic practices and their commitments. They so the traditions have been altered. And people are rejecting like, wait a minute, you so what was attractive about Mormonism was this s this s this sense of stability. It maybe isn't there anymore. Uh I I think yeah, I mean I think what we see here is also like it's uh it's evidence of the of a of a big sort, right? And of course, lots of options and of people saying, maybe maybe the you know, these people who I thought thought one way don't actually think that now that these other aspects of of life and belief are being revealed. Right, and so then I I uh then there's gonna be movement. Hank Hanagraph is a famous uh individual. He is the Bible answer man for years on the radio and he left the Protestant tradition to become Eastern Orthodox about five years ago ish. Probably six years ago, seven years ago. I don't know. And my knee-jerk reaction when I see somebody becoming Eastern Orthodox. I think if that was the long name you couldn't think of. Maybe. i is somebody who became cath Catholic. Um but my knee direct reaction when I hear somebody becoming Eastern Orthodox is that they m they have a more lik is more likely that they uh they could be still saved than if they become Catholic Um because I have more of a high regard for the Orthodox Church than I do for the C Catholic Church. Yeah, that that that's uh you're gonna get in trouble with that statement, but I think there's there's uh a strong measure of truth in that. I will say this I think someone can be Roman Catholic and be saved. Uh but I think that those who are Roman Catholic and are saved either aren't really familiar with all the things that their church teaches Or they are familiar but they choose to ignore those things and embrace a a a more gospel centered understanding of things and they stand in disagreement with their church. why they wouldn't leave at that point, I don't quite understand that. But uh Eastern Record, I think some of the attraction there is they don't really have these discussions that we're having. You know, the the faith debate is not an Eastern Orthodox thing. They don't debate these things. They they everything's a mystery. And so we're trying to figure out does God control the weather like we were talking about last week's show? And it's like, it's a mystery You know. Uh when is it okay to uh have a war or not have a war? It's a mystery. Who can say? You know, that's that's kind of a it's kind of an Eastern Orthodox attitude. And I think a lot of people are weary The political fighting and the right they're just tired. It's like I just want to have some sort of religious uh experience, and that's a big big deal, right? This generation is all about experiences. So they can have this experience without the fighting. And they've been told if they're Protestant, they've been told for their whole life that Roman Catholic's bad. Let me try the Eastern Orthodox I've never heard that the Earth Eastern Orthodox tradition is bad. So I think that's part of it. And the Eastern Robot has the uh has the advantage too of some of the same things that are attractive to the new age. Mystic uh experiential spirituality kind of a thing has uh it fits better in East Eastern Orthodox mode, right? So that might be uh um a feather in their cap for those who are looking for a change. I don't find it attractive because I want to know what the Bible says. I want to be taught about it. I want to dive in. I want to press in. In the Eastern Orthodox tradition, that's not what they're all about And and I'm not I don't think I'm saying anything pejorative. I think if if we had s one of the representatives in the room they say, Yes, that's true. Well we figured out years ago we don't have to fight about it anymore. We've decided that everything that's worth knowing we know and the other stuff is a mystery. You know, that's kinda where they live. And the Roman Catholics, um I can understand why somebody likes the the tradition and the the the the structure of the liturgy and stuff, but why wouldn't they join a Missouri Sended Lutheran congregation, which has a lot of the same vibe. Or even Anglican, a lot of the same kind of a high church mm vibe. Why wouldn't they do that? Why why go Roman Catholics? So w what's going on there? Is it just tapping into the what they think is history? Don't you think? Well, I don't know. That that seems to be more of a of a I I don't have a lot of experience personally with anyone who's done that. Gone gone the Roman Catholic direction, if you will. You know, from from my observation that seems to be you know People that are much more like intellectually driven. That that seems to be what's happening And I wonder what kind of pr I mean have there been stu have you seen other studies? Is it like George Barna or you know Barna group? I don't know, that'd be interesting. But the Protestants that are leaving, are they leaving from particular Protestant traditions? Are they leaving from the you know, the charismatic uh uh rock concert Sunday morning experience and leaving something for something more traditional? Are they leaving fr from the the uh frozen chosen uh hyper Calvinist Presbyterian uh thing and going through something that's not quite so legalistic and controlling. By the way, they're leaving from some Anglican or Lutheran uh traditions that are much more uh liturgical already and then go into something. They're still Baptists though, generally. Yeah, they're leaving because that if you They get mad at the call of denomination. But the Southern Baptist denomination is a is a mess and has been now for a decade. And uh they believe in critical race theory and stuff too leadership. May may not be agree with it. Yeah, I think that battle's over. If you're still a Southern Baptist church, you need to show it. You know what? It's over, move on. So get a lifeboat Get one now before it's too late. Which is interesting because it seemed to have a a resurgence for a time. It used to be very liberal. Well there was a time about fifteen years ago, I think. There was a time they they had a vote on whether to pull all of their kids out from public school and it was very narrowly defeated. That would have massively changed the South If they all pulled about a post school at one same time, millions of kids. Uh well, I don't want to make this about the whole Southern Baptist thing. Um But I think some of the people could be leaving that, be disin disenchanted and they're not sure where to land and they end up at the The local Catholic parish parish because the because the the priest you know gives a very funny homily for ten minutes every week and they think that's cool. Who knows? And a lot of people I know that are Catholic and we have a lot of Catholics in my in my family. Um my wife and I come kind of out of a Catholic tradition uh in large measure. And if you ask them about church and stuff I without exceptions. Oh well I pre then he's great. He's so funny. He is so funny. His I love his homily. He is so funny Like that's what that that's why they go. So Yeah. That's great. You you I I I would I would have to say if if you were were saved and you were really grounded in doctrine, I don't know why you could find in yourself to join the Catholic Church. Um You you may you you may come up with reasons to stay in the Catholic Church if you already were there when when you came to this better knowledge of doctrine and we we are struggling to find a number of reasons why that could be, but I could imagine there could be some. I I have much less respect for somebody that joins the Catholic church uh Catholic Church actively. Um same thing with e even with the Orthodox trad tradition, di I g again it depends. I I don't know as much about the Orthodox Church as I do about the Catholic Church and uh David sounds like knows more about the Orthodox Church than less about the Catholic Well this might be a bit of a ask for a lightning strike, but um and I mean a lightning strike as a judgment from God, but like a needle in the haystack kind of lightning strike. We're flummox has to figure out what some of the main reasons might be because we don't have a lot of personal exposure to people who have made this decision. At this moment, if you happen to be hearing the show And you're one of those people. You've left the Protestant tradition to become Roman Catholic or to become Eastern Orthodox. contact me. And if you're comfortable, we'll have you on the show so you can explain what the reasons were. I I I'd be curious to know what your reasons were and I'm sure that you would be speaking for some other people and we can try to grapple with some of those reasons. Uh and we might playfully debate with you a little bit and try to persuade you to come back to the right side of the river. But uh um that that might be helpful because there's no To my way of thinking, there's low no legitimate reason to make that change. So I want to know what in your mind was a legitimate reason to make the change Anyway, well that's gonna end up being the final the the plea for you to join the show in the future is then how see how we end this show. Uh David Forcey Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening to the show. Find us online at householdfaithinchrist. com and WFMD. com. Not sure we're talking about next time for sure. I think we got some things in the hopper, so I know it's going to be great. That much I can tell you. God willing, it's gonna be great. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.