This is the Fake Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed mass ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all for Kua, where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a more on here And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama, the notorious big bridge builder, John Sweither. No, I'm just getting warmed up. This marks the fourth installment of a four-episode arc of shows featuring the same three people on the panel. Open the first three episodes, now available on podcast, by ripping Phil Visher, a new one Phil Visher, creator of Veggie Tales. Now please don't get me wrong, I like Veggie Tales. I like Phil Visher. However, the cartoons they don't represent Christ in the way that most seem to think, and neither does Phil. And I'm using Veggie Tales of Phil Visher as kind of a a common starting point for a lot of us in uh churchanity uh these days uh to get us a grounding as we grapple with some really heady worldview kinds of questions. Anyway, many Christian families they look at Phil Visher and his Veggie Tales creation and they they trust him as a biblical gospel. We trust a lot of people as a biblical voice. for the gospel. But actually it's exactly because of Phil Vischer's work on veggie tails that he cannot be a trustworthy voice for advancing the biblical gospel Many Christian kids have seen all the videos. Many Christian parents have laughed alongside their children while imbibing most of the videos themselves. And these animated short stories are examples of good clean fun highlighting messages of moral behavior. And this is good Particularly when compared to most of what passes for children's entertainment these days. However, the Veggie Tails Universe is a light uh a kind-hearted, light-hearted, moralistic universe. It is not a Christ-exulting, cross-centered universe Let the body of Christ never forget moralism is not the biblical message. The gospel is the biblical biblical message. And Phil Visher in his seventeen minute minute political video that came out this summer circulating the internet now is is well crafted. It advocates for his point of view very effectively. And yet as a committed Bible student who's humbled by the good news, the video doesn't resonate with me because he's not talking to me. At best he's talking at me, which is about all that critical race theory allows. And I'm sure that Phil means well, and I know without a doubt that you do too, if you're one of the thousands who have shared that video with others. But Phil's video, it offers no solution, because Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is the solution, and Phil's video doesn't offer him. And this is a snapshot of what's going on in today's world. And it helps to draw attention to why we're spending time talking about it. So once more, but hopefully not for the last time ever, we would love to have um this panel put together again in the hopefully not too distant future perhaps. Participating in the discussion over the telephone is which is that thing that the ancients used to use before the advent of FaceTime and Zoom. Uh Jonathan Harris, he hosts his own show, a podcast called Conversations That Matter. And uh he and Jonathan Swipes here have been going back and forth uh pretty With pretty deep stuff and hopefully you've been follow following along. I'm going to warn you now, get out your notepad and pen and get ready to take some notes so you can study them later. There'll be a quiz at the beginning of next week's show. So I'm going to let Jonathan Sweitzer pick up where we were leaving off because I know he's got he's got his own notepad. He's got look, let me count. Seventy-three Seventy-seven questions. Let's see if we can get them all covered here. That's right. The key there being the seven, right? The number of perfections, seventy times seven. So um so Jonathan, you you have been drawing some really distinctions about racism in a system versus sin in the heart. And um that that at the heart of a Marxist worldview is that there's no such thing as sin in the heart, such a thing as sin in the system. Um and uh I kind of wanted to open up just saying this, that it's clear to me that Marxism wants to get any biblical morality out of um the defining out of defining what's right and wrong for a nation Right? Like at the end of the day, Marxism thinks any Christian world view or Ten Commandments or uh systems are inherently oppressive to all the rest of the world. And so in that sense Um their systemic problem is Christianity, right? However, that being the case, I don't think most of our Christian friends that are falling into what you're describing, Jonathan, uh are of the same opinion. And so Um I what I hear you saying is that it's true that systems can be unjust But that we go to the system and that we find things that are unjust and we fix those. But that the sin in the heart is a different question and that that's something that individuals repent of. However, I want to ask this question. If a Marxist or critical theory guy or any of these guys says says there's racism there and you can't see it and you can't touch it But it's there. Uh don't we as Christians argue for something similar to that that we call the sin nature? And even though Marxists wouldn't locate that in the heart as a moral problem, it's still the case that they're trying to avoid biblical um categories to to ultimately rewrite what's right and what's wrong. And so they're trying to come up with a sin nature um category, but they don't want to use the language of sin nature. And so can't i isn't it right for us as Christian racist is built into our sin nature in something we really do, like pride, lust, envy, uh still have in the flesh something that pops up on a regular basis for us that that we need to keep dealing with? Yeah. So uh that's a good question, Jonathan, I think. Um There's a lot of different ways we can feel on this too. I uh what I would say first I think is that uh you are not characterized by your sin if you are a Christian or the sin that you used to practice You're in Christ doesn't describe you. So to call a Christian a racist uh is like you know calling them a I'm a thieving Christian, I'm a lying Christian, or I I wouldn't use that as a characterizing term of someone who truly is a Christian Uh, okay, can I respond to that real quick though? Isn't it the case that Christians um um go back and forth about how to define those things, you know, like I'm a sinner saved by grace, right? And so my identity is yes, I'm righteous, right? But but we still kind of go back and forth uh about, you know, like how we characterize those things. And so that wouldn't I'm I'm not sure that that separates this discussion so far from common discussions that go on in Christian circles. You know, Troy and I over the last eighteen years have had these kinds of questions a lot, you know, that, you know, am I a sinner or, you know, originally I was created good, right? But then I fell, but now I'm redeemed, and so my identity is redeemed. But uh you know, uh I don't want to be triumphalist. You know, it's still the case that I struggle with sin. And so is Romans 7, uh, is that pre-Christ or post-Christ? in my experience personally is that it happens oftentimes post Christ. Yeah, so I I was going to just clarify and say that um in a sense that it characterizes you uh it a sin cannot be part of your identity. Paul says such were some of you, but you were washed. And so um so yeah, can you have s a a sin that you struggle with or uh that you commit. Yeah, absolutely. Christians do that. But but here's where it this all attaches to critical race theory, okay, and and what's going on in the church right now. You have a group of people pointing fingers at another group of people and saying that they're all racists. Um they don't know it, perhaps. Uh they don't racists. And and w we should also be clear, racism is not a biblical word. Partiality would be the biblical word. So I I prefer using the biblical word if possible, but these these Christians are all partial. Yeah, good. And and there's no evidence for it. But it's because of their uh the fact that they have white skin are benefiting from systems that supposedly benefit white people. Um it's part of their culture, it's just part and parcel to who they are. That is a foreign concept to Christianity because when we're in Christ, there is a unity in the at the communion table There is a fabric of um of uh uh that links everyone together because they are in Christ And happen right now in the social justice movement is a breaking down of that community. Um and it's lining up now under a a new s uh a new law really. It's a there's a new um uh a new identity marker. And let me give you a an example of what I'm talking about. There was a pastor, Max Lucato, uh this was I think a ye week and a half ago or so, who um his church is not meeting right now because of COVID, but he did go to this actually he helped organize this uh essentially kind of like a soft Black Lives Matter rally. And he's confessing that he's been a racist and church has been racist and all this stuff. And they were interviewing a member of this church in this news story I read, and the member of this church said, Well, we we're not going to church right now, but We really wanted to see the spirit move. So we came out to this event and God was definitely here. It was so powerful. Well, one of the problems is it was an interfaith event. It wasn't even specific to Christians. You had all kinds of religions there And this is one of the the themes that I've seen emerge which is concerning me is that instead we were replacing the fabric of unity that's supposed to exist at the communion table with a kind of unity that um sort i i is surrounding a social kind of social justice uh I'm I'll just call it call it a religion And so that's the primary thing that we now think uh connects us. So God is at work in a multi-phase setting because they believe in social justice. They're confessing their racism. They're doing a corporate apology. So can I respond to the or ask some clarifying thing? feel like the First Amendment is a godly thing, right? That nobody should to worship against their conscience at the point of of some law, um, you know, of a nation. Right? Uh God doesn't force that that's something that he calls us to. It is the case that there's significant consequences for for not um believing in Christ, right? So I'm not denying that, but uh in terms of the way that God has set things up He he does not look. He's not interested in the gospel going forth at the point of the sword. My point in saying that is that um is that that is a righteous issue. And so I've said often here in Frederick, and in fact we've been s uh diligent here in Frederick that that we don't go pray with other religious groups, but there is a time when it's right for me to stand alongside of other religious groups in the name of the First Amendment. and uh uh to um to fight for the right for everybody to worship according to their conscience, recognizing then that inside of that con that that context that God is free to move. And so um it's it's not wrong or it's uh how do I say it? It's still the case that it's the same righteousness. It's still the same um how am I saying this? I'm not saying that people from other religions are submitting to the Holy Spirit in that moment, but I am saying that the believers that are there are And that um that like Paul says in Romans 2, that even the unbelievers have the law of God written on their heart. And so in that moment Um there is something that is godly that is happening in the culture at large that I would agree we need to be really careful to not call it, you know, like a Christian revival, but I don't know that it's wrong to say that there's a righteous thing happening there that God's moving in. Here's a point I'm making though. Saying that he was one of them he's not anymore. He's repenting of it and that there's all these Christians out there who are racist. He came from that. It's so terrible. So there's a separation. I'm s we're we're throwing that away. Not part of that. But coming to to to doing that in a context of all these other faith groups represented there, these other religions. So showing a solidarity with them And so this is a tendency that I've been seeing it um in even in just interdenominational life, Christians um coming together cross-denominationally quite a bit to support social justice because this is a priority. I saw this at Southeastern when I was there. This was a this was a campus. You could debate eschatology Uh you could debate uh whether or not you believed in evolution, Calvinism, Armenianism, all up for debate. That's fine. You know what you couldn't challenge? The social justice narrative Because this is a new orthodoxy. This is something that you're not supposed to question. And if you do, you could get in trouble. I even had a professor there shut the door and tell me, look, John, if I complained about what's going on here on campus, if I said what I really think I'd be fired. Well that's concerning you you would think at least th this should there should be a debate, kind of like the discussion we're having, there should be a discussion. But the discussion has been shut down. And so you have Christians that are separating from one another not on a basis of orthodox uh faith commitment, but it is said on the basis of a uh political movement. So it it's it's a clue it that proves I think what I was saying in the first episode um a few weeks ago that This is this is a religion. They're holding to it with kind of a religious uh kind of adherence. And um And and I think you you even brought it out earlier when you said that Marxists are trying to look for some equivocant to uh to to to nature, so something that represents that but isn't that Yeah, because it's a religion. That's that's why. And and so I think if we examine it in those terms things make a whole lot more sense And uh what I suggest and what I would argue is that many Christians right now, uh even people like Phil Visher, are starting to engage in a kind of syncretism where they're taking these new left ideas or these critical race theory ideas, uh as the case may be, and they're merging them with Christianity. And once you do that, you don't have Christianity anymore. You have something else So again, not saying that they're not saved everyone who does that. There's people can live in a lot of ignorance. I mean Peter did this for a short period of time, but he was confronted and he woke up. He realized, oh wait a minute Galatian heresy is wrong. And so if people don't wake up, um then uh then I you know, I I'm concerned for that. And scrip scripture certainly doesn't put the emphasis on whether the person's saved or not, but whether they're bringing false teaching or not. And I think a lot of Christians that were bringing some solid good stuff are now bringing false teaching. So um so that's where we are and you know that's why I'm on the the pup program right now is because people's heads are spinning. They can't figure out why did my preacher, who never talked about this stuff, all of a sudden he's saying He's a racist. I'm a w I'm a racist. We're all racists. And you know, we never had a race problem in our church. Um but but they do now. They do now. Uh so Anyway, those are my concerns. I do think this movement fundamentally alters orthodoxy. It changes what truth is. It's subjective. It's not objective. It changes the fabric of the communion table and separates people based on social categories Um changes the nature of justice. That's the voice of Jonathan Harris. He's got a blog or a vlog, I guess, called Conversations That Matter. He has a blog too. You can read what he writes at Worldview Conversation. It's got a book out, Social Justice Goes to Church, subtitled The New Left in Modern American Evangelicalism. Again, the author's name, Jonathan Harris. You're listening to the Faith Debate, I'm Froy Skinner, also join on the panel this week again by Jonathan Sweitzer with uh cross bridges here in Frederick And, you know, we've got like five minutes or so left and we kind of took a bit of a turn towards the practical, which is good, because if this four uh part series of shows that we've done together were a sermon, it'd be time for application. So If so if somebody is sitting in church, you know, they're they're a pew sitter, they're maybe not in leadership, uh, but they're beginning to notice that the world's gone a little bit cockeyed and they're wondering Well, is my pastor thinking some of these thoughts that I should be concerned about? What are some of the kinds of that maybe the average church-going Christian should be Trying to be aware of as as leading indicators of potential trouble and if they start to notice the trouble, what would be the advice that you might offer to those laymen of how they should handle it? So I only had a few minutes. I'm going to give you a big word though. Standpoint epistemology is the word. Standpoint epistemology. Is that one word or two? It's two. Sorry, I said word. I mean term. Good catch. So um if your pastor starts advocating a form of standpoint epistemology, that's usually where it begins Uh it may go like this. You hear uh your pastor start talking about racial reconciliation. Um and then he will switch to start saying things like, well We need to just sit and listen to majority culture, a very loaded term. Uh we we don't have anything to say about this. It's our job just to to learn because we our perspective is somehow uh incapable of ascertaining the truth on this topic. And and so you bring in an expert or you A lot of churches have had these panels where they'll have uh some uh minorities from their congregation come up and share with them about their experience. When when that starts happening There's there's a type of postmodernism going on. There's a it's called standpoint epistemology, but there um that this social group has its own truth, its own perspective on and that's the perspective that everyone else needs to bow to, essentially. So you can't have objective truth in that. You can't have a discussion about it because you are stuck in your social group and incapable of actually having a discussion. So it's your job to listen in that circumstance Um I don't have time to get into all of it now because we have probably thirty seconds left, but ultimately um sociologists that came up with this critical race theorists are the ones that can adjudicate between perspectives of uh from social groups. So ultimately they're God in this scenario. Now your pastor probably hasn't thought through all of that But if he starts talking like that, he's buying into a philosophy that contradicts the objectivity of the Word of God. And we want to be generous hearers and get at that as much as possible. So you don't want to jump to conclusions if you hear your pastor saying any of those kinds of things necessarily. But uh so you want to follow Matthew eighteen perhaps and you want to go and uh and say, Hey, I heard you say that. What did you mean exactly? And maybe he'll, you know, frame it in a context that makes you feel like, oh, okay, I I guess that Makes sense. Well, Pastor, the reason I asked that question, I was listening to this crazy radio show and they were saying that these were kinds of things that might be leading indicators of problems. And if your pastor's not thinking about these things already, it might lead him to and that would be not a bad thing to have. Yeah, yeah. So and that's a tough place for people who are, you know, not in leadership at uh in the church to deal, right? It's hard enough to go to just your average one-of-the-mill next-door neighbor Christian confront them with something you're concerned about. To go to your pastor is even Harder. So are is there a soft way to do that? Is there other than your website? I would not have sufficient other perspective to understand the topic the Word of God talks about And see what your pastor says. And I think that'll give you a lot of uh information about what what he's thinking. Yeah, and hopefully your pastor doesn't respond to the word of God, what's that? That would be bad. Well, I wanna thank you so much. Again, I wanna make sure we we do due diligence and giving you your plugs. So you've got a book, uh, Social Justice Goes to Church. Subtitle, The New Left in Modern American Evangelicalism. You can probably find more information about that, I'm assuming, at Jonathan Harris' website, Worldview Conversation. I know you're active on Twitter. I'm not on Twitter, but I think they have things called handles, right? So what's your Twitter handle? Yeah, I would suggest that you don't get on Twitter, but if you're already there, it's Worldview Convos. All right. And he's got a show where he has video podcasts that he calls Conversations That Matter. John Sweitzer with Cross Bridges on the show. What really insightful, tough. uh minded kinds of questions, which we love on this show. I want to thank you for listening and continuing to support the Faith Debate by following us on air and online. online or at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith will get you there. You can also go to the drop-down menu of shows on the main page of WFMD and find the Faith of Eight page there. That's probably the easiest and best way to find access to the uh podcasts in the descriptions. I always post uh an update of of uh what's coming up in the following weeks if you wonder what next show is going to be about Go to the website and check that out. I want to thank you again, Jonathan, for being part of the show. And maybe sometime down the road we could perhaps have you on again if you're open to it. Sounds great. All right. Thank you. Thank you. And for everybody who's listening, John, thank you. The other Johnny topic. Yeah, thank you. And uh till next week. We got 167. 5 hours from now until we get together again. Till then. God bless