This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. KUA where Faith Community Leaders are. Leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble. Ah. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron, yes. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community, the notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. One can only wonder why an army of professing Christians have offered up teachings represented pretty well by Phil Visher, the creator of VeggieTales on a viral video that he put out a couple months ago. They offer it up as something delicious for other Christians to gobble up. Consider, for example, that the video that I mentioned last week and I'm mentioning again this week, it represents this worldview um but doesn't quote scripture one time. At least the video doesn't. Doesn't point to the gospel even one time, doesn't utter the name Jesus. at all, nor does it even use the more generic and quote-unquote politically correct term God. Not once. Instead, Mr. Visher in his video rattles off a long series of political talking points from a progressive point of view, as it turns out. And the worldview representative is rooted or influenced by, or at least accidentally, borrowing from critical race theory, which is not a biblical philosophy. In fact Critical race theory is a hindrance to the advance of the gospel of Jesus Christ, so says I. What says Jonathan Schweitzer, my longtime partner on the Faith Debate? And what says this week's guest panelist back for a second round, Jonathan Harris? A traditional Christian commentator blogging and podcasting on issues facing the church and the country, and he's got a new book. Uh I think you might be able to buy it right now called and I gotta say he's he's uh John Harris is a is an old soul. He's got a title for a book that would make the the old writers Proud. Listen to the length of this. Social justice goes to church, the new left in modern American evangelicalism. In fairness, the the the the main title is Social Justice Goes to Church and the subtitle is The New Left in Modern American Evangelicalism. But remember back at those old books, they had like a paragraph for the title This kind of reminds me of that. So anyway. Last week we got to leave it, you know, John Knox, the first blast of the trumpet against the monstrous resume of women or whatever. It goes on for about three paragraphs. So uh it's a rare treat to have a guest join us by Telephone. Uh I made the mistake of mentioning to John Harris what John Schweitzer was like and he said I'll be on as long as I don't have to come in person. So here we are. So at the end of last week's show, John Schweitzer was uh was was talking about whether or not um this uh this idea the uh the social justice idea if it whether the uh uh Whether at the root of it is a false gospel or if the false gospel is is nearly something that gets slipped into because of it. And so he's kind of offering a comment on that. So and and I think he's leading up to the kind of that question. So I'll start by asking uh that question uh in a in a Now I'm the beginning of this new show. So, John, false gospel is the false you know because you talked about it being a an alternative, a false gospel last week. So is false gospel at the root of these issues with critical theory and you know critical race theory and and and the neo-Marxism that's uh in in uh in I would say infecting the church? Or is it merely a case where the church maybe is slipping into a g false gospel without it necessarily being at the root. Yeah, I'm trying to understand uh the distinction there. Maybe I'm missing it. I'm not sure. Okay. Can I ask it a slightly different way? For example, there is clearly an American gospel that we all reject. right as also being a false gospel. And the American gospel is you work hard, you know, and do good and you'll end up, you know, uh succeeding in life And, you know, that's what life is all about, to have the white picket fence and to have the you know, the that that uh you know, struggling upward, you know uh capitalist whatever that um that has parts of it that line up with biblical truth But ultimately uh would be a false gospel. And so my question is uh when it comes to critical theory or another economic system that I personally believe would be inferior and therefore less um biblical than uh capitalism. But is it the case then that the gospel Is inherently false when we're in that environment or that we just have to do like we did with the American gospel is just draw the clear lines about what exactly is the gospel. And so it's not it's not that communism is inherently um a worse place to preach the gospel than the United States. The reality is that all of sin falls short of the glory of God. Wherever you're preaching the gospel, you're going to run into a difficulty and so the Pastors, teachers of scripture in those contexts have to do their work to preach with clarity and with anointing in that context. Well it'd be the same way in Utah or if you're in the Middle East somewhere or any tribal area where they believed in animism, you'd have to preach the gospel in that context. And you're doing it in a place where a false gospel is the predominant view. And so I think at this point in um our modern American life and I'm not sure when when or if the balance has quite tipped, but I know that where the momentum is There is a false religion that is rising very fast and I don't have a problem calling it the social justice religion Um, I I think that at the very least, when people use the word social justice, by and large, they're talking about an unbiblical ethic. talking about an egalitarian ethic. And and we can we can go back and trace some of that history. But I think the more the more important point is that today when people talk about social justice, there's a whole lot more coming in with that. There's um there's bad news, systemic oppression uh i is happening, which is kind of a substitute for God's providence. You have white straight males that have all the privilege um without them doing anything, so that's kind of like a parallel to original sin. Political correctness is the new law. Um judgment is being canceled. You have good news, which is their gospel, which is being born again, that's like being woke liberal politics or the sacraments. Uh their final state, their heaven, is equity. Um and and of course this is not in keeping with the true gospel because it's focusing on external behaviors instead of heart conditions. And Okay. So there's a lot of parallels between the true gospel and the false gospel that contradict each other. And and I would agree with you that that there are plenty of those that are fully on board with everything that you just described. Meaning, um, and possibly even uh those that um would would be a part of what I've described on this show often through the years as as um the liberal church, those that that um that stopped believing in the miracles of the Bible, you know, a good hundred some years ago, um, that would buy into what you're describing in a Christian way a hundred percent. But when I come back to these African American pastors that I'm referring to, and even like Tim Keller and others, um, I get the impression that they are not defining their terms the same way that all of the others are defining, meaning that there's a there's a um You know, a spectrum. And so for example, I'm sitting with some of these pastors the other day and they're talking and I and they say something like systemic impression uh uh oppression. uh or systemic racism or or you know white privilege and i and I and I stop them I say, Hey, would you define that for me? And they define it and as they go through defining it, I I ask a couple clarifying questions and I can end up uh being okay with where they end up on on defining those things and even seeing that there's biblical justification for how they do so. Uh uh however Um there are churches that are here in the nation that have used some of that language. uh and in using the language ended up being associated with um professors that are Marxists in our uh universities and people left those churches when in fact uh the pastors and the leadership team did not intend the definitions that are used in those contexts. And so Honestly, I feel like there's no common language anymore that that that even as you're as you're defining those terms, and I'm in agreement with you as I'm talking with you that uh that there's a whole um religious structure that's set up there among those that are full Marxists and many even that are in what I just described as the liberal part of the church. But that I'm not sure that that I don't think Tim Keller's defining those things the same way. Yeah, you know, I can speak probably better to Tim Keller because I've studied some of his writings. I can't speak to your friends just because I haven't met them and way outside of my context. I can appreciate that Um that that you probably I I'll give give the benefit of the doubt here, you probably do have friends that love the Lord and trust me. What's that? Trust me, I'm perfect. Yeah, I yeah. So what you're saying, yeah, about Tim Keller. Like like give me your impression about Keller. Is he using them the same way? Yeah, I think so. Um now I don't know that he uses every single one of those terms. Uh he's only, I think, recently even addressed critical race theories Um, because Tim Keller, to to understand him, you've got to understand his three mentors essentially who kind of helped him integrate Christianity with New West ideas and liberation theology ideas. Um the first one he what's that? Who were they? The first one he uh never actually met to my knowledge. He may have when he went to New York, I don't know, but it was in nineteen seventy when he claims to have first gotten saved at Buccaneer University and that was Tom Skinner. He had a tape of Tom Skinner from a talk Skinner gave at Urbana seventy. And he listened to it over and over and it completely changed the way that he viewed politics. And if you read that speech Uh it sounds exactly like a lot of the speeches we're hearing from the wokest of the woke pastors today. Uh so that was way back when he first got saved in 1970 And then when he went to um Gordon Conwell, he was in our varsity and uh he had a classmate there. Um trying to remember the first name. The last name was Ellis, but his classmate essentially uh taught Keller about white privilege and systemic injustice. and called Keller a racist and Keller accepts this and says, Yeah, I am and and then uh when Keller finally got to Westminster it was El Elward. El Elward Elwood Ellis was the name And then when he got to Westminster Theological Seminary, Harvey Kahn was his mentor on urban missions. And Harvey Kahn is very clear that liberation theology and conservative evangelicalism should be integrated. And so he takes liberation theology um and and he even uses Marxism and he admits this as uh an analytical tool. Uh so he's taking the Marxist critique and then he's wedding it to a biblical foundation. And that's exactly what Keller does in Generous Justice and a lot of his teachings. And so um if you if you really look through Tim Keller and the sermons he he gives, there's a lot of uh a lot of new left thinkers, there's uh you know, liberation theologians, um James Cohen even. Uh you'll find a lot of uh Foucault, a lot of postmodern thought. Um and so I uh I would be comfortable saying that at the very least, and I I don't know Keller's heart infinitely, but uh minimally Keller is playing with some very heretical ideas and um and he's using these ideas, he he's attaching these ideas to Christian concepts, and so sometimes they go undetected. But Um if you want to get into more specifics I I can do that. But uh but I I would be very wary of Keller at this point to be honest with you. And that doesn't mean that not, you know, everything he's done is bad or anything like that. But Uh I I do think he is involved in syncretism, which is the other you know, you you don't have to completely buy into a false religion in order to be somehow involved in it in a compromising way. And that's what the children of Israel did constantly. So um so that that'll be my answer to that This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You just heard the voice of Jonathan Harris. He's got a book brand new, Social Justice Goes to Church. And uh you can follow him online, his blogs, and I think connect all the social media stuff at worldviewconversations. com. Jonathan Swipes are also in the studio again for the face debate on 930 WFMD. Uh real quickly, Tim Keller is regarded as, you know, somewhat of a hero, really. He's like on the Mount Rushmore of uh particularly reformed Protestant Christians over the last, you know, twenty-five years. Um and then you say something like, well, all the way back in nineteen seventy, so would it be your impression that He's had this kind of latent thing going on in all of his teaching and writing uh all the way through Or that it was kind of held at bay for whatever reasons until maybe more recently he's become a little bit more obvious, at least to your sensibility on that? It's been there. So he's I I downloaded his sermon archive, so I've been reading all his sermons from nineteen eighty-nine forward and it's there, but it's um i it's not as obvious as it is today. Uh Tinkfeller admits in the reason for God and the preface for it uh that he was very attracted to what he called neo-Marxist critical theories And and so this was him as he was an activist uh at Bucknell. He was involved in protests and that kind of thing. And He it what bothered him was he couldn't ground these things on a moral foundation. Moral relativism couldn't account for the injustices he wanted to oppose. And so Christianity gave him that foundation And um and Harvey Kahn, his influence helped Keller develop his missional strategy. And so if you look at what he's doing in New York City Um with all the different if you go to the front page of Redeemer Presbyterian Church, you'll see all these other organizations. I think right now the one he's the most involved in is City to City. A lot of community organizing type stuff. And and so that's Keller's very into that. He he attaches the gospel to not just redeeming the individual souls, but the gospel somehow has this uh redemptive quality in cultural organizations, institutions, systems, arts, uh, politics, and and there's the gospel itself has a political philosophy. And so y you find all sorts of places in which Keller says these kinds of things. In my mind, that's kind of a corruption of the gospel. It's one thing to say that Christian ethics, Christian teaching, um talks about these different issues, but as soon as you start saying that this is part of the gospel uh then you know, how is that part of the gospel? You're adding works to it. You're saying that doing justice is part of the good news of Jesus Christ forgiving us for our sins. It it doesn't quite add up. Yeah, it's interesting. Al Moller is being called into question at some level. Uh and and the the Southern Baptist Seminaries and of course the convention itself with resolution nine last year and and there's the uh what's it called vision the what of the PCA thing from From last year, um oh w what am I drawing a blank on it? Vision. I'm not familiar with that one. Oh, anyway. There's there's all this this and so it I'm thinking it causes some cognitive dissonance for some people. Like it's one thing to say, Karl Marx, bad. Yes, I agree. Tim Keller, suspect. What? No, I can't comprehend. So h what kind of pushback are you getting when you have these sorts of conversations with people? And perhaps a way of explaining um And couching the push the your response, I want to get to a question that was asked last week that we still haven't answered. We were talking about trying to define what we mean by social justice. So perhaps you could talk about the the uh how you deal with the cognitive dissonance and how you're defining and how you think that Christians should understand social justice Sure. So I think the cognitive dissonance comes in when you've read some good books. You read his book on marriage, let's say, for Tim Keller, and you say, Well, this is a good book. There's some good principles here. And and there are. Very good book, I'm sure. Um how can someone who wrote such a good book on this topic be so wrong on another topic? And and the reality is there's just a lot of writing, there's a lot of things thinkellers put out there that people just they haven't studied, they're not aware of, which is fine. They're not his most popular writings. But um speaking you know, I'll just give you you know, Karl Marx, you bought Karl Marx. You don't like Karl Marx. Well, you know, Tim Keller on a certain level endorses Marx And that sounds absolutely crazy to most people, but um but if if I had the time I would read you. Um it's it's probably gonna be an appendix in the book uh that's coming out. But Um what he essentially says about Marx is that his assolutions were incorrect because he grounded them in atheism and he ignored the reality of human sin. But that being said, he says that the people I read who were the disciples of Marx were not villains. Direct quote from Tim Keller. They were not fools. They cared about people. Um they uh they were trying to do something right. Um He says that uh Karl Marx, listen to this, Karl Marx um was the only major thinker other than God himself who held up the common worker with a high view of labor. That's Tim Keller. He says this stuff. But people don't don't know about it because they're not as popular writing. So th that's how I deal with the cognitive dissidents is I just Go to the primary source and show them this is what they said. Now we have to deal with it. What does this mean? Um as far as defining social justice. The the the hard part is that social justice is a word that's developed kind of over time. And so there are some people who will use it in a way that it means equality before the law, which is a very biblical concept. And we can open our Bibles and and talk about that Um but in its current form, social justice is is not about equality before the law. It's about egalitarian equality. If you go to um Webster's dictionary, it says a state or doctrine of egalitarianism. It literally says that. And and so it's the the the term has been, if you want to call it corrupted you could, but it was corrupted very early. Uh there's uh I have a source from actually the late eighteen hundreds, uh guy in Scotland who's saying that social justice means socialism. There is no difference. And and so there's this this has been going on for a long time. Uh but it's it's an egalitarian kind of flatlining. It's um It's the kind of justice that isn't about punishing crime equally, but about getting rid of inequities and uh disparities between social groups And and that's not what we're called to do in scripture. That's not part of justice. Um in fact that opposes justice because justice is supposed to be blind You know, you're not supposed to regard a poor man differently or your family member differently or doesn't matter what social group, an alien and stranger differently. You're supposed to treat them equally before the law So that's what I would say about about social justice. It's the complete opposite of actual biblical justice. So um when I read Isaiah fifty-eight in particular, um Uh right, it's one of many passages. And it it uh promotes an ethic that uh is is definitive one of the definitive passages dealing with uh God's um rebuke of Israel not doing what was right and just. And um and it doesn't deal there with crime. There's plenty of other places where where the prophets also deal with crime and talk about, you know, uh injustice. But but in this passage, you know, it says Loose the chains of injustice, untie the cords of the yoke, set the oppressed free, share your food with the hungry, provide the poor with shelter, clothe the naked. Right, not turn away from your own flesh and blood, then your light will break forth like the dawn. Right. And so that would be one of many passages. And when I read that, I don't hear equality of outcome But I also don't hear equality before the law. I'm hearing something that says that we that that we as Godly people have an obligation to care for others you know, the the you know, where's my brother? Um you know, my my brother's keeper, that um that is a different question from the gospel. Like right, like like when we're talking about justice issues for me, I'm not I don't feel like we're talking about um the heart of the gospel. I feel like we're talking about the heart of of why we need the gospel, meaning that we haven't done what is righteous. And so we don't therefore save ourselves by going to do what is righteous. Rather we go to God, we receive his mercy, but then we return to you know, doing what is righteous, what he's called us to. And that includes equality before the law, but it also includes this aspect of, you know, caring for uh our neighbor in significant ways and and so if that's the social gospel then well If that's social justice, we're not talking about social gospel, because there's two things there, social justice and social gospel. If that's social justice, then I'm inclined to say that we do have an obligation to to do those things before God.