This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. We're Faith Community. Leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run by Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith-debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Swaister. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Do Christians have reason to not support the Black Lives Matter Foundation and the movement bearing their name? What about defunding the police? How should we understand the widespread response of rioters, the political response, the church response In a world that's shifted very sharply into postmodernism and deconstructionism and cultural Marxism and cries for social justice What is the way forward? Again, joining the panel with John and me as we address questions such as these is Darren Gerald, pastor of Strong Tower Christian Church. here in Frederick. So this is the fourth round of probably our final round with this panel for now. Maybe we'll get this cam panel together again in the near future to to pick up some stray hairs we didn't cover, but Something we haven't touched on yet that it's almost surprising that here we are entering our fourth uh discussion and we haven't even uttered the phrase white privilege and what that's all about and it seems like a pretty big swing in a miss. So maybe we should talk about What is meant by that? Is it a helpful or unhelpful term? I would argue that it's probably not a helpful term. I would go so far as to make it more strongly than that and say it's definitely not a helpful term. And actually I think that uh based on what we we talked about in between shows Um the Darren maybe agrees that it might not be the most helpful term and he he's he he couches it slightly differently. Yeah, I I don't think it's helpful. I think it you know uh people's defences are m automatically raised when you use that. Uh and they may be rightfully so. Um, you know. I used to I like to talk about bias. Uh you know, we're all part of different groups. I'm a part of a uh Jonathan and I are part of a group. We're over six feet tall. Bald. We're bald, beautiful, right handed. Um we're all part of different groups. You know, we're all men. There's certain there's certain advantages to being a man in this in our society that and certain understandings and biases we have as men that that women in in another group do not have. Uh so we're all part of different groups, affinity groups, so on and so forth. And I was talking about, you know, uh we're all right handed. Uh and the whole sporting industry has been created for right-handed people. Uh and so when it comes to left handed school, going to school, trying to learn teachers often would try to teach uh left handed people how to write right handed. You know, or uh if you had a baseball mitt, a baseball glove, you know, it didn't fit it and you end up using the hand that wasn't your dominant hand. Uh you get a reel across the knuckles if you try to write with your left hand if you're a left handed battery. or uh or hit with a left handed pitcher, uh those guys definitely had a hand up in that sense. Once they got past the thing, well that's interesting, yeah, because like their bias. Once they got past being the out there they ended up being an overcomer. Well one of the first things that you you used as a distinct distinctive that you and Jonathan both have in common, you're both over six feet tall. And in our society that brings oftentimes certain advantages. Sure. However, there's disadvantages with certain rental cars you guys can't fit into so easily, right? Or Or finding clothes and so there's there's a mix and and that's why um maybe it was two shows ago when I was talking about this this group identity thing. We become prisoners of the collective groups that we're assigned to. Right. And it's it robs us of the individual experience that we have because there are times when John being what do you like six four? Mm-hmm. John being six four in a basketball game he can post up and he's gonna clobber a guy like me who's five ten But you know, put us in a sports car and see who has a better experience. Um and in business terms, I learned this years ago from a a a really smart uh general manager of a different radio station in a different city. And he used to try to identify uh individual talent because he felt like skills could be could be gained and taught and ex experience could be you know, you you could gain experience. But talent, you either have talent or you don't have talent. You would try to identify particular talents and then figure out where to best place them as individuals within the collective of the radio station. And he used the story, I'm sure he stole it from somebody, I don't know who gets credit for originating this, but he used to talk about trout and squirrels. And he said, you know, and he tells this story. You row out and you're rowboat into the middle of this pond. It's a beautiful, picturesque scene, and the sun is shining and the birds are tweeting, and it's just the most wonderful experience ever. And then you you take out your old cage, and in the cage you've got a squirrel. And you throw the squirrel into the pond, and you will see one of the most hideously disgusting displays you've ever seen in your life as that squirrel scrambles to get to shore because he doesn't want to be in the water and he's not good at being in the water And then you take the fish tank that has the trout in it and you drop the trout in and you see the trout go slithering away uh from the boat in the pond and you're like, oh Now the trout is beautiful. The trout is a wonderful creature of God. Nothing like that hideous, horrible, ugly squirrel. But now it changes scenario. You roll back to shore, you go catch that trout, and you recapture the squirrel and you throw them both up into the tree and see which one does better. So the squirrel and the trout No one's better or worse than the other. They are different. They have different skill sets. They have different talents. They have different experiences. They have shaped how they interact with the world. And that's the world that I think Christians are called to live in. that as as I meet Jonathan for the first time, I should be thinking about how can Jonathan be all that God made him to be? How do I invest in his life in such a way that his talent that God's given him can flourish most? And likewise with uh with Darren to say, okay, how can I invest in what Darren's all about? And so what marriage is all about. That's what the healthier marriages are The woman's job is to make the husband as Christ-like as possible, and the husband's job is to make the wife as Christ-like as possible. And when we th and when we think in those terms, we as a collective do better. Be c and the and the co and the the the sum of the parts is is is is yeah is greater than the individual. Alright, so Darren now apply this though in the context of the African American experience, right, about a left-handed Person in a right-handed world. Like like how does that apply? So well let me go a little further with that whole analogy. So There's been research and study on this. So whatever group we are part of, if we are part of th those people are like us. It could be skin color, it could be height, it could be gender, it could be whatever, right? We're normally more patient with people like us. We're more uh we give the benefit of the doubt to people like us. Uh and this is this is across all humanity. Like the fact that I perceive you as an athlete Like like makes me think, oh man, I like him. Right? Because I per Okay, I'm pretty old, I'm a fifty year old man, so not so much anymore, but I perceive myself as an athlete. So like like that's a s uh a space where something like that happens. So if I walk into a room and there was a a bunch of people who were reading library books and they were athletes over here, I probably go through hang out with the athletes. Yeah. So we're w but people are more like us, whatever like us means, we're more patient, we get the benefit of the doubt. We have more positive assumptions about them. uh when mistakes are made we're more gracious toward them. And so this whole study and so I think when we look at it in terms of that, not using a word that's so weaponized Like white privilege. Yeah. But we think about our biases because of the groups that we're in. Uh and all of us have bias. I think we can all agree we all have bias. And it's it's more um you know, it doesn't cause that psychological dissonance that because w someone can say, Well, you're racist another weaponized word and you're like, No, I'm not. Yeah. I I have good intentions. I may have some I may have some biases because of the group I'm in, but that doesn't make me racist. Right. I think when we use that when we throw that word around racist, uh, you know, certainly there are racist people, but the vast majority of people are not racist They may unintentionally have some biases that may contribute toward uh some people feeling that way, uh, but but I I think particularly in the church Uh, I don't think that we have out a lot of out and out races. We have people who have been redeemed by the blood of Jesus Christ, who love God and love other people, and we j we just need to maybe not use the terminology of the world uh to in and and dial it back so that we can hear one another. And I think that, you know, there's a lesson in all of that for us to think about If we're going to bridge these gaps, we should, you know, we have these biases that negatively can can uh outwork in ways that are destructive, but the biases can also be a conduit to a good relationship. Like Jonathan notices that somebody's athletic and they're an athlete and he's going, Oh, I have something in common. Maybe he'd like to play some pick up basketball with me and come out with me and my son and and have a game and so you can build on those. So maybe we should be looking to identify those common areas. and use them positively. And that's why I I I push back against the the the idea that we become prisoners of certain collective groups. And that becomes a problem. And that's why In my mind the the the phrase or the the moniker of white privilege becomes a problem because I can't escape being white. And so if I'm stuck in this group that is inherently perceived by certain uh other groups or individuals within those groups as I I I must have a quote unquote racist bias because I'm white and I've been the the the beneficiary of a lot of privilege. I don't think that's helpful. I think it'd be better for us to say, oh, you're a sinner, me too. You're saved by the blood of Jesus Christ, me too. You've got biases, me too. You're right-handed, me too. You're six feet tall, plus or minus six inches, me too. You know, we can find lots of things that have commonality and then those barriers come down because Boy, I I don't know how to say this without uh I'm not prepared to say this in a way that's uh that's thoughtful, and so I'm gonna possibly be uh I I need you guys to be gracious. There's a certain helpfulness to being a little suspicious of differences because that's about how we stay s self preserved. If I run into a situation I've never experienced before, I'm gonna be naturally a little bit nervous and I don't think that that's necessarily sinful. And it can be beneficial to walk into an environment or deal with a group of people I know nothing about. They speak a language I don't understand. I'm vulnerable. You go to a foreign country and you don't speak their language, you're vulnerable and you're on edge until you can find some commonality. where the walls come down, you learn that you can trust certain individuals and they can help you integrate and translate language for you. I don't think that's necessarily bad and the person that's nervous in those situations isn't necessarily sinning. But if you go in and the person speaking a different language, well, those stupid people, they don't even speak English here. Well that's sinful. That's a problem. So I I want to give I want to allow some grace for people to have conditioned biases and give them benefit doubt and say, you know what, it's appropriate and okay for you to have those conditioned biases, but now let's work through How you don't have to fall prey to sin through those biases. Does that make sense? Right, but there's more going on in the phrase white privilege that is speaking to important issues and that is are there places where there's benefit, where there's opportunity, where there is um Uh the majority favor the majority culture is in the majority culture. So so for example when I showed up growing up uh at the basketball court in my neighborhood Right. I was the white guy and uh and I remember showing up with my brothers. We'd we'd go looking for the best basketball games you know, on the street where you know, on given Friday night or whatever. And it always meant that we were the minority when we got there Right, and that most people were like looking us up and down like you know, who's this guy? He doesn't he can't do anything. Right. Less positive assumptions. Right? Less positive assumptions and we knew that we were gonna have to go out, we were gonna have to prove ourselves, you know, in in a significant way. The point is is that in that environment there was no privilege that I came in with. I came in, uh, they had the privilege, you know, they they respected each other, they you know, their language, their music, you know, we're Christian pastors kids, you know, coming hanging out in that environment and so we were like way out of our element. Uh but my point is is that there was benefits to those that are in the culture and that's what that's what the idea of white privilege is is that that that what are those benefits and what responsibility do we have as white people uh or the majority culture, what responsibilities do we have for those that are not in the majority culture? So I think I think we have to cognitively think about that because there are more positive you know, if you see a a black guy coming down the street and he's got corn rolls. What's what's your first thought? What's your first assumption? Well there may used to be s one thing, but I feel like that's become Yeah the cornrows don't mean anything to me. I I think I know where you're going, but for me, to me it's more about it it's it's a hoodie on. It's more about uh Uh often the way they're dressed and the way they carry themselves, a certain the the uh there's a certain swagger that uh certain um um people Uh carry themselves with that seems like oftentimes people that carry themselves with that swagger are more prone to destructive behavior based on what you've seen in media or But you could condition to think that. Sure. Well, yeah. Exactly. And I grew up on the you know, I I moved a lot as a kid, but uh a a formative part of my life uh grew uh in the in the West uh side of Chicago and the the near west side suburbs of Chicago, which is very racially charged. I don't like using that word, but for understanding purposes. Uh that's the intersection where uh that that part of Chicago is the intersection where the whites, the blacks and Hispanics all kind of are very in close proximity 'cause the south side is black and You know, the north side is is white and the Hispanics are are are pretty predominant in the in the in the center and so that west side is they're all kind of coming together. And so I saw a lot And your story's a real rags to story. And I saw a lot of white people do horrible things to black people and they carried themselves in a certain way that in full disclosure this isn't me trying to apologize for different kinds of biases I might have for somebody who carries themselves with in a particular way with uh with with darker skin. White people that carry themselves in a particular way make me nervous. Because I've recognized it's like a poker player, there's tells, there's things that are cues, you know, the the way that the the facial expression, the eye contact, or lack thereof, or that the way they cock their head are now it might not be fair. There might be a white person that carries themselves that's that selves that way that has a heart of gold and yet my radar goes off like that's an unsafe person because I've seen other white people carry themselves that way. And then same thing with a black person. You know, th is it the still the fashion after all these years, which is bizarre to me, but whatever. Right. And and you see people carry themselves that way and I've seen enough people who carry themselves that way have destructive tendencies that makes me nervous around them. And they and it's culturally conditioned behavior. The the the the blacks that carry themselves with a particular swag you very rarely see whites carry themselves with that swag, although I have And when I do, they make me nervous too. But there's there's that that hard edge that the the that the white gangs, if you will, in Chicago have. There's a there's a certain vibe that they give off that others might accidentally be giving off. They're not part of the gang. And yet I'm I'm nervous about them until I have reasons to n to not be. I I don't know, is that I don't I'd like to think that that's not sinful. Maybe it is. I stand to be corrected. I think it's just a self preservationist instinct that I So Edmund Burt, the f the w who's kind of considered the father of conservatism uh argued that that prejudice was a God given gift. So funny to me, uh to to th uh in and he basically made the argument that you just made, right? So you reached back two hundred years into uh American history and and uh spoke to a to an argument that is very real. The problem is that if that's where we stay and we don't press back past that, you know, to care for the Samaritan, right? To uh to um you know to embrace Rahab, you know, uh Jericho, to um, you know, to embrace um uh Ruth uh, you know, there there's th that we end up missing the heart of God in some really key places and so um so it's not so so there is a certain protection, you know, like for my kids when well there's the it yeah. Well I think I think it's an extreme. I I agree with the I think we give into fear I'm agreeing with you because we fear nothing but God. But anyway. For instance um So, you know, I guess my question would be, if I was talking to your audience in a one-on-one conversation is Am I living out this narrative in the back of my head, in the back of my psyche? Something somehow there's something intrinsically wrong with black people. Are they less smart? Are they are they lazy? Are they less uh industrious, whatever? Because those are some of the images over time that's been generated over and over and over and over again. And I think we just have to bring ourselves to a place of honesty. And if we are in that place say, okay, Lord help me with this because I think there is you know, I'm not gonna hang around certain people either. You know you know right. If I see you you you you know, you acting a certain way, but I think that When we take that to extreme, I think that's why we see some of the over aggressive policing that we do sometimes. Because in the back of your it It's it's a it's uh maybe it's unintentional even. They've been conditioned. And and the studies show that the the white cops aren't any more likely to uh do violence against a a a a black suspect than the black cops are. So the the the cops as a group And I don't know if they like the word cop. The police as a group have been uh conditioned that in their experience they seem to run into trouble more often with people that look and carry themselves a certain way. fair or unfair that they've been conditioned and w this isn't gonna get all political and we don't have time for it. The problem with the The problem's not a a a skin color problem. Uh the problem is a uh is a political problem and what the politicians have done to certain sectors in our society and have have brought economic ruin into the inner city and have incentivized a single motherhood uh as opposed to uh incentivizing marriages in those uh challenged community economically challenged communities and putting the overwhelming majority of abortion clinics in black neighborhoods We have undercut the the we we have done damage to a a a group of people and those individuals are f Fighting for their life. And when people are fighting for their life, they don't make the best decisions. Well, interacting with the people. And then we did the worst possible thing imaginable in the middle of this. I said this to you this morning. We criminalize drug use Drug use. And so w so we we we went into this environment that was that that totally destroyed the family where everybody's kind of alone and and and the breakdown of family and generational poverty and we went in and we said, Now if you do something bad, we're gonna throw you in jail right and so we we took the worst of the a Democrat policy and the worst of a Republican policy and we ended up destroying even you know, it's it's it's like we took a Uh uh a group of people that was already struggling and we we just smashed them to the ground. The libertarians get that question right, I think Yeah. Libertarians have you know that's basically decriminalizing political. Yeah. God forgive us. Yes. But but that's you know, so the Republicans and and Democrats uh argue about what to do about drugs And they both sides uh refuse to listen to the libertarian argument which is now the argument everybody's having, let's let's not criminalize drug use. Let's legalize it, regulate it, manage it uh deal with it as an addiction a and help deal uh and help solve that, not have a war on drugs in a uh militant police fashion, but have a war on drugs and a health approach and a and and a and a restorative approach. That's when the libertarian and I'm not necessarily libertarian, although do I have some libertarian strains in my thinking. But they've been really good on that question for years and nobody wants to listen to them until maybe now. And so so the biblical issue for privilege is that God goes to Abraham and says, I'm going to bless you and you're going to be a blessing to the world and all nations are going to be blessed through you. Right? That's the issue of privilege that is the biblical issue that that Christ came that we might have life and have it more abundantly. Right, that all of us would be resurrected from the brokenness of sin and made his sons and his daughters, inheriting the kingdom of God, and walking as a king, as kings and priests. And so the point is that that's true for everybody. Well, can I ask how do we walk that out with genuine You know, fullness. Christ came and he says, Listen, I want you to give in group love to to this outgroup the Samaritans. Yeah. I want you to give them the benefit of the doubt. And the Gentiles, the whole Gentile world. And so I think that uh individually I think we should we should all concentrate on doing that. Trying to give in group love to our outgroups. And that's gonna actually be a really good last word. I think that's a good note for us to end on. I want to thank you guys. This is Yeah, Darren, I just want to say again that I feel like you're uh handling these discussions with a uh with a grace that I don't think I deserve and I'm grateful for it. And I would say that, you know, use this as an encouragement in your life. If you know three knuckleheads like us can have this conversation then so can you. You know, it's it's it's it's okay. Get to know your neighbor, get to hear their Get to hear their story and be willing to share yours. Let's have an exchange of stories and know that we all have various privileges and disadvantages and try to understand and meet each other where they are. We all have the ungr un unearned privilege of being a child of God. Amen. Through the blood of Jesus Christ. Thank you, Darren. Thank you, John. I'm Troy. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Till next week, 167 half hours from right now. God bless.