Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio Nine Thirty WF. MD, I'm Troy Skinner, the host and moderator of this show, Graham. You can find me online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's Household of Faithinchrist. com. I want to thank you so much for for taking time out of your your day, your valuable time to spend with us here on the Fate Debate. And I want to thank the Razvys for their valuable time as well. Daniel Razvi and Imran Razvi. They have a ministry called Conquered by Love. You can find them online at conqueredbylove. org. And uh David Forcy, one of these days, I think after the rest of the world has given up on the internet, David Forcey will have some presence online. I think that's what's likely to happen there. So David Forcy, Daniel Razvy, um Imran Razvy, me Troy Skinner, those those are the players. You can't tell them with a scorecard. And we're picking up on a conversation that we started months ago but then continued last week and here we go for round three. We're talking about the the typical way that we're used to The the a kind of a classic if you actually hear the gospel presented at all anymore in this world, uh a classic way you might hear it in the United States of America is you have committed sin. You're a horrible, depraved sinner, and you need a savior. And that savior is Jesus Christ. And he pays the price for you at the cross. And You trust in him and your sins are forgiven and you can spend eternity in heaven and something along those along those lines. And that's kind of the a thumbnail, a really bad thumbnail sketch of a Guilt innocence paradigm. You you stand guilty before a holy God and uh Jesus is perfectly innocent and he's able to because he's Uh God he has the the um the capacity and the authority uh to pay a price you can't pay, the the 'cause it's an infinite sin against an infinite God and he's an infinite being, uh being the son of God. So he's got that great And he's also was perfectly obedient in the in uh and is perfectly obedient uh in his humanness. Uh sometimes this is called the active and passive obedience of Christ, the the active obedience Um being the way he lived his lived his life, he fulfilled every jot and title of the law perfectly, without sin, no blemish whatsoever on his record. He is He is perfect in every way, and so he was actively obedient to God. And then there's the passive uh obedience of God. And that doesn't mean that he was like, oh, laying back on the couch being passive. It's it's It's a playoff of the the same root word from which we get the word passion. So it has to do with the suffering. So there's the suffering obedience of Christ, which is where he pays the penalty of death at the cross, and both of those are necessary. And I think that oftentimes we end up focusing, and this might be the argument that Daniel mo uh Imran as well, but Daniel's been the one who's been more vocal because uh I think he's nearest the microphone that they're probably sharing Um I think we've been more focused on on emphasizing the passive, the passion, the suffering aspect of Christ. He you're a sinner, he needs to pay that price and suffer for you so that you could be saved. And maybe we haven't emphasized The act of obedience, the the fact that he lives a perfect record and then gives that record to you so that your shameful, sin-reddle, horrible record is replaced by his uh you know, rightly esteemed record. So maybe that's what's what's being said there. And as long as we're gonna stay focused on it's about our relationship with God, a right relationship between us uh and God and us as individuals by the way for that matter because I'm gonna stand before the judgment three uh seat of God stand in his throne room and and face his judgment As an individual, it's not gonna be me and all my neighbors or my my next to kin standing there. Um you know, w we we get into heaven uh as individuals um and then all of us as a group who are in heaven are a group. So I I wouldn't want to mix that. So I will s say yes, in the West, uh this was Daniel's point. I'm kind of trying to recast last week's show real quickly so we can reset. So Daniel's saying we've got things out of balance in the West, and I think to a certain degree, yes, that's true, and there can be a hyper-individualistic uh uh approach. Not that individualism itself is bad, but hyper-individualism is bad. We do live in community and there there is a a God has a covenant with a people uh and but there are individuals uh w within that group of people and so that can be the m the mistake on the other side I think uh the honor shame or it's uh talking about family and your clan. I think there can be a hyperkinism where you're so focused on the community and what's going on around to the exclusion of individual responsibility. Uh so I think and and the honor fear Um if if uh if we're standing before God and we're quaking in our boots um because he's powerful, well that's true. But are we quaking in our boots also because he's righteous and we're not? And if we don't understand that, then I think that the the whole uh fear power thing is out of whack and not the biblical message. And so my my point, and then I'll I'll yield the floor to you guys uh to carry on. My point has been that properly understood, properly proclaimed a guilt innocence paradigm includes honor and shame and power and fear, includes those dynamics part and parcel with it. If you present it the the way you're supposed to, that's included, I d uh I I feel like the guilt part doesn't necessarily get included if it's merely about overcoming your your your your shame. or your fear. So that's that's kind of where I've been standing so far. Still still looking to be um you know still open to being corrected. So Who wants to take the floor next? David or Daniel or Imran? I'll just make a quick comment. Daniel. Uh uh you you said something about I'm gonna stand before God, just me alone a as an individual, not as a group of people. And I agree with that. I think it is a little bit of a false representation of what what I mean by the collective or the or the uh honor. The you actually you the whole point of being saved is you don't stand before God as your own sins. You are covered with Christ's uh you know, blood, and that's what God sees. He doesn't see your sins, he sees uh Christ's perfect life he's put on top of you, right? To to give you that uh appearance of this is uh this this is my beloved son basically and that is what he's done for he's bring he's given you that place of honor That's the piece of it. Right? Yes, you're standing there by yourself, but you're not standing there of yourself. Christ is covering you, and that's really the point of the honor piece of it. Um if I'm in Christ, right? If I if I'm not in Christ, it's just me and my sins, right? Then you then you're not in his family, right? See the whole The honor shame thing is about is about family. We are in the family of Christ. He has bring it brought us up to be honor. And of course if you're not in the family of Christ, you're not gonna go to heaven. Um you know, I I would say It if it it if it i if the gospel is presented correctly, you are going to have aspects of all three of those. But I do think that you are, and rightly so, you're from the West, you should you you are going to be biased towards the guilt and innocence piece of the gospel And I think you would have a tendency to uh minimize the other two, think that they're not as as important as uh the the guilt and the innocence. And you probably agree with me when I if you t if I were to say that guilt and inesis is the most important part of the gospel, the most integral part uh of the gospel. But I think your other cultures may emphasize one of the other ones, and yes, it could be at the expense of the guilt and innocence, and that's not a good thing either. You need to have all three of these understandings. Um and you know when uh when you understand original sin and why we are uh you know, completely filthy and dirty and unable to be uh with God and he covers us, that's that's the honor shame part. That is very important as well. The apostles in the uh at least what we can read in the Bible, the apostles didn't come along and say, Hey, God values you, he wants to honor you as his child, uh he created us with glory and honor to live uh with harmony in his family and he didn't say, you know, Jesus bore all of your shame and he restores your honor. They didn't say things like that. They said, you've broken God As well, you stand guilty. Uh you need a redeemer, and you start to save you. Those are the examples that we have, right? The examples that we have are forensic. No. You're shaking your head, you're saying no. No. The the examples we have are are that and many, many, many more. I'm saying you when you read uh Ephesians, when you read uh Corinthians, when you read all these passages that I'm I'm sure are coming to mind, Romans, when you're talking about these law and uh aspects, legal aspects of the gospel I I don't deny that that's in there. I agree. That's a main thrust of the passage. But I'm saying it you're reading through it with eyes looking for that. If you read it through with uh eastern eyes, you are gonna see over and over and over talking about honor and and how he's restored us to the relationship with God as his sons and he's G glorified us, he's given us all power and authority. All of that is in there as well. But all of that comes in the context after talking about our guilt No really famous example that would be in Roger Chapter five. Woven woven in even the same paragraphs sometimes he's us the using these language Uh all all through and you you are gonna it again, you're gonna bring out the pieces that speak mostly to you, but it is it is gonna be there. And I I have a uh it's it's not really useful for radio format, but I I have a uh a pat uh a printed out um Some some of these passages with highlighted different colors, the the words that I'm sh talking to you, and you can read it through with one lens and another lens. It's not a different gospel. He's just emphasizing more of the relational aspect, the family aspect, the honor aspect, or the the power and authority aspect. So are you thinking that the atonement applies for shame and the atonement applies for fear? Yes. So got so Christ is paying an atonement for our shame Yes. Yes. Okay. When he pays pays the atonement. We are restored, right? We are we uh we we have righteousness of his son Jesus. We don't have our own righteousness. There's nothing we did, nothing we could do, only Jesus did it for us, right? When that happens, we are now restored with Christ in his family without any shame or guilt or have any fear of death because So all three of those things are done when Christ atoned for our sins. When he did that I don't think that's true I I think uh I I think sins are covered, right? Uh washed away through the death on the cross. I I I think okay, so I I think all of those things are the result of of the gospel, right? But I I don't think that they all are all tied into the to one piece, right? So our our the righteousness of Christ is applied by his by his life and by his living again. Right? So because he lives sinlessly and because he takes it that life back up again Right. We we now have righteousness. Him taking life back up again is the victory, is the power aspect of it though. Well, actually the power. Uh well no see I think that that comes in and isn't truly there until right Christ uh Christ is seated at the right hand and sends the Holy Spirit. Right? I think I think that's where the power, like like of that, you know, in the New Testament, that seems to be what is spoken of as that's where the power is, right, and and comes from. So so I I I I think I I guess my concern is that um in all this is that Like I I think you need all three. I think you need all of it. And if you if you only land on Right. If if one of them is emphasized by themselves, you're you're losing out on the fullness of the gospel. And I and I and I think one of the ways that I I see that and maybe a couple ways that I see that in Um but you you all mentioned uh you you all kind of mentioned I I think two of these alluded to them with the the guilt-innocence issue, right? One is if uh if guilt and innocence is the only thing that's that's thought of Right, then uh then the focus is me, my sin, and the focus is like um and I I think we get problems like people not understanding that children are actually not innocent. Right? That that that they're born in sin. And you can say, well, o okay But but but they haven't done anything yet, right? And so the only way we are are actually gonna understand what's happening there is if we understand the Yeah, I I mean I would I would say it unless we understand the the the shame that is that is passed on. uh when he was growing up that was a question he often wrestled with is why did bad things happen to kids? Why do there are kids that die and and all that and his religion did not really have an answer for that. It was Well, they must have uh you know, God's showing us something or he's teaching us something, or maybe they did do something right like that nobody would dun understands why. But when somebody explained us because Adam and what he did and th that original sin light bulb with us, oh, we're in a position that is impossible to get out of because of what Adam sinned. That that was one of the the uh ways that the gospel was able to click for him. Yeah think about this way. Let's say that okay Jesus died for our sins. He paid for our sins. Our sin is gone. So we're we're this terrible person and we're the sin is gone now. We're forgiven our sin. There's no more sin hanging overhead But we're still shameful and we can't come to the table with Christ and eat with him because we uh our shame's not removed. Or and we're we're still afraid because we might still die, but My point is the shame and the the fear that that fear of God's Judgment is rooted in the fact that there's guilt. Hold on. Hold on. It's not fear of God's judgment so much as fear of anything because God is more powerful than anything else, you have to fear nothing but God. Because God is But the only reason you would fear God in in that negative sense is because you're guilty Why else would you fear him? If you're in right standing, you have nothing to fear. You may be like, Yeah, I I am guilty, but I Who is God? You don't fear any demons, you don't fear anything of this world because you are God's child now and nothing else has a hold over you because God has has has promised to raise you from the dead. You're now his child. Before that, you didn't have any any assurance of anything else. So when Africans or South Americans they feel the fear of demons and witchcraft and all that stuff That has no power over them when they realize Jesus has power over everything. And there's nothing to fear. But that's insufficient, right? Mm. It's insufficient without the other parts of the gospel. All three are there. All three have to be done simultaneously. You can't be forgiven of your sin and still be shameful and can't be invited into dinner. Well people mask their fear and their shame all the time There's plenty of Christians that that still sin and are living in sin and they have guilt too. They have not uh confessed. That's one uh the whole point of of Roman I mean not Romans, the first Corinthians eleven is before you come to the Lord's table, make sure you don't have unconfessed sin. So you might be you might die. God might kill you, even as a believer. if you have unconfessed sin, right? So this for this cause many of you are are sick and many of you have died. That's that whole po uh passage is talking about, well, you better not have any guilt that's you better not have any unconfessed uh sin in your life. As a believer, right? So just because you're a believer doesn't mean you're never going to feel those feelings again. But God has a solution for all this. He has fixed all of this. He has corrected the relationship between man and God Repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. So repent, turn from your rebellious ways and throw yourself upon the mercy and grace of of God. Right? You need to turn from the bad and embrace the good. So that makes Uh uh to me, obvious sense in a guilt innocence paradigm. How does how does that uh connect how does the repentant the call to repentance The call to action, if you will, in the gospel presentation. How does how does that call to repentance um get expressed when it comes to uh power and fear, for example? Christ has the victory. He has defeated death. He has defeated death. He is more powerful than anything. He has wiped out all sin. He has taken it upon himself to get rid of all the sin in your life. Do you want to be on the winning side or not? Yes, I I accept that he he has taken away my sin as well. I am on the winning team. I have completely, through Christ, I've defeated the sin. Christ obviously is the one that d does it. But it's all about the victory. There's this this uh phrase in in the um victory over over sin and death. So what what is sin? Maybe maybe we're not defining that the exactly the same way with one another. I I think that uh that the the power fear is is very interesting and I think when it comes to repenting there. I think it's a uh probably uh a repenting of um You know, like like so somebody who's who's uh you know believing worshiping demons, right, like their repentance is to stop being afraid of the power of the demons and instead be afraid of the power of God. But I g I guess I I I'm I feel like I'm almost beating a dead horse and I apologize, but I'm I'm trying to make sure that I I I'm probably being clumsy in how I'm just uh articulating my my thoughts. The person who's worshiping the demons because they're you know they're afraid of of what the demons are going to do to them, that's an act of rebellion against God. Right? And they're guilty of that rebellion. So even that example of fear is guilt. Let's look at the Ten Commandments Okay. So the Ten Commandments, you could even separate them into commandments that uh are are are given to people of the of the different different cultures, right? So what are the first few commandments about? I am the Lord your God, thou shalt have no other gods before me, shall not make a graven image, any likeness, uh don't have any other gods, right? And then uh don't um Uh sorry, so those first, don't make an image, don't have any other Ghazi for me. Uh some people would would read that the first commandment is I am the Lord your God, and that seems more of a statement than a commandment. But Understand that God is God. Don't have any other gods. Don't worship any other gods. Don't don't make any other gods. That has to all to do with power. God is the most powerful. You should be serving him. Do not serve. Just what Joshua says. Choose who you're going to serve. As for me and my house, we're serving the Lord. We're not going to be following these other gods. That is the power of fear part. What are the next commandments about? They're all about honor and shame. What is it the it says, thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain, right? Taking the name of the Lord in vain is not just yelling God's name as a curse word. That I'm sure is is is sinful and wrong and all that, but I I I believe confidently what he's talking about in that verse is do not call yourself a child of God or the family of God. I am following God and then not act like it, right? You are taking the uh God's name in vain And the next few about honoring your father and mother. Uh and then the one are the last several about? The last several are written to uh people uh in the uh in the guilt. It's all about guilt and innocence Thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not, thou shalt not. It's all these things about murder and adultery and stealing and and covetousness and all those things. Even in the Ten Commandments There are some that are speaking more to the tower and fear dynamic, some that are speaking more to the relational uh tribal uh dynamic and and honor and and and taking the the name and the family name and God's name. And and there is plenty that are talking about s specific acts to do or not do and to repent of. Not to be too cheeky, but in trying to make that parsing it out that way and breaking it into categories, I feel like you made my point, because if you make a graven image, you are guilty. Right? If you break any of the Ten Commandments, even if you might say, Oh, this is focusing on shame and this is focusing on fear and whatever and this is about the power of God, if you break any of them you stand guilty. So I would say that Guilt is foundational for all of them. And I guess my point is if we're going to use it as an entryway and we're going to meet somebody where they are and try to talk in power fear dynamics or an honor-shame dynamics to to get a hearing, to get them to begin to understand, with with in mind an end goal of getting them to understand that they stand condemned for their unrighteousness before a holy God. If if that's the goal, that if I'm trying to get to that end game, then I'm fine. If it's merely, well, you're gonna have lots of uh you're gonna be put in an honorable position and uh I I I just feel like if we're not careful we end up shortchanging the gospel. I'm gonna be done un except for giving you guys a final word. I think the end game is for people to understand that the power of God is at work in them. Right. And so the right, they I mean they have to recognize that They have sin that needs to be washed away. They they also need to recognize that they are part of the family of God, right? And that uh that they have Christ's righteousness But it if uh if it doesn't go all the way into okay, and now, you know, as as a member of the army of the Lord, the church, go go conquer the earth in his name. Right, like I things are incomplete. Yeah, I would say that that's an outworking and a consequence of the gospel at play as opposed to necessarily the presentation of the the the I he had this plan words uh when we first talked about this topic way back when, you know, the crux of the matter is Jesus It wasn't that he he died because he wanted to give you a place of honor and or whatever. He needed to die for us. He had to die. Why did j why was there no no other path? God couldn't just benign everybody and make them holy Uh I said I was gonna not say anything, but uh Daniel, Imran, you guys can uh can close us out. But the for me, the thing was why do babies die? Why do they suffer? What guilt is theirs? What did they do wrong? They happen to be born of man. They are sinful because of their association. They're shameful. They're They're separated from God. Not that it for anything that they did to be guilty of. That is there because of Adam's guilt, of Adam's sin, of their their part of that shame. And Jesus removed all of that He removed that barrier between everybody and him. And that barrier was that separation. The separation is the guilt, the shame, the fear, all of that And not understanding the other two, only sticking on just guilt and innocence is guilt and innocence is really undermining the gospel and the fullness thereof of it It's that saying there's God the Father. Well you know, God the Son and God the Holy Spirit are not not as important as God the Father. Because God the Father is God the Father. God the Father because this is God the Father. No. The all three are there and the same thing with Guilt, innocence, honor, shame, power uh, and fear, they're all there and all three are different aspects and they're all the same gospel Everything happened to me. And I agree with all of that and leave it to Imran to bring us to a place where where I can uh fully agree. We maybe can all agree on that. I guess my concern is uh the Eastern Orthodox tradition would uh would uh would all but reject penal substitutionary atonement, for example, because of the honor-shame aspect. And that so they get the gospel incomplete and I would say therefore wrong. But if we're talking about all three, then I think we're in the same place. They don't d discount that. It's just that's their entry point. It's like this uh you know, a room that has three doors. They enter from a different door, but it's the same room Yeah, well I think that their their official position has been to reject uh PSA for for penal substitutionary atonement. But I'm not a great fan of the Orthodox Church, and neither of us are. But we're uh but uh so ma maybe it's not not quite a uh a a great way to end end this discussion. But I do think we're finding common ground here I I I agree. I I I do think a lot of pastors from all these cultures are are do run the risk of kind of ignoring these other aspects of morality and how to how to define right and wrong and b because a at the expense of whatever their own culture is most comfortable in. And y you're gonna explain it as Troy, you're explaining it as different uh aspects of guilt I would just use different words maybe to describe that, but I would say guilt and then shame and then fear. These are all three pieces that are distinct. But Somebody in the different culture is maybe only looking at terms of shame, but he's talking about the same things, guilt that you're talking about. He just is encoding everything with shame language. And I don't think there's anything wrong with that, but I think it is better to have a full understanding of all three of these paradigms. Well and that's gonna be the last word. Uh yeah, I think we ended up in a pretty good place. I I I think that we're we're uh probably uncomfortable with one another's language to a certain degree, but I think our heart is all in the same place. I think we do understand that a full orbed presentation of the gospel and the benefits of the gospel, what Christ has won for us needs to be emphasized uh always and uh on that we can agree. And anybody that would try to jettison any of the three uh and exclude them from the three would certainly be making an error. I think we all agree with that. So the last voice you heard before mine was Daniel Razby. The voice before that was Imran Ras RASVI and the voice before that was David Forcey. I'm Troy Skinner. Find the RASVIS online at conquered by love. org. Find me online at household of faith in Christ dot com and you can find the Faith Debate. Well, at household of faith in Christ dot com, but also at WFMD. com. We're going to talk about probably something different next time. I'm not sure what that is yet, but we'll do that one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless