This isn't the new year according to the scriptures. The new year according to some Pagan system, I don't know, but I'm gonna wish you a happy new year anyway and take my chances. Happy New Year to you. Hopefully you were a good boy or girl last night and you're not nursing a nasty hangover this morning. If you are, well we'll try to see Speak softly for you. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the uh 18 and a half years almost now long host of the Faith Debate. Uh joined this week, as I have that fan for the last couple of weeks now, Daniel Razby. You can learn more about the ministry that he and his church are involved with. It's uh conqueredbylove. org is the website, conqueredbylove. org And Stephen Jurger is with a church called the Savat Gathering in Southern PA and as far as I know they do not have even a social media presence, much less a website. But uh You c if you need to connect with Stephen, you like what something he has to say, or you want to give him a hard time and yell at him, uh you can reach me and I'll be glad to pass it along. Best way to reach me is to go to uh my church's website our church is called the household of faith in christ and our website is household of faith in christ dot com all my contact information is there and you can link to things related to the faith debate there too and all my social media and all the sermons and it's a one stop shop for everything that is Troy Skinner. So I'm not sure if that's a selling point or that's gonna chase people away. Who who needs that in their life, right? So we've been talking the last couple of weeks about Bible translations and this is feeling kind of old school to me. Longtime listeners to the Faith Debate know that when we first started doing the show, we would do one or two shows with a particular panel. Uh actually very we have very very verse time study doing so I think we did a panel a show and we're recording every week. And after a couple of weeks it became clear, okay, that's not gonna work. So we started having the the same panel we record a couple of shows. on a couple of different topics and maybe even did a third show on occasion. Then we realized, you know what, we've got this panel together. So we got into the habit of kind of doing four or five shows. with the same panel and we would try to tackle two or three different topics, but over time we realized that we wanted to go deep on some of these things. It became very habitual for more than a decade our habit was to pick a topic pull together a panel and do four or five shows on that one topic. Uh which sounds like why can you do so many shows? Well the shows are short. So you add all the shows together, it's just a little over a couple hours. So me having a nice couple hour conversation about deep you know, strong uh theological issues, uh time can go by faster than you think. So this is feeling kinda old school because our third week in a row where we're gonna be talking about uh Bible translations and and and the text and that sort of thing and so uh I'm kind of excited about it. Um something that came up the last couple of weeks as we were talking about the translations, the new international version, the NIV. And I mentioned it in the context of it being a fine translation. It's a dynamic equivalency translation. If you want to know what that means, listen to last week's show. Um but the one thing I should have made a point of, there are uh editorial decisions that are made with new copyright versions. They put out a new version of their Bible, a new edition of their Bible. Sometimes they make some changes. And the NIV, uh, up to and including nineteen eighty-four, uh, I think was pretty biblically, you know, solid. Then they started going in a gender neutral direction and they have their reasons for that. And you know what? I'm not going to go so far as to say they're gonna burn in hell as a result of making that translational decision, but it's unhelpful Because the gender, the the pronoun, the gender pronouns in Scripture are important because of all the teaching about patriarchy and sonship and adoption and headship. All of these things don't make anywhere near as much sense if you lose the gender. The gender helps the doctrinally understand what the Bible is teaching and how it applies. My wife is a Christian and in a sense she is a son. She is adopted and treated as a son, even though she's also a daughter of Christ. But she's treated as a son, meaning She's not only treated as a son, she's treated like as a firstborn. She's got huge uh inheritance benefits uh to being in Christ. She's a co-heir in Christ. She has uh everything that Christ has he shares with his bride. Um so that the sonship aspect, the importance of the adoption aspect gets lost if you lose all now you can apply the masculine pronouns and the masculine uh teaching. two feminine believers or the feminine in the world, but you lose you you you sometimes can lose the teaching if you're not careful. So you're saying that You are fine with your congregation reading the NIV as long as it's nineteen eighty four or prior. You would not recommend that they read on a regular basis. Yeah, I d anything newer than that. Yeah, I would go further to say I recommend against. I would I would agree with that. I recommend against don't read the modern version of the NIV. Because It's hard to find the old one because they've been aggressively trying to stamp it out and delete it. And if you go to a website like Bible Hub or something like that, it's not e I I think Bible Hub, one of those Bible Gateway. The the nineteen eighty four edition's not even one of the English translations you can click on to choose. So you have to actually like put in your search engine NIV nineteen eighty four to get an online version of that translation of the NIV. They're real you're right, they're really trying to stamp it out, which is bizarre. Why do they care so much, but they do. So Uh part of the killing woke, I think, I think that's in reason. And you might have to define that. Uh the whole thing is Has God said, you take words that mean something and you're telling people now that it means something else. And consequently you're having those conversations. you know, what is a man, what is a woman, what is you know, it's it's really very confusing, uh, this whole m switching of words and and then the enemy can come in and just say, has God said, and it becomes real problematic. So Yeah. By the way, woke is the basically in common vernacular, it's just runaway leftism, and so feminism as part of that would lead to the gender neutral language you find in the NIV. Uh I'm not sure that the newer translations of the NIV are advocating for uh diversity, equity, equality across the board as it comes to like skin color or some of the other issues that are hot buttons right now in our society and worldwide culture. Uh but definitely the feminist the the the the strident feminist stuff has had an impact on them, I think, and not for the good, unfortunately. And and That can be kind of fighting words, but if you're a feminist, I gotta tell you, if you claim to be a feminist and you're not a Christian, I'm a Christian, I'm a much stronger feminist than you are in the true sense of what that word should mean I have a higher sense, if I'm consistent in my Christian worldview and the biblical teaching, and and and as consistent as I am in in my walk in following after Christ, nobody has a higher view of women than Jesus Christ. And so those that are following in that way, that understand that Jesus is the truth and the and the way of life, they're gonna have an impeccably high view of women and any radical feminist uh actually um uh is diminishing what it means to be a woman without realizing it and we're seeing that come up with all the stuff that's going on with female sports and all that sort of stuff. That's a bit of a rabbit trail. So we're back on the translational issue here. Um we talked about wanting to know what did the author write. How can we have confidence of what the original authorship, what we call the autographs, the original autographs of the of the scriptures, how can we know that we can can know what they said? I have thoughts and opinions, but I took us on a rabbit trail so I have to penalize myself and let you guys uh offer an opinion if you have one of how we sh how how we can and why we should. Pretty much every and and there there's a few that are really weird out there but uh universally uh recognized by the community as not being scripture. Um that you know, but in general, I mean no matter where you go, if you go to Egypt, if you go to Russia, if you go to you know, um Israel or or Jordan or wherever these you find these texts They're all gonna agree. You uh unearthed some new text, the they unearthed the Dead Sea Scrolls and it agreed with all the you know all the all the major theological points, it i uh it's pr you And here's the fascinating thing about that truth. Because that is that is a fact. And here's something that's really fascinating about that. It has been accomplished through history without there being a controlled text. It's been it's it's it's happened w within the context of it being a a free transmission of the text, meaning control text, uh something uh more akin to what we would hear about the Quran where it's it's uh It's really almost militantly defended like the the the original writing and if anything variant it's like done away with, it's burned. Yeah, so there's this centralized authority that's controlling what the text is for all time. That is not the Bible story. The b the the textual story on the Bible is it's been a Even the Catholic Church couldn't do it because they had the Orthodox Church with their own set of texts. Right. And it makes sense because back in the day they didn't have the internet, they didn't have the ability to have the the you know they didn't have jet planes and things. And so things were more local the transmission of the text would be more localized. And so you take something that was from Africa and you compare it to something that was from the uh Western part of Europe and you compare that with something from uh you know, right around Jerusalem and compare that with something from Asia Minor, all these different textual traditions, and you compare them and here we are thousands of years later, and they agree. It's and yeah, the Dead Sea Scroll finding from the nineteen forties just was huge in helping to bolster the reality of that fact because these were Ancient, ancient documents. And if there was any change in the other documents we found, we would have identified those changes with the uh W with that huge find. So You know, speaking about the integrity of the scriptures, uh here in uh second Peter uh I'm sorry. Yeah, 2 Peter chapter 1, verse 21 says, For no pro prophecy was ever made by the act of human will, but moved But men moved by the Holy Spirit as spoke from God. And I think the context of preserving God's Word is so important because uh are we gonna take liberties in our translating or take assumptions or add commentary and then find ourselves, you know, in Deuteronomy it says you will not you should not add or take away. Um so there and even in the New Testament, uh even in the book of Revelation it talks about adding to the prophecy or taking away from it. So there's a real responsibility that those that teach the Word of God uh within the general body of Christ, that you have a responsibility that's very, very important that you You stay within the confines of the scripture and not take liberties that go outside because then you end up changing changing the message. And we have to be very careful about that. Yeah, absolutely. So speaking about changing the message and the whole translational process, we this came up but between the three of us in between uh the last show and the start of this show, and so I wanna bring it up in in this context now. There's something that's gained some steam, I think, because of the internet and social media. It's called the Hebrew Roots Movement. And you know what? I can actually applaud what some of the instincts behind that are the aim to want to get back to the roots. We want to get Right, it's kinda like the Reformation uh uh understanding, right? We want to get back to what do the scriptures say? What uh let's get back to the roots of the faith. And so I I applaud that. But w at least and I don't think it's monolithic, so it's I don't think it's fair to just say that all Hebrew roots people are gonna be the same. But you find themes real problems. You find some common themes basically when somebody says Hebrew roots, and I don't identify as h Hebrew roots, m mainly because it has some connotations that I don't want to give you when you when I say that. Um but you usually you see some common themes which I do agree with, such as um uh a belief that the Old Testament never went away and that all the laws are still in effect for Christians, that we should be following all the Torah laws and I I agree with that. Um and and the other one being that the uh re day of rest should be on the Saturday 'cause it never changed the Sunday and and I agree with that also. Um And b but there it a lot of uh uh that a lot of that also gets wrapped up in the sacred name movement and that's a sunset. And if not ex all the things that we've got to do. Maybe we'll do a show, maybe next week we'll focus specifically on some of those what I think are some heretical ideas. But translationally speaking, one of the things that that's how it connects to the translation is at least some of the Hebrew Ruth people I know, they make the argument that the New Testament was not written in Greek, that it was written in Hebrew. That both Testament's original language is Hebrew. Well that causes all sorts of problems. Because we have no textual evidence for an original Hebrew canon like in the New Testament. It just does not exist. It's like it's out of thin air. Well, I think it's important to again, um, like in mainstream Christianity, I think it would be fair to say you have about If you were to take every denomination that ever existed in the history of just say our country, you could have twenty to thirty thousand uh different denominations that somebody believes this, they don't believe that, they break off, they start another one, and it just it's like a slow running atomic explosion. of divide and divide and divide and divide and it it's chaotic and it's a mess. So with the Hebrew roots movement there's also different factions, different people that that grab on to where they were lying to us. And I mean it can go back into what's Christmas or Easter. Th there's a whole section of people that can go down that road. And it becomes a um where you have to really settle down and say uh and like with Daniel, you know, Christian You keep the whole word of God, you do what the Word of God says, and when you start going into some of these almost rabbinical type of uh exposures It can be problematic because it's almost like somebody that um gets so hurt being in mainline Christianity from being a Baptist that they want to get into something that's real safe and real liturgical and they go to be like a Lutheran because they want everything scripted because everything was so free and so, you know, let's just be uh you know, do our thing here. And so, yes, we need order. God says we need to have order, but we also need it'll let the Spirit of God be able to move freely Paul addresses a tremendous amount of that within Corinthians and and and just the different aspects about how to let you know the order of things, tongues, no tongues, healings, gifts, you know, how all this rolls out. So the Hebrew moves movement Um you have to uh look at a specific group and you have to kinda test and see and see where they're staying with the scriptures and if they start going to what scriptures they're using because they have their own version of the Bible now. Well most it again it's it's by congregation. Right. Most of the ones I've interacted with do Okay. Most yeah most m most of the ones I uh I've interacted with have been starting to be it's starting to be more common to use a version from the Institute of Scripture Research code or ICR called the Scriptures. And I think that's the one you're talking about, uh Troy. It's probably I can't remember the name of it, but that's probably right. It's very similar in many ways to the King James, but it changes the English words to back to Hebrew in certain ones, particularly with the name of God or the name of Jesus. It's almost always Yahweh or uh instead of i is i instead of uh um God or Lord in English, and then Jesus is always written out as Yeshua instead of Jesus um in English. Right. In an English translation is going to be all caps. L-O-R-D and that's your way of knowing it's the personal covenant name. Okay, okay. So it's it's again, you know, people are taking what's already in the scripture and they're just applying it. Now are they taking liberties? I mean Daniel, you'll say yes. Yes. But the ISR um you know read the front of the book and its prefix and what they're trying to accomplish and then make a judgment. Uh maybe you have. I don't know. Um but like anything else, uh there's there's folks that, you know, we know of congregations where they use New King James. uh we know people that use the uh NASB or even the NIV. So it's not every single congregation that uses and again it's the the main the main thing I I The problem I have with the approach of those translators and and and the comments they make, both in the preface and other things that ISR have has said is the idea that if you're not trying to always use the sacred name, not always trying to say Yeshua instead of Jesus. Then then you cannot say You gotta know your audience. I mean if you're coming like you guys have you know, when you have house church and you know, using some Hebrew type language to people that are coming from mainstream Christianity You want to be sensitive and say, okay, instead of saying Yeshua, you'd say Jesus. That's how they know Jesus. They know Jesus by Jesus. Oh well once they n once they're more grounded then we'll be able to explain to them the real good stuff about of course they can't use that word anymore. They've got to start using that. You don't use you don't, but but that's but that's the argument that I've heard. from the ISR and others that it is wrong for a Christian to be saying anything other than what they call the sacred name of God. or pre tribula tre pre trib rapture only or you know, we go through our different things. Now this is different though because they would say uh that you're If you use the name of Jesus that you're not a true believer. They make it a a salvation, at least people I've talked about. That's not my understanding of the thing. It does depend on the congregation. There are some. Maybe the more wacky part of the getting internet exposure on that. that you're watching somebody over in Washington State that might be espousing that. And unfortunately, we see a sign and we look at that meaning, okay, this is the Hebrew roots movement and whatever exposure In our human nature we come to a view and say, Well, that's what they are. It's not a unified denomination primarily because it's mostly house churches. And so there isn't really a presbytery of unchemular. Or unchurched Or or unchurch. But a lot are coming to regular church building congregations. Hebrews that are in buildings having regular congregations with pastors. But they're hung up on the Yeshua uh name, for example, because they think that the New Testament is a very good thing. That's what his name was in Hebrew, that's all that's all that's saying. It is. Right, but in Greek it's Jesus. Yesus. Which Jesus Yesus, if you look I mean they're They're kind of the same thing, just a different way of saying the letter. But is it wrong It well that's that's the thing that uh no it's not wrong to call Jesus Yeshua, but it's wrong to say that you can only call him Yeshua. Well that I think I mean You know, you go to the bottom. But it doesn't that doesn't make it wrong. the movement just like we don't want to be broad brushed. Okay? You don't want to be broad brushed. You know, there's specific things that you do as a congregation that you feel is the expression the Holy Spirit is saying, hey, this is the message we want to get out to people in our local area. Right. But again, there's two separate things that we're discussing. Nobody's trying to paint a whole group of people as one homogenous group. But what I'm saying is that there is a specific doctrine that is found overwhelmingly in the ISR documents and in the translation. That doctrine is that using other names besides what they call the sacred name is wrong for a Christian to do. They believe that. I'm not saying all people that identify in this movement believe that. Right. But they do, and this to a podcast is about uh translations. So specifically to that translation, the people w who made that translation, they do believe that. And that's wrong. It is a not only a bad doctrine, it's a heretical doctrine to say that you can't call God by some other by by your whatever name He he's actually gone by a many m and many times. We'll have a whole other episode about that soon, that Allah is actually God as well. Um and you can call you can pray to Allah uh as as a Christian as a Christian. You know, a God, a Lord, a a mighty a mighty one. No, no, they didn't know what else. Jehovah means Jehovah God is is what it means. We'll talk about that if we have another at um in another week. Yeah, we won't yeah, we've only got um you know a very short amount of time, but to keep it on the uh on the translational issue. And this is almost unfair because you're not going to have a whole lot of time to respond or I'm how quickly I can say this. But we're talking about memorizing text, picking one, you know, memorizing the Bible, picking a particular uh translation you're gonna memorize But let me care and this is why I'm sensitive to this because what what would we do with the Book of Revelation where Think uh I'm gonna make all the King King James Only people really mad now. There are a lot of problems in the book of Revelation in the King James Only version. A lot of problems. uh n m more so like anywhere else. They get because Erasmus as they were leaning on Erasmus's work and Erasmus didn't have the Greek text to work from, so he took Latin uh and uh and translated it into I think I saw he did it. Translated into Greek and then translated that into I mean or whatever. He he was using stuff from commentaries and in different languages and translating it back. So you end up with some very original translational decisions that are unique to Erasmus and that's what the King James translators were leaning on. So you have some stuff in uh I think it's in chapter eight and chapter sixteen and and th the the whole tail end of the last chapter twenty-two that are completely unique in the King James compared to other translations. Is that do I want my congregation memorizing revelation out of the King James? Absolutely not Because it is the furthest away from the original writing of what I believe the Apostle John wrote Revelation. I think is the furthest away of the of the good English and I would say the King James is a good translation. But it's got a lot of challenges, so I would have just so that's why I I'm not gonna get hung up on you must I mean if Sony rev if Sony wants to memorize the King James i in Revelation, I guess that's okay, but they gotta know that they're memorizing some stuff that's probably not. Um, you know, uh I don't have the proof or evidence here to back it up uh up in front of me, but I've done a lot of research on on the topic. As I said at the beginning of I think three weeks ago now or two weeks ago. that I still believe that uh so Troy doesn't speak for all of us obviously I I still believe that the King James is the most easy to find, c commonly available, most accurate out of all those English texts that are easy to find. Maybe there's an argument elsewhere, but Clearly not in the book of Revelation. I mean chapter twenty two is a mess in the King's Book. So you you take the same We might we might have to finish this up next week, I don't know. I don't uh like I said I can't I can't refute it on the air here because I don't have the documentation. That's Daniel Razby. Stephen Jurger is also on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Bate Debate. Find me online at householddefaith in Christ dot com and connect to the show for that. Till next week. God bless