Broadcasting from the WISP side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people were just insistent on Putting our hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Our show is sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? You'll find our show online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of interesting links to various religious traditions. You'll find links to podcasts of just about every darn near one of these shows we've ever done in in the last ten or so years And you'll find the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. I didn't get to tell you at the end of last week's show what I've been reading, so I'm gonna throw in a little bonus mention in here for bonus for those that really are you know Glutton for punishment. So you gotta go in. It's uh h th heavy kind of heavy lifting stuff. Uh if you want to try to be a serious studious or pretend that you are, student of the Bible. It'll give you some good big words to throw around. Exactly. You know, they got the nice binding, they're nice and fat and thick and You know, it's it's very impressive. Very nice. Yeah. Jonathan Sweitzer, he's very impressive. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Um also very impressive. Shelley Loy, she is the what let me get this right, she is the Honorary Chair of the Youth Prayer Rally coming up here in Frederick. Hello. And um I couldn't be more impressed, by the way, by these two young men. Daniel Dietrich uh has been on the show the last three weeks and now he's uh uh on for a fourth go round so I haven't succeeded in scaring him away just yet. But I feel like I'm close with Kyle Kyle Andrews is very close to being scared away, but he's back for a fourth show as well. They're uh they're very humble about it, but they play some sort of uh modified leadership role with the prayer youth rally is taking place in town. And Carolyn Jackson is the regional coordinator for the National Day of Prayer and also Secretary for the Evangelical Ministerial Fellowship in town as well. Jonathan Sweitzer, past president of that group. They kicked you out, huh? Yeah. Got impeached? What happened? Yeah. Yeah. But but yeah, it's definitely a important moment of my life that I walked away from that. So with the prayer rally and the national day of prayer, maybe we should talk about, I don't know, th the Redskins? The Orioles. We're talking about prayer, and after three weeks of prayer we haven't touched upon a couple of things that are definitely with the Redskins, it's a matter of prayer. Without a doubt. Yeah. So which is the big point. I mean why is it the prayers so difficult? Yeah, we haven't touched on that in three shows. I mean I think we can touch on that. It's hard. Why is that? Why is prayer hard? Because we said it is. Because we've said it is? Yeah, absolutely. Okay. Well now that you've said we said that it is. That closes the debate. All right, show's over. I need a little more clarification. Th there's this thing we we we set up this this idea and we we say God is way up there and we're here and w we create in our mind and of course this is my opinion, you know that, right? Um, we create in our minds this idea that it's difficult when It's really not. It's a conversation. It's not any different it's not any different than Jonathan and I sitting here having a conversation with one another. And when we can grab hold of that idea and just have the conversation and all of a sudden it gets really easy. I'm sorry, are you talking to me right now? That's what happens in Prayer, right? You're in the middle of this conversation and all of a sudden you're thinking about what's on TV tonight at nine. Right. Right? See, this is the thing though. Uh just get a better quarterback. Something, right? Is I am amazed at how hard it is for people to have. a heart to heart conversation. People talk all the time without saying anything and without really connecting with one another. I think that's a big part. That's a excellent insight. Yeah. That's the best thing you've said all year. I had never thought about that. The point is That's a great point. uh go as it were to the holy of holies with one another. We we hang out outside talking about all these other things, but never really talking about what's important in life. And why do we do that? Because we're scared to death. That people are going to see us for who we are, that we're going to see ourselves for who we are, and that we're going to be a big letdown, and there's going to be all kinds of rejection. And so going there with God who is almighty and sees us for who we are and having an honest conversation is super difficult. In fact, my sense is that the more that I do it with him He teaches me how to do that with other people in my life. And Carolyn looks like she's ready to jump in. Yeah, Carolyn is ready to jump in. Go ahead. I just want to add to that, Jonathan. Um Prayer is not placed at the top of the charts of importance in a Christian's life. At the Bible Institute of Frederick, how many classes do you have, and how many are dedicated to prayer? Specifically. Well we've only had two classes so far. So uh I In your syllabus that you have online, in your course curriculums that you have listed? Uh we have several classes that dig in on uh the importance of prayer, but we in our discussions have recognized that it's it's likely that people coming to a class specifically for prayer is not um a great way to start that we should probably start with some other classes that w people would be more inclined to come through come to even though we know that prayer is a vitally important one that we should start with. And so The point is is that we've struggled with the very thing that I think you're describing. Mm-hmm. And then even in a in a church, what is your least attended service? Usually it's prayer service. Wednesday night prayers, you know, the a a night that's just given to prayer is really the least attendant. And it should be the other way. So I think we need to put more focus and emphasis On prayer, how to pray. What is prayer? Do you know interest interesting the how part is I think the part that gets people caught up because they think there's a specific way it has to happen. And th and there's not. You know, I I think of I think of that idea of becoming like a little child. And children are free. We're the we're the ones that have trouble. So do you see any little little children having trouble saying, uh, uh, uh I don't know how to pray? They don't So what what's happened? I've heard this story a long time that that um we're all born with genius, that we're born with everything that we need and that we're all genius, but by the time we hit eighteen or nineteen or twenty, that's gone. We've been And so so people have talked about what is that? And it's the voice, it's that voice of internal judgment, that thing that says, Am I doing it right? The man underneath the stairs is gonna stu step up to the mic and speak again. Chris Jackson is uh I feel like we should have applause. Woohoo! No, but I think uh that we we're all touching on it. that uh and prayer also kind of strips us of any kind of pride and, you know, self importance because we're totally dependent upon God. at this moment. We're asking for his help, uh strips us f of any glory. He gets all the glory and the praise because we're asking for his intervention. in a situation. So uh if I can't get the glory, if I can't get the praise, if I'm not doing it, if I'm not hands on, if I'm not making it happen then I'm pushing that aside. It has to be about me. That's the way most of us think. And I heard a a college professor, Bible college professor, say years ago that we can do more than pray after we've prayed, but we can't do more than pray until we've prayed. I think that's very important to realize, you know, unless we have that Commit everything to prayer. Matter of fact, we've said in our in our meetings, uh, planning for the National Day of Prayer, if God doesn't do this thing, we don't want to be involved. God has to be the center focus of this event. Or, you know, we don't want the praise. We don't want the glory. We want him to get all the glory and all the honor. Yeah. I find myself in agreement with most of what's said as we've gone around the room, but there's a couple of points that I'm not sure uh I agree with. I agree with the aspect of their uh where we're pointing to the reasons why we struggle. The idea that we are egotistical. So setting our ego aside, uh to to give uh appropriate prayer to God is a difficult thing, right? That to humble ourselves before God. Um and the distractions, we were kind of joking about the distractions. And I thought Jonathan's insight that, you know, particularly in uh a culture where He said it twice now, just for the record. Good insight there. Well uh I'll have to do it one more time 'cause good things generally come in threes. Uh so uh anyway, I forget what the third thing I was just about to say. W uh Jonathan uh did what sometimes happens in my prayer life. You get distracted by things. Uh or you allow yourself to get busy with other really good important things Uh at the exclusion of maybe what is the better and best thing. Why you you're spending time maybe reading your Bible but not praying. Or you're spending time in fellowship with other Christians but not praying. Well, you're spending time earning a living so you can provide a sustenance for your family to live on, but you're not praying. These are all good things, but you you allow these good things to squeeze out what might be one of the very best things that we could have. So uh that's something that uh But uh Jonathan, your good point was the idea that we don't have that's the point that I forgot. That we don't have this ability to even connect on a deep interpersonal level anymore. And I think particularly in today's culture where everything's a hundred and forty characters or or mere pictures that are uh s you know, sent in an instant and disappear after a few seconds to your friends. There's nothing lasting, nothing You know, this show is an anomaly, what we do. The kinds of discussions we attempt to have here does not generally happen in mass media. So I think we've kind of lost some of that. But the other thing is, I don't think I agree with the idea that we're born knowing how to appro appropriately approach the throne of God, I think that we're all born exceedingly sinful with hearts that will deceive us even when we don't realize it. I think we need to be trained up to know who God is, trained up to know how to approach him, trained up to know what it is we should be saying. Because I talk to a little kid who's, you know, four years old and put him to bed and say, okay, say our prayers and it's God bless mommy and daddy and grandpa and thank you for all our stuff, Amen, kind of thing. They're not going to God and saying, Thank you, God, creator of the universe, who's so wonderful and amazing and has a perfect plan and a provision for me So the the God honoring aspects are absent from the little children. I would say So So my exact words were we're all born with genius. That's what I said with genius. Which means we're given everything that we need in the moment that we're born. We don't there's nothing extra that we need to have. And so Oh, I don't agree with that. What do you mean by that? What do I mean? I I mean that there's the fullness of potential in that individual when they're born. A fullness of potential. Sure. Fullness of potential for great evil too. Right? Would you agree with that? Um Perhaps. Perhaps. I mean we're s we're s getting uh a little sideways on the show. I think that um uh In the very first show we did together with this panel, Jonathan was c was quick to point out a a distinctive and and a word choice, a phraseology. I can't remember what that was, but we've learned on this show how important it is to try to pick specific words very specifically. And I get nervous uh by that. I just would throw this out there for consideration. I get nervous when we would say things like, We're born with everything we have because I'm not born saved. So I don't have eternal salvation when I'm born. Uh unless you want to think in terms of a predestination idea in that sense I suppose. But I don't I don't have this is th this is where I was wanting to go with this though, because Uh Shelley's gonna grab this mic for me in a minute and she's uh way smarter than I am. But prayer is the quintessential Spiritual action that drives us into the question: do we believe God Loves us, listens to us, cares about us, has good in store for us. Do we believe that that God has the answer to whatever it is that our need. And it drives us into this place that says that I can't do it on my own. I gotta go there. And so these questions that Shelley and you are raising about you know, how were we born? Uh that ultimately the answer is is is really a both in. We were created for greatness We were created, you know, to to rule and reign on the earth and to to to to be uh you know the the uh a height of God's creation and yet we have fallen. And so So there's parts of the body of Christ that emphasize the fallenness, even in their coming to God in prayer. And there's parts of the body of Christ that that have have tried to say, well wait a second though, it's not just all negative. There's this great intention that God had for us that was glory that we want to get back to. And it's not so much that we're born that way, but that God created us that way. And and so you know, is there a sin nature that comes with us into life and all of the the potential that you're referring to is balanced off against this reality of the brokenness that that is there from the beginning for all of us, all of which means that we don't know how to communicate, we don't know how to connect. We were at a distance from God. and na and need to be brought near. And so all of that is why we pray, because our nation is equally distant from God. Because people are equally distant from God. Because because there are uh serious problems that we're facing in our nation that we cannot address and God alone can address. And and so Whether you're approaching it trying to press through to the glory of what God intended or from the direction of how much we've lost that glory, you're really talking about Different sides of the same coin, I think. I agree with everything you just said. I wanted to step in and and address both of your points. Um you made a general statement about children and prayer. And there have been specific cases where y a a child is aware that there is a higher power. he does not have the words as you mentioned, those big words, he's not gonna be talking in that way. Because I was a child who was overtook I didn't know I was praying. Okay, that's uh I just knew there was a higher power and I talked to him. And in talking to to the Lord, that is prayer I learned as I got older. But I did want to emphasize that some people overwhelm. They think that they have to pontificate big words in order to pray and reach God. And you don't. It can just be a simple conversation. And as we pray and as we grow in prayer We're growing our relationship to the Lord. Right. And I know I threw some kind of bigger words out there to capture the concepts that I was alluding to, the kinds of things that should be included in in in uh good prayer, I think. Over time you learn how to incorporate more and more of these things. But also just our heart attitude. I don't think that we even approach God with the right heart attitude uh necessarily unless we're trained up in that at some level. I don't think we are born knowing how to talk to our parents appropriately. Do you know what comes to my mind? Much less God. What comes to my mind is is scripture that says it's in him that we live and move and have our being. And there is, you know, he has given us life. We are not breathing on our own We don't make ourselves do that. We couldn't even make the choice to do that. And so there's there's this super I'm gonna call it supernatural power breathing us. And so so to to say that it has to be done a particular w I d I just have difficulty with that languaging in that And that this is why there's a gap between believers and non believers is because we say it has to be done this way and this way only. And and when we open up the field to say, Hey, do it the way that that you that it that you've learned to this point in time, then all of those walls begin to fall down. When somebody gets married Um oh means the Jacksons, you're married, you're here. Have you guys learned over time how to how to communicate better with one another? A hot button phrases and words to avoid twenty years. Come on, what's your what's your most recent fight Come on, where's the miscommunication? Lay it all out here, right here. And you but you've you've learned how to communicate better. Part of it's because, you know, Chris, I'm sure you say things wrong all the time, and Carolyn is quick to point out how she prefers to be communicated to. And vice versa in fairness, right? Twenty years. So that's what I'm saying. I think we should all reach out to God in prayer, but at the same time we should be listening back to what God tells us that he he prefer Yeah, but we're all growing on a we're all growing at a different rate. So, you know, it's all about Christianity as a process. You know, yes, you know, we've been married twenty years, really, it that's several times. But there are things that we could do better and there are things that I think that after that period of time you know we should be beyond and that's exactly actually the thrust of my point is there is this process, it's increasing sanctification, it's inc increasing maturity, this increasing comfort level with doing things that Christians should do But when we say things like, oh, it doesn't really matter how you pray, don't worry about it, do what you want, we stunt our growth and we end up having A really immature kind of prayer that after a while feels silly to us. We're like, I've been praying the exact same way for thirty years. This can't really what what's the meaning of any of this? So if we don't do Press in to train up and train others up in ways to expand the variety and impact of their prayer life I I think I think that's part of what the re original question was. What why do we struggle? I think it's part of why we struggle. Well like you were saying, like um Yeah. Uh like you were saying, like it's it's a lot of it is approaching God with the right attitude. I was in a youth group um what uh one of my youth group's messages recently was about not treating God like a vending machine. And it's like, you know, you stick in your prayer, you expect something to come out, when it doesn't, you get angry at it and you kick it. Um so it's like you know, like you you you can't treat God like that. You try to sip it and reach up underneath and grab the thing. What's wrong with this thing? Why is it not giving me what I want? But that's not how prayer works. Prayer is you're you're talking to God. And um now a lot of times that does take the ref the form of requests from God. Um but he's not always going to grant them because he does he does what's best for you. He doesn't Um I always like God gives you what you need, not what you want. Um so yeah, I think it again it really comes to J. There's a really great song about that. Get what you need. Um but yeah, so it's approaching God with the right attitude. And another um quick quick thought Were you trying to sing like Mick Jagger there? Is that what that was? That was horrible Yeah, but he's really old, so I'm sure it sounds like that now. As brilliant as your insight was earlier in the show, that was just as bad. Oh my goodness. Okay. Daniel, just another another quick thought when you were saying um that that, you know, that your mind can get distracted with good things like, you know, like you said, like trying to support a family or or um or whatnot. Um uh an interesting thought that um a friend gave me the other day is Something that is not detrimental becomes detrimental when it's routinely taking the place of something that is beneficial to you. So Okay, um if something that is not detrimental, like trying to take care of your own. Um Uh anyway, so uh he said something that is not detrimental becomes detrimental when it is routinely taking the place of something that is beneficial. So if if prayer is beneficial to your life and it's routinely being taken over by the hecticness of your life or a schedule or trying to take care of your family or homework or or whatnot, it becomes those things therefore become detrimental because they're routinely taking the place of prayer um and time with God. So this is the thought. And a child shall shall lead them. Right? Okay. Chris, you want to jump in again? Man from underneath the stairs. Woohoo, woohoo! Well, we all know the parable Jesus told in Luke eighteen, uh, nine through fourteen about the uh the the Pharisee and the tax collector who go to the temple to pray. And Jesus said that the Pharisee was prideful and was kind of praying more out of ego, Lord, I've done this, I've done that, and I kind of deserve your blessings. But then listen to the prayer of the tax collector. Says, who stood afar off, will not so much as raise his eyes to heaven, but beat his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. And Jesus says, the moral of the story is: I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be abased, and he who humbles himself will be exalted. So, I mean there's something to say about simple, childlike, unformal prayers, uh, where a person doesn't have the right words. But comes humbly to God. And I'm agreeing, and my point is we need to be taught to do that. But at the at uh behind this this um Shelly I alloy, Troy Skinner um uh passionate discussion about you know what's most important are some key theological uh uh differences uh that um that uh like I can see it And I'd love to go there, you know, once the show's over, I'm gonna ask a couple of questions that I think will like really open it up that I think in asking both of you guys we'd see that, oh, there's actually uh upstream from this discussion some some choices that you guys have made theologically that leave you in different places. We so often like to go there on this show, but it looks like um Kyle has something to say. So Yeah, Kyle. Um, going back on the how you're praying or uh m what you were saying, um, I can't really think of another word, but uh if someone grew up in like say the hood and uh they weren't taught how to pray. But they found Christ and, you know, he's he's their homeboy. You know, that's that's how I see prayer. More of a of a friendship than um of a higher being. Well, I mean, of course God is a higher being, but when you can talk to him more as a friend than as your supreme ruler, that's when it becomes real. Okay. And we have like literally thirty seconds to have a final thought. Shelley, you you've been patient listening to everybody else including me. So w what what would you like to jump in on? Words of wisdom, I'll just say Amen and Amen because there's there are always two sides to every conversation and and always at least two or more perspectives. And They all might be right. Hm. And we didn't get to talk about so I just want to say real quick that part of what's going on with the National Day of Prayer is tapping into the roots of of prayer and uh and religious tradition that has been a part of this country for a long time. We're trying to tap back into those traditions. It was mentioned off mic uh before we uh started doing today's show about how you know George Washington uh prayed his first official act as president was to pray. Uh we've had you know we have a national day of prayer uh and thanksgiving uh every year in this country. You know, we say things like in God we trust on our money, although which God are we talking about is a question. But anyway Uh but it's it's a big part of of of the tradition and so we're trying to get back to a a cultural tradition there. That's a whole another debate for a different show maybe someday to talk about uh the relative importance of that cultural religious tradition versus what the the church's tradition on such issues might be. Not to split too much. Come on. Did that just for you. Let's go then. Just for you. Heath Jonathan Sweister, he's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Uh joined a uh this week the the whole gaggle. Kyle Andrews Daniel Dietrich, Shelly Aloy, Carolyn Jackson, Carolyn the Regional Coordinator for the National Day of Prayer, and Shelly, the honorary chair of the youth prayer rally here in Frederick coming up on May 7th. You can learn more, but just Google. uh National Day of Prayer, Frederick, and it'll take you to their page. You'll find the link for their page and you can learn everything you need to know. Visit visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading? From exegesis to exposition, a practical guide to using biblical Hebrew by Robert Chiselm. If you want to go to sleep quickly tonight, read that. Thanks for listening. God bless.