Good morning, I'm Troy Skinner and the Frederick Faith Debate is up next on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. This is the Frederick Pavement Day on Freddie Snews Radio 930 WFMD. And why is preaching with uh impact like plowing pavement? Because people continue to place their hope in This guy's preaching over here, man. Cruise holidays and BMC Accounting and Insurance Crowd Support of New Life Christian Academy. I just gotta tell you, I feel like in the last five minutes it has become like three times. Crimes it's busy out here. There are so many people out here at in the street you uh on September fourteenth in uh Frederick Mill. It's real nice to see you. Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, formerly owned as Crossroads Valley Chapel, it's going to help for me to get used to that switch. We'll be joined here in just a second by Faheen Yunus who is uh you can follow him and what he does online in a couple of ways. regular columnist of the Huffington Post dot com. He has his own site Muslim American, but just lamb in there. com. You can follow him there. He's at the Ahmadiyya community of uh Muslim Muslim community, yep. Yes. Which is a unique Muslim community that was the Ahmadiyya Muslim Muslim community that was hoping to move here into Frederick up into Walkersville and so uh he's a member of that community. We're not we just lost our uh PA, but we're still recording for the show. So John's gonna try to fix the PA while we continue. But we still we still have power. Yes. Yes. So anyway, um let me finish the introduction of the show because Jonathan kept jumping in. When we're live, Jonathan throws all the rules out the window. You can follow us online at WFMD. com keywordface. There you'll find links to all sorts of different religious things. You might occasionally find find something that's linking to a story that was written or a column that was written by Feynman Eunice, as a matter of fact, because you will find the Faith Debate blog at wfd. com keyword faith. And the Faith Debate blog, it's my blog, but really my blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. dot com and pretty much with rare exception whatever you emailed me it's posted up there nine blog posting updates a day Monday through Friday so forty five items go up there every single week. Sometimes it has to do with religion, believe it or not. What is the exception for it? Sometimes it's who knows what it is. Sometimes I don't know what it is, but I put it up there anyway. Make sure it's in English, because if it's a swear word in a foreign language, I don't want to get in trouble for that. So this week, well we are we're still by the way. In case you're wondering why the show sounds differently today. We're still in our series of recording shows in the street at the Industry Festival in September. You believe you're hearing this show, I think it's probably November. It's really great place to be. I'm so glad you can be out here. Oh my pleasure. Wha how would you describe what it looks like out here today? This is America. This is America. This is America. This is America and it is beautiful. You need to travel the world like Earlier Jonathan was giving his take on this and he was making fun of people w w the way they were dressed, the style of their hair. He's making fun of people instead while he comes in and says, This is wonderful, this is America. This is beautiful because nobody nobody's threatened. You know, you can drink dress the way you like, you can put your hair the way you like, and you are accepted. You know you're assimilated to you. See you can learn something from this man right here, Jonathan, just so you know. Now the situation is a place that can handle Jonathan and I at the same time must be a great place. It's a place of golden handshakes. Golden handshake. Now that's exactly right. We're in a situation internationally that is kind of fluid, and so we're gonna talk about things here I think that by the time we show up into air could be very different. You guys will either look like prophets Or look like idiots. Uh-oh. Or there's a situation in a place called Syria. Yes. And uh Bahim wrote an article or a column I guess is a better word for that. Column on that recently and so he's obviously given some thought to it. Yeah. And and since that's in the news for us right now and those that are gathered around and and listening to the show, it's gonna be interesting for us at least now. You listening on the radio, sorry, it's old news. Too bad. So why don't you real quick 'cause not everybody almost everybody, but not everybody's read their column yet. So for the one or two people that might not have read the column, uh what what was the gist of your point? The gist of the point is that we need to use diplomacy and not force in this world. Not what? Not force. No force. argument that it's a moral duty for the United States to go and attack attack people, kill people who are already being killed. Sure. The point I make there is it doesn't sell. Because where was our moral argument for the past two years when we were sitting on the sideline Where was our moral moral argument when hundred thousand Syrians were killed? And then we talk about well chemical weapons of the different classification. Where was our moral argument when we were allowing helping? Yes. We had not Agent Orin made palm that we were going in uh Iraq and we were allowing Saddam Hussein to kill his own people with chemical weapons. Where was our chemical moral argument when we bombed Iraq in Fallujah with depleted urani uranium? Anyone out here in the oil Yeah, exactly. But do you know the half-life or can you integrity? Uh uh, come on, no one maybe use Saddam in the case. That's exactly right. We supported Saddam in the eighties against Iran, and Iran was an enemy Okay, so I have to ask this question. Should we ever interact in any of our relationships, whether they're international or whether it's my marriage relationship with my wife, should ever not be on the basis of a Moral rationality, but it should be big. If I have lost my moral integrity, my moral reputation has been skewed, then that doesn't mean that I stopped having a moral argument. It means that I've got to go back to having moral integrity. Absolutely. So I've got to do things to regain my moral integrity. Right? But that doesn't mean that we stop recognizing that there are moral issues involved. No question we start participating in. And by the way, nobody is saying that you allow the tyrant like Bashar al-Assad to go and Nobody's saying that. I don't think there is any American who's saying just sit on the sideline. But what we're saying is the ban Israel and Okay, this is guys from the audience again. Say it again. Israel never signed a chemical outin'. They both assigned it. What's your name? Hans. Hans, where you from, Hans? I'm from Frederick. Hans is from Frederick and he says that Israel is not signed a chemical weapons. I mean the treaty is a very good thing. And the question is whether or not we are uh showing uh consistency in our moral arguments and requiring the same thing from everybody. Is that what you're saying? First of all, Jonathan, if you and your wife are using chemical weapons in the home, you know, let's let's stop that right now. Which happens all the time. I'm afraid to actually answer that question, but there are times when she's afraid that it was a chemical problem between her, so it's a shame. Particularly now, like I said, it's kinda fluid and by the time this show gets air maybe the opinion of the public will change. But for now, the vast majority of Americans are in agreement that we don't want to get our nose stuck in this thing, that there's there's no way that we want to go over there and deploy Diplomacy would be the way to try to go if we're gonna do anything at all, kind of thing. So the political part aside, this is the perfect faith debate. So let's talk about some of the faith related things. And Jonathan started going with the the moral kind of thing, right? Right in the article that you wrote, I gotta tell you I was a little bit frustrating. Go right ahead. Because you said that when you talk to your Christian friends about Syria, that all of them immediately went to Jeremiah and Isaiah and uh forget the other passage where they Were they quote that God says that he's gonna destroy tomatoes? But you never talked to me about it. And I consider myself to be one of your Christian friends. Absolutely and had you asked me about that issue, I would have not gone to to any of those passages to somehow claim that this is an indication that Jesus is about to return. All of those passages that the people that you referred to, I mean if those are your Christian friends, I'm just saying you might want to get different ones because they're not representative in the friends by the way. This is great and I'm glad and that is exactly the purpose I raised. This is this is again beautiful that you're coming out and refuting that that's not what Damascus wants. God doesn't need my help. If God has a plan, it will it will go There was a time in history, all right, just to be clear, where God had said that he's gonna bring Syria down. And we have the history of that happening. In the time uh when when Israel went into captivity with Babylon, he used Babylon to to uh to over run Assyria and to bring them down. And so all I'm saying is that whether or not the fullness of those things have happened, you know, that there is a historical point for each of those passages. And so it's a little bit frustrating to me for you to go to those guys when we've had so many discussions with you on the air about these things and I feel like we bring a perspective that is a bit more correct So that now do you understand the frustration of an Ahmadiyya Muslim like me when nobody comes to me when something crazy happens in the Middle East and the whole Western media paints us Okay, but that's the same thing. We're part of the Western media. Good job. That's why we're friends. That's why we do it. We don't we don't paint you as a terrorist. That is why we do golden handshakes, right? Golden handshake. Love the golden handshake. you imagine you couldn't take it for twelve minutes and I took it for twelve years, Jonathan. That's the point. I could take it as long as you can do it. I knew I was going to talk to you. I've been painted as a terrorist for the past twelve years. My patients have looked at me in the hospital and said, I don't want to be seen by a terrorist. I've told you that before. I took it for twelve years. That is exactly where I think we are united. The point I'm making is yes, there is a fringe out there. There is a Christian fringe. You know that is waiting for the Nazis of very important And we both need to neutralize that fringe, rise above, and tell these fifty thousand people that we two faiths have coexisted for seen of years and we are ready to do that again. But the are the people that you referred to in your column as your fishery friends, are they on the fringe? Are like all of your Christian friends on the fringe? I don't know that, but I w when you say this I will accept that. You know the point you're making. You don't want me to say they're mainstream, right? That's not what you're implying. Well they might I mean I I don't know. So I'm very happy you CNN reached out to me. The media outlets you w you want to know after that Yeah oh uh or in fact yeah it was syndicated at Washington Post. People reached out to me saying this is so true. Here is another link Here is another link. I started getting emails from Christian Post. There was a link of a pastor who went to meet a congressman saying, Are you aware of this prophecy? So trust me, I'm not making it up. The reason I put those links out there that these And by the way, one last point, I'm not giving Muslim people to grass. You know, in the in the peace. I'm not giving Muslim the past. Ahmadinejad comes to the United Nations every year and says, I hope the Messiah, I hope the Mahdi comes. So there are Muslims. So my point is it's on both sides, not on just one side. Yeah. Right. I guess I guess Johnson's feelings are hurt. I'm so sorry for that. Right there. The other with two million American Christians, you're gonna have some that are gonna say some things that are non biblical. Sure. You know, so and Jonathan, I think, is point not to him personally, but Seriously, you interact with more than just the French Christian people out there. The vast majority of Christians wouldn't be making those arguments. That is great to know. That is great to know and that is that's all I want. And this is a major point about Frederick Faith debate. streams of faith in Frederick. This whole idea that people from different religions can work, can live together in a community. This is a pretty radical idea. It's only 200 years old. It's really not that old of an idea in the world. And when you have people that have different perspectives perspectives, they they say this is right, that's wrong, and they have different uh definitions of what's right and wrong. What ends up happening is that we struggle to somehow define whether or not I can trust you because you say this is right and I say it's wrong. And in the midst of that then if I think what you're doing is wrong, it means that I think that there's a character problem. If you think what I'm doing is wrong, you think I have a character problem. And so then even our definition of integrity ends up being super skewed and in the uh you Over in Syria, I mean the United States you live here, we're far from a Christian nation anymore. I mean, there I've said it out in public. Shouldn't we be just a Christian nation? Uh well I would tend to argue that the foundations of our Christian Christian of of our freedom here in the United States are based on a Judeo Christian foundation and a poly science foundation. But if it's a Christian nation, that's all I'm asking. I'm saying it's not now, but I'm saying Should it be I'm I'm saying should it be a Christian nation? Because it Go ahead. I'm saying that I have yet to see you've heard me say this. I've yet to see a democracy on the face of the planet arise out of a Muslim context that protects civil rights. I'm not seeing different direct I'm answering your question. You asked whether or not I thought the U. S. should be I think that we should be a nation of religious freedom and I've only ever seen that where civil rights are protected. I personally, as I've studied history, have only seen that in a context where it's a judicial I'm just saying that show me a show me a Muslim nation where they are actively supporting and protecting civil rights. The same Spain I wanted to see but they didn't do it. By the way you have not a I'm gonna come back and get an answer from you should America be a Christian nation. But you asked me that's great. But I want from the pastor. I think we should continue to build on a foundation that protects civil rights. And if give me a straight up Islam can't do it, then we shouldn't do Islam. We have not gotten a lot of people. And if the G and Christian uh foundation have done that, then we should stay on a Judeo Christian Foundation. Jonathan and I disagree. Yes, and I think people on the Christian side of the fence struggle in answering that uh because I think that in our struggle. I think we've gotten it wrong. I think just because you're smiling at me doesn't mean I'm struggling. I don't think that America could be a Christian nation because I don't think it be, that's my question. It couldn't be. It shouldn't be. It can't be. Okay. Because Christ says that his kingdom is not of this world. There's no such thing as a Christian nation. Now there can be nations founded on Judeo Christian principles, but that does not make it Christ's nation. That does not make it a Christian nation. So I think I think that's why most Americans Who want to say that we're a Christian nation? We are founded on some Christian principles. But that's different than being a Christian nation. And there have been several people through the years uh that have spoken up and said that when America ceases to be good she will cease to be great and if we walk away from those principles we walk away from the heart of those principles which historically has been our Christian faith but then we certainly are going to end up having a lower moral standard will lose our moral integrity and we both have no reason we both abstain from moral issues over in Syria. We both agree on that. He's Fahim Yunus uh with Muslim American dot com writes from the Huffington Post. He causes I'm Jonathan Sweitzer's head. Not my hair, they're in the middle of the year. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosses Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Project Faith Debian on Project News Radio, 930 WFMD. It's interesting we were talking before about the perspectives on the side. Can I just very quickly stop you there and introduce myself? Oh okay because I think people didn't do a good enough to introduce job. No apparently not. No let people know that Muslims or Islam is not a monolith. My group is called Ahmadiyya Muslims. We are Ahmadiyya Muslim community. We are that community that commemorates nine eleven every year by raising over ten thousand units of blood. Okay. That is our legacy. Ten thousand nine eleven. Over ten thousand units of blood. We call That campaign, Muslims for life. This is a nationwide campaign. We organize typically over two hundred blood rides every month of September where we come across with Christian, Jewish, Buddhist, atheist friends, we form alliances and As a physician I can tell you that every unit of blood potentially saves three human lives. So yes, we remember that day when three thousand of my family members were killed in this country and we commemorate that day by saving over thirty thousand American lives potentially. every year. And I want people to know that that is what the Ahmadiyya Muslim community is. And without even realizing it, it was a perfect setup to where I was gonna go. Okay. 'Cause we kinda in the early parts of today's show we were talking about uh the Christian fringe and their response to what's going on in Syria and Jonathan and I made a point that that's the fringe, that's not what good Bible believing, you know, uh real deal Christians are being said. It is true that there's a large portion of the body of Christ that is focused on the return of Christ in the end times. You know, all the left minds. It well, okay, is it uh in in terms of those that are not Christian, it it has looked to be one of the most prominent parts of the body of Christ. And so even though it is a minority part of the body of Christ, it is a very prominent because it's a very important thing. Sure. But anyway, my point was going to be and still is, if I can get to it. is the the Ahmadiyya community is considered to be fringe by most Muslims. Sure. So you get angry with those who want to paint with a broad brushstroke and say, oh the Muslims are doing all these horrible things. Right. Right. And uh in large measure that is a if not a majority, it's certainly a a predominant kind of a voice coming from Islam. Would you say that that that's fair? That voice that's a very important thing. Did the Ahmed some community? Is French? It's a very small percentage, not even probably one percent, right? No, not at all. I think it's a very large percentage. And we'll make that point once the PA systems. Absolutely. I think it's the largest movement within Islam today. And I'll I'll tell you with numbers. I'll just share that with you numbers because I think this is where the message gets skewed. And alright. So the point, Troy just made that Ramadiya Muslim community that I believe in that you know commemorates 911 by Muslims for life blood drives. You're saying it's a small community. And I'm saying that the PA system is not working. Yeah, but we're still we're still doing the show. Okay, great. There's they're separated. So here's my point and I may have to repeat some of this. Name me another Muslim community today that is established in two hundred countries around. the world. That is so name me another Muslim country in the world that is established in two hundred countries, that is self-funded, that is preaching the message of peace, love for all hatred for not for over 120 years. That is secular. That is claiming to remain sec uh secular and maintains a separation between church and state and here's the rough and is united at the hand of one spiritual leader. Name me any Muslim community. You cannot name me one, and by that What I'm make the point I'm making is this is the largest revivalist Muslim movement today around the globe. Stock. No, but the point is those are important relevant qualifiers. Those are the qualifiers that America is looking for. Sure. Tens of millions. If you want to go by that number, then America, all of us, we are four percent of the world. You would say that we should be dismissed because we're just ninety six for every American, you know, for every four American there's ninety six people. I'm not suggesting not a big thing. Right? It's uh the Bears are better than the Packers because of this one simple because simplistic reason. Sure. You know that's how the world is unfortunately. Right. So people look at Islam and oh well let me start the other way. They look at Christianity and they don't first think of Jonathan Sweisson. Yeah, they think of the Pope. They think yeah, they think of uh the Pope. So when people think of Islam they don't first think of the Saadian community. Now that is happening because we are the only one who have the Muslim hope. That's exactly the point I'm making. We are the only one you know I'm just making the point for understanding that the Khalifa, we call him the Khalifa. Khalifa. So his here is a Muslim leader. And I keep going back to that because it's important. The other day I was with Sean Hannity on the show. Okay. And he was struck by that. He said, Who is this Khalifa? I've never heard of that before. Yeah, he's not as cool as we are. Oh we we have a bigger listening audience than he does. But the point really is there is really Troy, if you really think about it, that's what the world needs today. Who speaks for Islam? There have been endless articles on this topic since nine eleven. Who speaks for Islam? Who should we really go to? Who represents it? Here is the man yesterday he gave a sermon. So I'll take you back in time. When people brought made cartoons of Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him in Denmark, you remember about a decade ago. And riots erupted around the globe. It was the Ahmadiyya Muslim community that said People should have a right to express themselves. That you should not threaten, let alone kill anybody. Yes. Do we find it distasteful? Absolutely. We find it distasteful. But there is a way to approach that. So our Salifa gave a surahman about it. Two hundred countries were united behind that position next day. Our delegation was meeting with the Danish government next week. We made our point in a civil fashion. But a lot of non-Amidiya Muslims then followed suit. Ten years later, you see so many voices today that are saying, you know, no, don't kill somebody, there is freedom of expression. So what I'm saying is they may not want to claim that they're Ahmadiyya Muslims. But they believe in the ideologies. Just like I always joke about it, the guy who's even burning an American flag He's wearing a Nike cap and he's wearing a gap shirt. I'm saying, hey, you know, what's wrong with you? You don't hate America. You don't understand that. I would say that's the Nike. You know they want to embrace American culture. They like our culture. They just don't like one small sliver of foreign policy. The Ahmadiyya community has been the most vocal or most willing to be vocal. Absolutely. But that doesn't mean just because you're the loudest and most uh most commonly opening your mouth that you're the one who speaks for Islam, right? No, I think the point why we are important because we are the most consistent, not just the most loudest. You know we are no post-9 eleven bat bandwagon. The man in this brochure here, whose name is Mirza Mahmad Qadiyani, who I believe to be the Messiah who who then basically spread this message. He said hundred and twenty years ago that there is no jihad of the sword. Hundred and twenty years ago he said when we were living under a British government, he said I have absolutely no problem with the government being Christian because the government gives me religious freedom. were saying. Right. So we are the ones who who have the legacy, who have the crack record. Not because we're the loudest, because we're the most rational. We are the ones who've most experienced. If you want a heart surgery, I hope you never need one. Who are you gonna go to? You're not gonna go to the loudest surgeon. You're gonna go to someone who has the best track record, who has who's most experienced, who's teaching others. That is what the Ahmadiyya Muslim comes to the Mr. So then I want to turn it back again and I don't mean that this is this is a faith debate, so I can do this. In all seriousness, in your c colum on the Syria issue, why did you let it go with all my Christian friends that uh maybe they're the loudest. They don't speak for true, authentic, biblical Christianity. So why would you violate your own principles? The things that aggravate you so much when people do that when it relates to Islam. Um why would you turn around and do that when it relates to Christianity? No, that's you know, again I don't I think it's and again it seems like I've rubbed you the wrong way. I apologize. I didn't mean to hurt you with that, but the point is You set up a straw man all of that. And you knocked it down really well. No no no no that I'm not running over That's why I'm sitting here today. I'm sitting here today. If it was a strong man, I wouldn't be sitting here. But the point is, when you in an intellectual debate, when you write an intellectual piece, you raise a question. Yeah. That question you're not painting a picture of all What was the title of the of the of the article? Remember? I think it was uh Dear John, this is for you. Something like that. keep doomsday scenario out of Syria, something along those lines. Right. So essentially when you if you are the mayor of a city, you can't dismiss two thieves saying that just two percent of my city. You want to focus on that two percent, get rid of it. That's what I tell my Muslim community all the time. He cannot say only one percent of those are terrorists. No, that's a huge problem if it's one percent. So I think the sometimes the fringe if the fringe is dangerous, you need to make sure that that is exposed. And but once again I'm exposing the Ukrainian Muslims and Christians. Just in Christians. I believe it was very fair I called out Muslims and Christians in the name of humanity. I'm not pushing the argument of Islam there, if you understand. I'm the pushing the argument of hum humanity. That's gonna put a wrap on this week's edition of the Burning Faith Debate. I think we have a few minutes. But we're going to have to take the question either in between shows or in next week's show because we're going to stick around. I want to thank our sponsor, Putmint Plug and Heating, how can you make you smile, BMT Accounting and And I know everybody keeps track of what I'm reading because I like to read along. Uh last week I didn't mention, but some things I've been reading lately, Patrick, Fairbear's Pastoral Theology, a treatment The first one almost put me to sleep. The second one sounds interesting. And it's funny because the first one is way better than the second one. Anyway, thanks so much for listening. So one and a half hours from now. God bless.