Welcome to the face debate on 930 WFMD on the FM at 99. 9. Also online worldwide at WFMD. com. You can connect with us at WFMD. com. Find the faith debate page there. You can also connect through my church's website, Household of FaithInChrist dot com. There you'll find uh links to uh th this show, also to the YouTube channel for this show because we're doing these shows now on Facebook Live and then converting that video. uh into something that's housed on YouTube so you can you can watch that as well. You get some behind the scenes stuff like you know um you know drug deals, things like that that happen on occasion. You never know what's gonna happen in the studio of the faith debate, I'm telling ya put four pastors together and it gets just a little bit zany. Uh I'm joking, by the way. Joking. Uh Imran Razvi, um uh I probably should have said somebody else's name first since you're the one talking about the drug deal stuff. I don't but Uh Daniel Razvi and Yes They're Related, uh father and son team. They're both with the uh house the church that meets at um uh Imron's house or the church at Imran's house, I think they call it Uh David Forcey, he's a house church pastor as well. He's the no-name church pastor. He still hasn't come up with a name. And uh my church, I'm Troy Skinner, and my church is Household of Faith in Christ. And so we actually have a website and everything, so nanny nanny boo-boo, um, household of faith in Christ dot com. So this week we're going to talk about a really uplifting, fun, you know, post holiday uh topic. Death. You are all going to die. So I mentioned this a couple of weeks ago. You know where you're going when you die? I mentioned I do. Yeah, well if you don't stick to your resolution and lose those forty pounds, you're going to die. How's that for motivation? Oh man I'm a tough taskmaster. To be honest, even if you lose the forty pounds, you're gonna die. You know, we're all gonna die and uh and you wanna tell us where we go when we die, Daniel? Well it depends on whether you have faith in Christ If you're one of the household that has faith in Christ, that He died for your sins, that you don't have to be in hell for eternity, you're still gonna die, but you get to go to heaven instead. But you must repent first. Yes. cannot just say, Oh, I I I believe in God. Even the demons believe in God. They're going to pe they're going to hell. So, um the demons know there is one God and they belie believe what he d uh does and they know what he did, but they're not putting their faith in him and obeying him. But I said a big word, I said repent. David, you want to tell us what repent means? Sure. Yeah. R E P E N six left that big of a word. It's a big l big word in today's vocabulary when nobody knows what repent means. Well to to repent is to um i in the context of the gospel is to to turn from our sin, turn from uh trusting in in ourselves and anything else and uh turn to Christ. Uh to trust in him for uh to save us, to rescue us from our sin. And um Uh and yeah, I mean it's it it it begins with agreeing with God that we are sinners and that he's righteous and that uh that You know, I mean with the understanding like we like we started, we are we're yes, we all all all of our bodies will die. uh all of our spirits are are eternal. Um but uh but that that eternity will either be spent with God the c for those who are have turned from their sin and trusted in Christ uh to to rescue them from their sin or um uh apart from God in this sense of apart from his uh um from the the glory of his goodness, but not apart from um from his just wrath Very well said, and I'm glad we kicked off the show that way because that helps to put things in context with what we're gonna be saying because talking about thing things in our world that uh are either dead or dying. And um it's kind of been a theme, a loose theme these last few weeks about what let's not overemphasize things to the ultimate. So the ultimate are the concerns of what we were just talking about these last few minutes. So these aren't ultimate concerns, and yet they are important. concerns nonetheless. We've seen a lot of death. I mentioned I think it was last week, I mentioned the death of some icons like Ruth Bader Ginsburg and uh Alex Trebek and Larry King. Um Prince Philip Colin Powell, I'd be remiss on a station like WFMD not not mentioned the uh not so long ago death of Rush Limbaugh. These are iconic figures that have died. And so who knows what the eternal questi answers to the question are for them, what we were just talking about these last few minutes. We've also seen the you know the the death of history in a sense. You know, I I jokingly refer to sixteen nineteen project. either last week or the week before, uh being taught in our schools. Uh it when I say death of history meaning the history we've all grown up knowing and trusting and believing. uh is we're being told no that's not true. You need to replace it with this new version, this revisionist kind of a of a version that's based in critical race theory and and cultural Marxism or ethnic Gnosticism or whatever label you want to apply to that sort of thinking. Uh but it's not just sixteen nineteen projects being taught in schools, it's the removal of statues and monuments all around uh the the country. Um and the renaming of streets and buildings, you know, school buildings or other government buildings that were named for presidents, but now those presidents are said to have been bad guys 'cause Maybe they had slaves in their you know, working at their household or something and so we have to rename. So we're losing a sense of some history. There's also I think, you know, the death of learning, not just 1619 project replacing our history, but things being canceled, like Dr. Seuss was famously or infamously uh canceled a year, year and a half ago. Um schools were closed because of the uh the the dreaded Rona, you know, so uh learning kind of died because everything went went virtual. In other words, virtual learning But I'm not sure how much learning was taking place with the virtual learning when they were doing that. Um So we've got these these indicators of something being broken and dead and decaying in our culture. I think these are indicators of it. Some other things I could throw out to get us get us talking about. But you have anything you want to say about those things? I threw an awful lot out there at once. Well, this is a dying world. When sin was entered into the world, the world started dying. And uh as Daniel and I both uh believe in the aesthetic of the world ending soon, with Christ coming back all these things have to come to an end so that Christ will come back and uh we will reign with him. Yeah. Uh uh probably Let me think about this. I'm going to guess that maybe in three or four recording sessions from now, we're probably going to have to get around to tackling the eschatological uh questions because I think there's probably some nuanced differences uh between the the four of us in the room. That'll be a fun fun discussion for us to have. But uh in in a sense, yes, the world is is dying, but it's also um Through the salt and light that is the church, there's a life that's that's brought into the dying world as well. And that's what we've been talking about, advocating for justice and for what's right and true and good. and trying to make a good difference. It's why we share the gospel. It's why we try to be good parents and good citizens and good neighbors. Um so I d I I I don't know that I'm taking an ultra pessimistic view. I'm not sure that you guys are either, but I um that's why it might be an interesting discussion on eschatological views to to have that. But the lot of this death and decay, it's playing out with the I mess mentioned the term postmodernism uh I think two weeks ago And kind of give a loose definition of what that what that means, this idea that we can't really grasp what truth is, and so then life becomes nihilistic, it becomes meaningless. There's no ultimate Because you can't know what's true. So if you don't really know what's true, what's it matter if I lie? What's it matter if I do this other thing? You say it's wrong, but who's to say you're right in saying it's wrong? Who's you know It's true for you that it's wrong, but it's true for me that it's right. So given this weird it's unlivable philosophy, it really is, but part of me thinks it's the foisted upon us because it's unlivable. It's part of the dec the deconstructionism that's taking place. When the bur buildings are burning in the background. when AOC in December said, Oh, um there's no real evidence of these flash mobs, even though there's video evidence of it. The the truth doesn't bear out. What is she talking about? Because that's what you're t you're talking about. It's just absolute nonsense and truth doesn't matter. It's whatever you feel. Uh, but turns out that never happened, he never said it, but that was the narrative that was, you know, perpetrat of uh put out there in the mainstream news forever. And and I can't breathe was said by George Floyd before he even got out of the cop car. He was sitting in the in the seat saying that. Yeah, although there was a New York case too where somebody was uh was uh brought to the ground by the police and said he couldn't breathe and so there's that one and he apparently did say but yeah How okay, that's let's let's pivot a little bit. Let's talk about that. There's there's so many of them. Brianna Taylor, Ahmad uh uh um uh Arbery, uh you mentioned George Floyd. Um what are some others? I uh I'm gonna get Michael Brown I mentioned. There are others, but I can't. And and it's a big thing f in the BLM mu uh movement to say their name. Right. Calling in a spirit of a dead person to that. I don't know if most people know what that is. Say her name or say his name You're inviting demons to possess you. That's literally what you're doing. You're a asking you're talking to a dead person. and the actual dead person's not going to hear you. Anything that does hear you is going to be demonic. And it is possible to invite demonic possession and I think that's what a lot of people are doing with that. And if that seems like too out there, you're like, what the heck is Daniel saying There are videos with these the the the the people who founded BLM and they're basically having seances and they're calling forth their ancestors. That's what they're attempting to do. Now If any entity is called forth, we know one thing. It's not their ancestors. They may think it's their ancestors, but it's not their ancestors. But this is they're really doing it. So he's not making that up. This is actually there's video proof and Uh, I think that there's actually things they've written that talk about this too. So he's not making as as crazy as that kinda sounds to the typical person, I think. It's actually true. Um another thing that ties into this this uh this BLM movement thing was remember Bubba Wallace, the NASCAR driver. And this is going back uh year, year plus probably now. Um the uh garage door opener hanging in this Yeah, and they thought there was a noose uh hanging in his car stall and they thought that it was supposed to be intimidating. Uh you know, a r a a And let's not forget Jesse Smollett. Oh Jesse Smollett who cla who yeah claimed to uh uh claimed to have been mugged by uh Make America Great again hired to mug him and one of whom was one of his lovers. Oh, I didn't that part I didn't know. The one of the people that supposedly mugged him was his lover. Came out came out on the trial recently. So just so Jesse's gay? That's what he was all uh that that's that is supposedly why he was being beat up, because he was black and he was gay. Oh. See, I unlike you listening to the radio right now, I pay attention when David Forcy tells me not to be a busybody and to stick my nose into stuff that I really have no control over. I listen Sure you do, Troy. Sure you do. Another big story. Um and actually the the last time we recorded some shows for the faith debate, this show th this topic, this issue was like Right about to happen and but it hadn't happened yet, so we just missed the window, but this is our chance maybe to uh dive into the Kyle Rittenhouse waters. Uh following the uh oh that's another name, Jacob Blake, right? The Jacob Blake shooting because he was uh in his car and and the police shot him a whole bunch of times, which I still can't quite understand how how he got shot so many times But apparently Jacob Blake did have a a knife, a weapon on him, and so it does seem like it was a justified shooting. But how he got shot so many times it still doesn't register in my head. He was a domestic abuser. They got c the police got called for that and he resisted arrest and went for a knife and got shot. I mean that was that's what the police call a good shoot, meaning one that's that that there's absolutely no question about whether it was justified. Yeah, no yeah, I'm not I'm not questioning the shoot. I'm just but I can put my head around he was shot like seven times, wasn't he? Something like that? It it's it's actually pretty pretty easy to shoot the gun a lot of times in a row. Like when you're when you're when you're tense and you're and and you're um stressed. Yeah You know, i your y your hand can just shake and s start more. Ask Alex Belgran. But besides besides that Besides that, um when somebody has a knife and it's coming af at you, you shoot them, they're still coming at you. Then you shoot them again, they're still moving in your direction. Unless you have a really, really powerful gun that actually hits them throws them back like in the movies, that doesn't happen. The cops don't have guns that are gonna blow somebody back ten feet. the uh the pig person's gonna continue their motion forward until they're shot multiple times and they don't have the power to move forward. And that's And if you're if your intent when you're when you're shooting a gun is to stop the person from coming at you, you know, the the the zone that you're in is to just keep pulling the trigger until the person actually stops coming. So Yeah. It's Alec Baldwin, by the way, right? I think it's at Alex, but it's Alec, I think. Okay, so his brother Stephen is is uh a believer I I I think. Right? One of the Baldwin brothers is in a lot of those really cheesy Christian movies, so I think he's uh I think he's a believer. I hope so. So Kyle Rittenhouse. Yeah, Kyle Rittenhouse, let's talk about him. So he goes to the um what it it's r it's really interesting the way these things are spun, right? So he basically drives to the next town over. Which just happens to be in another state, but it's like fifteen miles. It's not that far. I grew up in that area, so I know how close it is. This is like me going home to Thurmont. It's it's not very far. Umtioch is like right on the Illinois-Wisconsin border in Illinois, and that's where his par one of his parents lives, Kyle. And Kenosha is right on the border So that being this mm vigilante travels to another state to go attack people. No. I mean yeah, yes he was in another state, but again it's it's all how you spin it, right? So technically that's true. He went to another state. But he also lived in that state because his parents are divorced, I guess, and I forget which ones which I think the mom lived in Antioch, Illinois, and his father lived in Kenosha, Wisconsin. And so He was spending time in both places, so it was one of his two hometowns. So th that doesn't I don't think it portrayed very well either. Yeah, I I mean i if If it wasn't for politics, that's a case that would never have made it to trial. Because you have clear video evidence of people shooting at him, people chasing him with dangerous and deadly weapons. Hit him o hitting him over the head with a skateboard. Multiple times. Right. And so you you don't e there's no not no question that he was in fear for his life and so he defended himself. So that that really shouldn't have been ever on trial. Um and I think that he he was he was acquitted on all charges, but his life is ruined now. I mean he's i if he's um wise he'll probably change his name and and to move to another place and be in witness protection or something. And get facial surgery. I mean he went to Arizona State and now you have all these groups at Arizona State that are complaining to the Arizona, we don't want a killer on our campus. He was obviously acquitted. In fact the prosecutor's star witness is the reason that he was acquitted. Because the prosecutor's star witness said, Yeah, I pulled the gun on him and then he shot me. He didn't shoot me till then. Yeah, now This is such a uh if it were funny it'd be a comedy of errors. Because all the things, all the dominoes had to fall for this thing to happen. First of all, you've got this big movement to defund the police. 'Cause we can take care of ourselves. We don't need the police. We trust ourselves. And so you hear a seventeen year old who decides that he's gonna do that and the people who are advocating for defunding the police will take care of ourselves are the ones critical of him, so that's bizarre. The fact that the police are so afraid to uh exacerbate an existing riot or to to spur on a riot if there hadn't been one break the police are just standing by they're like watchmen. They they don't actually ever act it seems. And so I think they're they were actually told to stand down. They have asked them to sev stand down and they're powerless because they're not allowed to do anything. And what I found really, really amusing is that Rittenhouse's trial, there was a bunch of people outside the courthouse BLM. There was not one black person shot. There was not one black person involved in that whole case. But BLM, Black Lives Matter, Black L it's not a good one. In fact, that they're trying to paint Rittenhouse as some racist white supremacist guy. There's there was one person involved in that incident that used the N-word and it was actually the guy that you know, attacks Rittenhouse and and Rittenhouse killed. And he wasn't even a w uh a uh black person either. But it politics, right? Because If this was really about justice and really about enforcing all the laws and make sure we get to the truth, um why they have this guy on the stand that had in Illegal gun that he was waving around in people's faces and he didn't get arrested or charged with a single crime and he's still walking free. Now I'm a big gun rights person. I think all guns should be i should be legal all the time for everybody. You should be allowed to carry around bazookas with no registration. But the fact of the matter is there is a law that says you can't carry in Wisconsin without uh a permit and you can't own a gun unless it's it's you know i you pa pass a background check or whatever. And yeah a handgun and and he so he didn't yeah, a handgun's different than than a rifle. And this guy didn't do any of those things. He was obviously a criminal under those laws and was not prosecuted because he did not fit that narrative of some uh you know, guy with an AR fifteen that wanted to go shoot some people, which is is totally baloney. Yeah, I think that one of the um it's almost an accidental accidental lesson that we can learn from it is you know the strength in numbers. Um yeah, he somehow got separated from other people that were there doing similar things that he was doing and he and he became isolated and an an easier target. 'Cause apparently he was threatened earlier saying, uh later on if I find you alone, you know, I'm gonna I'm gonna you know teach you a lesson kind of thing and then they found him alone. And we can apply that to what's going on in in the in the larger case where somebody takes a stand against their employer because of mandates and one employer being let go isn't a big deal. So I think we've got to do a better job if we're trying to stand for what's right, trying to do what we think is right, we've got to figure out how to connect with people who are like minded and do it w in unison, do it with some unity. So if you work in a in a place that's got a hundred employees and so they're the you know they're gonna make everybody do something that you don't want to be doing If you can find a you know do kind of a straw poll and find out if there's some people that agree with you, maybe there's ten or twelve or fifteen or thirty or fifty of your employees, fellow employees who agree with you, then you don't have to go out by yourself and get picked off and then have somebody else go out by themselves and everybody's picked off one by one. But if you all do it together We're not very good at at at doing that. I mean the the important thing is to not to not be afraid. Right, and to be to be open about what we what we believe. Um you know, and Christians especially should should be that way. You know, should uh should be trusting in God's provision for them and care of them. Um Yes, I'm I'm in I'm a I'm agreeing with you, Troy. But there are too many people that are afraid. I can give you a real life example with I actually uh voice my opinion that I don't believe this country is systemically racist. And the company that was hiring me and w was onboarding me pulled back because one of the uh ladies that worked there was black and she said, No, it is systemic racist I said, no, people are racist. The coun country itself is not. We have more rights here than any other country. We ha is the best country in the world. And very quickly, um I was told not in that that same hour, but the very next day I was told, No, we're not looking to hire you now And so I actually said, Why they wouldn't give me any answer. I actually went to the uh senior vice president and the president of the company and voice and said, No, we've decided not to go in that direction. And so nobody would actually actually give me a straight answer. It was all because I had the gall to say, I love this country and we're not systemically vira uh uh racist, that there are bad people that do bad things and yes, I've been the subject of racism in the past. Um I have brown skin And I am sorry for all those that have been treated badly and there are people that and there are pl places and governments and things uh in this country and everywhere else that uh that doesn't uh come come and uh come after people immediately when somebody does something racist, uh that happens. But that doesn't mean that this country is systemically racist and we have to change the country into something else Why is everybody else trying to come to the U. S. then? You know, we don't have time to get into because we only have like a minute, but and I we'd be remiss to talk about what happened in Wisconsin and not mention the Waukesha massacre. Absolutely Uh where Daryl Brooks or something, I think is his name, uh got in that red SUV and mowed down a bunch of people, including old ladies and uh young girls. I mean it's uh unbelievable Nobody's talking uh about it and it's interesting because you could almost make an argument that if there's any sort of systemic racism in society it's going the other way these days because that was a black driver and that story's getting buried. Nobody's really talking about it. It's it it's the whole whataboutism. But it just like, what if it was a white guy who was a Trump supporter That would be leading the news every single day from the moment it happened for the rest of our lives. So it it it's interesting. Anyway, but That's gonna have to be the uh the f the final thought for this show, sorry, 'cause that's a pr pretty big question we could talk more about. But Imran Razvy, Daniel Razvee, David Forcy, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD online at WFMD. Thanks so much for tuning in. If you'd like to connect with us, the easiest way to do that probably is to contact me, and the best way to find all my contact information is to go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.