The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Today we're going to be talking about. Deliverance ministry. Can a Christian be demonized by an evil spirit? Oppressed? Possessed? What's the Bible say? We'll find out today with my esteemed colleagues, Daniel Razby. He's pastor with the Church in the Northern End of Frederick County is a house church. Um that uh his father's involved with two, but his dad's not on the panel today, uh Imran's absence today. But they uh have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries and they're online at conqueredbylove. org David Forcy back for some more abuse this week. He's the pastor of the Unnamed House Church in Southern Frederick County. I'm the pastor of a church in central Frederick County. Our church is called Household of Faith in Christ. Find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com And if you go there you'll find uh it's some information about uh all three of the churches represented on the show. You'll be able to easily link to all of my social media uh to the Faith Debate show itself for that matter and all all the sermons are archived there and uh and and I've vetted some Christian resources. You're like, I want to learn more about this Christian stuff, but I'm not sure who to trust Uh there's some good helpful links there that I've already vetted for you so you know that it's gonna be I don't know that I agree with every single little jot and tittle of what these resources have to say, but 99. 9 something percent of the time. They're right on the money, so I I would count that as trustworthy. Anyway, that's all available at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So, deliverance ministry. I I've been a Christian for a long time. I've been in leadership for you know you know almost a couple of decades now. I've been been a pastor uh variety of what uh three, four churches now over the past uh how many years I got eight years whatever it is. I never once had to deal with this question. Ever. Until Just a few months ago, and I've had to deal with it multiple times since. Mm-hmm. What is going on? Have you guys had to deal with this? Have you ever had somebody come to you and say, I I think uh I've got a demon, I think I'm being oppressed by a demon, I think of I think of b uh demons taking over my body, anything like that? Have you ever had to deal with that? Uh Well man, I so a couple different things. Um as a believer saying this, somebody who believes that they're saved. Yes. Right. That that's true of my marathon. Yes. And you know what? And I maybe we should start there real quick. All of us, I I think I could speak for us just before you hold yourself for half a second. I think all of us would agree the demonic is real. There's a spiritual war. Yes. Demonic possession can happen. Right? Yes. So we're all on that page. So yeah, more specifically the question is a Christian or somebody professing, claiming to be a Christian, coming to you and saying I think I have a demon. I'm ev and and they have different language. There's a whole I've come to learn, there's a whole like thing out there. And they don't call it being possessed, it's being oppressed. And they define a different but anyway, you were about to say. Uh yeah, so in uh I went to I went to Bible college and uh there were some people going to college there that uh that would talk about deliverance ministry. So so I've it's something that I've I've heard of. Um and then I've also, you know, I've also read some articles and things that that caught my eye over the years. um you know, uh about the idea of about pastors who have interacted with people who say that they're Christians and Have you ever had an individual themselves come and say that? No, I've not had a a personal interaction with the Have you ever had somebody who was interested in joining your church ask you if you guys engage in deliverance? Because I have now I I tell you, I never had to deal with it ever. And well, probably six months ago is when it first started to become a thing within my ministry, if you will. I've had to deal with it on multiple fronts. And uh I don't want to get into too many details on the on the radio show, although if you guys are interested, we could talk later off the air about some of this stuff. David and I actually have had some conversations about this already. Um I had somebody who who was interested in joining House of the Faith in Christ, and the most pressing question he wanted to know Was if we had a drum kit. No I'm kidding. He he wanted to know I know somebody who made a church decision based on that. Sure. I do too. So anyway. But he wanted to know if we did deliverance ministry. And I said, Well, you know, define that for me, explain what you mean. And uh and he went on to explain what he meant, and he wasn't as direct in defining it as he might have been. And so I said, look, if i I mean if somebody is possessed, we'll deal with it. You know what I mean? We will we'll pray against it. We will do everything we cast it out. We will do everything we can to cast it out in the name of Jesus Christ. And But it's not like a regular thing because we have a small church, I mean on a good week of a dozen people. And all of them are professing believers and I think most of them are probably believers. You know, I can only God can know for sure. But uh so the odds of us having a possession in our midst seems pretty slim, so it's not something we're doing every weekend You know what I mean? And he's like and basically I could tell right then I lost him. We continued to talk for a while and that's like a central important thing to him. And I came to find out later why it's so important to him is he's big into the deliverance ministry. And church is doing that? Because he feels like he has demons. So he is a guy who has demons so so he says. He is the guy who says how many get my head around this. He claims to be a Christian. Claims to have demons, and at the same time claims to help cast out demons from other Christians who have demons. So and what is that? And claiming to be a Christian, is he claiming to be filled with the Holy Spirit I would think by definition the answer would be yes, but I don't know if I specifically asked him that question. Yeah. Not him. Somebody else I did talk to about and I said, look, you can't be possessed as a Christian because you you're indwelt by the Holy Spirit. You know, there's not there's not there's not much room in this town for both of us. You know, it's it's you got one or the other. You don't have both. That's not possible. That's correct, but it's an oversimplification. I really do think so. Um so I'm I'm actually gonna uh push back a little bit on your assumption. that a Christian cannot be affected physically, emotionally and and so much. by a demon, multiple demons, while being indwelled by the Holy Ghost. Okay, so by your understanding, because I'm not disagreeing with anything you said so far, but now because I've said words almost exactly like that and I got this kind of pushback. What I uh what I'm talking about is um I'm oppressed by the demons, and when I'm oppressed by the demons, they cause my body to move uncontrollably. and make me say things that aren't coming from me. It's speaking through me. That doesn't seem like being oppressed. To me, that sounds like being possessed They've taken possession of your body, of your vocal cords, of your whatever. Are you agreeing with me on that or you're gonna you I I guess I would have to have more context and more details before I would be able to unequivocally say something because Let's step back to something a little bit less um extreme than that example and just talk about actions in general. Um we have Not all sin is directly caused by Satan in this world. However, Satan does encourage and also cause um sinful activity. We have a sin nature. And our sin nature is going to cause us to want to do certain things and so on. And Satan and the demonic uh you know, minions as you were, are perfectly capable of egging us on. to complete those actions that we actually had in our sin nature as wanting to do and then you c it's easy to justify later and say, Oh yeah, Satan made me do it. Well you were gonna do that and he just encouraged you. But the but there is the thing. I mean the Just read the book of Job, we have a great example there of first of all, a very different picture of heaven um than than you might come up with a reading a a storybook uh in uh uh uh in basic Christian theology but I mean Satan's going up and talking to God saying, Hey God, how are you doing? God's like, Hey, how's it going? Satan and and I mean I I I'm being flippant, but that's kinda how the conversation plays out and Satan's like, look Do I have your permission to go attack Job here? And God's like, Yeah, go ahead and do that. So he has permission now and he puts boils all over Job's body. And he gets everybody against him and he's killing people. So he did kill Job's family, mm except the wife. So presumably I and it doesn't say for sure, but I would assume at least some or most of his children were followers of God, followers of of uh uh uh of the creator god God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob and so on, whether where you place Job in chronology, that's you know a thing, and I I know I'm rambling a little bit, but the point being There's an example of Satan literally killing what's called believers. Um so there are there's a the real physical consequences that the devil has and he has the authority given him and we talked about authority last week, authority given him by God to do those things. And there it is a spiritual battle. So that that that's Not exactly the same thing as literally controlling his every action. Those are definitely just external external. And the other thing is um Job wasn't indwelt by the Holy Spirit. I would say he was. Before Pentecost? Yes. Hmm. That might be a subject for a future faith debate show. That'd be very interesting. I I I would say that um Yeah, th that yeah you're right. That's probably a subject for a different show. Um I and there's a lot of Old Testament versus New Testament stuff and there's there's a the dispensational idea that the Holy Spirit came and left various people at different times in the Old Testament. And I would say that's maybe more of a stronger dwelling by the Holy Spirit of somebody who's already saved, if that's the case. Um that's how I would describe it. But you're yeah, you're right. That's probably a subject for a different show. Even in In the um New Testament, we have Paul talking about something that the devil's given him that's bothering him and is causing him lots of problems and lots of pain. We don't really know what that is. There's a lot of speculation. So the idea that Nothing can affect me if I'm a sa if I'm a saved person I think is very naive. Now I don't think that's the case you're making either. Not at all. But I I I I also wonder how much when somebody says, Oh, Satan made me do that how much it was this is my sin nature gonna do that. Like if I if if you're if you're a wife beater and you lift your hand up to strike your wife and you're thinking twice about it 'Cause you're you're saved now, you just got saved or whatever and you're thinking, Oh, I actually shouldn't be doing this and then Satan whispers in your ear, Yeah, go ahead and do it. She deserves it. What whatever Then you follow through with that, then later you could tell your wife, Oh, my uh you know, the devil maybe do this. He possessed me. But that's a different sort of idea than a lot of uh what you know, I think what Troy's talking about which would be you know, someone uh you know, doesn't even they would say they don't even remember. You know beating their wife. They they're they're completely taken over. And I I don't I don't know if scripture uh I mean we need to do like a a word study of some kind, but in you know, when I In and reading through the like the Gospels where there's a lot of Jesus casting out demons, uh You know, at least in the uh it it depends on the version as to whether it says possessed or oppressed. There's uh but but the idea always seems to be that uh that there is English translation. Correct. Yeah yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So so I'm I'm just, you know, also trying to say, okay, how did uh you know, where did where did the verbiage come from, you know, in the uh the deliverance movement. Um Because depending on how you define the term oppressed, I think that's certainly possible by for a believer to be oppressed by demonic uh entities. Yeah. And I was like, wait a minute, that's not oppression the way I understand oppression. In scripture I I It seems like uh like one when the demon's involved, the demon is actually taking control, you know, which You know, whether we're calling possession or oppression, you know, as long as we're w we we're referring to that idea of the demon having control of the person So that seems to happen. And also I don't know in scripture if we can if there's any way to to really say whether the people that are being uh controlled by those demons are are in Christ or not. It it seems it seems to me that there's more evidence that they're not in Christ. Right, yeah. I would think that definitively they're not. Well, sure. Even his twelve disciples fled at the end. Maybe maybe maybe not in Christ. Or are they looking for the coming of Messiah? You know, I don't know. There's there's no way to know if if those people were the whole seven sons of Sheva thing and demon looks at them is like, Hey, I know Jesus and I know Paul. I don't know who you I don't know who you are, right? So there there is something um that the the the m the spiritual world can see that we we are in an actual spiritual battle. I think The the demons knew who Jesus was. But Jesus even said, This kind sometimes this kind cometh not out but by prayer and fasting, right? So it's not even as simple as I command you in the name of Jesus to leave. That doesn't always quote unquote work. Right. You there is more to it than that. And there's there's a a lot of actual warfare. You have to gird yourself for battle and and and do that. I think the one the one thing that that movement, uh if you want to call it movement deliverance movement or whatever, the one thing that they seem to recognize, which a lot of Christians don't recognize, is that we are in a spiritual battle. Constantly. And there's there are constantly things that we need to be fighting and and and it can be costly, it can be painful. Yeah, I don't know if I want to give them too much credit because a lot of them are charlatans and you know what Satan himself knows we're in a spiritual battle, so that doesn't impress me that they would know that. Uh and I don't mean to be flip about that, but seriously, so and just to clarify, when I'm in counseling with somebody, they're going through, you know, all sorts of difficulties in their life or whatever. I I try to take big ideas and make them simple. And so if I'm oversimplifying, can you know give me a little bit of grace. Basically, if you got sin in your life and challenges from that sin in your life, it's coming from three places. One of three places or a combination of the three. It's coming from the influence of the world. It's coming from your own sinful nature, you're still wrestling against your sinful nature in the flesh. Or you're under spiritual attack, if you're a believer You know, uh you could be popularly possessed if you're an unbeliever, I guess. But if about home counseling a believer, yeah, you y the influence of the world is somehow Got you askew, and we've got to get back into the truth of Scripture. What does the Bible say? Let's correct your thinking. Let's renew your mind. And it says in Romans 12, 2, I think. Uh let's let's get after the renewal of your mind and make sure you're lined up with Scripture. Then let's make sure that your sanctification progress process is progressing the way it should be, that your that you're that I'm doing a good job as the pastor discipling you. and that you've got good spiritual disciplines, that you're praying, that you're reading the word, that you're that you're sharing the gospel with others, you're doing the things that Christians are supposed to do, that will help the key Keep your flesh in alignment so that you're not going to give in to some those temptations so easily. Let's address that. And if those things seem like they're kind of mostly in pretty good shape, not if nobody's in perfect shape on any of those things, but if you're kind of mostly pretty good You gotta ask the question, are you under a direct spiritual attack? What's going on here? And we need we need to pray differently or or study the scriptures a little bit differently and equip ourselves a little bit differently if that's what's going on. So I'm all about that One of the people I know that's I've had to deal with recently, he's got a problem with alcohol and he wants to blame it on demons. I'm feeling like that is more likely to be pressures from the world and fleshly desires if he's claiming to be a Christian. The devil's not Like opening his gullet, lifting this the the the can of beer and shoving it down his throat for him. But he's making a choice. Now he might have the w the the devil whispering in his ear and tempting him. Right. Absolutely. But that's but the devil's not making him do it. He might be tricking him into it, deceiving him into doing it somehow, but he's not making him do it. But there's somebody else who's saying that no, the devil It's like a blackout situation doesn't remember it happening, only knows what happened because others told them what happened. like left themselves, if you will, and a voice that wasn't theirs came out of their body, spoke for them, and that they were moving their arms and doing different gestures and things that was not them. And my response was That's a possession. That's not merely a spiritual attack or what I would think of as oppression. Now like David's got a good point to everyone to define these terms, but it's it's the taking control part. That can't I said that can't happen for a believer. So my first instinct was the people who told you this lied to you. They told you that's what happened. Like maybe you had a blackout episode, maybe an epileptic seizure. I don't know what the medical possibilities are. But maybe something medical happened and they counted you as a mark. And and they and they deceived you, uh th you know, and it wasn't anything spiritual and they're lying to you. That seems like it's within the realm of possibility. We've been lied to about everything our whole lives now the last couple of years. So that's certainly within the realm of possibility, particularly with charlatans who are taking their orders from Satan. You know what I mean? So there's that. But this person responded saying, No, no, no, I wasn't possessed because they only took a part of uh control of a part of my soul. To control over part of So this is apparently this is language that the deliverance ministry people use. They talk about you're oppressed and it's not a full possession, it's a partial possession, if you will. I mean I think the overarching issue is that there's it's a lot of extra biblical, you know, uh ideas. It's things that are coming from uh uh yeah from from from other sources. And I I think when you and I talked we we talked about that as well that there's a lot of ideas of uh Um there's a lot of similarities to w was it voodoo or Yeah, I there's it's a lot of you know, I have some uh friends who are now Christians but they grew up in Africa and then they tell me stories about all the witch doctor voodoo black magic kind of stuff that takes place on the continent of Africa, uh at least in the countries where they were from. And a lot of this deliverance ministry stuff smacks of that to me. Yeah, which I I mean, you know, and there's there's real demonic spiritual activity happening there in those places and in those situations and here I think far more than we really should realize. Right. And that was one of my concerns because this person we're talking about uh in part. I'm talking about four different people at once, by the way, just for you guys to know. So if it feels like this is kind of disconnected, I'm blending them into an amalgam uh of of uh your recent experiences. But the uh this one person was saying how uh well I I don't know how you know i it's not like I've opened myself up to the occult or something. Like why would I be having this problem. And I said, if you've been hanging out with all these deliverance deliverance deliverance ministry type people and they're using all this voodoo black magic stuff unwittingly I think you did open yourself to the occult. And and not just from that angle necessarily, there's a lot of things in our world that are really based on the occult. You know, I mean you can go buy Ouija boards in uh like Target. You know. There's there's stuff that you can buy How do you know? I can see them on the shelves at different stores. I don't remember talking about it. How many did you buy? Well, I would I would not want something like that in my house, but because I absolutely because I because I know what it is. And I and I and I I understand what it can bring and Do you know how crazy we sound to the secularist right now? You know how crazy we sound You're afraid of a Ouija board? I'm I it what about what about this? Here's one better. In Christmas time, do you have an elf on your shelf? I don't know, but not you, but people listening, right? If you think about it, what is that? That's a a god sitting on the shelf telling you uh whether you're doing right or wrong or watching to see whether you're doing right or wrong. That's inviting a demon into your house That is literally what that is. That's what Alexa is too, I think, right? Yeah, well there's there's you know so so it's important everything in your life you want to make sure you know where it's coming from, what the roots are, and and if it's not of God, then it shouldn't be in your life. And we want to make sure we spend time in the things that do encourage and build up and edify, spend more time in the word, spend more time in prayer. And Yes, commanding any evil spirits that happen to be around and in us to to leave immediately in the name of Jesus the Messiah. And speak that in confidence because God is more powerful than any demon. That doesn't mean everything's gonna be an instant victory for the rest of your life. But you have to come from that place of faith and spend time in the Word, spend time in in in prayer, and surround yourself with other like minded believers that can battle with you. Um and I think that's that's a better way to come at it than to just make the assumption, oh well I'm being oppressed and you know, I I there's only so much you can do. Well there there's there is there are things you can do and whether you decide it uh uh d describe it as you know being pr oppressed, being possessed, you know, whether you say you're saved or not, it's not really as as big of an That's not the most important issue. The most important issue is what are you what are you doing and what is your mindset and what are you surrounding yourself with? Are you spending time in the word? Are you spending time reading It's a pretty important thing for the person who claims that they have something inside of them taking control of it. at that point. It's a lived experience from their point of view anyway, that we have to deal with. We're we're actually out of time on uh today's episode, so we're gonna wrap this up. I just want to say if if you are if you are sure you're a Christian And you know what? Sometimes we've got to ask ourselves, we gotta ask that question. We've got to test uh the our faith. First John uh t would tell us to do that. So make sure that uh you don't have a false profession of faith. If you got somebody telling you as a believer That you got a demon inside of you making you say things and do things. I'm telling you, you have you don't know me personally maybe if you're listening to this. Trust me, they're lying to you Our authority is scripture, as we talked about last week. Scripture, it's not possible. They're lying to you. So just take that for what it's worth. I'm Troy Skinner, David Forcey, Daniel Rasby also on the show. If you want to follow along online with uh what we're all about, you can connect with information about our various churches uh through my church's website, household of faith in Christ dot com Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Of course you should go to WFMD. com as well and find the faith debate page there too. Till next week. God bless