Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, host of this show and pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ. Christ. com. Joined this week, as per usual, by David Forcy, he's a pastor in the area, and Daniel Razby, a pastor in the area, and Imran Razby. Uh the reason I don't call him Raz by the 'cause I think he prefers Raz, his friends typically call him Raz, but with two men with the last name of Raz and then calling him R uh Raz V and then calling him Raz on top of that, it gets There's lots of razzing going on. You know, it's Daniel Razby and Raz Razby and it's just I don't know. It's just there's a lot of raspberries going on. I just wanna steer away from that so I can try to be keep it clear and um but anyway i i if you know him as uh as rat yes it's he's the guy that's the guy that you're hearing it's him it's him it's one and the same Anyway, and they have a ministry that you can find online as well at it's conquered by love dot org. So this week we're going to be talking about um an article that came out last year in the last half of the year in the fall or leading late summer leading into the fall. It was about a pastor. The article was written by a pastor. His name is An uh Alexander Lang, I believe And he was uh well I'll just read to you how he starts off his little article and then we'll we'll have fodder for discussion here. This is a case study, that's why we're going through this. This is a case study on how a a faith gets deconstructed even by a pastor. or a so-called pastor in a so-called church. So here we go. This past Sunday, this is not me by the way. This is Alexander Lange. Right. This past Sunday I preached my last sermon as the pastor of First Presbyterian Church of Arlington Heights at the suburb of Chicago, for those who don't know. I have made the decision that I am not only leaving my post as head of staff, but I'm going to be leaving the pastorate altogether. I no longer have a desire to serve as a pastor in the church In my sermon I told my congregation that I was exhausted from writing, memorizing, and preaching sermons week after week for ten years. Well, that's a long time. Which is true. However There are other reasons why I'm leaving that I didn't have time to discuss in my sermon, and I want to utilize this article to do a deep dive into how I came to my decision. So I don't know if we have a whole lot to say, but I wanted to give the entree and give him kind of a full hearing and disclosure to the listener. We are going to read large chunks, but I printed this out and the darn thing is seven pages long. We are not reading all seven pages But we're going to read, I think, a pretty fair representative uh example of what he had to say to to put him in context and be fair to him. But my first reaction after that first paragraph is, good riddance, don't let the door hit ya. But anyway, what do you have to say? Well he he i i uh he say he's I, I, I a lot. He doesn't really talk about what God's calling is on his life. If God is called him to do something, no matter how hard it is, you do it. until God calls you otherwise. And i it's one thing to retire after a long career because you are tired with God's leading of course, but ten years doesn't doesn't seem like a really long time to be writing and preaching seminar. No, he's he's he admits there's other reasons involved so I guess we'll hear those in a minute. One of the reasons I say good reasons let don't let the door hit you on your way out kind of thing is he didn't based on what I understand here And and in fairness, I could be misunderstanding if that happens at least ninety-nine percent of the time. So but if if this is the one percent time that I'm right, then what I'm hearing here is that he didn't preach a sermon. He's saying he preached a sermon. But he's talking about his reasons for leaving and he didn't have time to share all those reasons in his sermon. That's not a sermon. No. He speeched, right? He speech defied That's a that's an elongated announcement. Right. He gave an exit farewell speech. He didn't give a sermon. That's not what a sermon is. A sermon is is de grappling with the scriptures and grappling with the gospel. Later on in the article he's going to explain that in this service the going away service. They played music by code play U. S. I'm going to read that part. So anyway, so here's so Here's the next part, and I do want us to spend some time talking about these five bullet points that he gives us. He says I have become part of what is known as the Great Pastor Resignation. I never heard of this until now, by the way. And I like I said last week I tried to pay attention to these trends First time I've heard the Pat Great Pastor, but maybe I'm just not locked in on that sphere of things. Anyway, so this great pastor resignation came uh along in the wake of the pandemic. Uh Barna, the the George Barner Research Group, did a national survey of pastors uh and of March of 2022, 42% of pastors considered quitting. Considered, not did quit. Considered quitting. The reasons for this are myriad. Here are the top five. All right, number one, the immense stress of the job. Number two, I feel lonely and isolated. Number three, pol uh the political divisions that are currently in this country. Number four, I am unhappy with the effect this role has had on my family. And number five, I am not optimistic about the future of my church. What do we think about those uh as reasons for giving up on shepherding God's flock leading and pastoring a church. I I I've noticed like so far in this article he has not mentioned God once yet, or Christ. Or the gospel. Well, I'm I don't wanna spoiler alert, spoiler alert, I don't wanna spoil it too much, but I think you'll see that as a trend. But that's the thing, even in these reasons, right? None of them have anything to do with God or godly things or or the calling of a pastor. It's all I, I, I. I feel isolated. Uh and I mean and you're okay it's okay to feel isolated. Elijah certainly did. He's sitting at the brook uh uh with Kidra, right? And he's like, Oh I'm the only one left after he just beat all the all all the prophets of Baal. So pastors and and and leaders you know, godly men throughout history have have felt that That doesn't that that's not that's not a bad thing to have those feelings. The question is what do you do with them and what what what do you do moving forward? Elijah's ministry didn't stop there. You know, God will provide comfort to uh to you when when it's needed. Now one of these four strikes me as a legit like a legitimate reason for someone to seriously prayerfully consider whether they need to Leave the pastorate. I'm unhappy with the effect to roll has on my family. Yes. But if it's if if it's doing damage to your children and your wife and stuff, like you've got to take care of that For her. So the qualifications for being an elder is that you have you're uh have one wife and you've got children and they're in subjection and you have your house in order. Churches can find a new pastor. Your wife can't find a new husband, your kids can't find a new father. I mean you're irreplaceable in the family dynamic and if you can't figure out how to manage that and it's literally having a negative effect. Yeah, uh but I don't I don't know that that's the the church's fault as much as the man's fault for not saying, Hey, these th this is how I take care of my family and I I can't I I mean really, you know, like a a a man should not get his family into that situation in the first place. Yeah, and I wasn't meaning to play blame at the church like This is a good reason to blame your church and leave the past. What I'm saying is if you're identifying this as reality, and the reality might be, to your point, I can't manage this well And I gotta choose. Right. Do I go all in on the church and let my family burn to the ground, or do I let somebody else shepherd this flock and I take care of my family? That's a legitimate thing if you're self-aware enough to realize you can't handle it all, then yeah, I would agree. Right. Through prayer and reading from God. Again, which it hasn't mentioned or talked about. But anyway. So he goes on to say, I'm jumping ahead by one j one line in this case. Being a pastor is like being a parent. You can imagine what it's like to have by the way, it's not entirely true, but I hear what he's saying. So you can imagine what it's like to have a child Uh but until you read the role, you can't fully appreciate what it's like to shoulder the responsibility of caring for a life twenty-four-seven. Uh same is true for being a pastor. Uh as a pastor, uh you're there for all of the peaks and the valleys, you're there to celebrate the weddings and the births, you're also there for the sicknesses, the tragedies, the deaths I don't think anyone becomes a pastor not knowing this is what you're signing up for. However, the reality of what this does to you mentally and emotionally is taxing over the long haul. I have thoughts on this, but I don't want to make this about me. What do you guys say to that? I want to get to the next paragraph because I think my concern here is, first of all, making that connection to parenting, boy, that's an ill founded and really ill thought out analogy to make because if you okay, you he's right. You don't know how demanding being a parent's gonna be until you're a parent. But you can't leave being a parent. The analogy falls down almost immediately. It's not something you have to choose to Depart from when it doesn't work out for you. Okay. Says for most of my tenure at First Press, name of his church. We had around a thousand members. Of those, about fifty percent attended on a regular basis. I really got to know about three hundred people beyond name recognition. There's a problem right there, by the way. And that's He only knows a third of his congregation. Right, and and that's because his congregation is too big. And what we're gonna see as we go further in the article is he doesn't have a support structure. In a church that size, if indeed you can even have a church that size, which which we've talked on this uh program about before, but if you're gonna do it, you need a number of people in leadership staff that are actively discipling and knowing all these people. all these cong uh members of the congregation. You can't personally visit and talk to every one of those even three hundred people in a week's time. Maybe like Moses, the leader of fifties, you know, breaking up fifties and leaders. Yeah, tens, fifties, hundreds, so on. Yeah. Yeah. So size does matter in this case size worse than the same. And there are ways to do it, but you have to have a multiplicity of elders on staff to help manage this. Which is one of the things that's surprising 'cause he's talking about a Presbyterian church and normally those are fairly well organized from a leadership perspective. What a Whether we agree with the the the specific church on the doctrines and things, and this sounds like it's one of the more liberal Presbyterian churches. Yeah, it's PC USA, so it's it's it's it's far. It's in the name So there's supposed to be a plurality of elders and and accountability structure and what he's describing doesn't seem to have any of that. So can you talk about the three hundred people he kinda knows beyond name recognition? He says what this means is that I know these basically these three hundred people. I know their stories, their history intimate details of their lives. Sometimes this happened because there was a crisis. Sometimes I learned these things while performing the functions in their lives like funerals, weddings, baptisms. Irrespective of how I learned their story, I carry that history wherever I go. Whenever I see them, I know that I know intimate details Or they know they know intimate details about their lives, details that they uh rarely share with others. Since I see these people most every week, that personal information is always at the top of my mind. Over time the accumulation of all that knowledge starts to weigh you down. Your mind is a repository for all sorts of secrets, and if you're human you feel sympathy and empathy uh for their suffering. Like almost every facet of being a fastor, this is a double-edged sword. It's a privilege to be given a window into these very private aspects of their lives, but a responsibility that comes with that privilege is can sometimes be overwhelming. To be honest, this is the one part of the entire thing he had to say. I think he's right. If you haven't been a pastor, I think the only thing that would be a corollary to this is if you are a counselor. Right? People are coming to you, sharing the challenges, these deep, dark, scary, embarrassing challenges in their life. Nobody in the world knows. Sometimes their spouse doesn't know, at least not at first. I and it's There are things you know. And I I I can speak to this. All the time on your mind. You're trying to think about how can you help them and you're and you're praying for them uh either aloud or in your spirit. See the person and you look at them And you know that they know that you know what's going on. And I don't mean it and I don't ever feel embarrassed about that. And I think he almost feels like there's that, like there's a sense of embarrassment. Maybe they feel embarrassed, the people I never feel a sense of embarrassment. I hope that they don't feel embarrassed because they shared it with me. They if they if they were without me embarrassed they wouldn't share it. But it's it's heavy on your heart. And it's there, it's always there and you're and everybody's got challenges and some of the people that are coming to you for pastoral counseling, they really have challenges and you're rooting for 'em. And you're trying everything you can to help them and they can't get out of their own way sometimes. And so that part really resonated with that is one of the big, big challenges of being a pastor. You guys have that experience? I I I agree. He's got a point. Yeah, but everything so far as said is he is quitting a job, not a calling. Okay. This is this is a t a tech job or a bricklaying job that he's just tired of because too much on uh too much on his body and his mind and and he can't take it anymore. he's not in a pastoral position to care for the sheep. Um, he he doesn't seem like he has a heart for that and uh it doesn't seem like that is uh what God's placed on his heart. He's there purely to make a paycheck for his for his family. Yeah, and and uh and f for other reasons that aren't pastoral, which we're gonna get to as we read on. And this is again, good riddance. We don't need men like this in pastoral roles. He doesn't have a heart for it, doesn't he doesn't have a calling apparently on his life for it And yeah, uh so my point in saying I get it, I get who he's coming from, but the next thing to say is, Okay, but so what? That's what pastors do and if you can't do that, you don't want to do that, you probably should have never been a pastor. I don't know how he survived his ten years As a pastor. I don't know how I did it. Right. Alright, I I dominated that one. I'm gonna be less less verbose on this next one. Next section. Another aspect of being a pastor is that you don't have just one boss. As a pastor Yes you do But anyway As a pastor you're ultimately responsible Ultimately he used that word by the way. I didn't insert that. Ultimately responsible to a board of or governing body that oversees your ministry. No. Ultimately responsible to Christ However, in practice your boss is every person who walks through the door. When oh my gosh. When everyone likes what you're doing. It may not feel that way, but the moment a group of people becomes discontent with your messages or decisions, then you feel the weight of their leverage over your life. In this way, the pastor is similar to politics. There's some truth to that. I've been the target of of mud slinging. Some members have taken steps to create a movement to have me removed from my post. At first it was an underground movement to convince the governing board of the church that a majority of the parishioners were discontent with my leadership. When that effort was unsuccessful, they went public. sending out an email to the entire congregation to build momentum to have me forcibly removed. I'm going to pause there. So the last part of what he said, some of that resonates as true. But boy, the opening part of that section I just read, holy cow, he couldn't be more wrong. Anyway, you guys. Again, I don't think he still still think he heard him mentioned the word God yet. No. I don't know that he's saved. No no no. You're misunderstanding Daniel, because he's not ultimately responsible to God. And not yeah to the governing board and to every person who walks through the door. What he's trying to say is you can't please everybody. And that's true. Either because you called them out on something that was legitimately sinful in their life and they and they know it and they're embarrassed by it. Or because you're wrong in some other way and they're upset with you, or just because different people have different personalities and they don't get along. So there's always gonna be that. Um Uh his his security does not seem to be in his uh relationship with God. Right? And his And his desire to pay and honor God. What is the proper response when you have this kind of campaign in the church to get you removed? Or to t to get you to change something you ha well There's one of two things could be true. Either you are preaching the gospel and it's so strong that the devil's trying to tear you down in any way he can. And in that case, blessed are you because you're persecuted for the kingdom of God. Mm-hmm. Okay? So you should be g glad and happy when that happens. Or you really are preaching heresy and should be called out, in which case that's the job of the congregation is to create a grassroots movement to say, hey, go to the elders. This guy's not teaching us from the Bible, we need to get this changed. That is exactly the responsibility of the church. So I I mean I I I get the based on what some of the things he's saying here, I get the impression that they didn't go about it the right way, even if if that's what they were trying to do. But St still you should expect this type of thing. And I do want to take a moment here. We're picking on this pastor and pastors like him, because again it's a case study. He's representative of a disease right now That's you know, it's very contagious and it's spreading like crazy. That's why we have the problems we have in the world today, have you noticed? Um but I wanna take a second here and and and uh turn the gun around. Congregation, listener, if you're not a pastor, but you're part of a church, you need to hear this. The politics inside the church has got to stop. And if you're participating in that, if you're one of the wolves who's trying to tear down your pastor, particularly if he's fa I mean if he's not faithful, you go about it in biblical God ordained ways of dealing with it. You don't go about it the way it's being described here. But if you i if your pastor is taking friendly fire from you, it needs to stop. You can work through the channels if he needs to be removed. He's preaching heresy or his leadership is completely obtuse and he needs to be held to account. I'm not saying that pastors are above being held to account, but there's a way to do it, and politicking isn't the way to do it. And so if that's what you're doing, if you fancy yourself some sort of church boss working behind the scenes to gather a a storm of people who want to come together and and and uh ambush the pastor. You are in gross, heinous kind of sin, and if you've got to repent now, even if your pastor's not doing a good job, that doesn't give you an excuse to not be a good Christian. And there's too much of this. There are churches in this town. I'm familiar with I've pastored one of them. But there are others I haven't pastored. I'm not making this personal right now. They have a reputation. They can't keep their pastors It's like a rotisserie league. It's like every couple of years, oh, they almost had a church split, they had to fire the pastor. Wow, hopefully they figured it out a couple of years later. Oh if they had a church split, they fired the pastor. Or sometimes if they had a church split and half the congregation went with the pastor and they hired a new pastor. That's got to stop. Hear me, please. For your own salvation, stop, because you've got to repent. You are in sin if that's if that's you. And it it's it's It's a real, real problem in the church. It doesn't get talked about very much because pastors want to come across as whining cry babies and talk about it and and if once they get fired and they if they bring it up, it's like, oh, sour grapes. It's a reality and it's got to stop. So anyway, enough sermonizing uh at you unless you guys want to sermonize. No All right, the next the next section here um talks about unrealistic uh expectations. He starts off with some complaints about um The degree requirements and the low pay and the student uh debt that they have to carry and all that sort of stuff. And then he transitions to say this. I agree. In fact, in many of these things are actually, in my opinion, detriments to your on your resume if you've gone to semi-cause one of the one of the things that I've done. And you mentioned that before and I again I like what I mentioned, I think it was last week's show. I hear your or maybe it was earlier this show. I agree with your heart on that sort of thing. But if if understood and used properly, seminaries can be a blessing to the church because they helped Could have been in the past. I think most seminaries are no longer a learn how to uh to to read and understand Greek and Hebrew and how to properly execute a a passage and some of those kinds of things can be helpful, but So many of the uh seminaries are so far gone right now. What what I what I'm saying, I agree with that concept. I'm saying I don't believe there's more than maybe a handful in the country of seminaries that actually still exist. that even teach that. And what should happen is it should be happening in the church. The problem is most pastors aren't equipped to teach men how to uh m self included, by the way. I know just enough Greek and Hebrew to muddle by. I'm very I I used to know it way better when I was in seminary. I knew it well enough to pass the test and get a good grade and all that sort of stuff. But you know, it gets rusty if you're not in it all the time and when you're exeguting the new exegeting the New Testament, you're not exeguting the Old Testament, so you're not practicing your Hebrew. And if you're in a sermon series on the Hebrew text, you're not using your Greek And you go three, six months, or nine months, or whatever, and you're not into languages, it starts to get rusty really fast. So I can muddle through and I'm very but I'm very dependent on the tools. But at least I have that. And but I'm not in a position to if somebody said, Hey Pastor, can you teach me Greek? Yeah, you better go to seminary for that 'cause I'm not gonna be able to help you, you know. So it has a role. I don't wanna gang up on the on the seminaries uh too much, but I hear what you're saying. I don't know if I'm gonna have time to well, I'll read as much as I can and we'll see how how this goes. There are seven areas where a pastor is expected to be proficient. First and foremost, you're expected to be a professional speaker. Makes sense. Personally, I love this part of the job, but many of the people I went to seminary with struggled with public speaking. If you fail fall into this category, immediately you have a problem since what most people see is your public speaking on Sunday. Second requirement Skill is if you're like a CEO of a company, anticipating not only what the current people of your church want, but also how to bring new people through the door. You have to grow the business. And under the conditions we're in now, that's super difficult because the culture is in is such that people don't really want to go to church anymore. You also have to be a professor. I had to stop you there. Okay. No, we're going to pause there. i i in the New Testament where Paul's talking on some kind of unrelated topic. I think he's talking about d uh you know b uh speaking orally orderly in the church and not talking over each other. And he makes it A side comment is like, so that if an unbeliever happens to walk in the door, he's not confused or he's he doesn't have a bad opinion of Christians. Like, if an unbeliever walks in the door, like it's it's a rare thing, it's not a normal it's not what you're expecting. this culture of br oh just come to church and we'll teach you there. No no. Get saved and we disciple you. Then you come into the church. It's not come to the church, uh listen for several months, a year or two, maybe someday you'll decide you want to be sick. No. You know, we're not we're not marketers. The church is not a marketing organization bringing people in to t to the c to the Sunday morning service. You may be going and providing outreach and ministry and and and preaching in the streets and get people saved and then once you're saved, yes, come to church Get discipled. Yeah, there's a real problem. You have too many churches that run like businesses, and you have too many businesses that fancy themselves ministries or whatever and they try to r they try to run their businesses like churches. You know, churches need to be run like churches, businesses should be run like businesses. You know, you try to blend those two and you get into all sorts of of problems. And actually we did a show on that years ago. Maybe someday we'll bring that issue up again. But one thing I want to say is you have the app to teach and uh c d to be a pastor and that means you should be able to communicate. Now it doesn't mean you have to be the most polished public speaker at all, but you should be able to stand up and proclaim the gospel and exhort people unto obedience and and those sorts of things. And so public speaking, um that might be might not be the best way to think about how to describe that, but that seems like something that should be kind of expected from a passive. That first part was reasonable, yeah. Even in a house church, you can't be a wilting flower, you got twenty people in your house and you're like oh bash oh I ooh, there's twenty people. It's like that's forty eyeballs on me. I I I don't I'm not comfortable talk You gotta be able to do that. Bare minimum you gotta be able to do that. So uh Anyway. So we've got uh about half of his list or whatever of things that are expected for pastors to be able to do. We'll get to the the rest of that list next week and finish out his article. We're about halfway. through at least halfway through the part that uh I wanted us to pay attention to. So I think we're making good time as far as getting this done in two episodes. So that will be our our goal again. We're talking about uh what was this thing called departing, why I left the church And one of the things I'm hoping we'll see that we're talking about a pastor specifically, but the kinds of things he's talking about more broadly could apply to just a Christian in general. I think is going on here is that this quote unquote pastor has deconstructed his faith. I agree with Imran. I don't think he's a believer, and he has deconstructed his faith and he's walking away from the church. I think that's kinda what's going on and so No, he's not walking away from the church, he's walking away from a job. He was never part of the church. Well uh okay, yeah. Fair enough. He's gonna go get a different paycheck. All right, so let's pay back the student loans apparently. Yeah. So Imron threw down the gauntlet on that one. I stand corrected. Uh Imron Razvi, you can find him online at conquerbylove. org. Uh you can find Daniel Razvy there as well. They've got a church in the Thurmond area. Uh David Forcey is a pastor of a house church that each week meets in kind of a different location, so you kinda gotta go hunting and pecking to find him. But the easiest way to connect with him is just reach out to me Go to Household of Faith in Christ dot com. My all my contact information is there and say, Hey, I'm trying to get in touch with David, and I'll be glad to to set that up for you. And of course if you want to get in touch with me, you can also go to Household of Faith in Christ. com. If it's hate mail related though, I'm not interested. Actually Those are sometimes the best ones. So send all the hate mail you want. We'll be back next week with the Faith Debate. Oh, I guess I should plug the radio station. WFMD. com is their website. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless