Broadcasting, you know what it is. Big Brother doesn't like what we're about to say. We're broadcasting from Big Brother City, right in the middle of Gridlock County, within the social state of Maryland, just outside the nation's capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner. On Further News Radio, 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and I don't know. You're you're gonna miss out. Shall we try it again? You know, here's what I've been reading. Every every week I like to mention what I've been reading on the show. 'Cause I know you care. You like to keep up with my reading. This is a book I hold in my hand called Destiny Deferred a Love Story. Oh, you don't read love stories, do you? Uh not yet. Yeah, not usually I don't know. Does your wife I bet she does. Although I've read a lot of those Ted Decker and they got a romance uh going on a lot of his books. Yeah, yeah, but those are like, you know, like really feel th those are more like Lord of the Rings like kind of you know love story. I mean they're so out there. Anyway, I read this book, uh Destiny just finished a couple of days ago and you read it too actually right I have. Destiny deferred a love story. Can one be late for his or her appointment with time? by Donnell Watts. Yeah. And you and I were talking before the show. And I think we should try to get Donnell on the show sometime and talk about this book. He's a local author. He lives right here in Frederick. Yeah, well you know how I am. I know everybody. I'll just call him right now Yeah? Hey Donna, you want to come on a show? That would be nice. I would like to be on the show. See, I told you I know these guys. Wow. He phoning them in right here. I bet I could even get him to get bring his wife on. What do you think, Don? You think Celeste would come on too? Look at that. Look at that. It's like a party. Woo Yeah, we're here. Don't you wish you have my role in this You know how to make things happen. All right, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and in addition to being to being author of Destiny Deferred Uh Donnell is the uh I got it wrong. Wait a minute. Outreach coordinator? No. Outreach director at the Mosaic Church. And Frederick. That's correct. That's correct. And actually the story like refers to Frederick in various places in it. You know, and like you're right here in the area as you're reading it. Feels important. So you wrote this book, it's a love story, and it's it's uh it says that it's based on uh reality at some level. And it reads like something like, okay, I'm reading this and think okay. This is Donnell's story. This is Celeste's story. This is their life. But it's not quite as simple as that, right? It's it it is that, but it's more than that. And I'm gonna be like always off, you know. No i it it's a fictional, um a romantic uh love novel, but it's inspired by true events. There are some things that um uh Celeste and I have been married for thirty three years now. I often say um they're gonna pin meadows with her pin meadows on her when she gets to heaven, okay, for putting up with me. But uh you know, we've been married for thirty-three years ago. I mean for his wife at least. Yeah. But um yes, but it's it's it's inspired by some true events. There were some um things that we have come to uh uh we have experienced in our relationship that we felt that we could um put out there and and help others, you know, and and strengthen other marriages. Whereas there's some other things there that um uh we've had had the opportunity to um You know, um just the experien I I've I've um I listen to people. You know, I've had the opportunity to meet a lot of different people and listen to some of their stories So I thought I could incorporate uh some of the other experiences of other people um into the story and and it all came together pretty good, um, I would think Yeah. Jonathan, you've tried to write at least one book, a couple of books, right? Right. Have any of the books been narrative like this, or are they all like theological? you know, and I'll kind of flesh it out, but it's you know, i if there's a story to it it's like a mini parable. It's not like uh, you know, uh but you've never finished any of your books. No, no. Like I was like I was telling you before the show I uh I enjoy the writing process not so much producing a book as writing. So here Donnell has done done a little bit better than I have. Donnell's got a secret weapon on getting his book Yeah. Well my secret weapon is my wife. You know, I would go and write uh a few pages and some days I would just be so uh I guess not into it, she said, I need more pages. I need more pages. We would just push the push me, push me. Yes. Would she smile when she did it or would she kinda, you know, be like, Hey, sweetheart? Now it wouldn't disrupt your marriage too much, uh Donnell and Celeste, if Jonathan called Celeste every other day to get a little whip crappy. I'll call you Jollip it okay. I'll take you that part, okay. All right, so it's kind of the American dream, right, to publish a novel. I mean everybody wants to ha be a novelist and write a book and you've you've done that. Yes Yes. Usually people write a book because they've got a point they're trying to make. So what's what's the point? What's the the goal behind this story? If I remember one thing about this story after having read it, you want that to be what? that there is hope for people who have suffered disappointment and pain in their life. That God is near. Um I know there's more than one point, but just let me just say this though. You know, oftentimes when um You know, you're going through your the greatest uh pain in your life or the dark hours of your life. Um you see it seems that if God is not near then, but it's quite the opposite. Uh God is very near when you're going through a a very tough time. You know, the the thing that stands out to me in this book is that in several places the lead character What's his name now? I forget the David David the the lead character. And Tamara or Tamara is the wife. Yes. David will will compromise in a subtle way in his relationship with the Lord. And that subtle compromise will lead to him making choices that actually lead to more compromise more compromise. And that the result is that is that the lead character ends up thinking to himself, Ah, God just doesn't work for me and putting up this front, either with his, you know, with his wife or with other people that uh that kind of doesn't work for me, you know, I got other more important things. And I felt like the way that that that you wrote about that and expressed it really like brought that out in the open, you know, such that, you know, I feel like there's a there's a couple people that I've interacted with that for whatever reasons they've come from tougher backgrounds, tougher situations, and and they they wonder at times if God works for them. And as I'm watching it, I'm thinking to myself, yes, God works. But you gotta come to 'em by faith. Yes. And if you don't stay strong by faith, then you're gonna end up, you know, subtle compromise on top of subtle compromise, on top of subtle compromise, suddenly a big compromise. And it's not gonna work because it you know, what what makes God work and I guess I would have to define that. What does it mean that God works? Yeah, because I don't I don't know if I like that language so much actually. What makes God work in our lives is the fact that we are genuinely trusting in him. And if we're not, then we can't expect that there's going to be you know, fulfillment of those promises that he that he's given to us. You know, uh just uh another thing too. You know, one thing about God is um you know, we try to put God in a box. You know, we um we say, well God, if I do this, um you supposed to do this, and uh if I do that, you're supposed to do the other You know, God is sovereign and God has his own plan. Even though God is and this is what made God m actually so mysterious because he's very true to his word, but at the same time He works in such a way that's really beyond our understanding and and only really way, you know, as you say, make God work or have uh have this Christian life to work for us is actually is really just obedience and trust. Now the story uh see now I want to go after that whole and whether or not God works thing or not. So we just have to ha hold off a little bit here. We'll swing back. Alright, alright. I'm gonna trust you. So we'll we'll end up getting back in. But not everybody's read the book yet. Right. I mean you've sold about seven or eight million copies, I know, right? Something like that. That's quite one has read it yet. You know, there's eight million copies floating around out there somewhere. And I don't even know if I own mine because you gave me a copy, but I've read it. So do I have to give you that book back or is that my copy? No, you can keep it. Oh thanks, very kinda Christmas sh should be here soon. But the story, this narrative is is f i It's the arc of life from I don't know how old the characters are when they begin, maybe six sixteen, seventeen years old, up until I don't know, about a twenty, twenty-five year period of time. Yes. So you start out in the story and this is uh the reason I'm bringing this up is uh talking about who's gonna f see themselves in the story Yeah. So somebody who's in high school reads this book, they're gonna see themselves in the high school character and then they can imagine themselves growing into an adulthood. But those who are young adults are gonna say, Yeah, that was me in high school or I can relate to that person in high school and This is where I am now. And then you got people who are, you know, old like John. Uh they're gonna read the book and say, Yep, that story that's I know that story. Uh and Was that is that an accident just because of the way the story is written or were you purposely trying to reach out to three, four, or five different kind of age cells? Yeah, well that's a great question. Um because you know As the book was written, um, you know, I I think that the intention was not so much to reach out as it is to give a testimony. You know, because I I think that um you know, life is is such a process, you know, that as you go through life from um from a teen to adult And I think that just uh writing the testimony, because I believe everybody has a book in 'em. You know, everybody has a story. Is a book could be written about anybody's lives. It's just a different twist, that's all. But um Was it I I like that phrase that that it's not to try to reach out, but it's a testimony. So I actually didn't didn't know that you, you know like I knew you were director of outreach at Mosaic. Yeah, but I but somehow I put the two together. Like maybe you wrote the book intentionally, thinking to yourself, you know what, I can use this in in my position as director of outreach. And this is the way to outreach to people. And yet the book doesn't come across preachy in any way. Comes across as an enjoyable story, you know, of of people that just got stuck by life. you know, and and and are are trying to find, like you said, hope in the midst of it all. And and in fact that's what everybody that talks about outreach anymore says that you gotta tell your story. You know, they they call it three story evangelism. What's your story? And then I tell you my story and then I tell you God's story. Three story evangelism. You know, so here it is, you're telling your story I can't think of a better way, you know, instead of handing somebody a little tract that has a couple cliches in it, you know, about what you gotta do, you know, three steps to you know, the perfect r relationship with God. Instead you've written a book about the imperfect relationship with God that takes A little bit of w a little bit of time and th that there's struggle and there's there's uh failures and ups and downs and and presented it in a way that I feel like is very endearing, very uh attractive. Yeah. Yeah. You know, the thing about that, uh, when I when I was writing the book, um uh you know uh uh the the book is published by Crossbooks And um when I was uh writing uh the book, um, you know, in my submission of some of my material, um it was you know, I I was talking to the editor and it was like Wait a minute, man, we got little old ladies reading this book. You can't say that. But you know, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You almost You almost got rated like PG thirteen or something. Right, 'cause there's a couple of places in there where you go ahead and describe it, but you do it with language that is honoring that doesn't go too far. And so, you know, it's very it's very gritty, right? I mean there's there's there's drugs in this in this story. It's also very sensual, right? And purposefully so to try to I think to magnify the the romance that's going on and and what what David, the main character in the book, is Okay, so what would you rate it? PG What? And C seventeen. You know, I I If you got a daughter, how old would she have to be before you let her read this? I would let her read this. I mean it's uh uh because of the context, it's there's nothing I mean he's not using dirty words. Exactly. And he's not being vulgar, but it's kinda like Song of Solomon, right? And he doesn't say anything explicit uh you know about body parts. You know, and so so it's it's kinda like you know that it's there but without having to say you know but the the male character has a strong appreciation for the female body. Yeah right? Yeah and the females in the story have a strong appreciation for David who's this good looking, you know, gigolo guy. Yeah, yeah, now that I finally met you, I see, you know he's a good looking guy there. I've had to look at Troy all these years, man. Yeah. But Don Allen said uh I think it was before we started the show about how life is uh not fluffy. Yeah, yeah, that's that's what it was. Um because when I was uh submitting some of my material to um Uh crossbook uh the editor was um you know, there had to be a few rewrites. But what I what I wanted to do was I didn't want to write um a uh a fluffy book. Because life is not fluffy. Yeah. I wanted to write book about real issues and some of the real struggles that um people go through. You know, we have uh you know, you look at people in the street and um you know everybody looks just fine on the outside but you're wondering what's really going on in the inside. Yeah. And so I wanted to kinda um speak to those uh speak to those um issues. And so again without trying to give it away, you come to the end di to to the to the end of the story and you realize that this didn't just end in like it like this um, you know, happily ever after ending. But it ended up with two people that hung on to hope and in hanging on to hope they they found a way to move forward. Yes. You know, and that's that's different from like like this ending where everything comes together in this fantastical you know glorious sunrise but it's this this recognition that you know even even those that live the American dream. You know, and that have the the the cars and the kids and the you know all that stuff. The reality is that is that it's never fantastical. There's real stuff going on that is very difficult that requires, you know, uh processing and really working things through. And I feel like that really comes out in the book. Jonathan Sweitzer Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crosswood Valley Chapel. Donnell Watts and his wife are here. Donnell wrote with uh strong encouragement, perhaps even a little bit of input here and there from his wife Celeste. Did you have any questions? Um Yes they are. Okay. I wanted to come from the woman stand um standpoint. I would give him suggestions on what women would think and sometime I would do little uh, writing suggestions and he'd taken and put it into his own little way how he wanted to write it from a man's standpoint. But um I have to keep 'em on point a lot. Now keep the microphone over there for a second. Tell Donnell you need more pages I need more pages for a new book. Need more pages. Need more pages. Destiny Deferred Love Story. And you can buy this you have a website set up for this one? Uh yeah the website is in a process of being set up. Um I'm getting a uh author's page right now and Crossbook is putting that up. And um I don't have it quite right now but it's in the works. But you can get it at Bonds and Noble online um ebooks Um Amazon, uh Kindle Books, uh Crossbooks. That's right. So within three minutes you could have that book on your Kindle and be reading it right now this morning. So there you have it. And if you do by the way, you mentioned crossbooks a couple of different times and I think it was before the show. You talked about having to pass their theological standards. Yeah. What what what are the crossbooks theologically? I got a bunch of questions along those lines. Yeah. Well crossbooks, um uh there was a theological review, um, you know, just to make sure that um I was um not stating anything. You know, Cross well first of all, Crossbook uh there's a sitter of Life Way Ministries and and they publish people like Charles Stanley and um Max Licato, Beth Moore, John MacArthur. And so um it had to reach uh that theological standard where it had to be true to the gospel and the foundational truths of the of the scriptures. Yes, so can I ask? Like were there places where where where they said, you know what, your theology there is off, you need to rewrite it No, uh matter of fact, the allergy was pretty good. Pretty good. I think I would call them out there. No, actually Would you tell me if it was? So actually uh the part that they um uh the question was it was concerning um some of I guess the raciness of the writing. Yeah because the writing right um a at at times um it it it it puts forth in the windows that you can kinda imagine in your mind and and as I said before they said that we got little old ladies reading the book. But um No, that was pretty much all right. Pretty much I got in the book everything I really wanted. But I gotta say it's racy because uh you know what scene is being set up and it but the word choice is not gutter language. You know, I can't remember the the exact phraseology, but there's There's a scene where uh uh I don't know if it was the character's wife or a woman that he was attracted to, I can't remember what he's he's he's excited in the moment. He's physically excited. Yeah. And he talks about his male nature Yeah, yeah. Uh rising. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, well a four year old stumbling in the read this isn't gonna know what that means, right? Or four year old probably couldn't read it. Uh a ten year old might not know what that means, but anybody who's got a clue about what that means is mature enough to read it. Sure. Probably. So I thought that was well done. You know, uh, in terms of the language. I don't I don't know that there was anything else that that even went that far. You know, like that was probably the the raciest edge of what was in there. Yeah, I was very careful about that. I w 'cause because this is uh it is a Christian book. um in his base. Um it does deal with secular issues, but I was very careful in how I want to describe things. Uh you know, actually um I'm a poet by heart And so um you know I just want to put it in in a poetic way, some of the things I described here. And I don't want to give too much way but there's a couple of poems in the book. Yeah, yes, yeah. The character has a couple of poems, yes. Uh J Jonathan, um I think it was before we we got on the air you talked about this is the kind of book that you might think about giving to somebody that you thought it could be of like therapeutic help or a guide for them or or a a lifeline, some encouragement. Therapeutic is is an interesting question. Are you a therapist at all or anything? No, oh god. No. No, because there's a couple of places in it where the m the characters really rely on uh Christian therapists. And uh maybe we'll get into that, you know, at a different time. But and so not going necessarily that direction in terms of being good therapy for people but more the testimony part of it that there's some some people that I know that that at times think that God doesn't quite seem to work for them. Mm-hmm. And the w the the honesty of the book is that in those places the character, you know, the main character where uh where he was getting off where he was he was compromising his faith that it led to, you know, this whole idea of God not working for him, you know, that it just doesn't work for me, you know, it's just you know it's It's more for my wife, it's more for other people, but it's just not for me. You know, I got other things to be doing right now. And how subtly those things can uh can get us into a place where we're rationalizing bad behavior, marriage-ending behavior, you know, rationalizing uh behavior that's destructive to our own lives. And uh I just feel like the way that it that it's addressed, it it's not preachy. It's just honest. It's a testimony where somebody reading it could say, you know You know, I'm like that too. Yeah, yeah. I'm trying to find someone through the book right now, I'm trying to find 'cause your two poems they both had uh similar titles and I was wondering if that was here it is. One of the poems is called First Life and the second poem is called Second Chance. Is that first and second, is that an accident? The first poem had with first in the title and the second poem has second in the title Was there a plan words there and that the second chance is a chance at a at a renewed life? And the first life is about the birth of a of a child, I believe, right? I would love to say that that that was playing. I would love to say that, but uh next time to the accuracy, yeah. But it just came it just came out. It just came together. Yeah, that was the whole point of the book actually, uh the vehicle for making that particular point. That's where we're going for that. We'll know better once you write your book, how just how to expect it to come across. Now one of the things that struck me, uh when you pick up the book Everybody has a dedication and uh they want to thank this person, thank that person. You have a very lengthy list of uh what you call acknowledgments at the front end of the book. So Why just spend a lot of And you don't do it just in paragraph format list them and you have like a paragraph per person, but like I'm gonna read it out. I'm gonna like let He doesn't thank Jonathan because he j didn't meet Jonathan until he did this show. But the next book I expect Jonathan. That's right. But see but if it were Jonathan, he would say something like And I want to make sure I say thanks to my friend Jonathan, who is a wonderful encourager and a godly man who preaches the word and does a great job on the faith debate, and he's such an And you go on and on. So w like talk about that process why that it was a little unusual. But there are some very, very important people to me in my life, you know. Um and I I felt that I um You know, when I uh you know compartmentalize them and I just think solely on that person and what that person meant to me in my journey because you know this this is the journey that I'm um I'm in in life. And um certain people, especially those who I've um named in uh and acknowledgments, very key people in my life. And I and I I felt that uh a need to um talk about them and just a little length of what they meant to me. And I don't know if it's uh again if it was a a purposeful thing or not, but it sets the stage for me uh as a reader. I'm I'm a hyper analytical, I apologize. So I'm reading this, you've all these acknowledgements and it seems to me like again, if it was accidental, then it's God's providence at work. But it's it's shining a spotlight on the importance of community. Yeah. Because this is your community. This is your accountability group. These are the people that have meant the most to you that you've meant the most to. And this is your core. It's about relationship. And and uh and so that sets the stage for this story that really is about that relationship and the importance for accountability and community and a faith community and those sorts of things. I don't know if you were purposely trying to set the stage that way. But I finished the acknowledgments and I'm thinking, this is going to be a story about relationship and and a group of uh a community built around an individual who needs that sort of support. And sure enough, that's what the story ended being. Well you know what is it's amazing how um God brings these things together. And um you know it's very insightful you to bring that that point up. Um because I think reaction I think that you spat on. Because um i you know, as God is uh you know, writing this book and as God has uh brought it together, you know, um in the year it took me about a year to write it In about about I guess about three years to edit it, right? They published yeah. Okay, job. Okay. Okay. Well, um Mm-hmm. You know, just to see God um bring together um the format of this book and um just the storyline and uh and some of the things that you mentioned, even about the poems. I mean I I really believe that this is um a a definitely um a a God thing and um I really believe that this book um will bless people. I really believe that and um And I'm just uh just trying to just um just ask God to just go with it. Yeah. So if you want to buy the book, um you could go to the cross is actually hitting your ears, he'll have his own page up and you can just buy it straight off of the author's page. And maybe you gotta know for a small fee he'll autograph a copy for you or something. That'll be free. Uh Daphne Deferred, a love story by Donnell Watts and his wife is with us today. Uh Celeste, I gotta hear one more time. Need more pages. Hello. And Jonathan Sweites, your senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. I want to again thank our sponsors. BMC Insurance and Footman Plumbing Healing, How Can We Make You Smile? Visit us online at WFMD. com KeywordFaith. There you'll find the Faith Debate blog. Well, and it's not really the Faith Debate blog. Well, I guess it is, because you're part of the Faith Debate. My blog is your blog. Email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's Troy Skinner, all one word, at Clearchannel. com. Clear channels all one word as well. Whatever you send me, as long as it's not too racy like what Dylan writes Donnell writes in this book, I will post it up there. Actually I would I Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. There's nothing in here to grade, yeah. Yeah, there's nothing in here I wouldn't post. Yeah. Till next week. God bless.