Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 W I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman Flooming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And Deer Valley Heartscape, Landscape, and Masonry. Yes, we are broadcasting once again from the police state that is Frederick City. We ran out of time at the end of last week's show, so I think you get a chance to tell you about a book that I would uh I would I don't typically say whether I recommend or don't recommend, but I would give this a recommend. Has absolutely nothing to do with faith or religion issues. But a good book nonetheless. Does that have anything to do with feeding cameras? It just might because you gotta pay those feeding camera tickets and you're gonna need lots of money. So you wanna read the Free Market Capitalist Survival Guide. Oh no. By Jerry Bauer. Yeah. Or Boyer. Economics book or it's a how to. It's kind of a how to. Yeah, exactly. If if you if you uh if if you get Scared the the pants get scared off you by what Glenn Beck talks about on this radio station. You should read the Free Market Capitalist Survival Guide. Anyway, uh last week on the show, uh we ended awkwardly because we we had so many things we wanted to talk about and time just worked against us. Yeah, amen. I was raising a question about uh uh Dimitude. What is the dimmi? The the dimmi, the the protected status for non-Muslims w in uh in in lands. You said protected status. That is the meaning of the Arabic word, bhimi. Somebody who's a protected citizen. So we've talked about a few years back we had somebody who's not an uh an uh I you keep putting a hard like H sound in there. What's the pro what's the correct way to pronounce Is it uh Ahmadian or Ahmadiyan? What's it? Ahmadiyyan. Ahmadiyy. Ahmadiyya. Ahmadiyya. It's it's not it's not as hard as I make it. It' More va a mim, Ladressi AD. Uhmadian. Ahmadeen, I'll try to I'll try to do that Um but anyway, uh I've brought it up because I thought it was interesting. more uh modest, uh grace-filled approach uh to uh the teachings of Islam than some of the more fundamentalists certainly more of the radical militant types do. And so those that are a little more fundamentalist might be uncomfortable talking about uh their view on what the Demi means or the Dizzy attacks or whatever. That you don't so I'm wondering if that was a if if that experience we had on this show is an example of the marked difference between your for the lack of a better word, brand of Islam versus the Sunni or or or Shia. Fundamentalist. Uh fundamentalist I think forget about the Dhimmi issue or the Sharia law. If anybody is afraid to talk about something, then I think they're gonna have a big problem with their own children. Because the question that you have right now probably my teenagers are gonna have the same exact question. So why run away from an intellectual very um uh very polite in staying away from um some of the uh attempts that Troy and I are making to label things. And uh it's very gracious of you to do it. But uh uh but I feel like it's it's it's frustrating Troy and I a little bit because we're wanting to try to to put some labels on and to b to to put some some boundaries around, you know, like what is what what do the Ahmadians believe? you know, what do the Sunnis believe, what are the Shiites believe? We're trying to get our you know get some kind of a box around it so that we can say, Oh, now I understand better and uh and uh you keep going to a uh a very pastoral um uh uh persuade us to to to view things in a much kinder way. And I feel like that defines Ahmadian uh the Ahmadian appro approach. You know, somebody that that would be more fundamentalist Muslim uh would want to define more black and white and these kinds of things and you're kinda trying to stay away from that. Not just trying to stay away, there is a core philosophy of every organization, every faith. Right. If you were to go to a hospital today, you were to go to Disney World, they'll have a slogan right they'll say we are here to make you happy or something. You know what's the slogan of Ahmadiyya Muslim community? Yeah. Love for all, hatred for none. Hm. That is what we stand for. Love for all, hatred for none. How would you how what would you say the slogan for Christianity should be? Golden handshakes for all. That's an inside joke from a previous show. We had we had Fahiman a a number of months ago and and uh they Jonathan and he exchanged golden handshakes on the air. Uh what should what should the Christian rich moment what should the Christian slogan be? Yeah. Can I give you a slogan? On the spot. Um I don't know, I'm comfortable sloganizing it. Right, because you have to boil it all down to one little thing. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That's our slogan. Okay, that's good. A verse? I uh yeah, that works. Yeah. Yeah, I mean a shorter version, just the full sufficiency of Christ. Yeah, but what I wanted you to understand is it's not like I'm trying to dance around an issue or if I it's not like I'm trying to avoid a question. This is the core philosophy. This is a core philosophy. We are here to win the hearts of the world. So we're not here for a short run. We have a very loving, peaceful message. It's gonna be a little it's gonna win the hearts. It's gonna be a little bit difficult for us to get a clear definition from you of what Sunni and Shiite fundamentalists tend to believe. Would you agree? No, I think I can tell you clearly what they believe, but this is But at the same time what I have a problem with that you have fifty million Shias, you have hundred million, you know, whatever those numbers are. It's a large group. So label a large group, to me, that's stereotyping In fact there's one point five Muslims in the world. So five billion, yeah. Exactly. So hundreds of millions. So I think I don't wanna you know I don't wanna it's like, you know, golden handshake. You know, the golden rule, you know, do unto others as you would want them, you know, do unto you. So I think my point is Here is here is a suggestion for you, and I've always said this. I think this is a great time in America for us to put four or five different Muslim leaders up on the stage. One representing Sunni Shia Ahmadiya others and talk about apostasy and say what is your position on this And I think America deserves a clear answer on those questions. What is your position on? See this is the difficulty when we have on somebody that's more fundamentalist, honestly we have felt like we can't get a clear answer from them. We we explained to you on the last show that we're going to do. Right. Well that's precisely what's frustrating. Like we can't get a clear answer from them because they're afraid to answer it. Yeah. But we struggle to get a clear answer from you because your philosophy is No no ask me ask me a question. I'll be happy. I don't want you to think that I'm not giving you a clear question. Okay, so the clear question then then is um what do you feel like is the uh uh a f a fundamentalist Sunni or Shiite approach to Dimmi status and jizy attacks Okay. They have blended s state and church. Okay. They have blended those two so their approach is that is their approach. If their approach is that you know this is all a religious government and you have to live under religious law then not only Vimi, every law will affect you as a non Muslim. That is my very clear answer. So I think if you app approach Quran Which it allows you to do, that you have separation of church and state. Is that because it's different views on jihad? It's ev it affects everything. It affects how women dress, it affects How what kind of punishments your courts give? Fahir opposed opposed might be too strong aware on it, but you don't believe that the church and the state should be one Absolutely not. But the fundamentalists uh that is very that is my clearest answer. To me, that is I think if that is not a clear enough answer, because this is an all encompassing but they do because of their idea about jihad, right? They d they w they believe that it's all s it's all c So a dimi status under a fundamentalist Shiite or Sunni government is going to mean that the the dimi, meaning a Christian or a Jew that's protected by the dimi-status would be required to dress a certain way, they'd be requ required to act a certain way. Like um uh I guess the the thing that's come up recently is is in i i i this was the context of your article was in Egypt There was uh they were attacking the Christians for renovating an old Coptic church And they attacked them and what they like burned the church down. They they they really went crazy on it. And and the the point is that demistatus has meant in in some some, I'll say some, fundamentalist environments through history has meant that Christians are not allowed to build churches. They can occupy a church building, but they can't build it, they can't renovate it, they can't improve it, they can just occupy it. So somehow it br begins to break down. But this swings back to what we were talking about last week, right? You're saying, uh Fahim, that that's not what is not what Islam that is all politics? People on both sides of the aisle they are going to use certain religious elements and support their own political agenda. I was reading the text of that letter from Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, to the Egyptian Egyptian monks. And I find it very relevant today because a lot of that attacks are directed at the exact same Coptic community that the prophets gave protection in 628. Here is what he had to say. This he said, Verily they are my allies and have my secure charter against all they hate. No one is to force them to travel or to oblige them to fight. The Muslims are to fight for them. And then he goes on to say their churches are to be respected. They are neither to be prevented from repairing them Nor the sacredness of their covenant. No one of the nation is to disobey the covenant till the last day So this is what his words are. Now the problem is you see these fundamentalist Muslims who number one they're uneducated, just in secular knowledge. Mm scores of them. I won't say millions of them are illiterate. They can read Quran. In the screen. Now you did say early in last week's show, you did say that uh you know the the Ahmadi Ahmed I'm trying to say it the right way. Ahmadian Ahmadiyya, right. Right, and you ha and uh you published uh some articles, you know, almost a hundred years ago saying there's no uh jihad sort. And uh all of those sorts of things But you are a distinct minority. There's one point five billion uh Muslims and how many Ahmadis. We are millions of Ahmadis. Ten percent. The problem with any number, any organization in faith is it's it's very hard to keep a track of who's coming, particularly a group like us who who believes that there's no punishment for apostasy. You know, we don't keep a track of who comes and who goes. You know, there are scores and millions of people at But but it's fair to say that we are tens of millions all around the world. We are established in two hundred countries around the world. American view of Islam is not your view of what Islam teaches. Are you frustrated that the the fundamentalists are the face of your faith? And are you as frightened, perhaps, of what that might mean for this country that uh that non Muslims in America, a lot of them anyway? or some anyway, are afraid of Sharia coming here and that's Yes to all of those counts. You know, yes I'm frustrated and think of any mob. You know, think of any mob in a Muslim country that's burning tires on the roads and Think of a picture on the cover of Time Magic. Right. Sorry. But if I were to show you that picture of You know, people with fashioners. Who are doing extremist acts in the name of Islam, if that picture scares you, believe me it scares me as well. Frustration may be may not be the right word. I think we see it by design. If you go back and look at the second century Christians, they were being thrown in front of the