Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 W I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Putman Flooming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And Deer Valley Heartscape, Landscape, and Masonry. Yes, we are broadcasting once again from the police state that is Frederick City. We ran out of time at the end of last week's show, so I think you get a chance to tell you about a book that I would uh I would I don't typically say whether I recommend or don't recommend, but I would give this a recommend. Has absolutely nothing to do with faith or religion issues. But a good book nonetheless. Does that have anything to do with feeding cameras? It just might because you gotta pay those feeding camera tickets and you're gonna need lots of money. So you wanna read the Free Market Capitalist Survival Guide. Oh no. By Jerry Bauer. Yeah. Or Boyer. Economics book or it's a how to. It's kind of a how to. Yeah, exactly. If if you if you uh if if you get Scared the the pants get scared off you by what Glenn Beck talks about on this radio station. You should read the Free Market Capitalist Survival Guide. Anyway, uh last week on the show, uh we ended awkwardly because we we had so many things we wanted to talk about and time just worked against us. Yeah, amen. I was raising a question about uh uh Dimitude. What is the dimmi? The the dimmi, the the protected status for non-Muslims w in uh in in lands. You said protected status. That is the meaning of the Arabic word, bhimi. Somebody who's a protected citizen. So we've talked about a few years back we had somebody who's not an uh an uh I you keep putting a hard like H sound in there. What's the pro what's the correct way to pronounce Is it uh Ahmadian or Ahmadiyan? What's it? Ahmadiyyan. Ahmadiyy. Ahmadiyya. Ahmadiyya. It's it's not it's not as hard as I make it. It' More va a mim, Ladressi AD. Uhmadian. Ahmadeen, I'll try to I'll try to do that Um but anyway, uh I've brought it up because I thought it was interesting. more uh modest, uh grace-filled approach uh to uh the teachings of Islam than some of the more fundamentalists certainly more of the radical militant types do. And so those that are a little more fundamentalist might be uncomfortable talking about uh their view on what the Demi means or the Dizzy attacks or whatever. That you don't so I'm wondering if that was a if if that experience we had on this show is an example of the marked difference between your for the lack of a better word, brand of Islam versus the Sunni or or or Shia. Fundamentalist. Uh fundamentalist I think forget about the Dhimmi issue or the Sharia law. If anybody is afraid to talk about something, then I think they're gonna have a big problem with their own children. Because the question that you have right now probably my teenagers are gonna have the same exact question. So why run away from an intellectual very um uh very polite in staying away from um some of the uh attempts that Troy and I are making to label things. And uh it's very gracious of you to do it. But uh uh but I feel like it's it's it's frustrating Troy and I a little bit because we're wanting to try to to put some labels on and to b to to put some some boundaries around, you know, like what is what what do the Ahmadians believe? you know, what do the Sunnis believe, what are the Shiites believe? We're trying to get our you know get some kind of a box around it so that we can say, Oh, now I understand better and uh and uh you keep going to a uh a very pastoral um uh uh persuade us to to to view things in a much kinder way. And I feel like that defines Ahmadian uh the Ahmadian appro approach. You know, somebody that that would be more fundamentalist Muslim uh would want to define more black and white and these kinds of things and you're kinda trying to stay away from that. Not just trying to stay away, there is a core philosophy of every organization, every faith. Right. If you were to go to a hospital today, you were to go to Disney World, they'll have a slogan right they'll say we are here to make you happy or something. You know what's the slogan of Ahmadiyya Muslim community? Yeah. Love for all, hatred for none. Hm. That is what we stand for. Love for all, hatred for none. How would you how what would you say the slogan for Christianity should be? Golden handshakes for all. That's an inside joke from a previous show. We had we had Fahiman a a number of months ago and and uh they Jonathan and he exchanged golden handshakes on the air. Uh what should what should the Christian rich moment what should the Christian slogan be? Yeah. Can I give you a slogan? On the spot. Um I don't know, I'm comfortable sloganizing it. Right, because you have to boil it all down to one little thing. God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have everlasting life. That's our slogan. Okay, that's good. A verse? I uh yeah, that works. Yeah. Yeah, I mean a shorter version, just the full sufficiency of Christ. Yeah, but what I wanted you to understand is it's not like I'm trying to dance around an issue or if I it's not like I'm trying to avoid a question. This is the core philosophy. This is a core philosophy. We are here to win the hearts of the world. So we're not here for a short run. We have a very loving, peaceful message. It's gonna be a little it's gonna win the hearts. It's gonna be a little bit difficult for us to get a clear definition from you of what Sunni and Shiite fundamentalists tend to believe. Would you agree? No, I think I can tell you clearly what they believe, but this is But at the same time what I have a problem with that you have fifty million Shias, you have hundred million, you know, whatever those numbers are. It's a large group. So label a large group, to me, that's stereotyping In fact there's one point five Muslims in the world. So five billion, yeah. Exactly. So hundreds of millions. So I think I don't wanna you know I don't wanna it's like, you know, golden handshake. You know, the golden rule, you know, do unto others as you would want them, you know, do unto you. So I think my point is Here is here is a suggestion for you, and I've always said this. I think this is a great time in America for us to put four or five different Muslim leaders up on the stage. One representing Sunni Shia Ahmadiya others and talk about apostasy and say what is your position on this And I think America deserves a clear answer on those questions. What is your position on? See this is the difficulty when we have on somebody that's more fundamentalist, honestly we have felt like we can't get a clear answer from them. We we explained to you on the last show that we're going to do. Right. Well that's precisely what's frustrating. Like we can't get a clear answer from them because they're afraid to answer it. Yeah. But we struggle to get a clear answer from you because your philosophy is No no ask me ask me a question. I'll be happy. I don't want you to think that I'm not giving you a clear question. Okay, so the clear question then then is um what do you feel like is the uh uh a f a fundamentalist Sunni or Shiite approach to Dimmi status and jizy attacks Okay. They have blended s state and church. Okay. They have blended those two so their approach is that is their approach. If their approach is that you know this is all a religious government and you have to live under religious law then not only Vimi, every law will affect you as a non Muslim. That is my very clear answer. So I think if you app approach Quran Which it allows you to do, that you have separation of church and state. Is that because it's different views on jihad? It's ev it affects everything. It affects how women dress, it affects How what kind of punishments your courts give? Fahir opposed opposed might be too strong aware on it, but you don't believe that the church and the state should be one Absolutely not. But the fundamentalists uh that is very that is my clearest answer. To me, that is I think if that is not a clear enough answer, because this is an all encompassing but they do because of their idea about jihad, right? They d they w they believe that it's all s it's all c So a dimi status under a fundamentalist Shiite or Sunni government is going to mean that the the dimi, meaning a Christian or a Jew that's protected by the dimi-status would be required to dress a certain way, they'd be requ required to act a certain way. Like um uh I guess the the thing that's come up recently is is in i i i this was the context of your article was in Egypt There was uh they were attacking the Christians for renovating an old Coptic church And they attacked them and what they like burned the church down. They they they really went crazy on it. And and the the point is that demistatus has meant in in some some, I'll say some, fundamentalist environments through history has meant that Christians are not allowed to build churches. They can occupy a church building, but they can't build it, they can't renovate it, they can't improve it, they can just occupy it. So somehow it br begins to break down. But this swings back to what we were talking about last week, right? You're saying, uh Fahim, that that's not what is not what Islam that is all politics? People on both sides of the aisle they are going to use certain religious elements and support their own political agenda. I was reading the text of that letter from Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, to the Egyptian Egyptian monks. And I find it very relevant today because a lot of that attacks are directed at the exact same Coptic community that the prophets gave protection in 628. Here is what he had to say. This he said, Verily they are my allies and have my secure charter against all they hate. No one is to force them to travel or to oblige them to fight. The Muslims are to fight for them. And then he goes on to say their churches are to be respected. They are neither to be prevented from repairing them Nor the sacredness of their covenant. No one of the nation is to disobey the covenant till the last day So this is what his words are. Now the problem is you see these fundamentalist Muslims who number one they're uneducated, just in secular knowledge. Mm scores of them. I won't say millions of them are illiterate. They can read Quran. In the screen. Now you did say early in last week's show, you did say that uh you know the the Ahmadi Ahmed I'm trying to say it the right way. Ahmadian Ahmadiyya, right. Right, and you ha and uh you published uh some articles, you know, almost a hundred years ago saying there's no uh jihad sort. And uh all of those sorts of things But you are a distinct minority. There's one point five billion uh Muslims and how many Ahmadis. We are millions of Ahmadis. Ten percent. The problem with any number, any organization in faith is it's it's very hard to keep a track of who's coming, particularly a group like us who who believes that there's no punishment for apostasy. You know, we don't keep a track of who comes and who goes. You know, there are scores and millions of people at But but it's fair to say that we are tens of millions all around the world. We are established in two hundred countries around the world. American view of Islam is not your view of what Islam teaches. Are you frustrated that the the fundamentalists are the face of your faith? And are you as frightened, perhaps, of what that might mean for this country that uh that non Muslims in America, a lot of them anyway? or some anyway, are afraid of Sharia coming here and that's Yes to all of those counts. You know, yes I'm frustrated and think of any mob. You know, think of any mob in a Muslim country that's burning tires on the roads and Think of a picture on the cover of Time Magic. Right. Sorry. But if I were to show you that picture of You know, people with fashioners. Who are doing extremist acts in the name of Islam, if that picture scares you, believe me it scares me as well. Frustration may be may not be the right word. I think we see it by design. If you go back and look at the second century Christians they were being thrown in front of the lions. So the persecution does not deter us, in fact it reinforces the idea. I think that was all all the way up to the third century. That's right. For the first three centuries. After I'm saying even after hundred years of Jesus peace be upon him, this is what a handful of Christians were going through. So I'd put it this way. The second coming, the we uh we feel it's Hundred years later, and if we are established in two hundred countries around the world, if we are tens of millions, yes we have to face some persecution. But there are people like you who are allowing this message to at least be heard What more could I ask? So this is honesty in a way it's refreshing. That's the voice of Pahim Yunas, Secretary of Education for the Hamadian Muslim Community USA. That was good. That was good. Is that all right? A lot of breath in that. The point is that it's a passionate language. And so so ahmadium. That's why I'm having a hard time speaking it. You gotta breathe through it. It's circular that matters more than the breathing. You breathe through that H, yeah, yeah. And Jonathan Swipes are there breathing through the H as the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Hopefully I've brushed my teeth today. I've been saying this recently that that fundamentalist Islam has yet to make its peace with classical liberal democracies, democratic republics anywhere in the world, but that moderate Islam has and increasingly is effectively made their peace in living inside liberal democracies. But then I'll add this. that the the origination of liberal classical liberal democracies around the world began in a context that fundamentalist Christians were a key component of the development of that, i. e. the United States in seventeen seventy six when we came up with the first ever liberal democracy on the face of the earth, a liberal dem democratic republic. And so my point is that is that I'm considered a fundamentalist Christian by most people. When we first started the show, uh we I got mocked even here at the radio station for you know for being a fundamentalist, closed-minded, blah, blah, blah. And yet here I am having a discussion with you And I think I'm pretty open minded in terms of knowing and understanding where you're coming from. And I'm at peace with with Muslims or uh atheists, secularists, or Buddhists. or uh Jews or Christians all living together in a country together where we have freedom of religion and we all get to vote. I'm totally at peace with that and I've been at peace with that, you know, going back generations, you know, but the point is is that is that fundamentalist Islam has yet to make its peace. Some people thought maybe Turkey was going to represent that, but Turkey is is is moving away from that. And see this is where And this is why we're afraid about Libya, this is why we're afraid about Syria and Egypt Because we're just not sure that they can really be trusted to go towards a a liberal democratic republic. classical definition of that. I f I I would fully agree with you and here is what I would just the w uh one simple thing I would add. I think in this war of ideologies, we want the moderate Muslims from whichever sect they come to join forces. We want them to be able to clean the house. Like Christianity did to some degree. You know, we're talking of them's if you look at the Roman Inquisition, Jews for three hundred years. During the Roman Inquisition for three hundred years. You mean the Spanish Inquisition? No, I'm talking about the Roman, the last part of it. fifteen hundreds, the sixteenth century, if you go there, Jews were the Roman Catholic Church. Right, exactly. Yeah, I think that was in Spain where that was going on though. Right, exactly. Okay, right. Okay. But but the point is they were for three hundred years they were living in ghettos, they had special times when they would come out and they would be wearing yellow hats So who cleared that? Not Muslims. Christianity did, right? I understand. So I think the point here is that Muslims, instead of us having to send our boys and girls into wars We as Muslims have to do that, but here's a little piece which we'll I just want to clarify real quick because you're saying this that fundamentalist Christians um condemn what was happening in the Spanish Inquisition All I'm saying is Christianity. Christians themselves. Christianity was wrong. Right, right. Christians themselves. But my point here is And it does get into hair splitting, but I would I w F my purpose, I in my mind, I've compartmentalized my language carefully here. Yeah. I think that Christendom is at fault there. And that's the idea what you're talking about, where the where the religion and the state blend and become one. That's exactly right. That's how I'm defining Christendom. That's not the same as Christianity. And this is exactly the same benefit of doubt and respect I wanted for Islam. That's you you've probably said it beautifully because you keep saying Fundamentalist Islam and peaceful Islam. I think it's much better to say fundamentalist Muslims and peaceful Muslims. Because to me there is no fundamentalist Islam. All right, let's put me on the uh hot seat here. Because definitely it's true that Christendom uh Christendom in the sense of Christianity, church and state was the problem there, but fundamentalist Christianity uh nowhere uh uh is looking for Christianity to be uh the um uh a theocracy And it should not be that way. Christ never did that from the beginning, but there's clearly the sense, at least and from what I understand, that Islam previous to the return of Christ, according to your theological understanding, previous to that time, that there was a joining of church and state from Muhammad all the way to the second coming of Christ. And that it was appropriate for that to be that case, that that was the era of those two things being together. Here is the reason for that. Okay, but this is the Ahmadian perspective. No, no, no. Not at all. Everybody would agree with this. Everybody would support this. Holy Quran mentions Prophet Muhammad peace be upon him as a model human being. Sure. And you cannot be a model human being if you have not gone through all the trials and triumphs of your life. So to you know if you look at some great if you had questions. Right, right. But if you look at, you know uh uh Jesus, peace be upon him, to me is a very noble prophet, so I don't you know, I don't pick him as, you know, Because we would claim that Jesus was the model And that's precisely the reason that you had to die because because if you took up the sword, then you could not have been model because you you became political and you got caught up in the ways of the world instead of uh remaining above the fray. And that's precisely where Christians would condemn Prophet Muhammad. Peace be upon him. Let's not go there. That doesn't help our cause. But I think the point really is that we we see that for Jesus to be of for a perfect model you have to go through all the hoops and show me how do you do that And we have trouble understanding that how do I learn the lessons of governance from Jesus, peace be upon him, who was never given a government, who was never a ruler, who did not see that kind of triumph Which Prophet Muhammad saw. So he shows us how to carry yourself with humility even when you have the power. Like he's going to invade Mecca He has ten thousand people with him and this is what he has to tell the army. He says, On the on the route I see that there's a dog who has young puppies with her and I want guards standing around that area. I don't want those dogs and puppies to be destroyed by the army going through. So this is the kind of character that you can show only when you have overwhelming power on the other. That's a great sales taxi tactic for Ahmadiyya and Muslim. I'm assuming this must be a difference between uh views of Christ, of Jesus, of Nazareth from a Christian per uh perspective biblical perspective and uh and uh uh perspective from the Quran. Uh, because uh the Christians don't believe that Jesus never had power. He's King of Kings and Lord of Lords and hi he was the ruler of a kingdom not of this world. But if he wanted to call down his angels to come defend him, you know, he we w so certainly the Christian isn't going to say that, oh, Jesus is just milk toast and wimpy and he never had any authority and power and so he never had to learn how to restrain and are you c uh we would say, Are you kidding? He's creator of the universe. Talk about restraining his power. So do I'm not sure what you're saying. Others cannot relate relate to that. Like you you're worldly president, your CEO who does not have the angels on his command They cannot relate to that. For them, they need to see that kind of worldly influence which they can relate to and then that's the kind of influence you have to respect. One hundred percent. Because to my mindset, the CEO and the the um the king of the world precisely needs to needs to understand what Christ did because Christ recognized that the problems of this world cannot be resolved by by uh by physical means, but it must be resolved by spiritual means. There is no way to fix the problems of this world. Poverty and war and uh uh and and sickness with any kind of of a of a political answer and so if Christ came and lowered himself to handle things from a political victory kind of a standpoint, then he would have would have failed in what he was doing. And so any CEO or any king that is that is attempting to solve those problems via uh worldly um uh uh uh you know standards or or worldly approaches uh will ultimately be a failure. That's precisely what Christianity teaches is that is that it is arrogant for us to think that we can solve the problems of sin through some kind of a worldly approach. That doesn't mean that that that we don't serve, it doesn't mean that we don't uh that we that we don't look for for ways to heal people and to to to give to the poor. But if we're of the opinion that those things can be solved by any kind of use of the sword in a political way, then we have failed miserably and Christ uh you're right is uh is a failure as well. No, but I think the again the point was not that you have to in fact quite the contrary. you don't have to solve the problems of the world with a sword. All I'm saying is and I maintain that a human being, like Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, we don't consider him to be a deity, we don't consider him to be God in any sense. uh what God is doing for Muslims. And you know, you can disagree with that. This is not supposed to be, you know, like if you're not a Muslim, there is no force upon you. Yes. But as as Muslims, this is how our understanding develops. But our you know, this is how our understanding develops that we are all mortals and this is how we should carry ourselves when those times come in our life. All right, we and we're gonna end cleanly and nicely this week. We're not gonna have this random oh my goodness, we're running out of time ending uh this week. And because last week by the time. Would I recommend a book about um about the Middle Eastern context? Does it have pictures? I don't know. Let me just say something ten seconds. This is what Prophet Muhammad said about non Muslims. He said who or whoever killed a person who's granted the pledge of my protection, like a Dhimi. Shall not smell the fragrance of paradise, though its fragrance can be smelt at a distance of forty years. That was not in the Quran, that was in a letter that he wrote. This is this is his saying. This is Bukhari which is the next highest level of evidence after Quran. So I just wanted to make sure that people know that this is our t true teaching of Islam. And your book? The book is called it's written by Colin Chapman and it's called Whose Land Is It? Uh Grappling with the Question of Israel and the Palestinians and Who Does the Land Bong to? And I found it to be Uh for me, the most balanced approach that I've seen yet. I met Colin Chapman while I was in Israel just a few weeks ago and uh he was uh he was uh I felt uh had a healthy balanced perspective. Sounds like a good book. Even if it might not have pictures. Anyway. Jonathan Sweitzer Uh he gave you his book uh my my book recommendation by the way. I'll give it a ninety-eight percent recommend. John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossworth Valley Chapel, and Fahim Yunus, Secretary of Education, the Ahmadinian Muslim Community USA. I'm Froy Skinner, our Sponsors of Ben, Putman, Plumbing and Heating, How could Make You Smile, and Deer Valley Heartscape, Landscape and Masonry. Thanks for listening. God bless Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Pubin plumbing, how can we make you smile?