This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of free? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble! Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get them more And in this corner, Weighing is a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser No, I'm just getting warmed up. What does the Old Testament say about the coming of Jesus Christ and how does his coming fulfill these prophecies? These are questions Craig Lancour is asking and he for some reason thinks Jonathan Sweitzer could possibly have some answers. Craig is a self-described young in the faith Christian. John is a pastor and the founder of Cross Bridges in Frederick. And if their voices sound familiar to you this week is because they've been on the show for the last four weeks. Nice. This will be five shows in a row. We're gonna keep coming back, Julie. Kick us out. Oh, we're ya. Or until the world ends. point is that closer than ever. So yeah. That's controlling. Which every s with every second that passes, we're one second closer. So there's a positive spin for it. So we had a a really fun series of of shows um that aired this past you know, the last month worth of shows. And if you've missed those, check 'em out on podcast. And we've continued some dialogue uh in the intervening time since those shows were originally recorded. And uh Craig continues to uh come up with interesting uh questions and and things that maybe are on his mind, but maybe not specifically only on his mind, like they might spark his interest because he thinks, hmm I wonder if other people are thinking about these things. Maybe we should talk about those things. And one of those things had to do with the prophecies that are found in the Old Testament. and uh what they do to inform us about the central figure of the New Testament, and I would argue the Old Testament as well, uh Jesus Christ, the Son of God. So Is there a particular question that uh you, Craig, had on your mind to start with, or do you want John to just start listening to a whole bunch of prophecies and get us going on how they're fulfilled? Well here's kind of the dilemma I'm having is As I delve deeper into my faith, um my wife, who is Jewish, asked me questions that I Can't answer and I feel very ignorant in my faith. Um and I thought I had a pretty strong foundation being that I went to eight years of Catholic school, I was an altar boy, paid attention in religion class, and I know there is foreknowledge of Christ coming in the Old Testament and my wife has begun to ask me about why she needs Jesus as a Jew and why Jesus is necessary for her to get to heaven. And I am attempting to build a sermon for one for my wife and I really want to have the knowledge base to be able to educate her when the opportunity presents itself to deliver it to her. So when I'm I feel the Holy Spirit says you ding ding, you're ready, son. We're gonna sit down and have that conversation, but I would really am taking this as a blessed opportunity to um in twenty-four years of marriage um we both respected each other's faith. And my wife has gone to churches and has actually been the motivating factor to get me involved in some of my faith. And um In 24 years, she has never asked me why she needs Jesus in her life. And I take this as a very blessed opportunity. And I take it very seriously. So I figure who better to ask than a couple of knowledgeable men in the faith But he couldn't find those and so he came on a Facebook page. Right. Um though Uh arguably no matter what answers you come up with, right, I would imagine that that none of this should undermine, you know, the strength of your relationship with her and your love for one another. Right, and so um uh so I would start there and just recognize that for the two of you guys, you know, you you're walking a journey together that uh there's no reason to not be in that journey together uh even as you dig in on some of these you know most personal questions you know what what is what is the ultimate Well it's amazing reason for for how we live. God keeps drawing us both closer to him. And you know, I went to a bar mitvah um last week or two weeks ago with my wife and You know, there were some beautiful uh readings out of the Torah and one of them really struck me. And, you know, I I am very my faith is strong and it said, you know, Father Give me faith, not fanaticism. And I said, Hallelujah. And that hadn't struck me before. And I want to be make sure I am you know, faithful and I want to have, you know, th that right keeping God in the right perspective. And Yeah, fanaticism is is an interesting question 'cause right Christians have died for their faith. Right. Uh in every generation they're dying for their faith now. Uh and so uh the definition of what's a fanatic and what's somebody that that is is just genuinely committed to walking out uh what it means to follow Jesus Christ, uh the difference between those two. Um it uh I've been in plenty of places where people have said, look, we need to be fanatic about Jesus, meaning that we really believe what he said and that we be faithful to it. And put it in action. A negative kind of a fanatic would be somebody that ultimately at the end of the day is not following what Christ said and not staying in good community with the body of Christ, but instead, as it says in Proverbs, you know, that that when a person separates himself from everybody else and he won't listen to rebuke and he won't listen to counsel, that that individual is is ultimately going to destroy themselves, right? There's a there's a You know, a a type of fanaticism there that's really bad. So the question I think for somebody that is Jewish, ultimately is history. Hallelujah. Right? In fact, arguably the Jewish community going all the way back to Abraham, uh Is the culture on the earth that gave us history, that taught us how to record history in a way that doesn't make George Washington look better than he is, doesn't make King David look better than he is, but but was uh was committed to telling the truth unvarnished about Abraham's lies you know, about his wife, about, you know, Moses' uh failures and and not going into the promised land, you know, like like right down the line. Right You know, and what, there's only four kings uh uh in all of Israel's history that ended up getting a good grade at the end of their lives. Right? I mean that's four out of like some forty plus kings in the in the northern and and and why is that because the Jewish people are committed to telling the truth. Well part of the difficulty for any Jewish person right now is that for the last two thousand years, since the time of Christ, the uh since Christianity moved into the place of being in power that every seventy to a hundred years since the time of Constantine Somewhere in Christendom, there was an outbreak of severe persecution of the Jewish people. Every 7200 years I've read a book by James Carroll that that traces that out. He's a Catholic historian that uh is exhaustive in his uh studies and he has traced it out And and f from the Holocaust till now, we're about in the seventy to a hundred year time frame, right? And and it looked like to many Jewish people that it was Christendom, right? The birthplace of the Reformation, Martin Luther, and Martin Luther's writings. It looks to a lot of those guys like like it was Christendom that was at the heart of the Holocaust, right? And so Uh so when you look at the the extent of that history from a Jewish perspective, even the ability to consider whether or not Christ As presented in the Gospels is the fulfillment of any Old Testament prophecies, is clouded, understandably, by all this history. Right. And uh and so I think it's important to approach any kind of a discussion about um whether or not, you know, where Jesus uh how Jesus fulfills rather the Old Testament needs to start with a deep humility uh in the body of Christ that in as much as the Old Testament records uh a lot of the brokenness of Israel We should admit all the brokenness of the of of those that have followed Jesus Christ, as Gandhi said so well that that he said, I really like your Jesus. It's the followers of Jesus that I have a hard time with. I think the quote is, I like your Christ. I don't like your Christian. I do not like your Christians. Honestly, drives to the heart of why do we need a Christ? And this is a s this is a place where Jews and Christians would be in significant agreement. We need a Christ because As humans, we've done such a poor job of uh of doing what's right. We've we have uh uh incurred this debt of sin and brokenness towards one another and everything that the law represents uh in the Old Testament and the the sacrificial system is this recognition uh that we uh have incurred a debt that is too big for us to pay back, that we can't pay back that debt and that we need the mercy of God uh to be there for us. So, you know, I think we start there And then, you know, you start to move into, okay, well, then how is it that Christ, the Messiah, the messianic figure of the Old Testament, seems to fulfill all of those things? That's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer. The other voice you're hearing on this panel today is Craig Lancour. I am Troy Skinner, and this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So that provides kind of a almost like a contemporary context for why there could be some resistance from somebody uh who's Jewish to say, I don't know, why should I be thinking anything good about these Christian folks and what they're talking about 'cause look at all the things that Christendom has done. Um and I think it's important that you use that particular word because Christendom and Christ are not one and the same. Christendom and Christianity are not one and the same. Right. That's super important. So we have to make that distinction. Um So I'm wondering, Craig, you're what you go ahead and define real quick then the difference between the two? Like you you're saying they're not the same. How are those two different Christendom and Christianity? Unlike with Islam where the faith teaches that the um the government and the church are one and the same. So they have Sharia law and things like that. Um it's it's a theocracy kind of a thing where the government and the religion are inseparable. The government leaders are the church leaders, the church leaders are the government leaders. And that is not the biblical model for Christianity. But somewhere along the line, uh, you know, f around the time of Constantine really, uh that biblical truth got fuzzy or got lost and so all of a sudden the state and the church started acting as though they were the same and And uh kings were anointed into power by popes and things like that and and popes were j you know, were were gathering troops and sending them on crusades and and that's not that's not Christians. And so it's caused not just confusion for the uh our dialogues with Jews, but our dialogue with Muslims too because You tell them we're different than uh Christianity is different than Islam. Oh yeah, explain the crusades then. And then you have to make this distinction, okay, that was Christendom. That is different. And I don't know that like in an American context that it's Christendom anymore. I think that there was a Christendom idea in America for a long time, at its founding and and throughout much of its uh uh existence. But Um the things that undergird and are are kind of controlling the thought life of our leaders and the thought life of our culture aren't necessarily Christian. Uh and then you've got these these Christians who want to still think in terms of, well America's a Christian nation and and that sort of thing. And I think what we've got now is we've we've spawned this new era that's it's not Christendom, it's not Christianity, it's churchanity. Mm-hmm. And so it's it's like uh It it's a watered down, weakened version of Christendom. And arguably since the time of Constantine, that was that was an issue, right? Those that that wouldn't die for Christ before Constantine came in, meaning that the previous Roman Empire was uh was persecuting and killing Christians There's a whole lot of Christians that converted from Christianity back to worshiping the emperor before Constantine made it legal, and then Constantine made it legal, and a whole bunch of those people were like, oh, okay, we want to be Christians again. And so from the get-go, there was this question in the church as to who would really, you know, be willing to state their life. on Christ or not. And so that question I don't think has gone away, you know, through all the centuries. But the but the the heart question uh for Jewish people, for for all of humanity is how can a good God allow so much suffering, right? This is the the the heart level question that I think drives drives everything. Like how how's God gonna resolve that specific question? Right. And and that's that's where where when you move into the the Jewish perspective on the Messiah, you get a whole bunch of um uh um tensions, dynamic tensions that that develop where the Messiah on the one hand is the suffering servant, lowly, but he's also this reigning glorious, you know, king. You know, he's he's uh he's going to uh heal people, but on the other hand, he's gonna destroy, you know, the wicked. Right? And so you have this picture uh that that springs out of the Old Testament. He's gonna be a human character descended from David and in in uh from Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, but he's also going to be called the son of God. Right. Right. And you have all these all these strange tensions that that when you try to put 'em all together it was really hard for for all of the prophets to like grasp well what is this character gonna look like and of course so the fulfillment the great kind of um a magnificent moment in prophetic history is Isaiah forty to sixty six Right, Isaiah grapples with how is it that God can bring forth a Messiah that does all these amazing things and walks all these tensions out of the nation of Israel That has been so uh uh so rebellious and unwilling to follow God Right? And that's that's this place where we get this the you know this picture of Isaiah 53, that he was despised and rejected and and uh that that he's going to he's gonna take all of our sins upon himself. and uh and that that he's gonna end up dying uh for our sins. Right right next to Isaiah 61 and and Isaiah 58 where where it's describing this Messiah that's gonna come. And he's going to stride forth in power and in in justice. And with his own arm, he's going to work righteousness and and he's going to put zeal on like a cloak. And he's going to go out and he's going to be bathed in blood, the blood of the wicked as he as he uh goes forth and he brings justice because there's nobody else out there that would do it. And so he's gonna do this himself. And so, you know, the you have these dynamic tensions in scripture that that you know get into this, you know, well, which is it, you know, which side Is the Messiah? Is he gonna be, you know, glorious? Is he gonna be weak? Is he gonna die? Is he gonna is he gonna live forever? You know, these kinds of things. Time and time again, we don't learn from history. Like I I I was reading about um you know, the soldiers marching around the city you know, seven times. You know? That didn't make any sense to men of war. They march around the city of Jericho seven times and then the walls fall down and you know, that mak makes no sense to us. And We expected Jesus his coming, you know, as this huge, you know, boom, you're gonna know Christ is on this earth. And it was this whisper. And he kind of was just kind of walked in a and you know and so even Jesus' disciples right were looking for him to be a king That's gonna take up the sword and you know is gonna is gonna do this great. So so when They're going by all these towns that are rejecting Jesus, his disciples, thinking back to the great prophet Elijah. Right? You know, the great prophets of the Old Testament are Moses and Elijah. They're like the you know, the top two, and then Daniel's right there, you know, kind of behind them and in Isaiah, but in terms of, you know, like demonstrating the power of God Moses and all the miracles and Elijah and all his miracles, right? These two amazing characters. Well Elijah called down fire from heaven on his enemies. And so that's like this moment that that that the uh glory of God's side, the the the God the Messiah is gonna come and he's gonna he's gonna destroy the wicked. Right? And who doesn't want the wicked to be brought to justice? I mean, is there anybody on the earth that doesn't want the wicked to be brought to justice? Besides the wicked, right? I mean those that are really doing evil, you know, that that you know the um you know, the Hitlers and the the Pol Pots and the uh the the Bernie mate Madoffs, you know, that that are you know uh that are destroying you know, people's yeah, lives, you know, from the inside out. So in all these situations, we all want justice And his disciples were looking for him to come in power and glory and to establish, you know, this kingdom on earth where it says in Daniel that he will rule them with a rod of iron. Right, that there's gonna be this moment where righteousness rules and all the wicked are gonna be destroyed and we have justice on the earth and it's gonna be a glorious time. Well, sure enough, Jesus didn't come do that. So you had asked the question earlier. Right. What is it the Jewish people are still looking for that Jesus hasn't fulfilled? And what Jesus hasn't fulfilled, that the Jewish people legitimately should be looking for from the Messiah, is that he's going to set up peace on earth. Hallelujah. Right? And so uh believers are looking for that to happen at the second coming of Christ. Right, and and we're uh we're waiting for that moment as uh as it says in uh in Peter that um that with the Lord a day is as a thousand years and a thousand years is as a day that he's not uh that that he's patient because he doesn't want anyone to perish. Right? He wants all to come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. He wants all to be saved. He's not willing that any should perish. And so so you know If the Messiah comes in the end times, that's going to be, there's no more opportunity for people to get their lives right with God. And even the messianic figure in the Old Testament agrees with that. Oh yeah. I think next week maybe we'll try to uh unpeel the onion a little bit on what's the specific questions or doubts or concerns uh that your wife might have that you haven't felt equipped to answer. Maybe we'll dive into some of the specific uh prophetic uh pointers in the Old Testament that are pointing forward to to Jesus. By the way, I almost forgot um to our Orthodox Christian friends, uh joyous resurrection Sunday to you today. Yeah. He is risen. He is risen indeed. My daughter was born eleven years ago on this day, and every eleven years her birthday will be on Easter. It was at four o'clock in the morning. I did not make the Easter sunrise service that morning where I was supposed to speak because I was in the hospital with my daughter. Oh how about that? So that's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer. The other voice you've been hearing on the show this week is Craig Lancourt. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Go to the Faith Debate page, you can find it a couple different ways. And everybody's so savvy on websites now, you can find it pretty quickly, I'm sure. Once you get there, you're going to find links to recent podcasts, a link to the audio vault, which will take you to the archive of podcasts that go back a number of years. And you'll see a a listing, a description of what's aired recently and also a um a description, kind of a TV guide for the radio of what the Faith Debate has on tap. for the coming weeks you can kind of plan ahead. So anyway, check that out, look for it. It's also available if you want to scroll through the feed on WFMD's page. And if you uh happen to stumble upon my personal Facebook page, I usually post the uh faith uh faith debate stuff on there as well. So look for it uh in all of those places and I I if you share it and you like it and you comment on it then uh Facebook and Google and everybody else treats us nicer so we appreciate all that good stuff. Till next This week one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from home right about now. God bless