Welcome to the Faith Debate. Barry Robert Starliffer has written a book titled The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You. In it, he says that Jesus Christ is He is the first apostle or sent one from God and that Jesus came to inaugurate the kingdom of heaven not to establish an institution known as the church or to establish any sort of religion. He came to liberate the lost, not to found a religion. Neela Chempong is the pastor at Covenant Family Chapel in downtown Frederick. He is also an author, having written a couple of books, including one that I have read, It's Time to Dream Again. He's got a couple others that I haven't read yet, but I surely will. And he has his own radio ministry airing here on WF. Now very in his book he claims that, and this is a quote I believe, unfortunately the body of Christ on earth got off track almost from the beginning. Jesus came preaching the kingdom, and what arrived was the church. After his Ascension and the deaths of all of the original apostles, the non sectarian egalitarian family of believers that Christ called together as his church is by unearth. into the church, a rigid, institutionalized religious edifice full of rituals, rules, and hierarchies of authority that are completely foreign to the kingdom of heaven that Christ preached. Now first of all, Barry, is that about right? Do I s surmise uh your your view on this reasonably well in a nutshell? Yes. Uh the the quick answer to that is yes. And I wanna pick up this week on something that Pastor Neil said uh last week. I I think it I did that the week before, but he is so inspiring in so many ways. You know, one of the other terms last week you uh started us down the idea of defining some terms. Well, he mentioned one that I think definitely needs to f to be defined and particularly because of the introduction you just read about my book. And next the word church. That that word uh in English is Translated from the Greek, there are f there are four uh possible translations, but almost, almost every time it's used. The Greek word that is chosen to describe what we call church is ecclesia. And The word ecclesia means the called out ones. And so whenever there's a reference made to in the New Testament in particular, um And it talks about, let's say, the Church of Ephesus. The real word there is Ecclesia of Ephesus, the called-out ones who assembled themselves there. Because the difference in the word ecclesia that is used in the Greek, it's very specific that these people who are called out are called out and selected for a specific purpose. It's not w within the Greek concept there were groups of people that were called out and separate, and then there were groups of people that were called out and separate for a certain purpose. Ecclesia talks about those people called for that certain purpose. And all this is in keeping with what Jesus really meant when he says that many are called But few are chosen. Chosen, there, is the word from which we get the English understanding of eclectic chosen. Uh if you have an eclectic collection of something, what that means is, in the English, you have the best of everything that you have collected in many different categories. A collected collection means the best of the best of that collection. Jesus said many are called Few are chosen. Few become the real ecclesia and the real eclectic collection of God, called out for a specific purpose. That's the church, the real church. But what has happened is people now, if you say the word church, they think about an edifice and a steeple and pews and people in it, or worse, my view They think of an organization of one kind or another. And so you're either going to a Catholic church or a Protestant church of some sort. And it's all built around that. It's all built around what I call organized religion Which is just a collective thought about God. Uh matter of fact, I love to describe religion as man's search for God. That's what religion is. But the church of the Lord Jesus Christ that He established, His ecclesia in this earth is more than that. It's beyond that. And there are many called, and there are few that are chosen. Now. All may come, all may join, all may become a part of it. But Jesus' point is well taken. There are many calls, we're all called. We're all called. And part of of the apostle Jesus, who again the sent one who came here, was to reclaim for his father The creation that was lost. Jesus said, I came to seek and to save that that was lost. Now The first thing you've got to do to understand what he was talking about is get rid of the religious concept of saved. This idea of, are you saved? Drop that. Because in the Hebrew concept of thought, save doesn't mean what we think it means. R uh confessing our sins, falling down, asking God to forgive us, and suddenly our life changed and we're saved. That's not what he was talking about Uh nor was it what he was talking about to Nicodemus when he told him to be born again. He wasn't talking about a religious experience. If you look at the Greek words for born again, he's talking about the origin, where he was from And Nicodemus, unless you're from where I'm from, with regard to the Father, you just are never going to get it. You will not See, the word English word sea is there. That word is the Greek word that means to perceive. You cannot understand. You will not perceive the kingdom unless you understand my origin and where I come from. So when Jesus said I came to seek and to save that which was lost. He's talking about the word save in that context there means restore Jesus came to restore the creation that was marred, that decided to go a different direction. If you look at at Genesis 1, all of the creation that the Creator made after he was done making it all What did he say? Every time he stopped and he said, and it was good. Everything he created, and it was good And then we have Adam and Eve deciding to partake of the tree that stood in the midst of the garden beside the tree of life. That was the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. And man decided, mankind decided if I wanted to be politically correct, person kind decided that they were going to make the decision about good and evil for themselves. And that's why they partook of that tree. And suddenly the administration here changed. From the Creator to those who were created. And to say the least, we have been in the process of marring that creation ever since. So when Jesus said he came to seek and to save what was lost, he came to find, to seek. and to restore what was really lost. The Creator wants his creation back to him. Let me uh pivot to uh Pastor Neal. Um one, you can respond to anything that's been said, obviously. But uh if you could talk a little bit about um uh Barry brought up the idea of the the the those who are called out, the ecclesia, they have a a purpose that they were called to. So maybe you could speak to that a little bit. What are the things that those called out ones, the bride of Christ, you know, how is it we recognize who they are? What is the purpose they're endeavoring to accomplish that makes us know that they are among the uh chosen Um I think it's it's a very deep concept that I don't think within this uh a couple of things that we're gonna talk about here exhaust all that. But to put it down uh in its um broader terms, at least for our listeners to have an idea of what uh we're dealing with. Going back to the concepts of a kingdom, if a kingdom takes over a territory and decides that these are the ones that I'm going to send to represent me in the land, they are there first of all for the king's interest. It's not ever about their personal interest. And so if we say we are the church, it's more about the king's interest. What is it that God wants here on earth? And so anytime we begin to do things that are outside what he wants, we already missed it. Alright. I just want to use normal pictures to illustrate that. Secondly, those that the king leave there often would teach the natives of the new land their customs, the culture, the norms of the original kingdom. And so the church of Jesus is not here to condone, but we're here to actually teach what the king teaches. The truth is Once we read what the king has to say in his word, we have to make that known to the world. Those are the basic truths. that we have to always send out. So I can just use keep using those natural things to help explain the spiritual concepts in the Word of God. It takes all our Christian life out of our hands. That it's it's not about us. It is about what he wants. It is about what he wants to accomplish. It's about the lives he wants to touch. So for example, as a teacher of the word of God, I cannot teach God's word to become self-serving. As soon as I start doing that, I am not a child of the king because I'm out of his domain now. Because it's about me and not about what he wants to do. Jesus said I came to seek and to save the lost. Yes, so who are the lost? Who are the ones who are supposed to be brought to him? Now if I s I if if I start preaching and teaching people and then live a different life other than what I am teaching, I am not becoming a representative of that kingdom. In fact, I think I was very wrong, but one of the um representatives that were sent into our country had to be called back by the Queen because he started living and re misrepresenting the king and they had to be called back. And sometimes there are people in the prophets who have been recalled by the king. But for all of us we think they are still God's representatives and they're not And so I can go on and on and keep using those illustrations to illustrate what the scripture teaches. I believe that what has created the issue for us is because we have decided to ignore the Holy Spirit. Jesus said, I am leaving, but I will send you the Holy Spirit. He, when he is come. The scripture says he will lead you into all truth. He would teach us. It is our I don't want to use the word disdain, but it is because we have marginalized the Holy Spirit and put him on the shelf. This is why there's too many doctrinal issues and we are fighting over because he alone knows what the king knows and he'll be the only one to tell us what the king wants. So when Jesus was on earth himself, he says, I do what I see the Father do. How did he do it? It is the indwelling presence of the Spirit in that physical body that showed him what the Father wanted And so until the church also goes back into embracing who the Holy Spirit is and his ministry in our lives, it's like an individual Christian who is trying to overcome sin. And it's w using willpower. You cannot. At some point you will shut down. It is the Holy Spirit that will teach you. Do not go into that arena. Because he knows when you go that there are things you will face and you will not be able to overcome. So these are basic things that the church is missing out on when when we start talking about uh the issue of of who are the real called out ones. I believe that it's very simple. If you have decided that you would do what Jesus told Nicodemus, Nicodemus you need to be born again. And like um uh Bob said, it's more about uh uh being born into a kingdom because you cannot for example I wasn't born here. So the only way I can become a citizen of this nation is through naturalization. Right? And uh to bring those natural camps into bear. Jesus is saying, yeah, you're not from this place, but you could be grafted in And the process is to believe my finished work on the cross and receive me as Lord and Savior of your life. And when those things take place really deep within your heart and the Holy Spirit takes residence in you, then you actually We can say you are part of that kingdom. Now, but after that, can you leave anyhow? No, you can't. Because you still have to please the king. You have to do what the king wants. and so on. So those are the basic things that gr uh the church is grappling with. And it all stands from the the paradigms that we are using to interpret the word of God is wrong. If you bring democracy into God's word, you will make a lot of error. For example, look, we all voted for President Trump. But if God wants to institute a representative, you can vote for that person He blanks the person. And when he doesn't want them, he takes them away. And that kind of concept is very foreign to our thinking today. because we vote for everything and uh we bring people in that we want. So you will see church members say, We don't want that pastor, we want to vote him out. I don't buy that. If God has called a seven and brought him, he doesn't want him, he will take him away. And that's what I meant by there are many pastors today in the pulpit and they have been recalled. By God, but they are in there because they they think they they still have a pulpit and a voice to speak with, but they are not representing God. And so I believe it's time for the church to go back to the understanding of what what Christ Jesus brought himself. What we originally lost is what he's bringing back to us. So in Genesis 126, he says, Let us God make man in our own image. And the image of God created him, male and female. That word dominion is another word. I know you're a good theologian, so you understand. It's another word. But one of the words in English that explains that word, Mamlakar, means kingdom That he gave us the ability to reign in his kingdom. We lost that. Jesus brought that back to us. That is why his message was about that. So it's time for us as as as a church to go back to the original thing and and quit all these religious and to define the word religion is simply just man's attempt to go back to God. religion affects culture, it affects many things. And it is just simply just our system of trying to get back to God. But in the kingdom concept, the king is coming down to us. It is not us going to him. So it's not about rituals, it's not about um How many things I can do. And please let me say this clearly. I am not against the organized church, but I am saying to the organized church to go back to the king and ask him How we are operating. Is that how we have to do it? Is that what he meant originally? Or have we deviated? Which I believe most of us have. And today we we throw all kinds of things out there and we assume it's okay, but I don't believe it it is. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate of 930 WFMD, and also on the show, this week is Barry Robert Starlipper, the author of the Apostle Jesus the kingdom among you. Uh a couple of thoughts that I I I want to uh share and then maybe this will be a springboard for some uh additional conversation. Um I'm agreeing with which is, you know, not necessarily important, but it's helpful if I uh if I can agree with large swathes of what's being said then the last uh you know, two and a half shows. Uh I'm agreeing with the general tone of much of what's being said. I'm not so sure that I'm comfortable with some of the Specifics. Some of the specific word choices and how we're positioning our use of them maybe. So maybe this will help you clarify. For example The idea that the that uh that Eden, the Garden of Eden, uh the the uh the Jerusalem temple for that matter, uh uh uh these are are are pictures of of of God's earthly uh realm that uh he gave to Adam and Eve to have dominion over so that the creation would be subject to them and they botched that and essentially handed over dominion to The arch enemy. Christ comes and sets that all straight. And so the idea that there's this dominion, there's this this reign, this rule uh and that God always was the king, he hands over almost a as a as a voice viceroy, if you will, kinda like Joseph in Potiphar's house or something, or Joseph with the the Pharaoh eventually in in the book of Genesis, where he's basically in charge. because the person who uh uh was really in charge trusted him so much as to say, you're in charge. Well that's kind of what that's what mankind or person kind, if you will, uh, was was given by the father and it was botched. So all of that's good. Uh but it's but that's not in my way of thinking, that's not the only place where the pictures stop. I think that the idea of having an obedient will that is subject to the Father and him having prescribed uh things that he would expect of his chosen, called out people as their behaviors, I think that there's an expectation that we're gonna act a certain way, that we're going to be on mission, that we're going to fulfill our purpose, we're gonna uh Uh uh so that where I'm agreeing is with the idea that too often too many in Um but I'm gonna have to use for now, for lack of a better word, the church. So forgive me for not thinking of a better word for that right now. Have misunderstood what we mean by church. uh religion, uh worship, uh even kingdom for that matter. Like we've we've lost our way of what those what those terms really mean biblically. And so I'm agreeing with that, but I'm wondering if it would go too far if we decide that the solution to that misunderstanding of w what the Bible really says about such matters is to jettison the terms. I would be much more comfortable if we could figure out a way to redeem those terms and train people up to understand what a biblical understanding of religion means. I don't believe that Jesus is anti-religion. I think he's anti what we normally understand as religion, but he instituted things, practices. If we see if If I say I get up at five o'clock I don't do this by the way. I get up at five o'clock every morning and run religiously. Meaning it's my practice to do so. I'm committed to that practice. That If we understand religion that way, it's a committed practice, I do think we have things that that Christ and uh you know the the Son, the Father, the Holy Spirit would expect of his people. So I would rather educate people to understand more and a more appropriate usage of the word religion. Same with church. Um To my way of thinking, because I agree with you, that the ecclesia is the called out ones, but we translate it church. Well if we could get people to understand that when we say church, what we mean is called out ones We could still use the word and that we could emphasize we're not talking about some edifice and a big building or even the structures per se. Uh but not to say that I want to discount the structures because In the New Testament, we have instituted some authority structures. We have elders, we have deacons. But but to that let me add a talk before he I agree that we need to re educate the church hundred percent. And uh for example, church, um I define it for my church members not to confuse them, that we are the church, not something we go to. Right. As a way of trying to help them understand that we have been called out. So we are the church, not not the edifice. However the concept of the structure is important Now if you go to Luke chapter 5, Jesus comes to the Lake of Nazareth, if I'm correct, but the lake, and then he meets uh Peter and his friends, who have gone fishing all night, got nothing, gets into the boat And then um Jesus talks to the crowd when he finishes, he tells Peter Peter. So we're gonna talk about Jesus in Luke uh at the lake chapter five. We'll start there. And I know Barry's chomping at the bit to jump in, so we'll let uh Neil finish his thought at the beginning of that show and then Barry will jump in. And I'm sure I'll just be, you know uh beaten up big time by both of you before it's all over next week. It'll be fine. So anyway, uh Dr. Neela Champong from Covenant Family Chapel, thank you. Uh Barry Robert Starlipper, author of uh the uh The Apostle Jesus, the Kingdom Among You, thank you. Uh I am Troy Skinners of the Faith Today Online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week. God bless