This is the Face Debate, a theological round table grab bag, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? A round of applause. How many of y'all think if the world What to end right now. Clap if you think you'd go to heaven. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword faith sponsored by No autoscales and tire pros of Frederick. That's a damn shame. You know good and hell well all y'all ain't going to know heaven. Half of y'all snuck liquor in here. In this corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, Mix Master Troy Skinner. In this corner, weighing in with a PhD from Westminster Theological Seminary, the good Doctor, Jay's Broadhood. Big plans this weekend? If so, you may never get to them. If you believe a Christian broadcaster and all the people around the world who seem to buy his prediction, that we are just hours away from the end of the world. NBC's Carrie Sanders has more on what the believers say. It's the beginning of the end of the world. Well, we're not gonna hear that report from the uh reporter, but you get the idea. A lot of people talking about the end of the world and a lot of people talking about when they die they're going to heaven. Uh and or when Jesus comes back, that's when we're gonna go to heaven. or whatever, all those sorts of things. Well, when we read the Bible and what it says about the end of the world as we know it, including the tribulation and the second coming of Christ, are we reading history? Meaning that it has already happened? Or perhaps partially history with some of it having happened, with More yet to come, or is it all futuristic? Saying it is history is called preterism. Preterism divided generally into two camps: full preterism and partial preterism. Full preterism takes the view that all prophecy in the Bible has been fulfilled in one way or another. Partial preterism. Take the approach that some but not all prophecy in the Bible has been fulfilled. This might be kind of overly simple the way I'm putting it here, but I only have so much time. So to expand and explain on today's faith debate, Chase Fraudhirs and I are joined by Travis Finley, a seminary-trained blogger and podcaster. of a pro uh program called Rethinking Revelation. And last week we kind of we wrapped up in the middle of a thought, but we uh we we we wrapped up at a point where there were more thoughts about to spill out and we had to come to a close. And I charged Travis with hanging on to those I feel like we really got somewhere last week, like at the very end. There's parallelism in Isaiah. Jerusalem, right? Jerusalem is is the new heavens and th this is the creation this new creation. Everything else is gone. That that's that turns the table. That kind of Okay, I see where you're coming from. So the question becomes, are we going to interpret the Bible consistently? Or rather bec what it that's too harsh, isn't it? It's like arguing my view is the biblical view. My view is consistent. Yours is highly consistent. I I I want to argue highly for the uniformity of scripture. Okay, the the the scriptures are uniform. That is What we see in the New Testament is not discontinuous with the old. Okay? Um so but so it's all about context, and I and I'm gonna say that I believe that the historical context within which to understand the entire corpus of Genesis 2 Revelation is the history of God's operation with Israel under Torah. Okay? So when we um When we read in Matthew 24 this, Jesus says to his disciples, Then they will deliver you to tribulation and kill you, and you will be hated by all nations for my name. At that time there will be many will fall away, will betray one another, hate one another, false prophets will arise and mislead many because lawlessness increases, many people's love will grow cold. But the one who endures to the end, he will be saved The gospel of this kingdom shall be preached to the whole Oikumene, I'm going to talk about that in a second, as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come, okay? I said this before that when we read the scriptures we have paradigms in our operating system. We have apps that are running. That when we read a certain passage of scripture, we have hyperlinks to topics. that we think are consistent. This is what this means. This is what this means. That's how we un understand the scriptures. So we don't necessarily always ask ourselves these questions, but the question that I'm going to ask you if you're going to be looking at Matthew 24 is what End is Jesus talking about. When he says, then the end will come What is he talking about? When he says the one who endures to the end, what is he talking about? I think that if we look at the the context of Matthew twenty four And we look at Jesus', the disciples' question of Jesus, they say, they ask, tell us when all these things will happen, and what will be the sign of your coming and the end. of the age. Okay, so the end of the age then defines what Jesus is talking about. I think if we're talking about uniformity He's not talking about something different than what they're asking. So what are they asking about? Well, in Matthew 23 Jesus delineates his woes against the religious establishment, and he says to the Pharisees that upon your generation God is going to wreck havoc on your heads for the shedding of prophetic blood. From the time of Abel until now, your fathers have shed the blood of my people, of my prophets, my spokesmen. Right? I mean just think about I might have chills right now thinking about all of the parables that Jesus uses when he talks about there's this great king and he had a vineyard and he sent out his messengers and the vineyard uh um tenants killed the messengers. That's what Jesus is talking about. And he says to the Pharisees, You say Well if we were alive when our fathers were, we wouldn't have killed the prophets. And Jesus says, Okay, prove it. Right. Right? Right. The irony. Why are you laughing? Because he's right there, yeah. And and they're gonna kill him. And he says, okay, prove it. Prove that you are different than your father's. In fact, Jesus says, I'm going to give you an opportunity. Here's me. Here I am. What are you going to do with me? Kill him, crucify him. And then he says, I'm going to send you. Uh my my witnesses. And you're gonna pursue them from town to town. And you're gonna flog them in the synagogues. Some of them you're gonna murder, and some of them you're gonna crucify. And I tell you, all of these things would are gonna come on this generation. That is a huge uh theological concept that I think gets demonstrated as culminating in the book of Revelation. There are at least four passages in the Book of Revelation. Uh chapter six, I can think of chapter sixteen, chapter eighteen, and chapter nineteen. Where the and and if we're not paying attention, if we if we think that this is all future, we just think of it as future. But you can't not divorce what follows the Olivet discourse from the Olivet Discourse. So I have a way of saying it. I say everything after the Olivet Discourse is about the Olivet Discourse. What the all of it discourse discourse delineates, we see recapitulated from uh acts Acts to Revelation. And in the book of Revelation, this vindication of the martyrs of God, those who were slain for their testimony, happens four times. in the book of Revelation. To me, that is a huge indicator that when Jesus says, this generation will experience these things. And then in Matthew 24, this generation will not pass away until da-da-da-da-da. But the key is this generation. Jesus is saying there's a judgment coming on this generation. The book of Revelation has that same um motif, that same theme, four times. As a point of clarification, based on what you're saying here about the book of Revelation, you y you I guess hold that the book of Revelation was written within two or three decades of Christ's crucifixion Well no no I think that it was I again I'm not an historical theologian and uh I would say it was probably written as late as sixty-six, as early as sixty four. Okay. But it was written before seven four. Right. Okay. Yeah. Um okay well so far all the points that you're making uh unless I'm I'm just might be dense, but I'm not seeing any of them unwinding my all millennial partial preterity views. So Right. So that's what I'm saying. That's the coming that Jesus is talking about from the beginning. That's what his coming is. So is there still anything? So what I mean Yeah we're in the kingdom. Yeah we we continue to see it th again this is Biblical theology shows us what the entire story is about, right? What God does through Israel In typology, right? We talk about NT Wright does this. Biblical theology, you don't mean people who are biblical in their approach to theology. You're talking about the discipline of how you understand the Bible fitting together as a po biblical theology as opposed to systematic theology. This is the way this is the way I put it. Biblical theology is the is the cake with all of its decorations and frosting. And systematic theology are the ingredients laid out. So you can see the eggs, you can see the sugar, you can see the baking powder, on and on. Okay. Often people will use uh as interchangeable phrases biblical theology or redemptive historical theology. Are you using it in that? I would just wonder Okay. Yeah. Okay. Another way I say it is biblical theology is God's presentation of the story. Systematic theology is man's breaking down of that story into categories and themes and whatnot. You would hope that systematics would follow biblical theology. I I place biblical theology as predominant over systematics. Systematics should take a back seat. I do too, although all the systematicians out there I I love you as well. Alright, so let me let me go back. So okay, so understanding the end, what what is Jesus talking about? The end of what, Jesus? The end of the world? The destruction of the physical cosmos? What you know, how do we understand his terms? So um I said that I was going to talk about the word that I chose not to read as world. This gospel of the kingdom will be preached in the whole world. This is what the ESV says on my on my text right now. This gospel will be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all of the nations, and then the end will come, okay? If you think that the gospel has to be preached to the whole world before the end comes, guess what? It hasn't come yet. Because we still have people who haven't heard of the gospel. We still have possible in indigenous nations and people groups that that are still cannibalistic and have never heard about Jesus. So of course the end hasn't come. If that's what the text means. However, I believe translation is important. Translation is important. However, we don't have a translation here. We have an interpretation The translators have interpreted for us what they think the Greek word oikumene means. Okay, so in the Greek it would read The gospel of the kingdom will be preached to the whole Oikumene as a testimony to the nations. So what does Oikumene mean? In the Greek there's at least two words that are translated world, cosmos and oikumene. But if you read in the English the same word for those two words, you don't know which one's being used. So you can't delineate, oh, this is Oikimene and this is cosmos. So when the when the census went out when Jesus was born and it went out into the whole world, the word is not cosmos, it's oikumene That sets the context for where the census took place. I am comfortable saying that the word oikumene should be understood as an empire. Okay. I'm thinking of hermene uh I'm uh and I'm not challenging, I'm qu qu asking for clarifications. I think I'm seeing a hermeneutical uh inconsistency. When Jesus says generation, he must mean the generation of those who are alive and living right now, but when Jesus says world, he doesn't necessarily mean the whole world. So aren't we picking and choosing which words we're going to take literally and which words on how well you argue your case? Um okay. So you have two different words, right? You can't, in my opinion, translate them both with the same English word because that will influence the way you interpret the meaning. I agree. I think that it the translators sometimes do us a disservice when uh we we don't have uh It goes both ways. Consistency where the same word shows up over and over and over again, but it gets translated different ways based on the context of the of the uh of the passage. uh which makes it difficult for English readers to notice that these same words are showing up over and over and over again. Or they'll take the same word and give it slightly different English words based on the context. And so I agree with you, they give us a disservice, uh do us a disservice and make our jobs harder. in the world, but I'm still not seeing that it's undermining my all millennial view. By the way, this is the Frederick Faith Debate uh on 930 WFMB. I'm Troy Skinner. Our guest this week is Travis Finley. He hosts a podcast called Rethinking Revelation. And uh very quiet this week is Dr. Chase Broadhurst. from Poolsville Baptist Church. So anyway, I didn't interrupt, but I have to do that halfway point. Um The the coming of the Son of Man, the I will say that the Bible is uniform, the New Testament is uniform. The Uniform meaning mean inconsistent. In its theme and and primary purpose. Yeah. If you start to the whole Bible is about Jesus, I I would say. Do do you Yeah, yeah, sure. You're kind of rolling your eyes. No, no, no. I mean that's but that's that's still that's not as yeah, i there's still that has to more that has to be said. Uh I I would agree with that, but there's still m there's still more If you start reading in the book of Matthew and you start to um study the coming of the Son of Man, I'm going to study this topic, and you write down every occurrence of the coming of the Son of Man, okay? However many they are, I'm going to say I believe they are all the same coming. So when the disciples say to Jesus, Tell us when all of these things will happen and what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age. That coming is within the context of every single coming reference that precedes it. Because Jesus is talking about the coming of the Son of Man, the coming of the Son of Man, the coming of the Son of Man. So your partial preterism is okay with what I've said so far because there is uh there is good agreement in terms of way we can understand certain aspects of this, but when we talk about the coming of Jesus. That changes the topic because what you think about the coming of Jesus and what I'm saying the coming of Jesus is in in terms of how I understand the New Testament That's where we're gonna uh divide. There are certain people that I've talked to who will say, well this pat this passage here is the the final coming. the second coming. This one I can say okay is yeah this happened in eighty seventy. And I'm gonna say you can't do that. You can try, but you cannot consistently What's the purpose of the second coming in in the a full preter's view? Jesus came in AD 70 and accomplished what in that coming? He brought an end to the old covenant system. He brought an end to Torah. Torah is over with. My new metaphor for this is the Yellow Brick Road and the Emerald City. Torah is the Emerald I'm sorry, Torah is the Yellow Brick Road. It was intended for you to follow and lead and lead follow its lead and walk along, and it would come to an end. The problem the problem with the Jews in Jesus time is they idolatri they uh worshipped the law. They they made the law the end instead of the means to the end, which is why they killed Jesus. Doesn't Paul say in his letters that that is already true when he writes that we're set free from the bondage to the law? Yeah, but right, right. But he writes that before AD seventy. Sure. So correctly you also have Paul offering sacrifices in the Book of Acts and paying tribute in the temple. So there are crossover. But I I my understanding is that the set freedom from from the law happens at the cross, not forty years later. That's where I I suppose what we can talk about in that instance is there are shades of fulfillment that don't come to a um so okay so you already mentioned it already not yet is a forty year process. There is something. There's that that crossover. Yeah yeah you have the inauguration. Jesus inaugurates the death of the law, so to speak, on the cross. Yes I agree with that. Right. However, the the vindication ultimately of Christ is not the resurrection. It's not the ascension. It's whether or not his words come to pass about the destruction of the temple. The destruction of the temple is the final exclamation point of the story of Torah. The destruction of the temple is an aspect of Torah that couldn't have been accomplished on the cross. Because God has sought has seen fit to what Peter says, what uh in in uh in the last days Mockers will come and say, Where's the promise of disappearing? Everything's gone on since the beginning of the world. And Peter says, You don't understand what you're saying. God is being patient with you. Not willing that you should perish. Not go to hell, perish in the destruction of the temple. So the we what we have to understand is is that there is an aspect of the fulfillment of the law on the cross. There's also an aspect of the fulfillment of the law during the 40-year period. Read Deuteronomy 32. Deuteronomy 32, God said that Israel made him jealous by going after false gods. God says in Deuteronomy 32, I am going to make you, my people, jealous by another nation. That happens in the New Testament. The the gospel goes out to the nations and the Jews hate that message. They want to kill Paul because he's going to go the Gentiles. So there's there's an overlap. It's not a quit it's not just a pfft done, one and done. So what I'm gonna say, I guess, i to to try to reiterate is the destruction of the temple is an aspect of fulfilling Torah because that was the built in system that God organized. Torah is the yellow brick road and it comes to an end. When it ends And you walk past that threshold, you're in the kingdom. You don't need a sign anymore once you reach the end of it. Yeah. Now I can tell that Jace is beginning to itch to want to s either comment or ask questions for clarification, whatever, but we're running out of time. Right. We we usually do about four shows in an arc with a panel. But I think we're going to maybe do one more. Sorry I'm not distinct guys. Well no, it's a it's a big issue, a big question with lots of caveats, and you want to be careful because you don't want the whole world shouting heretic unless you are one, then you should be called one and it can call you back to uh right thinking. Seriously, I say that kind of jokingly, but if I had a view at research like heretic, herit, herit, heretic, I'd be like, either you guys are all wrong or you know what, now that I think about it, yeah, I need to get my views in less. So I I think that's where you are actually. I think that you're uh I'm frustrated because you haven't said very much that I feel like doesn't fit my paradigm. That's great. So I'm like why do you feel the need to identify as a full proterist? I haven't gotten there yet. But okay, I guess I haven't heard so right. Maybe you've said it and I'm just daft. I don't know. Anyway, uh we've neglected last week. Happy delated Father's Day to everybody. Last week was Father's Day, and you know we want to make it culturally relevant on this show. So we want to put that out there. And in case we should forget, in a couple of weeks it's going to be uh Independence Day, so uh you know, happy Independence Day early, just in case I should should forget to mention later on. Merry Christmas. Uh Happy Resurrection Sunday. Ascension was a little while ago. Ascension, yeah, it was not that long ago. Just uh uh uh well as this show airs like a month ago probably now. Anyway Uh thank you. Dr. Chase Broadhurst, the senior pastor of at uh Poolsville uh Baptist Church in Poolsville, Maryland, of all places. Uh Travis, uh you can uh you have a b um Yeah, it's it's very amateur, okay. So when you read it like what is this? Some of it's good, some of it's not. It's uh for the glory of God and kings. com. Okay, so you can check that out as well. Of course you can go to WFMD. com. Keyword faith takes you to the Faith Abate page, or you can find a drop-down menu and take you to the Faith Abate there From there you can uh see what shows are coming up. You can uh link to the audio vault for uh previous shows that are available on podcasts and all that good stuff. Thanks to our sponsors, uh Hilo Auto Sales and Tire Pros of Frederick, and thank you so much for listening until next week. God bless.