This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble now. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a more And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweister. No, I'm just getting warmed up. There's a man named Craig Lancour who's recently become uh relatively recently become a Christ follower. He's begun attending a United Methodist church and boy they got their squabbles going on right now if you've been paying attention to the news. And very sweetly his wife attends with him, even though she's Jewish So one of the questions maybe we'll get to either on these sets of shows or sometime in the future with his wife is to answer her question of why she can't be saved without Jesus. I think that's a excellent question I would love to explore uh the answer to that question on uh on the faith debate. If not today, some some day soon. That would be great. Last couple of weeks with Jonathan Sweitzer, Craig Lancour and me, we have been talking about the the divisive issue in the United Methodist Church. The the question of homosexuality, um same sex marriage, um gay ordination for that matter, all those related questions And it's been quite the squabble. And if you miss them, I think we've had some pretty good dialogue these last two shows, right? You know, very much. Some of the faith debate shows are better than others. Uh but the the last couple I think were among the better ones. They're really good. If you missed them, check them out on the podcast at WFMD. com. I think we're on Omni or one of one of those web podcast storage sites too somewhere or something. Anyway. So we did a lot of the talking, meaning Jonathan and I. Craig had a chance to ask me a question, and I think seventy two hours later I stopped talking So in fairness, I wanna I wanna eat it. You might not ask any more questions after that. This is almost as bad as the lawyers in the Trump impeachment case, you know. Rattling on and on and on. Wah wah wah. If he's still saying something, wah wah wah, Jesus, wah, wah, wah, cross. Okay, whatever. So, right. Uh any so in fairness, I want to yield the floor. uh to my esteemed colleague Craig and to see what other questions or maybe insights or th or you know thoughts that you might want to uh share. Well it was you know i it's been An amazing journey and and the more questions that have come up, um uh and uh the more I pray about it, the more God leads me deeper into my Bible to keep learning and researching and uh throughout all of this um has been the journey of being drawn deeper into my relationship with God. What are your resources for studying the Bible? Are you just you know trusting the Holy Spirit to illumine your mind or do you have a commentary attached to your Bible or do you have other resources you like to refer to? Um we have Uh I'm very blessed with my pastor. Um I'm part of a text group and he posts um messages and daily devotionals and But most of the time I I just uh open up my Bible app on my phone and I um tell God I want to talk to him and I kinda just let my finger touch whatever book and whatever chapter and verse and just hit play and it's amazing how he has a word for me. And then you you choose like a a an area of interest and dive deep on like what does the Bible have to say about this issue or do you are you just taking books or reading it through in sequence or mostly um no I haven't been reading it through in sequence. Mostly I've been letting the Holy Spirit kind of guide me but it draws me Um this question about homosexuality in the church has really been drawing me in and um I really equate it to love versus the law, really, and that's where, you know, how how do I know as a new Christian where grace or love, whatever you want to uh define it. Well I'm calling it love. We talked about definitions last week, so I'm calling it love. That's my definition. Um love versus the law and how um How do we evolve as a church? Do we evolve as a church to learn the differences between the two? Jonathan's like going crazy over there. He's got a party going on and didn't invite us. Anyway. It's interesting. Uh I'm not sure if you purposely meant to put them at odds with each other? Is that how you kind of view the law and love as as like uh battling it out, duking it ones against the other? No, I think um the law was given completely out of love. Um I think the law was given totally out of love. Um but Once you accept the fact that we are all imperfect creatures in Christ, um then you realize that we're never gonna you said last week a hundred percent or zero and we're never all gonna get to a hundred percent so that's where the grace of Christ comes in and I'm not Yeah, I wonder if if I were to add a couple of different terms that are near synonymous but different enough that there's a distinction. Instead of law and love, if you were to think in terms of legalism and licentiousness, there's a couple of The legalism probably makes sense, right? Those who are um you know overly focused on and uh uh uh uh uh on the law in a in a punitive judgmental you know, caricature kind of a way, right? And that's not good. Right. Um but then love or grace or you know, extend the mercy of Christ thing sometimes gives sway to an a a different kind of extreme where anything goes, which is called licentiousness. So um I would say that when we lose sight of the fact that the law and love fit together, go together are one. They're just different. The law is an expression of love and the love points us back to the law. So they they they're inseparable. They're not distinct really. Because God is love and he is the law giver. So there's no distinction to be made there. So I think we get ourselves in trouble when we start thinking about us frail fallen Christians who tend towards either legalism or licentiousness and sometimes we can lean towards both depending on the issue. One person might be legalistic on one question and be more you uh licentious minded on another issue. Uh and in that case, the legalism and the licentiousness are both wrong. And I think I'm guessing that your experience has been one of You know, the legalists are saying something and those who are more they wouldn't use that self-descriptor. And the licentious people, who also wouldn't use that descriptor themselves, are saying something else. And you're like, they're both making interesting points I would suggest that because of their attitude and they're too narrowly focused, they're trying to separate God at that point. that they're both wrong. Well I I am jealous of what's the confidence with which they're able to say this is X and this is Y where I I feel very much uh part of my training um in my earlier career was uh we had to train as with firefighter gear on. I feel very much like a guy in a smoke filled room where I'm crawling around um just trying to find my way right now in my early uh Christian identity. And um it's it's very insightful to kind of hear that they aren't two ends 'cause I hear a lot of arguments a lot of people on the T V that it's either law or grace and you can't have you know, it's either one or the other. You gotta pick a tent. And unfortunately too often what ends up coming from that sort of discussion is the the person who wants to be measured says, well, we need to figure out a way to balance them or hold them in tension. And I think even that's not as helpful as it might be because there's no balancing or tension when it's one and the same. Right. You know, the it just is. Right. You know, is is is Jonathan more Schweitzer or more Jonathan? He's Jonathan Schweitzer. He is. To try to separate the Schweitzer from the Jonathan and the Jonathan from the Schweitzer, it doesn't right doesn't work. Yeah, I I was gonna ask, um you said earlier that that you keep coming back to love, you know, as as the definer um in the root of the question that's dividing the United Methodist Church right now, I don't think is the question of whether or not we should love those that are homosexuals, whether or not we should be gracious towards them. But it's the question as to whether or not Homosexual behavior is a sin. And the reason you're saying that just for clarification, everyone absolutely should love them and be gracious to them. Yeah. I th there's there's like only one group in the nation. You know, the the Baptist guys from down in Florida, what are they called? In Kansas, you mean Westboro? Yeah, the Westboro Baptist guy that go around and say, God hates bags, you know, that that these guys are. I don't even know that you can. Can you mention So but but my point is is that is that there is nobody Anywhere in my interaction with people in the body of Christ that that doesn't think that we should love, forgive uh walk alongside of, uh care for, you know, all those things with with those that are sinful. Whether it's homosexuality or whether it's drugs or whether we you know, whatever it is. Like everybody agrees that that that that's what what what we should do. But in the political atmosphere, the question is whether or not it's it's a sin or not puts people on two different sides and then and then they throw stones at these caricatures. Oh, well because those guys say it's a sin, they're hateful and they're mean spirited and they're self-righteous and and Uh yeah, there's uh there's a lot of that in me, right? I'm uh I'm guilty too often of being self righteous and being mean spirited and all those kinds of things. But I know that being self righteous and mean spirited is wrong. Right, that's a sin. Right. It's a sin. Right? Those things are sins. And and so my point is is that Is that the question that's being debated is not whether or not we should love them and care for them, but whether or not It's considered to be a sin. Well I think so many people from outside of the church will listen to the debate kinda like neighbors next door hear you fighting and it sounds like the worst thing ever and they say, What were you two fighting about the next day? And you're like, We we weren't fighting yesterday, what are you talking about? 'Cause you don't necessarily remember it and it's when You know, the church family is arguing over something, we give this impression to those nonbelievers that Um we don't know what we're talking about. And if we can't agree on something, how can a non-believer ever find hope in Christ? And that's where we have to ensure that in the debate that we don't lose focus of the bigger picture and that Christ Jesus is the one who um We all should be striving to serve and more of him and less of us. And I think with that focus, I think we'll Always keep moving forward because that's what I love about Christ is he keeps drawing us into Christ. Right, but I have to ask a question. Sure. Of those that are outside of the body of Christ. Can can they point to any part of humanity, any group, in all of human dumb mankind and all of mankind. Sorry, humankind. Did you call all humans dumb? I said about this week. Yes. You want to talk about truth. Can you point to any group That is a thinking group that does not have significant differences and arguments amongst themselves about what's What's the best way to handle something, great? Right? And so so I get this impression in popular culture, the way that Christianity is presented that um that we're like the only group out there that has thinking people in it that have places where there's genuine disagreement with one another. Well and that's a good holy place arguments happen, right? You know. Uh and so uh so the reality is that we're not in disagreement about Christ. Right. However, I'll say this, that because of this split that I've been talking about, do you put science before the Bible or Bible before the science, this question of whether or not you believe the miracles of the Bible, it is the case That there's a split right down the body of Christ as to whether or not Jesus actually rose from the dead and whether or not that's important. I'm a new Christian and I know that's important. Well, but I'm telling you that there's a bunch of Methodist churches that you could go through go to and other denominational churches that are on the side that that look, whether or not you just believe Christ rose in your heart You know, and so we remember him, he lives on because we remember him, or whether or not he actually rose from the dead. That's not what's important. What's important is that we believe and follow the moral teachings of Scripture. And what I'm telling you is that that is the divide that is that is happening with the Methodist Church right now. It's it's not the question of whether or not we're loving those that are homosexual or we know how to forgive those that are sinful in any way whatsoever. The question is whether or not Scripture can be trusted, whether or not the miracles of the Bible can be trusted, or whether or not they they are unnecessary to the teaching of Scripture. And that drives So much of uh it just drives us to to to different places, right? If you believe that the miracles of scripture are not necessary, I guarantee you that you are of the opinion that what was morally unacceptable in the past is not necessarily morally unacceptable now. You think morality is changing. But if you're of the opinion that scripture is the foundation, right, and that there were miracles that happened that that go beyond what we can explain by science. That there are actual miracles that happen. Those people consistently, time and time again are in agreement that the morality of the Old Testament is the morality of the New Testament and that it has not shifted in the last 10,000 years of known history that that we're aware of. That's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer with Cross Bridges online at Crossbridges. com. I'm Troy Skinner. We are joined this week by Craig Glancour on the Faith Debate on WFMD. AM nine thirty on your dial online at www. Wfm D. com. Nobody says that anymore, do they? W. No. They just say WFMD. com. Anyway. Your gray hair is showing it. So uh it's interesting because another way of uh just it is this is ha in listening to Jonathan talk, it has occurred to me those on the I have to use we've defined our terms. When I'm talking on this show, when I'm talking about liberal, I'm usually meaning liberal theologically. N okay, not which may or may not mean liberal politically. That's right. Okay. That's right. So anyway, so those on the on the more liberal Absolutely. Those on the more liberal end, theologically, are the ones Jonathan was talking about who are going to say, well, science says or you know, I'm not sure I want to accept the miracles, or Jesus didn't actually have to live and die and raise and all those sorts of things Uh those who are more conservative theologically are called judgmental by the liberals, right? Right. Right. Right. But in the reverse, it has occurred to me that those on the conservative side theologically they look at those on the liberal theological spectrum and they accuse them of being judgmental. And they're judgmental of God's Word. They're saying God's word isn't sufficient. God's word isn't correct. It's not infallible. It's not inerrant. It might not even be inspired. It's just a collection of worthy writings that have had importance over the years. And so we're saying 'Cause I'm putting myself on Jonathan's team in this particular case for sure. Yeah. Uh we're saying that y you're not on the you're not on the Bible's team. And I want to be the Bible's team. And why is that important? Why does it matter if we're on the Bible's team? Yeah. Because if you're not on the Bible's team, who says who's right and who's wrong? If Jonathan thinks one way and Craig thinks another, and I think yet a third way, how do we find out which one of us is right? We have to have some sort of authoritative source. And actually I think I think this I don't know if you want to go there, but if we wanted to, this is a good segue into the question of why would a Jewish person need to believe in Jesus Christ in order to be saved? Sedgwood, mean that little motorized thing you can drive around on? Start you talking about? No? Yeah, talk about the language not being helpful anymore. That's part of the problem by the way. We will we we will segue. But that is part of the problem. The language shifts and it's been shifting so fast in our generation. Uh I'm not that old, but trust me, when I was little and and probably w you're a little younger than I am, but probably when you were little too, and I'm not sure how old you are, uh Craig, but I was at the tail end of when the word gay still could mean happy. It was still like okay to use the word When I was a kid. So because of the United Methodist thing that we've been talking about for the last week or two, I've gone back to read some of John John Wesley's uh material and he uses the word gay in a whole bunch of places just to represent happy people. I and and and it shows up again and again. I'm like And gay was a very popular female name. No people don't name their their child gay anymore. Yeah. Because it's now gotten This baggage. But did you see joy or happiness? So getting back on track, so that's part of what the discussions are because Jonathan might say something and I and I'll misunderstand them thinking it meant something different. Whoa, whoa, whoa. That's not true. And he says, Yes it is and no it's not we'll argue and then we come to realize, oh We're saying the same thing. You just used a word I wasn't expecting you to use. So sometimes that's where the squabbles come from. And those aren't serious squabbles, those are misunderstandings. But these the homosexual questions question isn't just a m mere misunderstanding. And to use your analogy from before, Craig, that's not like somebody's going to overhear this discussion in the church over the backyard fence and the next morning we're going to say, What argument? We weren't arguing. No, the homosexual question is a real argument in the church. You wanted to transition, so how did you well see the segue? So the so the the segue to the question of um why would a Jewish person need to believe in Jesus? to be saved. Right? And and at the heart of that is this question of of did the Old Testament If Jesus is true, this is this is how I'll say it. If Jesus is true, then the Old Testament was constantly pointing to him. and constantly referring to him uh in shadows in in uh in in in anticipating what he was going to represent in in place after place after place so much so that if You believed the Old Testament, you would have to believe Jesus. If Jesus is not true, then the Old Testament and whatever it represents would be pointing in a different direction. And so that being the case, Jesus said about himself that if you don't believe in me, then you stand condemned. Right, that that he ultimately ends up being the issue of judgment. So in John chapter 16, he says when the Holy Spirit comes, he's going to convict the world of guilt. in regard to sin and righteousness and judgment, in regard to sin, because men do not believe in me. And so Jesus is the one that that in John backs him up. He says later on the spirit of the Antichrist, if anyone uh denies that Jesus is the Son of God. then then that's the spirit of the Antichrist, you know. I wonder if that's where we get anti-Semitism and homophobia and everything because because uh back in the day the you know being against Christ was the issue. Anyways, the point is that being against Christ, anti-Christ, is is um is the heart of not being saved according to the New Testament, that that's necessary. If you believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, confess with your mouth. that Jesus is Lord, then we you will be saved. But didn't Christ come to bring the Gentiles into the blessing of Abraham? Bring us into what the Jews already had was a great question. That it that in fact if the the answer to that question is in Romans 9, 10, and 11. And Paul hits it really strong. And basically at the heart of his uh uh the beginning of his argument is this question. Were there or were there not throughout the history of the Old Testament among the the Jewish people, the nation of Israel, whole generations? that that were not believers in God and that that were were were told to be that they were no longer a part of the people of God, that God actually said that I divorce you and I no longer am with you. And the the point is that there are. And so if that's the case, then it's not a question of whether or not a Jewish person needs to believe in Jesus, but but what is it about the Old Testament that kept people in a place of right relationship with God? And if you're in that place, Jesus is arguing then understanding who he was and what he represented. is something that that uh that is a is a no-brainer, it makes sense. But there are plenty of of Jewish people today that the prophets of the Old Testament would have said that you're no longer a Jew. Because we're we have run out of time. Jonathan Sweitzer, sorry for cutting you off. Craig Loncour also on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Till next week one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from home right about now. God bless