The world seems inside out, upside down. Many say the church is a drift, the world is an arrow. Is the end near? Some people think so. Perhaps the return of Jesus Christ is just around the corner. And here to talk about this today. Chris Jackson, a Baptist minister, who has served in many different ministry capacities, including printing ministry, homework ministry, Bible teaching. He's an organizer of Life Bible Baptist Ministry. The teaching ministry is says it seeks to rebuild lives and the foundation of God's Word. Uh we'll give them give you the website for that later. Give us an out because it's too darn complicated. Uh and Jonathan Sweitzer. This is like old times, baby. Welcome back, Cotter. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. He's the past president of Frederick's Evangelical Ministerial. Fellowship. He's founder of Frederick 48, which has morphed over the years into the Unity Campaign for Frederick County, former candidate for school board in Frederick County, co founder of this taste debate show, and co start on the show during his first twelve years of existence. We've been around now thirteen years. So our sponsors, Hilo Rail. What's that? He's got the great approved? Yeah. Don't we all have right? All three of us. Although I shaved this morning so you can't see mine. Anyway. Um sponsors Hilo Auto Sales online at HiloAuto dot com and TirePros of Frederick. So we're gonna talk about end time stuff. We've done that historically on this show a handful of times. Yeah. Yeah, you always come back to something like that, right? And we've we've solved it, but we want to come back and just make sure. Yeah, because maybe not everybody listening now heard us solve it. So you know maybe we've changed our mind. That's something I want to talk to you about here, John. John ha in fact let's let's start there for the thing. First of all, I'll start with Chris. Chris, you're easy. You uh Chris helped that. He s knows where he stands, he's figured it out for himself, and he's pretty confident. He is a pre tribulation, pre millennial guy. That's right. A dispensational theologian. He thinks he understands all there is to know. Define any of those words or get to a layer. For the record, I would be an omil partial preterist. Yes. And Jonathan Schweitzer, when I first met you back around two thousand two, fifteen years ago, I think you would have been squarely in the same camp that Chris Jackson is in. You think I was squarely there? Well I d I don't think I was strong enough about what I believed back then. Like I hadn't spent a whole lot of time, you know. In fact I've been around some settings that they kind of said, you know, uh I'm kind of a uh a a pan millennialist, you know, it's all gonna paint out in the end. Right? You so whatever you believe, you know, uh at the end of the day what really matters is that you're prepared If there's tribulation, you're prepared to go through tribulation. If there's not tribulation, that you're not prepared. So uh my teaching up to that point had been very pragmatic and not as theological. And so I came to studying it later on. uh and digging into historical things and that's where I was like, oh wow, there's a there's a lot more going on there. In fact, you know what you know what got me thinking about it was that uh it's um I'm gonna forget uh the philosopher's name. Said that one of the reasons he could never believe the Bible is because it was obvious to him that all of the writers of the New Testament thought that the second coming of Christ was going to happen in that generation. And if it didn't happen, and they're the ones that taught us what we believe, then we can't believe them anymore. And I got to thinking about that and I was just like, wow, that's a pretty big um accusation. And so I started to ask myself, well, if we did look in the in the first century Is there anything that we would find that would be significant that would fit Matthew twenty-four, revelation, these kinds of things? And so I I felt like I began to find some things that are really interesting. So over the years of doing this show, we've talked about end times eschatology, you know, the big words there. But basically just talking about the the end of the world as we know it, you know, the the the last days, right? The study of last things, eschatology. So we've talked about that on the show a number of times. We've gone through what the big words are. We'll take some time to go through that over the We'll do an arc of shows here, I'm sure. We'll probably do four shows. Yeah. And during the four shows we'll have beaten this thing to death so that you'll know everything you need to know to wow your friend to the next cocktail party. Of course, un until Christ comes again. Unless you're a good Baptist, then you'll wow your friend in the next bowling tournament. So no no cocktail parties for you. Ouch. So but John there was a bit of a shift over time that I began to notice as we had this dialogue and you were advocating, maybe you weren't squarely in the camp, but you were advocating for a more dispensational Chris Jackson point of view. Sure. And then over a few years later not quite so strong in your advocacy. And then maybe a few years ago I felt like I noticed a pretty significant shift You actually began to say, I think maybe, I'm not sure, but I might possibly be a partial preterist. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I remember all that. And that was the Big change. So we'll talk so I'll be curious to hear your response to what Chris Jackson is going to say because I'm going to ask you to explain some of these big words we've thrown out there. So no pressure, right? Yeah. So dispensationalism is the camp within which the pre-trib pre tri uh uh tri pre-tribulation, premillennial uh stuff comes out. So why don't you talk about generally what dispensationalism is and then we can maybe slide into what pre-trib versus mid-trib, post-trib. If you want to get in all of that or not, but explain your view and and maybe some of the buzzwords. Sure. Um well dispensationalism basically says that God has kind of w operated or worked in seven different time periods. Yeah. In history. Yep. And uh seven is important because it's a number of perfection. God, you know, works in seven key seven days as it were. Exactly, exactly. And um We're right now we would say the dispensationalists we're in the church age. Yeah. Jesus predicted the church age, you know, when uh he asked the disciples, Who do men say that I am? And Peter said, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God, and Jesus says, On this rock I will build my church. Yeah, yeah. So showing showing that that was future. And then the Holy Spirit came in Acts chapter 2. And then dwell all the believers. Yeah. And we believe that started the church age. Sure. At that moment. Yep. And the church age will continue. um until the rapture. Hm when the Lord takes the church out of this world. We don't know when that day will be, w how it will happen. Yeah. Um but, you know, we believe that scripture's clear enough. that we will uh be taken out of this world. And I just wanna say, um, we can't forget the word of the word hope. Okay. Um dispensationalists, pre trip people, we all believe in the word hope, d all these things, believing that Christ will take us out of the tribulation, believing that the rapture will happen. Um, you know, believing that the church age will end at a certain time. It's almost a buzzword within the the view that you you'll be advocating the blessed hope. The blessed hope. Blessed hope. Titus two thirteen, the blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Yeah. So um That that is definitely the dispensationalist feeling. And so at the end, you know, there's gonna be this tribulation period and th the the pre-trib idea is that before that tribulation really gets going, that the church is is caught up and raptured uh out of the earth, off the earth, uh brought up I guess to be with the with God in heaven and not face the the most evil of the evils that will happen during that time. And this has become very popular in uh in pop culture. You know a lot of movies and books are out there about this sort of thing. The left behind series. Right. And so it's very pretty well known whether whether it's well understood or not, I don't know. So anyway, what Chris was just talking about is kind of where you were fifteen, twenty years ago. Right. It's maybe where you began to shift from being five, ten years ago. And now here you are today saying that that's not really where you are. So I th why not? I try to bring up online real quick by the way, that uh fifteenth century philosopher and I can't find it. I'm sorry. Yeah Yeah. I I'll I'll see if I can uh identify. Um and so where I was was I would read Revelation or Matthew twenty-four, and I would I would lift up my eyes, and I think people do this in every generation, right? You read Revelation and and there's the beasts, right? You know, big scary beasts, you know, and they're they're doing these big things. And then there's the bride of Christ that shows up and she's, you know, pretty amazing. And then there's the whore Babylon uh that shows up. There's like these, you know, these four really big characters that when I lift up my eyes today, even though we're not here to talk, you know, and and and to try to uh identify what the uh current events are that that apply to any of those. I lift up my eyes today and I see a beast. I see groups of people that reject God. And so they're they're less human as a result. They they've walked away from what it means to be human in the image of God and and they've become less than human, they become a beast, right? And then there's the whore. Which is really important because those are the people that are supposed to be um married to God, but they have prostituted themselves out to the false religions. Right. And so the horror I I I lift up my eyes and I think to myself, wow, there's there's uh what I would say is parts of the body of Christ that that feel like they've done that. Right? They're they're they're f they they've walked away from true doctrine, they've they've kind of They would even say that there's many roads to God, you know, and so in that sense they've kind of s they they've kind of bowed their knee, they've they've they've decided to go to bed with false religions, right? So the whore Babylon and then there's the bride. Those people that that won't take the mark of the beast, you know, that uh that have kept themselves pure and are worshiping Christ and uh and are willing to face whatever suffering, you know, for the sake of his name that is necessary. And so Where I lived before I changed was, man, I see those things out there. I see whole nations that have rejected God. that you know that to this day we would you know we'd say China, we'd say, you know, um uh North Korea, you know, there there's a number of places that that we would look at and we'd be like, man, I'd never want to live there. Venezuela right now is in a place like this and and uh uh there's um uh other countries, you know, where where there's just the sense that they've kind of walked away from God, rejected God, and they want nothing to do with him. And and the nations are falling apart. Their their economy is in tatters. There's corruption everywhere, right? And so it's it's beastly, you know, and so so I see that and I'm like, man, I need a way to describe it. How does the Bible help me as I'm watching the news describe what I see? And s and, you know, I I see this in the church, you know, that there's again these these people that claim to be believers, but at the end of the day what they're teaching sounds like good Buddhism or or or New Ageism or you know or even like a sometimes it's even a like a Mother Earth kind of paganism, you know, that that is masquerading as uh Christianity. And so That feels to me like, okay, when I look at the Bible, how do I describe that? And so those those four big characters drove me to to read Revelation again. Then I'd read it again. Then I'd read it again. Because you know, it's it's got this big stuff going on and and I want to know how's that going to play out. You know, what can I hope for? Uh moving forward, what w what's gonna be the ultimate result of these things? Is that what you're asking? Yeah, and I'll follow up here in a second, but that's Jonathan Sweitzer, he's the pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, and also on the show is Chris Jackson, who He's a a Baptist minister, uh he's been involved in prison ministry, homeless ministry, Bible teaching. He's got this uh thing called Bible uh life Bible Baptist Ministries, which maybe we'll we'll take a moment to find a little more about and give a plug for uh before the show is out. But um Without getting into the the details of it, I'm wondering because John's talking about he sees all these things in the world. And if you go if you have Direct TV and you go into like the three seventies, channels three seventies You know, I don't go there. Trump's the Antichrist or Obama was the Antichrist or you know, uh this is the beast. That's Putin was back in the day. Yeah, and here is the thing. Gorbachev. Yeah, and all these things that and they're trying to in the tattoo on his head, they're they're like, Oh, that's the mark Headlines ripped from going to the New York Times that proves Jesus is coming Tuesday at twelve thirty. You know? That sort of stuff. So but is there any are you paying attention to the news headlines looking for signs and things like that? Is that part of your I don't know, weekly regimen, is that part of your life? How does it play out for you like yeah i i in everyday life? Yeah, I'm interested. Yeah, um well let's just take the beasts for example. Um Revelation is one place that talks about the beast or and we dispensationalists and pre-trip people interpret that as the Antichrist. Yeah. And I think I would s I I think I would Do the same thing. I'm just trying to think it through real quick, but I think I'd be in the same place that that that a beast tends to be anti Christ. Right. Yeah, they reject the creator into the way he's described in Revelation chapter thirteen. Yeah. You know, he opposes the strengths of God. Yep. tries to stand himself in in the place of God and blasphemes heaven and then demands the mark. Um That's one place that describes the bees. Uh but then you also have other places. Daniel also gets into the bees. Daniel's a big driver for me about where I'm at right now. Okay. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, um basically we can look at, you know, one passage, but we have to look at everything. Yeah. Okay. And put it all together. And Throughout the ages, uh Martin Luther, who's a you know, hero of mine, uh he thought the Pope uh during his day, Poblio was was the Antichrist. Yeah But he didn't fit in. The reality is that there's so much that was going on. Like w when I go back and I study the history of of what Martin Luther was reacting against, I think we all would have felt like, you know, at some level that that the that that what Catholicism represented at the time was was really in need of reform and uh downright demonic almost, you know, at some level. Yeah. By the way, I think we've gone long enough and people who are waiting for us to de t to define some things are getting probably angry with me. So let's take a minute. So we've we talked a little bit about dispensationalism, this idea that there are these seven dispensations, these seven ages, and that becomes a grid through which a uh theology is a the theologian who's been trained up to think about the Bible in those ways, that's kind of the grid through which he's approaching scripture and it becomes a becomes part of his hermeneutic part of his his understanding how to interpret the scriptures. Okay. Uh if you're not dispensational, or if if one is not dispensational, then y you might be covenantal. And so you're gonna view the Bible through the the the various covenants of And there's actually an element of dispensation in age ages. Everybody's kind of grappling with the same dynamics at some level. Yeah. So a a less pejorative sounding would be redemptive historical theology where they're looking at this great narration that's telling the story of redemption, the the story of the gospel, the kingdom of Christ, and those sorts of things. And that becomes their guiding principle as they're trying to grapple with difficult to understand passages, particularly Daniel, Revelation, you know, Ezekiel, things that are are v fantastical kinds of images and things like how do we make sense of this? systems of thought that help you get a toehold and some you know some place to hang on for a minute to try to understand it. So that's why you end up in different places. It's the dispensational camp that tends to I don't know of any covenant theologian or or redemptive historical theologian that would be pre-trib, uh premillennial necessarily, but that doesn't mean they don't exist. I'm just trying to think of who they might be. But anyway, the the It's mostly dispensational theologians that are going to be premillennial. Right. And by pre, we're talking about the millennium of Christ. So this millennial reign of Christ. And so the The uh the pre-millennial folks are saying that Christ is returning right before the start of the millennial reign. Correct. Those that are post millennial are saying there's gonna be a millennial reign. Millennium means a thousand. So there's gonna be this thousand year period of time where the millennium is in place and then Christ uh returns. That that used that was very popular a hundred, two hundred years ago, but it's not quite so po the world war has kind of screwed up the uh the first millennial views for a lot of people. Sure. Uh 'cause the idea is things are getting better and better and better and they're gonna get so good that finally after a thousand years of really good crisis gonna come back and things weren't getting really, really good. They're getting worse and worse and worse it seemed. Right. Uh tended to drive how people uh ended up. That's right. Right? And so so the guys, like you were saying a hundred, two hundred years ago were driven by the sense that the Enlightenment, you know, had moved us into an age and Darwin was saying that we're evolving to something better, like all at the same time And so this idea that that that we're kind of coming through the millennium and we're getting better and better, uh, was an idea that not just Christians had, but the whole world had, that somehow you know, we're on the verge of transcending, you know, to a whole uh you know evolutionary you know utopia. And so of course then the world wars come and then Israel becomes a nation. And that drove a whole lot of people saying, wow, that's the generation where Jesus is going to return. Who has ever seen something like that happen? Now we know. We're in the end times. And so so these very significant historical realities will tend to influence streams of thought and get us going different directions. So if someone's a post-millennial theologian, if that's their view of of the end times, they're gonna they're gonna have this really optimistic uh Star Trek world idea of this There's not gonna be any money, any fighting, everything's gonna be great unless you're moving away out of space because the the aliens are always gonna be mean. But on Earth, everybody gets along kumbaya, that kind of idea. You were too trekky on that. Uh and then the the premillennials have a tendency to be kind of, you know, uh go to head on the handbasket, though. Yes. Things are gonna get worse and worse and worse until finally it gets so bad that God's gonna rescue his people from the worst of it. Yeah and then about seven years later Jesus comes back Yeah. Kind of idea. And then there's the all mill millennial view, which uh again, full disclosure, that would be my view. It's sometimes characterized as there is no millennium. But that's really a misunderstanding of what a millennial is. Uh it just it it means that there's not a literal one thousand year reign, that the thousand year, the millennium, is meant to represent a really long period of time. The argument being that the largest number that they had way back when that they could write down was a thousand. So a thousand was like saying a a a a Google, a bazillion, you know, like just a big, big number. And so that would be the argument to defend that. I'm not trying to defend it, I'm just trying to explain what the trees are. So the idea so what's big in a all millennial camp is you hear those guys talk an awful lot about the already not yet tension You know, we're already in the millennium, but it's not fully consummated yet. It's already here and not yet fully here. That there's this wrestling back and forth to try to grapple with with what's in the pages of scripture and what's going on in the world. Now we've uh talked about the millennial views really quickly the um The tribulation. Yeah. Pre-trib is God calls his people to himself before the really bad part of the tribulation, the seven year tribulation. Mid-trib means at the halfway point, because there's a critical thing that happens at the three and a half year mark with peace declared in the world and all that sort of stuff. At that point it's going to get the the tribulation was already bad. It's really going to get bad. And so that's when God rescues them. And then there's the And that's called that's called mid-mistory pre-wrath Meaning meaning we, because we're in Christ, have been saved from his wrath, and so we don't experience his wrath, even though we might experience tribulation, we don't experience God's wrath, and God's wrath is what is supposedly. And then there's post trib too, right? Which is what right before Amor Gad and right before the final battle, that's when the rapture would be taking place, I think. Is that right, getting that right The timing of that right? That's a very limited view of the thing. Right, very few people folks. So y'all You can listen to this show stored away unless Jesus returns. We'll see you next week. But Jonathan Swife is a funny one. He's the pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. Uh Chris Jackson is uh he's a pastor in his own right, and he's been involved in ministry and I'll I'm gonna try to say this. Here's the website for his uh Bible Life Bible Baptist Ministries. Let's see. Life Bible, the number one dot Wix site W I X S I T E dot com slash life. I'm gonna give you some marketing advice. You've got again A more easy to say and remember website than that. I'll put a link to it on the Faith. But I'm sure if you just Google the name you'll probably find it. It'll come up. Yeah, and I'll I'll try to put a link to it on the Faith Today page so when you f when you go to find the podcast of this show or, you know, things like that, you'll see it there and you can link right to it. So we'll do that. Thank you. So thank you guys for being on the show. Thanks for our sponsors, Hilo Auto Sales online at hiloauto. com. And tire pros of Frederick, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. Visit us online, wfmd. com. Keyword faith takes you right to the face debate page. Until next week, God bless.