This is the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Hilo Auto Sales online at hiloauto. com and also Tire Pros of Frederick. We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find um the outline of the shows that are coming up pretty soon. You'll find my bio if you care, and I know that you do. You'll find also Jace Broadhurst bio my uh pretty soon I have to start calling my erstwhile co host 'cause hasn't been on the show in a while, but his bio's up there as well. And you'll find links to podcasts of this show, for example, uh you could listen to this show over and over and over again to your heart's content. Give us about twenty four hours or so to get it up there. And if you are on iTunes, you can listen to the show on iTunes, and I'm told that it's beneficial to me If you like it, so like us on iTunes. That's all about me. But now it's not going to be all about me. We've got a couple of guests on this week, and we're going to make it all about them and their thoughts on things that are going on in the news. Julia Shern is the pastor of St. John's Bible Fellowship Church in New Market. Uh we might also uh have some chiming in from Kendall Lovelace, who's the evangelist for that church. And uh Daniel Razby. Razby, a familiar name to fans of the Faith Debate show, his father Imran Raz Razby has been on this show. show a number of times over the years and it's uh a pleasure to have Daniel on. And I and I mentioned to your dad, Daniel, that I get really excited when somebody under thirty is a guest on this show. Good to be here. You know, it brings a fresh perspective from old fogies like uh like us, right uh right faster? Absolutely. And it also is encouraging, really, it truly is encouraging to my heart that there are people who are, you know, in their twenties or we've even had guests in on in their teens that come on this show. It's really encouraging that they're thinking about these things and can articulate their thoughts and are deep in study of God's word or Or social issues or cultural things or legal issues. We're gonna find out. Daniel is a recent graduate from law school, Oak Brook College of Law in California And uh I've had a chance to talk with him a little bit off air and he's a sharp cookie, so be careful when you're chewing that cookie, it'll cut the inside of your mouth. Alright, so what's going on in the world these days? There's been a lot of stuff and I was mentioning to Daniel actually right before you got here, Pastor. I was mentioning to him how, you know Some of these topics that we're going to talk about kind of sat up and grabbed me more than me going out and grabbing them. A lot of times if you want to, you can go online, you can find stories about faith and the church and religion every single day. Somewhere in the world, you don't even go that far in this country, usually even in your own community, you can find something every day That's in the news. But you gotta dig for it. But in recent months you haven't had to dig. It's just been out there. And so I thought we'd g we'd get a take on some of this. For example, we've got uh Gender diversity training being uh being begged for, demanded really, by uh union leaders, um compulsif uh compulsory uh gender diversity. We'll talk about that in a second. There's a a local school that was in the news this past graduation season because uh it's a Christian school and one of the students was pregnant, decided to keep the baby and that led to her not being able to walk in graduation. Um so we'll talk about that a little bit and um Muslim students this is an older story but it was talked about on the afternoon show here on WFMD a couple of weeks ago or a few weeks ago now as I guess as you hear this by Tim May and Frank Mitchell about Muslim students allowed to pray in a Maryland high school as long as their grades were good enough. And so we'll we'll touch about on some of those things I'm hoping on today's show. Maybe other things we'll see. So let's start with this one Union demands teachers undergo compulsory gender diversity training. That's the headline. This is a story that was pulled from Breitbart. The Association of Teachers and Lecturers, or ATL for short. has called for compulsory gender diversity training for sixth form college and further education teachers. Now sixth form that's that's a British uh educational system thing. These are the students that are academically gifted and are pursuing an academic track and they want to go on to an institution of higher learning. So that's uh it's uh it's high school for the ma it's like a magnet school for those that want to go on to higher education as I understand it. Anyway Uh the this association is w uh warning that staff will refer to non-binary persons. Uh they're using incorrect pronouns. and they could face legal action. ATL Wales President Leslie Tipping said mandatory training in gender identity issues is long overdue lamenting that staff were confused over pronouns. Lecturers could be put in quite an embarrassing position, this is a quote, if they address someone as a he who is a she or neither a he or a she The union boss said, warning that without proper training, staff could end up with quote unquote legal issues. Declaring that students who identify as transgender or non-binary The latter status referring to people who claim to be neither male or female have entitlements, the union boss said. Compulsory training would help the FE staff to understand the legalities Bangor University, a student there says that while the college um was led by a liberal and encouraging head teacher, uh this student said that staff quote unquote messed up a lot. with regards to the etiquette demanded by LGBT activists. Okay, so there's all sorts of political hay to be made with that, but that's not what the nature of the show is all about. This is the Frederic Faith debate. So How does gender and that whole controversy how does that present itself as an issue to be addressed by the church? What should the church think about things? What should the churches say about things? Which side, if a side should be taken? should the church take. So not to put you on the spot, Pastor, but I can tell you've got a well formulated thought brewing in that noggin of yours, so I I don't know about how well formulated it is. Just just let me tell you. Uh greetings, Troy and it's really a an honor to be here. Uh had some conversations with you over the phone and was pretty excited about that. And then I I actually listened to this uh fake pod and i it you're doing a uh a good work here. Well I appreciate it. And that is awesome. You know I knew I had a fan, I finally found him. You know a as as you were uh setting uh this section up Uh thoughts did go through my mind. Uh we hear a lot in the news now about fake news. uh that seems to be uh all over the airways now. Uh there's a scripture in the Bible that says where where common man will turn the tr uh the truth of God. into a lie. Uh in Germany they used to say if you say one thousand times a lie It will resemble the truth and people will believe it. As you begin to speak about gender and the correct political uh way to talk about gender. That's what came to to my mind. Uh God made male and he made female And those are the true genders. Anything else that people try to prophesy out there is truly a lie before the Lord. And uh I'm gonna be one that stands on the bloodstained banner and say, I'm going to choose God and the Word of God. Uh and um We believe to love everyone. Uh and we're gonna love people, even the even the sinner. But the only thing that we have for sinners in our church is repentance. So when they come to our church and we welcome everyone, I don't care if you're transgender, up, gender, downgender, whatever gender you are I want you to get under some of this true anointing. Yeah. Let me uh jump in with a personal thought and then I want to get your take on the on the legality issues, uh Daniel. But uh it bothers me a little bit. Um you know I've been doing this show now for about thirteen years and it took me a few years, a little slow So it took me a few years to figure out that so much of what we talk about and where we disagree and uh uh where we can clarify our agreements rests upon how we understand words. Yes. Language and defining our terms is so critical. And so because of that It bothers me that we've surrendered the word gender to have to do with biological sex when gender was originally a literary term. It had to do with you know the The maleness or femaleness of a pronoun, for example. What is the gender? It had nothing to do with biological sex. Now we're taking a literary term and applying it in a biological sense, and it and that I think in and of itself leads to some of this confusion. So anyway, this is a story that was taking place over in the United Kingdom in in Wales, I guess, and it had to do with with uh a school. But let's just say that it was, you know, this sort of thing were coming up in America, Daniel. And and it's a Christian school and the pastor is a teacher, and he uses the quote unquote wrong pronoun, and now he faces legalities What w what is the current state of this sort of thing as you understand it? What kind of risk might he be or might I be in that situation? Well if this was a Christian school, I would I would hope that at least in America still For now you can be able to teach whatever you feel that God would have you teach to the children in your school. Um when you have a public school that's a different story and there are many things that you no longer can say in public school So if there's a public school teacher who believes that a biologically born male is a boy and refers to that child as a he and somebody wants to make an issue of that, that the public school teacher could it could somehow face some sort of discipline or legal problems even now in America, you think? I with the way with the way people sue everyone for every reason these days, you you never know. But what what I what I would argue is that this is not even so much a religion issue as a biological issue. When I was learning biology, it's very clear not only does God say it so that male and female created he them. There's there are two. Um but in biology, I mean you have uh females they have the X X chromosome and males have XY chromosome. There is no other way to law uh to do that and they're rewriting biology. I I was r um hearing what when I was uh a kid I heard A uh a guy uh gives some science lessons called Bill Nye, the science guy. He's still fairly well known today, but he had a a kids T V show a long time ago and one of the episodes was about gender. It was about male and female and they had a girl on there talking about well I have uh two X chromosome, that's how you know I'm a girl and the uh uh the uh the boy has X Y chromosome and that's how you know he's a male And recently Bill Nye's show, the old show, was uploaded to Netflix and it's now available at least a few weeks ago was streaming on Netflix. And they cut out that entire segment because we have now redefined biology. And that's not a religious thing so much as that's a biological fact. You are so naive. You probably think that climate change is about science and not politics. Well, that's that's definitely another another discussion. But but I but I agree with the pastor here. God God is very clear in the Bible. God made male and female. Now at at the same time and people are sometimes uh born that that are not visually conforming to the normal uh gender. I mean even Jesus hinted on that when he said in Matthew nineteen uh there are some eunuchs who were so uh which were so born from their mother's womb. So it it is that but that I think that's much more of a rare thing and it's not that they were born the ro uh differently than they look. You know, if you're if you're male, you're male. If you're female, you're female. Transgender is not a biblical concept. So we're pretty much all in agreement in this room, I think. Uh it's frustrating though because the terms do get redefined and it's a real issue. I mean in my extended family I have someone right now who's going Through an identity crisis, uh, believing that uh she is a he, and the family is wrestling with how to handle that, and not everybody in the family is looking at things from a biblical point of view And so they're trying to figure out what the best way to go and so when all else fails they decide, well let's just do what's loving. But Unfortunately s I feel like you begin to buy into a lie on that issue too. If you if you help someone to perpetuate a lie about their identity, is that really loving? And in an analogy I use, if someone is I don't know, uh uh it's a young teenage girl, uh she's fourteen years old, she's five foot eight and she weighs seventy four pounds, but she's convinced that she's fat. She identifies as a fat person. Should we just say, well, you know what, we're gonna let her continue to uh starve herself to death because I mean she identifies as a fat person and a loving thing to do is to meet her where she is and to affirm her her her as faulty as it is, her identity. To me it's the same kind of an issue. The facts are the facts, except right now it's not just fake news, it's fake facts anymore. Atroy U. But let me jump in real quick. This is the faith debate on uh five seventy five seventy, where'd that come from? Five nine thirty. Old flashback to the station I used to work at Nine thirty WFMD uh online at WFMD dot com, joined this week by Julius Schurn, who's about to speak. He's a pastor of Saint John's Bible Fellowship Church and uh not too many m minutes ago We heard from uh Daniel Rasby, uh a legal expert, first legal expert we've had on the show, so I'm excited. You were about to say? I was about to say that uh it is the most common trick of the enemy uh that is to confuse the truth. Uh and um even when we come down to talking about the word The Word. Well, my teaching is that the Word uh was with God, and the Word was God. And the word made all that is in the world. When we begin to deal with the truth, then there is a light that comes into the world And then people can deal with the truth. But we have moved so far from that truth that now, legalistically We are are now totally dealing in a a foreign language in regards to our words. Uh just recently, as you know, uh um uh I'm a Vietnam vet Uh and when I went into the military in 68, uh it was very clear uh as to what the rules were Uh and uh to my knowledge, uh no one would have been allowed into the military if they walked in and said, I'm transgender Okay, now uh Trump, and I'm not a Trump fan, is being uh uh held to a standard because he has made a ruling as the President of these United States that uh no longer uh will the military be taking transgender. Uh we're just moving back to a correct position. Right. Although As as um this show airs the facts could potentially change, but as of now it's not it's not technically the official policy just yet because it hasn't he hasn't filed the official paperwork to make that happen. He sent out a tweet to that effect But the tweets don't change the rules. So we'll see if he actually follows through with the paperwork. Otherwise Max Klinger will have set the precedent for how we handle things in the military. Let me shift gears real quickly to another story that has to do with uh I think some legal issues and schools and that sort of thing. This is from religion, uh the religion section of the Huffington Post. See, Bright Bart Last Time Huffington Post, equal opportunity offender here. Um Muslim students allowed to pray in Maryland High School if grades are good. Now this is from 2013, so this is four years ago, but it came up in discussion on the afternoon show here on WFMD not too long ago. So here's a story. A Maryland Public School has drawn attention for its attempt to accommodate Muslim students' religious needs. Parkdale High School in Prince George's County, Maryland has begun to allow a small group of high-achieving Muslim students out of class for about eight minutes each day to pray together on campus. In order to qualify for the privilege, students must get parental permission and a good uh good grades, according to the uh principle. First Amendment protects the separation of church and state, but it guarantees students are allowed to practice their faith Uh Hendy Weinberg, Executive Director of the ACLU of Tennessee, said that while schools may restrict how and where students choose to exercise their religious rights, a school may not stop students from doing so. The Department of Education agrees, so the article says, it has long been established that schools have the discretion to dismiss students to off-premises religious instruction provided the schools do not encourage or discourage participation in such instruction to penalize students for attending or not attending, yada yada yada. So Does the school have any legal standing in encouraging, allowing, prohibiting students from gathering together for prayer, Daniel? Well, as I understand it and I wanna clarify, you mentioned that uh y you believe I'm a legal expert and I would I would hope that during my research I've come across several legal principles which are Uh which can be helpful to this. Uh but I am not uh licensed to practice the law and I cannot give legal advice. Uh so just to clarify that. Yeah, but you're still an hour. So Um uh uh you mentioned in the article said that the First Amendment protects the separation of church and state or something to that effect. I want to go and read the actual text of the First Amendment because or at least the relevant point. The separation of church and state is not in there. That's true. It's not in the Constitution at all. That is true. The separation of church and state comes from a letter that Jefferson wrote to a friend trying to explain an application of part of the First Amendment. Right. And it's taken very much out of context. So I I encourage listeners to go and read that letter as well as read the First Amendment itself. But I'll read the First Amendment, at least the relevant portion here. It says Congress shall make no law respecting an establishment of religion or prohibiting the free exercise thereof. And so that does not mean church and state must be completely separate. Because that would prohibit the free exercise of religion. If you have students that are in a school, and first of all I think we should have the conversation, should there be public schools, and I would tend to disagree with that that there should be, but When you have a school and this is a government run school and students in the school happen to be of a particular faith and they would like to pray, the government cannot prohibit that. Now if they're being disruptive to class, if they're uh stopping from the purpose of the school, that sort of thing, then you can have those types of conversations. But the idea seems to be here that these students are passing their classes, they're getting the education that the government wants them to get. and they just want to pray. And whether they're Muslim, uh whether they're Christian, you know, uh, i i i they're they're both religion and and I and I would th this is maybe a little bit off topic, but I would I would argue that the First Amendment was really intended originally to protect specifically one God religions such as Christianity, such as Judaism, even such as Islam, they really worship one God. I don't believe Jews or Muslims are saved But I but they do go they do worship one God, the God of the Old Testament, and those are specifically protected under the First Amendment Right. Well that's a whole other can of worms on whether or not I mean they would claim to be worshiping the God of the Old Testament, but are they in fact would be a that's a totally separate issue. But separate issue. But the point is i regardless, the Muslims I I believe would be protected under the First Amendment and you cannot prohibit them from exercising their religion. As long as they're I mean they're not harming others, they're not uh being disrupted to class. And what's interesting to me when this story was brought up on the afternoon show Uh it was kinda brought up if if I remember correctly in the context of somebody kind of being outraged that there was a special allowance being made for Muslims when Christians don't get that sort of treatment. And that's a valid argument. And maybe that's a valid argument. That wasn't to me the most important striking part of the story. To me It was the students had to get good grades in order to be able to pray. Mm. I was like, what do good grades have to do with anything? If a person is gonna try to be pious and honor their religious teachings and upbringing What if they're flunking out? Maybe they need prayer war. So that's why it's like the state is imposing a restriction on their ability to go pray the way that they want to. And that that was the part that really bothered me. Well I don't know if you uh want to jump in real quick. I apologize. You don't have much time to talk on the show. We've only got about ninety seconds left Well I I'll try to speak in ninety seconds or less. This is a very interesting topic. Both topics were relating to uh uh different uh practices and principles and the school systems. Uh we are here in the United States, we're getting very close to that point, Daniel, and yeah I'm sure you're very aware of it But when prayer was taken out of the schools, that changed the dynamic for so many things on the biblical level. And so it's not surprising to me that we have a lot of the issues that we're facing now, the gender issue. uh uh the the d everything across the board. When prayer was taken out of the schools, uh, we opened up the door for the enemy And anything goes now. So my my my belief in at St. John's Bible Fellowship is so important for us to speak the truth, to practice the truth, so that we can begin to dispel some of these lies from the enemy. We teach certain biblical principles. If people believed and operated under prayer and the guidance and bylaws of God then maybe they wouldn't be as confused as they are with so many of the other issues. So we've got to get back to the basics. We've got to get back to the basic as a people of God. I agree. And let me add this if we're so concerned as a as Christians about prayer being taken from schools, uh I would encourage Christians to start praying more in church and in their homes. Uh anyway. We didn't get to one of the topics I thought we maybe we'll do that next week. I want to thank uh Daniel and Julius and Kendall for being on the show. Thank you to Hilo Auto Sales and Tyre Proza Freddy for sponsoring Sponsoring the show, thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate Visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith until next week. God bless