Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile? You can find our show online at WFMD. com, keyword faith, where Later on or maybe before the show aired. I'm not sure when this is gonna hit the uh web, but you'll be able to watch a video that Jonathan Schweitzer is right now shooting or uh recording. I don't like the violence of the shooting thing, so uh recording And uh it's also gonna be on our Facebook page, WFMD's Facebook page. I don't know how you get there. I have no idea, I'm not a Facebook guy. I guess you just type in WFMD into your little search thing. Is that how it works? I don't know. Anyway, you can tell I'm cutting edge Jonathan Sweiser is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. He is certainly cutting edge. And Doctor Pamela Blake, she was cutting edge until she decided to come on this show and she lost all edge in her cutting Uh she is an elder at Strong Tower. She definitely uh uh is a step up for all of us here at the show, so we're so glad. Sorry, I cut you off there, Troy. That's okay. Well I'm pretty much done. We're gonna continue the show, but I think we're probably done with the video. Uh Dr. Blake last week was uh her first time uh making a foray into the face debate. So we we we we learned an awful lot about uh uh well kind of her background we got a big picture of you from of your uh yeah the different places you've lived and moved around to and s and some her journey as an African American intellectual woman headed into white places. You know, cutting edge. Talking about cutting edge. I mean she was cutting edge Uh, in so many of those different places. So part of what we learned was that in North Carolina back in the sixties when it came to um, you know, African American and uh Caucasian relations Uh not so good. Yeah. Right. Uh and then she was in uh uh State College in Pennsylvania and it was overwhelmingly white there, although you didn't seem to say there were a lot of problems per se there, but it was overwhelmingly white. Then she was at Dickinson where it was uh almost a hundred percent white. Ninety four percent uh white, and if you throw into Europeans it was probably ninety seven percent white. Yeah. Um and yet she continued to thrive in all that, got two master's degrees, a doctorate and uh at Duke of all places, who went back to North Carolina. Well the master's was at Duke Divinity, the doctorate was from Penn State. Oh, okay. So I got a little bit of that confused. But anyway, she's bounced around and so she's had so been able to do some compare and contrast. She mentioned that uh some things in North Carolina are better than they were forty years ago but in certain pockets within North Carolina maybe not so much. And so that's kind of the context of of uh a very quick thumbnail sketch of what she shared last week about her journeys. And so that led me to want to ask this question, now that you've landed in Frederick and you've been here for a handful of years, uh how does Uh compare seems like a a a loaded term. How would you articulate the state of African American and white and Hispanic relations? in Frederick compared to some other places you've been 'cause you've got a pretty wide frame of reference. Um, I think here I I'm don't believe I'm really qualified to speak about Frederick per se. I still be myself as an outsider. How many years you been here? Um eight Okay. Well, you know, for the for the good old boy network you'll always be an outsider, but eight is enough years to begin to have some sense of Of of how you know, I don't want to I I'm not gonna put you on the spot, but uh is it kind of uh kind of a little bit southern or kind of a little bit more northern or is it? Definitely not southern. But I I must say though the one thing I'm fascinated about in Frederick, which is why I taught the the seminar that I did on Ferguson Vill Rorschau test um for the church is because I do see the pockets of churches trying to come together here. Um I think that's very admirable Sor sorry about that. We had a a very annoying uh buzz feedback in Jonathan's microphone and I think I finally got rid of it. So if you heard that on your radio and was annoying you, I apologize with but we finally it was Jonathan that was causing it. Uh people I think hope like the behind the scenes stuff because we give them a lot of behind the scenes stuff. That microphone that Jonathan uses, you might want to video this. This would be this would be interesting for the video. Alright, fired up. Alright. This is a video specially shot in the middle of a show so we can explain to you our technical challenges. Right now I think Jonathan is taking a shot of the of the microphone that he uses almost every show. And for some reason that microphone is not properly grounded. So every once in a while Jonathan will brush up against the microphone or he might actually put his hand on it to re reposition it or something like that. And when he does that for some reason it creates this like feedback loop where it picks up audio from somewhere else in our building. Like through one of the satellite dishes. through one of the satellite dishes or the the network feeds for the syndicated show or something. I'm not sure. Or maybe it's interference from Mars. But uh every once in a while it's difficult to get rid of and we we have to actually it's the uh uh intelligence coming off of my brain that is too much for the technology. Okay, that's not what it is. So uh And with that we'll sign off. So you were saying so all in all, Frederick is it's not so bad. The the racial uh tensions aren't that strong. Uh the the willingness for people to interact with people that are different from themselves is charitably pretty good. I I wouldn't get into um saying good or bad. In some ways Frederick reminds me of Carlisle, Pennsylvania, which is very provincial. Uh everyone know their place. And they And you best know your place, is that what you're saying? You know the place on the other hand is a little uppity and he's not he doesn't know his place. And you you tread lightly on your neighbors. place. Interesting. And um Frederick reminds me of of that in the areas that I've interacted, so I don't want to speak for Frederick proper. Mm-hmm. But that is my feeling. It's a it's very provincial. And by that you mean like Jonathan and I hang out and we can do whatever we want within that milieu of who we hang out with and where we hang out, but if we were to go somewhere else We would be self-consciously aware of the need to not make waves. Is that kind of what you mean by that? I'm trying to mean trying to get m behind what you mean by provincial and how how that affects our behavior. Provincial is the sense that that I stay with my kind. Is that is that kind of what you're saying? However you define your kind. But once you define your kind, you do tend to stay with your kind. Yeah. Yeah, what is my kind? So there's not a lot of cross pollination. I don't want my kids to be the ones that would define that right now. That's it. Yeah, it's interesting. I would agree with that probably. I mean as a general term, I think that's probably feels right to me. Somebody told me that they felt like Frederick was a very clique town. Well absolutely. That's just another word for the same thing, right? Yeah, yeah. That's uh that's saying the same thing that that that you gotta find your click and you gotta understand, you know, kind of where people are and and kind of move in and out of those those groups. Uh I don't I don't know I mean the the question is there's probably some people that are able to move in and out of those groups and others that just kinda stay in those groups. And I think that uh in fact those that uh get things done around Frederick have learned how to move in and out of those groups without it being an issue. And so Now that you mention it, I feel like that explains a whole number of things that we ran into in the context of Convoy of Hope and and uh the um uh you know the the front Frederick forty eight fundraiser that that there seemed to be those groups and and if you're able to identify them and activate 'em, then you could do something together. But if you didn't know somebody that could help to activate that group, it was gonna end up not happening and it would just be you and your group. That's what you're describing. Right. So I'm not disagreeing with that. Yeah, I'm wondering how I don't want to get bogged down on this as is a sociological question, but I'm wondering how unique that really is. 'Cause I I I've mentioned before, I grew up in Chicago. Yeah. And Chicago is cliques and provincial too. It's just that it's not the French quarter, the Chinese quarter. Yeah, it's not spread out into uh you know where the cliques are spread out and they come together. It's just they live together. You know, uh it is a very diverse city, Chicago. I mean uh here's an example. The only Is that true about s big cities in general? Yeah, but uh but but Particularly uh a city like Chicago, uh I I'm not sure why international Chicago might even be more diverse uh than New York uh has huge, huge population pockets. Like there's only one city in the world that has more Polish people in it than Chicago, and that's Warsaw So I mean there's this huge Polish uh group of people. There's huge Greek population. Huge Irish population. Very huge Irish I've been to Chicago on uh St. Patrick's Day. Huge Italian. I mean it it's it's it's the but they all ki this is oversimplifying it, but as a general rule, they kinda all live in the same place. And so they're very provincial, but and they they know their place in a very geological sense. Geographical sense. That's the stew. Geological geographical. That's the stew. When people say that America's not a melting pot, it's a stew They're all mixed in there together and sometimes the stew is chopped up a little bit more finely, but there's still the sense that it's a stew and not quite a message. place to to live because if you go one mile in one direction it's it's all militantly uh Irish. You go one mile the other direction, it's militantly African American. You go another direction, it's militantly uh Italian uh and and so forth. And so you know where the boundaries are. And if you're not Italian, you don't go in the Italian section. About that, about the melting pot. What was on your mind there? I was going to disagree with calling uh the American culture stew. Yeah. Um, from my cultural background Stews when you put foods together and you stew them, some foods lose their flavors. So one flavor may over power another flavor and some much more like a fruit sophisticated I I would say more like a salad because each part still re m uh maintains its own identity. So it all comes together to taste good. It all comes together to look good, but each part still maintains its flavor. that are more effective at at crossing these these cultural barriers, meaning they have a multicultural congregation, I feel like they've tended to lose the original flavors and they've kind of become this this flavor that's an am that's a unique American pop cultural flavor That's not Irish, that's not African American, that's not Italian, you know, but it's it's you know something less cultural, which feels to me like they lost some of their original flavor. And so in that context, I'm not sure always that that like like that part of it. I uh whenever I think to myself, I'd like my congregation to do a better job at at reaching whatever cultures are out there I always think to myself, and you know what, I'm willing to let go of some of the flavor of my white culture, you know, in in in order to develop a flavor that is unique, you know. I appreciate you bringing it around to talk about the church because I wanted to go there and I uh and I want to say here's my uh my thought on what you just said. I think that I I'm really liking Pamela's idea of a salad. I'm gonna be using that. America's a tossed salad. I'm I'm really kinda liking that analogy. And I would say what you were describing, Jonathan is true for an awful lot of uh w wide swaths of the churches in America, but I think it's probably an error. uh that the church is making. They think that that's the way to be multicultural is to to ask people to give up a piece of their ethnicity, their cultural experience. Sunday do do things, you know, more or like uh one song is is decidedly African American. I think if you were to go radical Sunday to Sunday you'd have a problem, but I think having uh having a carrot and a tomato and a piece of lettuce all in the same worship service That would be great. Would be idea. Um, I would say i you don't have to lose identity to do that. I don't have a problem with a church that says we're comfortable celebrating Black History Month. We're comfortable celebrating Women's History Month. We're comfortable celebrating um American Native uh identity if they are in the church. Um but you're not pulling from nothing. You're saying that because you are part of this body I want to acknowledge your culture and your heritage and that's part of what you bring to the body of Christ. So it's interesting that you moved from culture nationalities into uh some of the groups that are um considered uh, fighting for their rights. I mean I guess uh I mean like women women's rights, you know, African American is still a nationality thing. definitely the Native Americans, uh, but like women's rights again like like that that uh takes it in a unique direction. Obviously you're very uh uh you know, the right person to speak to all those issues. Um But see these are human issues. Yeah, yeah. These a and that's part of uh the other show when I said I tend to take uh different view of what we're called to do and be in Christ. I want to acknowledge the differences. And the guy's name is is Thurman? Howard Thurman. Howard Thurman. And um In in the name of the book again? Jesus and the disinherited. Jesus and the disinherited. And uh he's coming at the church, even in history, as um uh in a prophetic way and saying that that the church needs to do a better job at doing what? Like what is it that that if you were gonna summarize uh his approach to the church. You know, you you said that you were Bible believing, but that his emphasis in that direction led you to want to be a a person that's asking the questions that can shake us out of some of our ruts. That's my own language. Let me let me give you a couple of quotes. from Jesus and the disinherited. Okay. Okay, from Howard Thurman. One he wrote, he said, Jesus demonstrated reverence for personality. Most w uh he says when he met the woman w at the well, he met her where she was and treated her as if she were already where she now willed to be. He believed her into the fulfillment of her possibilities. Okay. And that's what I I think we've got to meet people where they are and believe them into where they can go. He also made the comment that the ethical demand upon is the same upon the privilege as it is the underprivileg. ethical demand. And um I think in this country and in some of our churches we've not done that. We've made we've allowed for some people to get away with something because of who they are. So this is interesting because I I've been reading John Stott recently, his um Christ and the Cross and uh he digs into some of the uh ways that um that modern Christianity has has tried to reinterpret the nature of the human problem, right? And uh and so it it leads me to ask some um additional questions, you know, when I th when I think about something like this. Um is it still the case that the uh that the woman at the well that or you know the ad the woman caught in adultery, that these people that their that their number one problem was sin that it separated them from God and that needed uh to be forgiven. Or that their number one problem is Possibly something else. I would tend to say the number one problem is something else. That it's not sin. It's not sin necessarily. Um, why was she at the well that time of day? What were the circumstances that led her not to be at the well with other women? Sure. What were the circumstances that caused her to be alone? Why was she coming at a unusual time of day? What were the circumstances that led her to even uh engage in a conversation with a man whom she was not supposed to. But yet she took that risk. So I would say let's look at some deeper issues and ask ourselves some different questions. So it's funny because I would say that the deeper issue is the sin issue. When we uh were uh in your class, I took the class that uh Dr. Blake was teaching on uh Ferguson being a Rorschach test to how you approach racism. And in the context of that discussion, uh th we were defining racism. And um an African American woman in the room had defined racism as something that is is only perpetrated by a person in power on somebody that's not in power. And uh in I've often had in my mind an orientation that says racism is an issue of the heart that everybody deals with and that there can there's such a thing as a reverse racism where the person that's not in power is uh is inherently bringing a wrong attitude towards the person that's in power that that is as much a part of the problem. Anyways, my point in in addressing that is that Is that from where I stand, the number one issue, like the deep heart issue, if we're gonna dig deep, deep, deep uh into what is the what is the most difficult central you know issue is what Christ dealt with on the cross And that is the the sin in the way that it had brought the wrath of God upon us and left us broken and that all the other issues are often still important for us to work out, but that they they do fade in the context of what Christ accomplished on the cross. And so I hear you saying that that's not necessarily the case. That w the I I don't hear you saying that what Christ compass on the cross was unnecessary, but I hear you saying that it might not have been the most important. No, I'm not I'm not talking about Christ on the cross. Yeah. I think we all understand that fundamentally we are sinners Okay. And most of what we do, in fact, is based on our knowledge of sin and our perpetrating sin. Okay. Um, so I'm not saying that what Christ did on the cross was not important, but I'm saying that he understood some of the realities of what humankind needed. In its in nature. So if you're not sure, so you're saying that these other issues in terms of of her social status in her status as a woman, and her status as a Samaritan and all these other issues, her status as a uh as a uh adulterous woman, you know, in that environment that he understood those issues, but he still understood it in the context of sin and brokenness, but that but that he didn't see it as a he navigated it instead of just condemning it. Okay. Is that accurate to what you're saying? Uh somewhat. Meaning it's still a sin issue, but he didn't come to condemn the world. He came that the world might have life and have it more abundantly. Right. And so in the same way that He's dealing with Peter or he's dealing with uh any one of the apostles, he's dealing with her, and he's recognizing that we all deserve hell and that sin has caused society to develop these uh these arbitrary boundaries that leave us more broken than we need to be. And so he navigated those things with wisdom uh in righteousness and he wants us to as as well and compassion. Okay, I'm with you. I'm still I I I I I'm relieved 'cause I I was a little bit more concerned because I do feel like uh the cross and what Christ accomplished at the cross is the heart of all the change that we need. Oh, absolutely. But the question is Did it just deal with my own personal sin or did it deal with the way that that even the ways that we interact with one another culturally have also become uh corrupted by sin and and I think that's what what you're saying, that it's not just my personal sin, but it's also the ways that we interact with one another. that cause us to not come with compassion. Absolutely. Remember now we all have a individual call and we have a collective call. Yeah. And so yes, Christ came for us and all, but we have a fundamental um issue that we're not addressing. We like to come to our assemblies And we want to talk about one thing. But but Christ dealt with both. Yeah. You know, he dealt with the woman compassionately. He asked her a question. You know we don't ask questions. We don't deal compassionately enough right now. I will will go into we look at the uh racial issues. And one of the things I'm always disappointed in in um conversations we have around racial issues. And especially some people in the media is there is a at the first thing that people want to do sometime is put a label on. And it becomes uh us against them, uh we against them. And um I'm less emotionally involved when all of a sudden I put a label on it because the label uh uh gives me kind of the freedom to not have to connect uh emotionally sometimes and and uh somehow scientifically handle it. Right. And and the the thing is though, when you put a label on somebody, you automatically put a barrier up that says we're gonna have problems here. They because I and I'm gonna get into the racial but one of the things I noticed even here in Frederick, the news post, um, a lot of people write in and the first Three lines of their letter is those liberals. The problem is those liberals. Right. The problem is When you put the word liberals in there, you've automatically said that's a us against them. Right. But if you say the problem is people's thought processes toward this issue. Yeah. Now I'm being willing to hear what you're saying, to hear your heart because I've not labeled you. Yeah, so there's there's a lot here to keep talking about. And we're gonna be running out of time here in a couple of minutes. So I'm gonna try to uh gather our thoughts between now and next week's show and we'll probably talk a little about the labeling and I want to say something that it's Related to what we were talking about fifteen minutes ago, but you know, rather than get off on another tangent to right now we don't have time. Uh I just wanted to talk about tr encourage churches. You know, there are pastors that listen to this show, there are churchgoers listen to this this show, and you know, we were saying that it needs to be a tossed salad or a stew or something along those lines. We don't do a good job of that I want to acknowledge and I think you will agree it's hard to do. Oh absolutely. You know, there aren't uh uh enough people that know about certain cultures to bring that element into the worship service to begin with. If you're interested in figuring out Some ways to think about that and to explore trying to do those sorts of things. I would r uh commend to you a book by Marva Dawn called A Royal Waste of Time. Excellent book that talks about That's not a waste of time. No, it's an excellent book and it talks about worship uh uh sp uh generally and worship music uh with some specificity. And and uh she talks about the challenges. And it'd be wonderful to have a whole wide variety of music in your server, but if you don't have the musicians and the people that are gifted in that way, it's gonna be tough. Uh and so sometimes in chasing multicultural uh ideas as they relate to our society, I think we as a church run the risk of losing s track of what our primary identity is. Yeah. There's one culture really for Christ, there's a Christian culture, and all churches should be pursuing that. And if it doesn't exactly jive and fit well with societal cultures As long as we're focused on trying to be a Christian culture. Absolutely. We have thirty seconds. So we'll next I dealt with this the most most in the context of the messianic Jewish community. And we'll go learn more about that next week. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, also joined this week by Dr. Pamela Blake, who is a minister at Strong Tower. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Freddy Faith Debate. Brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? I mentioned Marva Dawn's book, but uh royal waste of time. What else am I reading? The Returning King by Vern Poithras. A must-read. A must read the returning king. Till next week, God bless