Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. As people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Bates Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of uh links to various religious traditions, uh links to podcasts of this show. You'll actually see a video that Jonathan Schweitzer is right now uh recording on our little handheld camera. You can also see this video on our Facebook page. Don't ask me how to find us on Facebook, but if you use Facebook, you don't I don't use Facebook, so I don't know how to do that But if you use Facebook, you'll know how to find us so you can see this video. On the panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. There is that handsome fellow right there on the video. And Dr. Pamela Blake, who is the minister or a minister at South she's not the only one, at uh South Tower in Frederick and the last Oops. What did I just say? Strong tower. You just said South Tower. Is that South Tower? Yes. Oh. Is that on the south side of town by any chance? It's on the key side of town, isn't it? Strong tower, by the way, a good song by uh Newsboys. Anyway. And apparently a good church for what I can for what I can gather. We sing that one. On a regular basis. Pop contemporary contemporary worship. You're all over that. Yeah. Like we were talking about last week. It's a culture to itself that is not quite English or German or African American Irish. This isn't aside, but I I gotta say 'cause you know, you know how I love my music. Oh no. And what we were talking about in last week's show, if you missed it, go online and listen to the the podcast. We were talking about how you know churches um are are are so conscious of trying to be everything to everybody that they become kind of milk toast and they lose musically especially. Yeah, and they and they lose any sort of uh Diverse true diversity. You know, uh somebody who comes from a Cuban background is expected to be less Cuban in those environments. Somebody comes from an African background is expected to be less African in those environments. And we were talking about how it it would be nice if if the person who's Cuban could somehow be able to celebrate and bring more of that Cubanness and that sort of flavor into the mix That'd be really cool. That's what's wrong. That's one that's part of what's wrong with uh contemporary Christian music these days. Yeah They've tried so hard to be all things to all people and not be offensive in any way that people that like good music for the most part are offended because it's horrible. There's nothing wrong with Chris Tomlin. The pr for those who listen to contemporary Christian music, the name Chris Tomlin means something to you. There's nothing wrong with Chris Tomlin. The problem is Chris Tomlin became very popular. And so everybody else decided, oh, that's what contemporary Christian music needs to be, and so now everybody's trying to be Chris Tomlin. And Chris Tomlin's Tomlin, I think it was trying to be like U2 worship. Well, you know he doesn't have anywhere near as much edge as you too. Are you kidding me? No, no, no. I didn't say he had edge. I'm saying he uh uh the the the popular Christian music for for a period of time all had had echoes of trying you know, trying to be you two in, you know, whatever spiritual edge those guys had with everybody, you know, thousands in a stadium, you know, with their lighters going back and forth anyways. So that's part of why I like a band you've heard me talk about a few times the show. It's why I like a band like the Newsboys. Yeah. Because if you follow their histor their the the arc of their career from the early nineties up until today Uh they've probably put out maybe twenty albums, probably, and I would say those albums represent a half a dozen different genres of music That's pretty cool to me. So I I I appreciate that they are constantly trying to reinvent themselves and try something new and different. And I listen I don't listen to the contemporary Christian music all that much, but I listen uh that's on the radio. But I listen to a lot of uh present day and therefore contemporary Christian music. But there's a guy Rhett Walker, you familiar with Rhett Walker? Yeah, I know the name. You know, he's kind of a southern rock kind of Christian guy. She's kind of fallen into ill favor because of some personal choices she's made in her life with Jennifer Knaff back in the day, ten years ago, was doing basically Christian blues, like a a popish blues thing That's interesting to me. But everybody that sounds just like Casting Crowns, just like uh Chris Tomlin, just like um uh uh who what's your wife's uh favorite? Singer. My wife's in front of a blank on his and I can picture his face. Um it's uh Stephen Curtis Chapman. There we go, Stephen Curtis. Yeah. You know, they don't do it. Yeah, good for you. You scored for Ryan Play with your wife. Anyway, so that relates what we're talking about here in the sense that the the music scene has become so everything's the same. There's so much sameness. that it seems like Christianity has no flavor. That's one of the criticisms, right? I talk to Christians, say, oh I can't listen to Christian music. It's or you talk to non-Christians, say, oh yeah, Christian music, you know, that's horrible and that's what churches like. It's it it's it should be vibrant. It should be filled with differences and celebrated differences. Take a guy like Toby Mack and his and his uh the Diverse City album and he's all about the diversity and celebrating it. Yeah. You know, and and uh LaCrae, uh you know, Christian rapper. Yeah. Oh, you finally hit on somebody I know. You know? That sort of stuff took you five minutes to do it. I listen to all that sort of stuff because it it's different and it's interesting and you pull it all together. But too many of us have listened to Matthew West and Matt Matthew West wannabes and Chris Tomlins and Chris Tomlin wannabe. It's maddening. And the point here is that's what the churches have started to become. They become white bred, suburban, you know, houses of quote unquote houses of worship. And it's hard. to get any real traction in that. It's like Christianity's become its own culture within the m mix of culture, as opposed to being a culture said that it should be. No, it should be a culture that supersedes all of that and at the same time embraces all of that as opposed to being a narrow sliver within all of that. And all I'm saying is that there was a time in history in the Western world when that was the case. And Da Vinci and these other guys were creating art in the name of the church that was r truly transcendent and, you know, still stands for the ages. But I feel like the reason we're not that anymore is because we're no longer the dominant culture. We lost the authority, we lost the you know, the the the edge in terms of Western society. Western society's turned away from us and so they have other spiritual lights that are driving them and they're not us. They're not Christ. And so I I think that being the case, we can't expect that we're gonna have the cutting edge. I mean I I just don't know that it can happen if the society together is not going that direction and then there's resources and there's There's a release of these things. Not that we can't have great. I don't think the church is a victim of society as a whole like that. I I I I'm not sure I'm comfortable ad uh conceiving that. I'm saying that we're we're a victim of of the greater powers within society. were told by God that because of their sinfulness that he was going to take away their kings and their princes and their commanders of thousands and ten thousands. And I think that that there might be an Isaiah, there might be a Jeremiah, there might be an Elijah, you know, out there in our culture But they're not going to be defined by a cultural expression or a worship music. They're going to be defined by the c quality of the content and the same thing. I'm looking for an Elijah within the church. Well that's my point. That's what we're looking for. We're not trying to to nurture great musicians. We're trying to nurture great men and women of God. And who cares if they've got some kind of uh artistic talent? You know, first and foremost we want to see them walking in the purposes of God because God can use an a and nobody to make a difference in society. But when that's the point. But when we f fall prey, my opinion, we fall prey to trying to make the church be something that we think that the rest of culture expects us to be. Then we get into situations where a pastor like Jonathan Schweitzer cannot walk, you know, back in the spring, cannot walk to downtown Baltimore in the middle of the fires and the looting. and feel like he can be a voice to be heard in that mix because who are you, Mr. Whitebred Preacher Man? Get out of my town. Uh but if the church had a reputation for embracing the diversity, truly embracing it, not milk not watering it down uh and truly embracing it, then you you walk in there no matter your skin color Uh no matter your uh uh the neighborhood you come from and they're like, Oh, he doesn't exactly look like me, but he but I know about these Christian guys and they stand for truth, they stand for righteousness, they stand for justice and grace and fairness and and all of that. And this g swings us back around to uh the end of last week's show when Dr. Blake was mentioning something about not being a fan of labels and and how they can be a a problem. Right. And I will grant the point to a degree, but I want to make sure because I th there's a possibility that you and I are in disagreement. You're not necessarily saying we should go sans labels All the time. No. 'Cause then we can't communicate. No, I'm saying that when we want to understand each other, it's best if we don't start the conversation with the label. Well particularly if well I would say if it's used in a pejorative way. Mm-hmm. Right. I think that it's okay for me to say, now Jonathan, as my charismatic brother in Christ over there, uh we've got some dis that would be okay, right? Oh you charismatics. Right. Right. But that's different. So label with a wrong tone of voice, a wrong attitude behind it is a problem, whereas a a label with uh with an intention to try to understand with one one another you're saying uh might not be so bad a thing. What why can't we just say Jonathan comes from this? Well I'll tell you why. Because Because my impression is that there are some some genuine um differences in how your uh ministry career has gone that that I would never personally have uh had to deal with or could have if I'd have tried to. Meaning that if I'm to truly understand you at some level it means I gotta get outside of myself. Like Troy's background, when I when I hear him talk about his background, I've come to know him uh as well as probably many people in his life. Um he it's clear to me that there's enough distinctions about his background and where he comes from that uh that if I'm not paying attention to those distinctions I'm missing who it is that he is. And so the question is how do we how do we address those distinctives in a way that I'm honoring uh what those distinctives are instead of using them as another way that I can just rip you down, you know, in a negative way. Uh I I think there's common humanity that we all that that we all share together and you know common ideas like rejection and loneliness and um uh anger and you know bitterness that that applies to all of us But how those things apply to us are often like I I I can imagine some things that you've gone through But that's a far cry for me really understanding them. You know, and so proverbs says, Each heart knows its own bitterness, no one else can share its joy. I can imagine it and I can sympathize and empathize, but that's a far cry for me really you know, knowing it so the c you know, there's a there's a line in that somewhere. And Pamela, I share your heart I think, uh on this. And um How do I want to say this? I don't want to come across as patronizing because that's certainly nowhere near my I agree with you, therefore you must be right. Is that what I'm meaning to say? Um nevertheless that's how it goes between you and me. I think it was last week's show you were talking about uh the woman at the well, this American woman at the well, and you're getting and you're trying to talk about getting behind the life story of that of the the character in that story. So it's not just a character, an actual historical figure in that story, interacting with another historical figure in that story, Jesus And I agree. I think that's an important part of sermon preparation probably, you know, J Jonathan. I would imagine you're trying to figure out you know, what's what's the backstory here? Totally. Because We end up having if we end up c approaching a story like that as generous people, as generous readers, yeah uh and I read a lot I'm I read a lot, but I read a lot of stuff I don't agree with. And it took me a while. It took somebody who was very wise to help me to understand the importance of this. So when you read, make sure you're reading generously, that you're giving the person that you think you disagree with every benefit of doubt. And if you think they could have possibly meant it in this way that you can appreciate Assume they meant it in that way. Don't assume the worst of them. And so that gets into so I can label someone as a liberal if what uh there's somebody here at the radio station that's pretty well known to our audience, you know, Frank Mitchell who does the afternoon show. He is Frank in the basement. He's not comfortable with the liberal label, uh he prefers progressive. Okay, fine. But I could say that's those darn progressives And if I use it the wrong way, he's not going to be happy with it. So I think if we're generous about the labeling, it helps us understand. I grew up in Chicago, I fly on somebody who says you're a Chicagoan. Because there are some basic generalized truths about people who grew up in the Midwest and Chicago that aren't true for all of them, but if you label someone as a Chicagoan in context with some other things are also true, we can kind of triangulate and come to some sense of, okay, I think I have a foothold of How to understand where that person's coming from. So I think the little thing is that the same thing is that the same thing is that the same thing is that the same thing is that the people are going to be able to do that. Um, if your friend says, I am a progressive, then he's defined himself. I think my take is the problem sometimes with labels is the other person is doing the defining. If I define myself as a Southern African American woman who is ordained, um, who's preaching all, that's me giving Although let me push back just a little bit on that. Um by the way, this is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFND. Jonathan Sweitzer right now has the camera in his hand, so if you're watching online, hello Uh Jonathan is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church and Doctor Pamela Blake is an elder at Strong Tower in Frederick If I were, if you said so, describe yourself to me, if I were going to assign a label to you, Troy, what label would you prefer? And I were to say in response to that question, I am an African American woman who was born and raised in North Carolina. It's it's simply not true. So we can't just let somebody affix a label that's not true. I and I mentioned that as a kind of a joking way. That happens in a church context all the time. There are a lot of people that self-identify as Christian, and I'm sorry, I have to reject their self-labeling because according to the Bible, they're not. Now if the Bible's wrong, maybe they are, but that's a totally different but according to the biblical definitions and understanding of what that means They're claiming something for themselves that isn't true. So when you meet someone like that or if you have the occasion to talk about someone like that, do you say, My friend Kat, who really isn't a Christian but calls himself a Christian? He does say that. I don't know if I if I go out of my way to say that, but I but if if if the context were such like Somebody here at the workplace. I work at the radio station throughout the week, not just with this show that airs on Sundays. Somebody here at the workplace happened a couple years ago, but it's it's fresh from my mind for some reason. Yeah was talking about something going on in the world and those quote unquote Christians doing something that was not very becoming for a Christian. And I said, Well, you know, that group They're not Christian. I would say that. You know that group you're talking about? The ones that say they're Christian, they're not Christian. And that's actually it's funny you're bringing that that that posing that question because that's exactly what I had in mind when I posed my original question to you you know, thirty seconds or uh uh three minutes ago. Um he said, Who are you to say who's a Christian, not to not a Christian? They say they're a Christian. We've run into that same problem on this show with Islam. Oh, yeah. Right? We've had we've had Muslim guests and we tried to have the Ahmadian Muslims on that are rejected by the rest of the Muslim world. And they're the ones, the Ahmadians, that tried to move into Frederick, uh, back in the O's, uh, and they got rejected. And the point is is that the rest of the Muslim world rejects them as well. And so again, you know, we have these. But on this show they won't reject. That was the frustrating, because we were talking about the terrorists, the you know, the the militantly radical, dangerous element uh Whether you think it's a s a large part or a small part, an element of Islam. And we were trying to get to say, well, then the you're saying that good Muslims, according to your definition, are peace loving. Mr. Guest. Yeah. These people are clearly not peace loving, so that means I guess they're not good Muslims. They're not Muslims by definition. And they wouldn't they we've never had a Muslim guest who was comfortable saying that. No, if somebody uh says they're a Muslim, who am I to disagree? That drives me crazy. Who are you to disagree? The facts in help me to disagree. When we I'm not sure if you agree with me, but that's when we go to Christ, the Apostle Paul, the Old Testament It's definitely the case that that though we have these amazing stories where Christ is reaching across barriers to connect with people, we also have key places and teachings where Christ is teaching in such a way that he's that he's dividing between those that are in and those that are out. And he's he's doing it with with enough clarity that he's really offending a lot of people in the way that he's uh using that language and the way uh the things that he's talking about. Same thing with the apostle Paul, Peter, you know, all the different ones that that there's a There's a piercing to the heart where they're speaking about the truth. And this is the difficulty. I feel like it's the grace and truth struggle that that is constantly going on in all discussions about Defining reality and what reality is like. That we want to be generous because we want to understand each other the best that we can. We want to be people that understand uh other people, even those that we most disagree with. We wanna we wanna treat them in such a way that we understand them. But at the end of the day, there are certain truths about sin and righteousness that if we're not clear on those things, then Um like it says in the in the law, in the Torah, that if if you don't confront that person about their sin, then you share in their sin. Where where there's an obligation to address things that need to be addressed. And so we're always moving back and forth between at what point do we say, okay, it's wrong to do that, person that's doing that is Is handling things wrong as opposed to uh being generous and saying, Well, I understand where they're coming from. I understand you know what's frustrating for them, and in in you know uh what might be driving them. Right. I mean there's always a balance I feel like between those things. Now that I've decompressed a little bit I realize I went on a rant and Jonathan repo or responded to my rant appropriately so uh but now it's been quite a stretch we haven't had uh Dr. Blake have a chance to offer an opinion on what's been said over the last five to ten minutes. So your turn. What what's your reaction to my histrionics? Well, I I disagree when you said um that the person who identifies as Muslim or the person who identifies as Krishna and they're not doing those things. I still go back to letting people identify themselves and define themselves. Now I may disagree with how a person is living But if that person says, I am a Christian, I am not going to say they're not a Christian. I may say they are a Christian in a backslidden state. But I'm not going to take away their identity as a Christian. They're self identifying as a Christian Okay, so there's the guy I tell this story all the time that was uh one of the pastors at one of the churches downtown, one of the clustered spires in Frederick, right? The the old historical churches. We went out to lunch and I talked with him for two hours And I asked him if we could define our terms as we were talking together. And in the context, he agreed afterwards. We defined atonement, salvation, you know, redemption, forgiveness, you know, all the biblical terms. We define them so differently that I asked him this question. I said, Would you say that you're preaching a different gospel from your pulpit than I am? He said, Absolutely. I said, Would you agree that you're probably preaching against the gospel that I preach from your pulpit? He said, Absolutely And I said, okay, now whose definitions are the are the most recent definitions? You know, are my definitions the old, primitive, backward definitions? Are your definitions the ones that in the last hundred fifty years or so have changed? He says absolutely. And so then I said to him, I said, then can you understand why it's so frustrating? Because we're using definitions that that are All the way from the time of Christ, arguably, and in the last hundred and fifty years you use the same exact language But you're meaning something totally different, meaning that that you're not really talking about the same gospel as previously. I said if you were Spanish and you interpreted things then I could just accept the interpretation. But we can't do that because as soon as I go to interpret, you're using the same language. We have to come up with a whole different language that is our interpretive language to deal with the fact that we're saying the same things and meaning things totally different. And those people, I argue, are no longer Christian. They claim to be Christian, but they they openly admit that in the last hundred to one hundred and fifty years they left the classical definitions of Christianity behind in the name of brand new definitions and that the heart of their brand new definitions are that that we can't trust the miracles of the Bible. We can't trust that Christ actually rose from the dead and and that Moses actually parted a Red Sea somewhere. And so therefore we have to redefine everything you know, so that those things aren't an issue. And all I'm saying is that that's they might be self-id identifying as Christian, but if I'm not careful then there's people in those congregations that are getting fed the same exact language but with a totally different gospel. And I'm pretty sure that Christ would have clarified that people were preaching a false gospel. Right. spiritual, but you're talking more in the church environment. Sure. And I'm talking more in the cultural perspective. Yeah, and I would agree, and I think that actually I don't understand the difference you know the I think that uh your perspective is very increasingly popular and very common in in today's culture, today's world. And I think it's been influenced by American individualism uh in combination with postmodernism. So that I can say, well what's true for me is true for me, what's true for you is true for you and Bruce Jenner can say that he's now a woman and you know, that who am I to say he's not? You had to bring him up. Yeah, well I'm just but that's a pretty big uh and he's allowed individually to say something that the probably the the majority of people, certainly over history, would disagree with. I think that the group has some voice in defining things. Otherwise in a country of three hundred million plus people, we could have three hundred million plus truths. But there can only be one truth. And I think the group has influence in saying what a man is, what a woman is, what a cr particularly when it's that group, when it when the group of Christians say this is what it means to be a Christian That carries a some authority at least equal to, if not over and above, the individual who wants to say, I don't care what everyone else in the world says, I'm a Christian. Even though I do all these things, I worship Satan, but I'm a Christian Uh I I I'm not I don't I think the group has to have powerful understanding what you're saying at all? Absolutely. Okay, how so? Um they could I'm I'm still back to I'm talking more culturally. Yeah, what does that mean? I am talking more ethnically. Yeah. Um, not about the church. I do believe. So somebody ethnically could define themselves as a Christian? No, I am saying I'm using more um defining themselves racially. Maybe I should say that or socially. Because we got into it and you were saying if somebody calls himself a Christian, I'm going to accept that they're not going to be able to do that. I don't care how you want to label it, twenty-seven minutes is twenty-seven minutes. That's all there is to it. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossers Valley Church. Dr. Pamela Blake, Minister at Strong Tower. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman, Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Uh what have I been reading? The Bible and the Future. Another book by Anthony Hokama that I read recently. I would recommend that one as well. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless. Visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith