The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Good morning. Welcome to the Faith Debate. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. You can find us online at WFMD. com. You can also find us on the FM if you're already listening right now on the FM at 99. 9 HD2 for the good old standby AM930 on your old transistor radio dial. And you can find uh more information about me and the show and the church that I pastor. It's called Household of Faith in Christ in our website believe it or not is called counsel of faith in Christ dot com we were free original on that one. And back for uh round four of this particular panel uh I think it's round four, is Daniel Razby. You can learn more about Daniel and uh his church and well actually a ministry that his church up in Thurmont is uh i i is founded, I don't know, twenty, twenty-five years ago, something like that, called Concord by Love Ministries. Their website is conquered by love dot org. And Steven Jurger is becoming a regular now on the show. This is probably I'm gonna say the tenth or twelfth show that uh we've had uh This is Steve Jrger, he's uh one of the members, one of the leaders really, of a uh church gathering in southern Pennsylvania called the Shabbat. Gathering and uh all of our churches, all three of them uh happen to be house churches. If you're interested about what that's about, reach out to me and I'll I'll tell you what the ins and outs of of that are. It's not to say that the traditional model church with the big buildings are are necessarily wrong, but um I think there's a lot of advantages of doing the house church thing and so that's why the three of us are involved in that sort of a thing. So we're gonna s switch a little bit. Last several weeks we've been talking about Bible translations and we we you got you know feisty a couple of times and started talking about the Hebrew Roots movement and and then got uh really animated with some of that stuff. We might dedicate a a show or series of shows more specifically to the Hebrew roots roots movement. Um and and because we did we only glazed over uh the surface of a lot of uh important things there. But uh we had a bit of an agenda of what we wanted to talk about over the next couple of weeks and one of those is something we've been sitting on for Goodness, it's got to be at least six months. Maybe it's nine months. We've been sitting on the question of whether or not uh Islam and Christianity worship the same God. And uh I wasn't sure if we're gonna do it this week or or the following week, but uh Daniel Rasby kind of accidentally teased it uh last week. So I figured, you know what, let's just let's just do it next. So there's the question. Do Muslims worship the Christian God? Is one way of phrasing that question. And another way of phrasing the question, we do Christians worship the Muslim God? That'd be another way of raising that question So let let me ask actually before we get to that one, I think it's important to answer a second question. Do Jews, modern today do Orthodox Jews today worship the same God that Christians do. No. And you, Troy, I think would be in the minority among evangelical Christians to saying that. Yeah. Well Jesus is the minority at the cross, so I'm fine. No, no, no, I I'm I'm but I but what I'm saying is They rejected they're the branches broken off. But there's a lot to say about that. So Romans eleven but there's a difference between saying that someone is not saved and that God does not accept their worship and thus they are not going to end up in heaven. No, historically there's a connection. So historically I c you know if I could mo if I I mean I wanted to give you a really quick pithy answer, but historically there's some sort of a connection to being made. But theologically and and as far as the orientation of their worship, they are not worshiping the God of the Bible because they've rejected him. So so be because uh so uh let me finish my thought. There is a difference between saying that God does not accept somebody's worship or that they are not actually understanding fully who he is or you know, all of that. And and the and then saying that they're actually worshiping a false god. Which they are. A non a uh a god. And I would I would disagree. I will stand firmly on that. Okay. And I would disagree strongly. And so and I would say the Jews worship the God of the Torah, who is the creator of the universe, and that is the same God that I worship because God did not change. The Jews understanding of him is not full and not not complete. But God Himself did not change, has never changed, of course. And so that when they say they worship the God that the Torah talks about in Genesis And the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. You can say, well, you don't understand who he really is, but they say, I worship the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. In name only, but not in fact. But yeah, that's that's the thing, is in the name only, fine. Historically speaking, but not theologically speaking, they have the wrong god. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, and they do not worship that God. Okay, I gotta jump in here because in Romans 11, verse 1, I say then, God has not rejected his people, has he? May it never be. For I too am an Israelite, de d uh descendant of Abraham, the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people who we foreknow. Or do you know that the scripture says the passage about Elijah Elijah, how he pleased with the god with with God against Israel, saying, You've killed the prophets, you've torn down the altars, I'm alone left to there's seeking my life. Where there's a as I'm paraphrasing, it's it's important to understand that the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob is the God that they worship. But Paul says here in in Romans, he says, they do it in ignorance. Peter even said They go to Jesus and he says, I'm sorry, I never knew you. Listen, you have to understand the work of God the work of God needs to have its its comp its completeness. In other words, Peter says Men and brethren, they're saying, we just crucified the Lord Jesus Christ. They just did. And they come to him and he preaches in Acts 2 and says, Hey, listen. And Peter says I know you did it in ignorance, but here is the full picture. Do you evangelize Jews? Do you share the gospel with Jews? I do. Why? They already worship the one true God No. Because they need to. They're not saved. They need to be saved. They need to be able to do that. Even the demons believe in God. That's what James says. Even the demons believe in God. They believe in the same God James says that, right? So Jews b believe in God. They don't understand the fullness of who he is, so you have to explain it to the people. Yeah. But not the God of the Bible. Not the Trinitarian God, not the one true God. She doesn't understand all of all the aspects of who he is, and so that's what you have to explain. No, she's worshiping a false God She's worshiping Moloch or Baal or somebody. Exactly. The Jews do not worship the God that I worship. They do. They have different attributes. No, he's my He is the creator. He is the one. There is no other. And the Jew will tell you there is no other. So they have some attributes in common. So is your so are you is your wife my wife? What do we what do we gr uh graph? They're both women, they both have, you know, katas, they both have, you know, soft faces, they both have long hair, they both have beautiful eyes, they both like to cook, they both like to decorate what they're both wonderful mothers. But your wife is not my wife, my wife is not your wife. That's the truth. But but it's not a woman. It's what we're talking about is the the fact that, you know, Paul I mean in first John it says You say you have the father. That that's like saying you got two brothers here and the uh and and the one brother uh uh you know, runs away from home and then the l later he's t he he's happens to see his first brother on the street. And it and the and he says, Yeah, dad said this and the guy's like, Oh no, y he's not your dad? Well no, it doesn't he didn't stop being the dad. He th the guy still exists And when the one who ran away, this this brother who's no longer in the family, if he mentioned if he says dad, we all know who he's talking about. Yes, daddy. No, but the analogy falls apart because they've rejected that dad. They say they disown that dad. That is not my dad anymore, they say. No, the Jew the Jews don't the y you go to the uh the parable of the Are the Jews saved? The Jews are not saved. So an unsaved person worships the one true God? Are you kidding me? Well Catholics, what about Catholics? Somebody a I believe that there are people in the Roman Catholic Church that are saved in spite of Roman Catholic doctrine and teaching. Right. that are in the Catholic Catholics have a Trinitarian God. They believe that Jesus is is Lord. Mm their idols have just as much importance as well, we should get a Roman Catholic on the panel because they would they would fight tooth and nail that Jesus is God. They w they would elevate Mary and Saints and stuff and all that so there's a reason why I'm not Roman Catholic. Right. So there's all sorts of problems there. But they have a Father, Son, Holy Spirit God They have a Jesus Christ who is Lord who dies Jesus. Absolutely Jesus is God. Is the Holy Spirit God? Absolutely And is the Father God. Absolutely. And the Jews deny that all three of those statements. So what does Paul say? He said that the thing is that the thing is that the thing is that the thing is that the thing is that the thing is that the thing is that Did the Jews deny them? Jews did not die that third part's the Father The Jews believe that third part, the Father. If you don't have the Fat if you don't if you don't have the Son, you don't have the Father. But that's why you have Paul said. He said, if you're not taking off. Don't argue with me. Argue with Scripture. If you don't the only way to the Father is through the Son. If you don't have the Son, you'll have the Father. They don't have the Father. They don't know the Father without the Son. No, but when they say God, who else are they talking about? I don't know. Not talking about Baal. There are people who work in this building. I used to work here for a lot of years and s maybe some people who have some change of heart over the years, but the overwhelming of them would would not hold to the the the view that you that you and I hold. They wouldn't call themselves Christians necessarily But they might pray. They're a spiritual person. They believe in a higher power. They have a God. But that God is not the God of the Old Testament. It's not the creator of the universe. It's not the one that's not. Neither is the mo you asked the way you ask the continuous the way you asked the question at the start was do today's Jews, the today's Orthodox Jews of today do they worship uh the true God? And the answer is no. They've been cut off. They've rejected the one. They've been broken off Permanently? They can be grafted back in, and at that point they will be then worshiping the one true God. Right, but you don't have to explain to them who God is, uh the Father. You have to explain to them who the Son is Oh yeah, well you got the point. But you've got to exp well oh i there's some as if you had a conver if we had Oprah Winfrey, I mentioned her before, we'll use her again. If we had her in this room, there are certain aspects of how she understands her idea of God that would be accurate Uh uh I think you're comparing apples and oranges. No, they're both fruit, so um I guess I'm I might be okay with that. I'm not sure. Good comeback there. So this is not generally how the conversation progresses when someone asks do Muslims worship the same God? Because I don't think the Muslims worship the same God either. Because right, but but you were logically consistent. By definition. Well yeah, I'm gonna allow consistency. But let's let's just say so that we can go someplace that some of our listeners are gonna be as well Let's just assume for a second, I know you don't like this, but let's just assume for a second that you were able to answer the presumptive. How does he know I'm not gonna like it? I might love it. That you could answer the Jewish question, yeah, they worship God that God doesn't accept their worship. Kind of where I kinda answered that, right? Let's just as well. Just to make it clear Okay. They don't. No no I agree. They don't know God. So how can they worship someone they don't know? What that's what Paul's point was on Mars Hill. But his point was that they had Mars Hill was a to the Greeks and the unknown God. But what what Pause for a second though. Assuming that the one of our listeners is is listening and and saying, Yeah, I mean I think Jews I mean when they say God they mean the God of Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, they just are blind. They don't see all of him, but they see part of him. Okay, I I get it. I get what you're saying there. To me that's that's where I'm saying it's logically inconsistent to then go and say, Well, but Muslims worship some false idol god. Well no, because if you ask a Muslim who God is, he'll say this relatively the same thing that a Jew is going to tell you, which is that he's the God of the Old Testament. I'm saying that you're consistent. Well are you arguing that the that the the the Muslim uh the Muslim Allah is the same as the Christian Yahweh? Yes. Oh my gosh. Oh my gosh, that is like that's that's like heresy. Well because see that Allah to me he is Jehovah. No he's not. Yes he is. So I'm worshiping the Muslim God. I am. Troy Skinner is worshiping the Muslim God. Allah is not the Muslim God. Allah is the Christian God. When I'm worshiping God, I'm worshiping the same God that Islam is worshiping? No, I am not. I respect that wholeheartedly. If you're a Christian in Arabia Yeah. And you pray. You actually pray to Allah. Because Allah is just the Arabic word for God. Yeah, so what? Well that's what I'm saying. You're gonna say Allah if you're if you happen to be a native Arabic speaking person and you're praying to God, you're gonna say Allah. That's what your Bible is gonna say say in your Troy. Not everybody in Troy is married to Dina. The names don't mean anything. But the but Allah is what's the weight that stands behind that name? Well, if you ask a Muslim what is uh um Allah, who is Allah, they will explain. They will say he is the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He is the creator of all the universe. He is everything the Torah says, and they will actually go further than than the um uh than than the Jews. Muslims will tell you that Allah is also the God of the New Testament. And he is the f the um he they will not say that Jesus is the son of God. I I grant you that. There's there's plenty plenty of things that make them not saved, okay? Just like there's plenty of things that make Jehovah's Witnesses not saved But my one God is by definition Trinitarian. If you don't have a Father, Son, Holy Spirit view of God, you do not have the God. You have only a lot of people. That's why I feel what I said about the Jews. They're the same problem. I don't think that's a hatred. I'm hoping that the Jews and Muslims will all come to a realization that, oh my gosh, I'm worship worshiping a false god, something that But that's not really the father. But that's not the when a Jew becomes saved, they realize, oh, God had a son, his name was Jesus. Okay, cool. Messiah came. Now they realize that They don't stop believing. But they don't stop believing all the things they already believe about God. In other words, they that what that happens to them is that they're not going to be able to do that. They stop believing certain things they believe about God because they don't believe that God is Trinitarian. I uh maybe you should talk to some messianic Jews that really are Jewish and come from orthodox backgrounds. They're messianic though. They're Christians. Right. But how but how they came to how did they come? No. They just added Jesus to their Jesus was the fulfillment of the Messiah. Well, you know, they they could have gotten there by evil means, but God can use it for good Well but that's not but it's not evil mean but see that you have to hit you mean all through the scriptures it says for the fathers' sake. For the sake of the fathers There's always a remnant that goes all through the history, all through the Jew, the city, the man, you know, uh uh everything about it. It it points to Messiah. We understand that because we can look back And go, yeah, that's obvious. Right. So but when you're put in a community and you're not told and you're consistently being the told the Babylonian life all the way back when they were in exile in Babylon for seventy years, they they had to make stuff up in order to exist as a people outside the land, outside the temple, outside Jerusalem. When they were when they had to go into captivity to Babylon when King They had to make blood of I'm I'm a little lost. They had to come up with a religious existing a ceremony, a type of an existence to keep a community together until they could get back into the land. And when they went back into the land, and that's where a lot of the modern day Pharisees came from. But what did it have to do with the identity of God? But what it has to do is is that there was certain things that happened to them that brought them to a place where um it The rejection of the Messiah was because of the leadership. The rejection of the Messiah was because of the Pharisees. The rejection of the Messiah was because of sin in their heart. You gotta understand that the story behind they added stuff, they mixed stuff in together. Romans 1 would disagree They had enough evidence to understand that there is a one true God, but because of hardness of heart and sin in the heart, we reject it. Brother, you can say that to everybody. Exactly. And I do. You know? Yeah, that that's what that's what he's saying is that everybody's the same. But the again Is that's that's just like saying someone grew up in a in a very let's say you grew up in the most perfect church you could ever have. Let's you know, whether Troy's church is that way or you wouldn't want to say that. But let's just say it I wish it were perfect. And every Sunday they heard only the perfect doctrine. There's no errors at all for twenty, twenty five years, thirty years, whatever. That's the end they never and they never got and they never got saved. They never they never got saved. They said, Well, I'm not gonna bow the knee, I'm not gonna get saved. Whatever the reason was. Okay. Okay. If um if you ask them you know, who God is and they and they tell you they're not safe either. But they know who God is. They know some parts of them at least. They don't they don't have a full understanding. But they don't worship him. The question is do we worship the same God Satan does not worship God. He knows who God is, but he does not worship. In fact that's the problem, right? He rebels against him. You're either worshiping God or you're rebelling against him. Those are your options. Well Korah was worshiping God. He just did it in the wrong way, and so God killed him. Korah had all this incense, but he wasn't bearing incense to Baal. He brought incense to Yahweh, but Yahweh opened the ground up and swallowed him up, right? Jehovah God's take it in context. He was actually because he was challenging Moses' authority Right. And said, We have every right to be right in there with you, Moses. And he's not a good idea. He's using God's name, Jehovah, or rather in talking. But it was the challenge of the authority that got him Swallowed up. Not the point of the But the point is he was using strange fire and it what God had commanded not to be using these bowls of incense and things like that. No, you're mixing up the strange fire with the two sons. Okay, so the point is Those people weren't worshiping Baal or Molech or R Ra. They were worshiping God, the w the one that we're talking about. Right. And God did not accept their worship. Moreover, he killed them. Okay. So I obviously were not saved. Yeah, they paid a penalty for disobedience. Obviously they were not saved, but that doesn't mean they weren't actually worshiping God. There's a difference. I don't know uh I'm not or I'm not at least gonna automatically accept the premise that they were unsaved. Well you have to go back and say what is being saved. When they're unfaithful in that moment and did something wrong doesn't matter. Red Sea. They were saved when they came out of the wilderness. They were saved when they went through the uh Jordan into the promised land. And yet they had issues and problems all along the way, but there was a deliverer that was doing the saving. Yeah, but that's a separate argument from the modern day Christian Jews and Muslims. That Yeah, okay. I'm just responding to, you know, salvation. And all those are pictures of the ultimate salvation we're pointing to with Jesus Christ. Right. And let me be clear, I'm not advocating any sort of em ecumenical movement I'm not advocating for anything saying, Oh, there's multiple ways to heaven. You can be a Christian or a Jew or a Muslim and you can all go to heaven. I'm not saying any of that. Okay. All I'm saying, and it you may call it semantics, but there's a very big difference between praying to an idol. And praying to God when you're not saved and in a manner that God does not like or accept. Okay, there is a difference And I make the distinction. They could both be wrong, okay, but there's a difference between uh adultery and homosexuality too. Those are both sins, but those are they're they're different, right? They're not the same. There is a fundamental difference One can be uh remedied if the two people were not married and they can get married. Um that's the biblical remedy for something, and and the other one there is no remedy because uh same sex couples cannot exist. So in in the same way, the remedy And actually I think that's a great analogy because now the remedy, if you go back, if you're worshiping Baal, the remedy is to stop worshiping Baal and start worshiping God. If you're worshiping God in a only uh in and only parts of his attributes you know and God doesn't accept that worship, the remedy is to learn the rest about him and continue to worship him in the correct way. And I would say for the Muslim the remedy is to stop worshiping the the quote unquote God or the Allah of the Quran uh and start worshiping the God of the Bible. Because Baal was pretty powerful too, I'm sure. Yeah, but the but the right where all the judgment came through of the God dealing with his people because they would st quit following him and they would go follow after false gods. But e but even the Quran says that that Allah is the God of the Old Testament and the New and the New Testament in the Bible. It says that the Quran and a lot of other things I disagree with in the Quran. Well, but it also rejects the trin the Trinity And it mis well, it mis well it rejects a misunderstanding of the Trinity, because it it seems to indicate that uh that the belief is that the the the Christian idea of a triune God would be a a father son and like mother mary or something. That seems to be kind of what they're trying to teach there. But but they some sects believe that, but But it says specifically but there is not three. I mean that's r that's an English translation that's right out of the Quran. There is not three. So their God is not three. So by definition, their God is not the God that I worship. And they're not the God that I worship. And and all that's correct. They b that he believed. And and the uh the the the completely um Uh powerful. Than than than God. He controls everything. Um he's in infallible, cannot do wrong, cannot sin. All those things are true about God. You're not a little bit you have God. It's not you know you're not a little bit pregnant. You're either pregnant or you're not. You either have God or you don't. Now we see partly in and in a and shaded as in a mirror, and eventually we'll see face to face. Yeah, we only see partly, but we worship truly. Right? Yes. We n uh because we have sufficient uh knowledge of God in order to be safe. So Islam can see partly things that are true about who is actually God. So they get some attributes about God that are right, but they don't worship truly I'm not saying that any of the Jews or the or the Muslims worship truly. What I'm saying is that they worship who who they worship. is the same God. God doesn't does not accept the worship of a Jew who's not saved. I think the mis disconnect is what you're saying is unless they accept the Son, they don't have the Father. And in both counts, that's what the scriptures say. It says you must, if you reject the son, then you don't have the father. And we might have to uh if we want to we might have to pick pick this up and do another part of the show on it or something. Because we're we're out of time. We've got like thirty seconds. I gotta start to wrap this up. Anyway, this is Spirit In Yeah. Good old fashioned brawl on the Fa Faith Debate show. Um so Daniel Razby was one of the brawlers. I'm Troy Skinner, also one of the brawlers, and Stephen Herger is kind of the voice of Reason. I'm Reason. We've got to get him to brawl a little bit more Uh anyway, you can follow us online, WFMD. com and HouseholdsoffaithInChrist. com. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours away from now. God bless.