This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find a daily Monday through Friday anyway, a blog updated, which is Not my blog. Well it is my blog, but my blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Whatever you send me, I'll post up there. You can follow Jonathan Sweitzer. I'm not sure why you'd want to, but you can follow Jonathan Sweitzer At SweitzerJonathan. And why do I mention that? Because Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossless Royal Chapel, on the show again this week. And you can't follow him, but well, at least not on Twitter. Uh Cedar pastor of Poozo Baptist Church, Jace Broadhurst on the show. And I've got a story for you. By the way, what have I been reading? Apostle to Islam. Not sure I like the title all that much, but Apostle to Islam, story of Samuel Zwimmer. You familiar with Samuel Zwimmer? No? Uh go online, do some research, learn who Samuel Zwimmer is, one of the great heroes of the Christian faith in the last uh two hundred years. So Uh anyway. Which nation did he uh go to? Uh well he was uh uh lots of different places, but his whole purpose was to reach out to the uh uh reach out to the to to the Muslims. He spent time in South Africa, spent time in the Middle East, spent time uh uh his family is from northern uh Europe, but he was uh raised in Michigan. So he kind of was bouncing all over the place. Sure. But anyway. Alright, so here's a story. Yeah. This guy Walks into the convenience store, pulls out a gun, says, Give me all your Snickers, candy bars, or else And so the person behind the counter says, Oh, you could have the Snickers and the Twicks just be on your merry way and the person takes off and the police come. Yeah. The police come and there were a couple of people who took it all in and they take their their statements or testimony of what happened. And then they come to trial. And they're tempted to throw the case out because there's a discrepancy among the witnesses. Yeah. One of the witnesses says, Yeah, I saw what happened, the guy took off He grabbed all the candy bars and he took off and uh and and ran out to the left. And the other guy said, Oh, I saw him tear out candy bars and stuff too, but uh I'm telling you I saw him run off to the right. So are we talking about the same guy? I mean you can't be going in two two different dri completely different uh directions at the exact same time. I mean if you can't agree on that, maybe it was two different crimes and if it was two different crimes, maybe there's a third guy, meaning an innocent guy who's standing trial right now. Something doesn't make sense here until they realize when they've got the security video camera and they could look and see what's happening The one guy was standing on the north side of the store, the other guy was standing on the south side of the store. So the guy on the north side of the store to him looked like the game ran out the guy ran out to the left. The guy standing on the other side of the store looked to him like the guy was running out to the right. Were they in contradiction or were they giving an accurate representation of what actually happened inside that convenience store? Doodle on that for a minute. Proverbs 26, verses 4 and 5. Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like him yourself. And then the very next verse says it's designed for you and me, Troy. Well, yeah, you and I fall out on that all the time. Well then that very next verse says though, answer a fool according to his folly, lest he Be wise in his own eyes. So verse four says not to answer the fool according to his volley and volley, and verse five says that we should So there's clearly a contradiction here. Or is this an example of in one verse we're looking at the perspective for the guy standing on the north side of the store? And in the second verse we're looking at the guy standing on the south side of the store. True, you're trying to make my argument for me, so Fort poor Jace over there is thinking to himself Uh one one versus two on this one. I'm I'm making your argument? Yeah. Is that your argument? Yeah that's interesting. I think it is my argument So your argument is that Proverbs is a particular genre, I would assume, that allows for one to be true in certain circumstances and another to be true in other circumstances. Uh or at least that's what I hope. No, no, he was saying that it could both be true at the same time. Like I could be dealing with a fool and if I don't answer him according to his folly, he's gonna think he's wise. But at the same time, if I do answer him according to his folly, then I'm gonna be just like him. So it's so it's a a lose-lose situation. They both apply to the same situation, even though it seems like they are in contradiction to one another. Okay. I didn't follow that, but alright. Choice point I think is what I'm sorry. Scripture, even when it looks like it's in contradiction to itself. Often ti uh oftentimes is not. We just need to let it you know. My point was there are there are ample we could go through. We have we've talked at we've the this is I think our sixth show with this panel talking uh in general about in general broadly defined biblical inerrancy. I I I think a couple of times we actually touched on that over the course of the six churches. But the uh the the point um that I was making is that there are ample examples where we could say, look, here the Bible disagrees with itself here. That is a contradiction. And I would push back immediately and say, well, there's an apparent contradiction. And what appears to be a contradiction needn't be so, and here's why. And there are at least a couple of different ways that we could try to approach that. One way would be Jonathan's way. Look, they're just both true. There's no contradiction. It is what it is. They're both true. One guy standing on the south side, one guy standing on the north side. That's all there is to it. And then there's and then there's the other and that's Jonathan's main MO when he's approaching scripture. And there's Jace who is going to say, Yeah, you know what? I'm going to agree with you. It needn't be I think it could be a contradiction. Maybe. But I'm s I'm agree with you and say it needn't be a contradiction necessarily because Proverbs is a genre in which it's proverbial truth And proverbial truth is based on circumstances in which one finds themselves. So in one situation it's true for this, and a different situation it's true in this way. So are we arguing over which one of those approaches is right? And are we if we're s or which approach is better? Is it possible they're both good? I don't know. Well obviously I would say it's possible that they're both good. I have no in fact I'm not sure that I have any real problems with the end result. of what Jonathan's been getting at throughout here, that is his end interpretation of each of these things. That may indeed be correct. I I harmonize texts all the time. I say he turned right, turned le that it that it actually works. I do that. I'm just saying that it's not necessary to do that. It is possible um that the Bible isn't what we think it is, and instead, or or at least what Jonathan thinks it is, instead, that God is okay with allowing two messages to be in there at the same time. I I just don't I don't think that he is required to round off the edges and make sure that they fit. He might just say, All right, here's my library. This is the picture that people have. Now, read it and wrestle with it. It could do that. Now let me jump in for a second because jo uh to save us some time, because I don't want Jonathan to go on a soliloquy on us. Jonathan has has pretty consistently been making the the point I'm gonna try to do this in a nutshell. Because he feels like I'm putting words in your mouth, I apologize But he feels like, my sense is that that undercuts the trustworthiness of the text itself. If you're gonna say, Well Is God big enough and all powerful enough and sovereign enough that he could have blatant contradictions in the Bible and still accomplish his purposes? Sure, let's say But Jonathan is saying, why would he? Because he's undercutting our confidence in the very in those texts themselves. So why shouldn't we just have A presupposition that that's not what's going on there. I'm saying that that are claiming that's him I'm just following I'm just following along that that the the books that we read in the world, we expect their testimony to not be as trustworthy as the testimony that we find in Scripture. That we that that we should expect the testimony of scripture of those that claim to be the righteous ones, the claim to be true, to be more trustworthy worlds. I I'm not sure I mean c could you just flatly like I just said, you know, do you agree with that? Why not? If so, then where's the nuance of disagreement? Well yeah, the nuance is is back to the same question that we don't ever seem to answer, is is trustworthy to do what? I think scripture is trustworthy, authoritative, beautiful. I'm all for that. It is trustworthy. I just don't necessarily define trustworthy as being historically precise. And what do you think it's doing then? It's trustworthy to do what? To uh To illuminate God for man, to show to turn us to Christ, even if two stories are not giving me the same picture of him. They're showing me uh perhaps different pictures of him. And so it's it's okay for me to have a library of information instead of a constitution about God. But if it is telling us about God, if you've got one example where God says one thing and another example where it you can't harmonize or you're not either unwilling or unable to harmonize in a way where you can fit the pieces together. You've got God saying something completely different. What is telling the reader about God is that God's unpredictable, God's not consistent, God is different one day than the next, right? Isn't that what you're learning about God then? And and what I would say is, if that is what you're learning about God shouldn't you start considering that that might be what God wants you to know? I mean, isn't it isn't it possible that that that could be exactly what's happening? That he's trying to say I I uh I might not have this exactly the way that you've got it all figured out. Ezekiel says, these laws are bad, right? In referring to Pentateuchal laws, right? He goes back to the These laws are bad. They're not what's expected. And Jesus comes back constantly and says, This is what you've heard, but here's what I say. So that maybe even God, God, I I never change. I'm changing my mind Right? There's there's constantly this picture of God. And and I'm not saying that those can't be harmonized necessarily, but if we have these diff different pictures of God, you know, they knew his name, they didn't know his name, whatever your contradictions are, and I'm doing that in quotes. Maybe we need to look at God differently and not assume that he's given us some constitution of consistent information about him. Why is it that he must do that? And and these are just questions that I'm uh truly that I'm asking. I'm actually begging for answers, but I'm not I'm I want to wrestle with these things. I'm not saying that what you are arguing, Jonathan, is wrong. I'm saying, why does it ha can't we re-look at Scripture and actually say, if it's if it's struggling here, why don't we allow it to have the struggle and see what that says about God and re-look at it? Why does it have to say what we think it says about God? So let me ask this question. Um like what I've been taught to do with scripture is to to spend a lot of time with the scripture. and what it teaches, and then just talk with the people that I know about scripture You know, and about what it says. You know, and and and to read, you know, but but always to come back to the scripture and to, you know, to let the scripture speak. you know, uh for itself as it were. And in the process of that, like like your comment about Ezekiel that that he he speaks against certain clear Pentateuchal laws. Like when I read Ezekiel, I see that Ezekiel is prophesying about how a king has to handle things differently because the context of a king is different from how God intended things to be with the Pentateuch. God didn't want them to have a king. They chose to have a king. In the context of having a king, things changed. And so now the king in Ezekiel is supposed to provide the sacrifices for the people. Why? Because the king has taxed everybody. And so how can people afford to give their own uh their own uh sacrifices? You know that that he he changes things in such a way that we're now dealing with a prince, and a prince is is uh is different from twelve tribes. So anyways, my point in saying all that is just that that without having to go to the literature of the time, inside of Scripture itself I feel like there's there's insights and integrity, uh consistency that that fills out the meaning of some of these things that that if we jump quickly to You know what, we gotta go we we gotta find something else because the Bible doesn't seem to give us the answer instead of saying, Well, I'm gonna stick with it a little bit longer I'm I'm I'm I'm gonna study the text and I'm gonna live inside it a little bit and see where it goes. That and and that that's your way to you force you you're you're saying I must come up with an answer. And I'm saying I don't necessarily have to. I mean, there's there's traditions. Um Hezekiah been somebody or other, I can't remember, rabbi who uh spent three supposedly spent three hundred barrels of oil in his attic trying to reconcile the laws of Ezekiel with the laws of the Torah. And then finally they just say, well it's all going to be resolved when when um Elias comes, right? That's the that we don't we don't know. We can't make this work. Um so, you know, Matthew, Matthew nineteen or wherever it is, saying, you know, this reflects the hardness of their heart. um these kinds of things. So I I I see I see there's some kind of trajectory in scripture. And I feel like you need it to work. And I I guess I just I don't I don't need it to work. Well some of the things when you say need it to work, 'cause I don't know that I feel like I need it to work, I just find that that so often I I feel like it's not so hard for me to to get it to work. Like I guess like I push with a few of it, I spend a little bit of time with it, and I read it and I'm like, ah, that makes sense. That fits with that, that fits with that. Yeah, we're good. Yeah. Well, I mean that's the problem, I guess. When I come to Scripture, I don't see it so naturally fitting. I feel like I'm forcing those things on it. Um David paying fifty shekels of silver for Israel's temple site versus uh six hundred shekels of gold Which one did he spend? Oh well fifty shekels of silver and six hundred um Okay and you just say well that just works and I just go through just different traditions It that's not a natural thing. The only reason that you come at it like that is because of your presuppositions about what God must do in his word. I'd rather look into that I'd line up the passages, I'd sit and look at it for a little bit. And you know, I would I I would say, okay, what kind of scenario would would that be the case? And Um and I guess I don't know that I need it to happen, but I'm I feel like I'm confident 'cause if it doesn't, you already said I don't need a God like that. I mean you've you've made that clear. I I I got I don't have time for this. It needs to happen for you. It's important that there are no discrepancies in Scripture. So you won't give up until you find it. No, I think I've been pretty consistent that that I feel like the question is is a question of how far we go with it. And that I feel like you go you y you take it and you and you see describe see describe description describe you know and And I I'm comfortable with there being ones that maybe I won't find an answer to. You know? And and maybe even there there there's a little bit of error there, but But I feel like it happens so quickly that everybody goes to the surrounding there's a little bit of error in your thinking or a little bit of error in the Bible. What were you meaning to say there? I'm saying that that I'm comfortable with there being a case where the testimony that comes down to us isn't precisely accurate. I am But I'm saying that that in a whole bunch of the places where I feel like you assume that there is no uh way to make it mess that you were lazy. My mom used to tell me, you know, when I'm when I'm when I'm wiping the table. Hold on. My mom used to tell me when I'm wiping the table that you just need to put a little bit more elbow grease into it. You know, in and and I don't know why, but I I feel like, you know, like what what you call a a um harmonizing technique Uh is it a harmonizing technique? Why why why doubt it? Why why be so skeptical of a harmonizing technique? You're just using a harmonizing technique. I'm not saying I'm not saying why doubt it, I'm just saying why is it that you assume that it must be It's not y see, we're we're talking uh both of us are coming at presuppositions. I'm saying let the Bible speak for itself And you're saying, no, it must fit my categories. And that's it must fit what I mean by trustworthy. Of course. I spend twenty hours a week working on a sermon. I don't just go, huh, this looks like it contradicts. I I'm looking for the answer. I'm looking I'm going to say that. Yeah I deserve that because I just called you lazy. I understand that. These aren't people who are like out to destroy the Bible or just go, uh, I guess this doesn't work and just flip it all. There these are people who are wrestling with it, who know we're talking about rabbis who know the scripture inside and out in Hebrew. These aren't Uh these aren't idiots that are arguing for these things. Okay, but let me just make the point that there's plenty of rabbis that were extremely hardworking In terms of knowing the Bible inside and out at the time of Jesus that had been led astray by traditions and men. And there are plenty of religious fundamentalists. That have the exact same problem, that are living in a modernistic l mindset about what history is. That think history bends to their understanding of history when historiography is something very different back here. He thinks that modernism is believing that the Bible is precise and can be held to a precise standard of reconciliation. And so I'm of the opinion that the modernist approach is the one that approaches the Bible with such skepticism that doesn't trust it. Yeah. I trust it. I trust it completely. I think that you know y you asked the question, Jace, of Jonathan, you know, why is it that you know you must try to reconcile, you know, these uh these discrepancies or you know what would appear to be contradictions If you've got a uh one person claiming to report on an event and another person claiming to report on that same event, and yet they have what would appear to be significant differences in the detail It raises the question that okay one of them must be wrong. And if they're wrong on that point, then how should I trust anything else that they've reported on? Assumes that you're they're trying to give a record of an event event an exact record of an event and not try to tell a story that is getting across a bigger picture. Okay. Both of them are wrong maybe. Maybe neither one of them is trying to be right. Maybe they're just trying to maybe couldn't they not create even a story around something? Maybe. I'm not arguing that's what the Bible's always doing. So is it But couldn't they do that? Is it possible that they that we could take it so far that the authors of the New Testament were merely telling a story about a fictitious figure named Jesus Christ? Of course. There are thousands of books that say just that. We could do that. That is where this will lead. I I don't yes, and I think it's up to us as good exeges of scripture, someone who loves scripture, loves Jesus, follows him with all my heart. to ask that question. That might not be true for everybody in the church. I don't bring this to my pulpit or anything like that, but I think we need to ask the question, is it possible that the star that came over Jesus' manger meant something very different. Is it possible that Jesus' resurrection is actually a mythological perspective of something else? My answer is In this case, no. It must be a literal actual historical resurrection. But that's because I've worked on it and because I've thought through it. Not everyone has to do that, but if you're going to have these kinds of conversations, it's going to lead to the Jesus resurrection question. Yes. On the story about Judas and his death and his and the coins and all that. Like what how are how are we able to make a determination? Because Jesus is so central, so we have to protect that? Um yeah, you may you made that sound like it was not an okay answer. Well because then you're well. But most certainly if the Bible is all pointing at one thing, then there is something pretty significant about it. is is making a point and the pushback from you, uh, Jace to Jonathan was, well, w you need to make it work. But all Christians then would be guilty of needing to make it work, at least insofar as it relates to the story about Jesus. I don't doubt that we all come with presuppositions to the text, and we do need that to work because Jesus did something in our life. So yes. But I think what we're talking about now is exegesis and trying to pull something out of the text. And so I would say we need to go at that and say, what is the text trying to say to us? Yes, as Christians, we're coming to it and we're going to end up with that answer that there was something but I I think, you know, Paul makes it clear if you don't actually believe this really literally happened, that's kind of what he's trying to say, then you're most miserable. So I think there are arguments that that is the central part of Scripture. There are other big central parts. I'm not going to come up with God as a myth, as in a fictional myth. I think that's a central part of scripture that everything is pushing, even if it doesn't define God perfectly for me, even if there are different pictures of God. But there is a trajectory of scripture that is a big picture that has to be held to. And and then we just gotta go out from there. What are these big pictures and then which ones are Realistic all the way down to Jericho raised and and whatever else. Is it fair to say, Jonathan, that you know Jace might be saying that you know the the um The Jericho story, for example, is the bathwater and we can throw that out with los without losing the baby and you would be feeling like, no, it's if we throw out that bathwater, we lose the baby with it? Is that Yeah, I I feel like it's important for me for me to make the statement that um that I have huge respect for Jace and I have huge respect for the way that he interacts with us, his his integrity as a person. But I feel like The way that he comes down on this issue, I feel like, um, is has huge potential to lead uh people astray in ways that um that I think is dangerous to the body of Christ And I think I would say the other direction is incredibly dangerous as well because it sets up, especially all of our college students, to fail as soon as they see these problems. And um they're gonna go to school and you know, anybody is. As soon as they start actually looking at the text generously, I think we do them a disservice by By not giving them an answer that is bigger than the other thing. Wow, I believe that we would have hit that. I I wish we would have hit that earlier. I'll just have to leave it at that. Yeah, well we've got about you know sixty seconds or so left, so we're not going to be able to get into the deep Yeah, I I agree that we do have to make sure that our kids are prepared to deal with the the the the secular humanist mindset that they're going to get when they go away to school where everybody's telling them God's not real. uh that you know that there is no creator. Uh everything happened by accident through a cosm you know, some sort of cosmological big bang that we can't quite explain, but it's true. And if it's not true it's because there's a big spaghetti monster out there somewhere or you know, whatever, and they're gonna have all these doubts. So if we try to ignore, you know, the apparent contradictions, and and I'll I'll use Jonathan as an example because Jonathan is going to argue that they're that they're not true contradictions. Well if Jonathan says, well, there's no true contradictions, but I uh you know I I I'm just not going to own up to the difficulties of trying to figure this out and I'm going to ignore that with our congregation, then yeah, they're going to be completely ill-prepared. So pastors like Jonathan need to be careful and sensitive to drawing attention to. Now when you go to way to college, you're going to hear some people talk about this and this, and here's how I've worked that out. Here's what our church believes on that So if they don't have their their faith uh lost at the threshold of the college doors. You know, so in in both cases, I think you agree with the sensitivity t to that issue, and um you know I'm gonna have to Wrap up. I get the final word, I guess. I apologize. Uh this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweister is the senior pastor of Cross House Valley Chapel. Dr. Jace Broadhurst is the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. You can visit us online at wfmd. com keywordface. You can follow Jonathan. It's at SweitzerJonathan. And I'm not sure what you do what happens if you follow 'em, but good things I'm sure. And email me, Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Why would you want to do that? Because on the Faith Debate uh page of the website, the WFMD. com website My blog is your blog. So you email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and uh whatever you send me I post, as long as it's not like X-ray or something like that, all right? Till next week, thanks so much for listening. Did I mention our sponsors? BMC Insurance, Footman Plumbing and Heating, and Cruise Holidays. Thanks for listening. God bless