Welcome to the Frederick Space Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. It's brought to us by Footman Clumbney Meeting. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith, where you'll find a Monday through Friday daily updated blog where for the most part I'm just posting your email. So email me, Troy at WFMD. What am I reading? I know you care. Developing the Leader Within You by John C. Maxwell. Maxwell stuff's always pretty good. Always leadership. Yeah, I'll save you some money by the way. You don't have to read them all. He's written like sixty books, you don't have to read them all. You might want to read three or four to get a kind of a different slant, but he basically says the same thing over and over again. But reading three or four different versions of that same thing over and over again really helps it to sink in, but you don't have to buy L sixty. Just buy three or four. Unless you want to invest in the ministry of John Maxwell. Well yes. In which case you can buy all you want. Well if you're gonna do that, you might as well invest in Frederick Forty Eight. You can do that by going to Frederick48. org That's right. Uh the reason that uh Jonathan's spearheading that is because those meanies like Blaine Young uh cut the funding. Well you know, he he he he can take it. He's a big boy. He can take it, but you don't really believe that. You the believe that government shouldn't be doing it. I do. I actually I actually agree with we should just do it. I agree. It it it forces the churches uh into a corner to do what they should have been doing all along, is is my uh opinion on that. But anyway, the federal Uh the federal county uh government I think we should change the name. Uh uh Commissioners had to, you know, make budget cuts to try to meet the economic uh situation and and they cut uh funding from a lot of the social agencies. That's right. Uh hundreds of thousands of dollars. And Frederick forty eight is is um is an attempt to meet that shortfall. Yeah, it's well it's just stepping up and saying that at the end of the day it's our responsibility to take care of those that are hurting in our midst. And uh that we should do everything that we can to to participate in that And uh, you know, I feel like it just makes sense that uh as an evangelical that I'd be a part of that and that I'd I'd do my part to help to lead that effort. See, trying to make positive change in the police state that is, Frederick. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer is senior pastor. I mean I mean nothing has slowed me down. as effectively as uh Big Brother watching the five. It's the case, man. Yeah, yeah, and then you know. Yeah, next thing is they'll have barbed wire with armed guards with rifles on the s on the highway. And if you hi hit fifty-eight miles an hour you'll get a bullet through the skull or something like that. So okay, so our own. Roy Wallace is the uh director of and he's really happy he's on the show right now. He's the director of Revive Israel, North America. What are we talking about? specifically today I think. And also Assistant Congregational Leader at El Shreddive Congregation. What that means is he is the leader of the assistant congregation. Troy has determined that for the end. The real congregation gets assisted by this other congregation and he leads them. Is that me? Since we're like in the building now? I don't know. Today is the day that our church moves into His building, is that right? Yeah, crossroads today is well no April twenty second. Is that today? No, that was last week's week. So this is so I got confused. Yeah. Sorry. We taste these shows in advance. No, you didn't have to say that. Most people wouldn't would not have gotten that clue. A few would have, but You should wait you should you should hear these shows before they go through post production and we clean up all the mistakes. I mean Yeah, yeah, this is with the mistakes. Yeah, these are a mess. We clean it up and we give you this polished product at the end. Lord forgive 'em for that lie. So anyway, we've been talking for several weeks now, uh about Jesus' return. Yes. Yeah, the study of eschatology and all that sort of stuff. Yes. And what we haven't gotten to, which, you know, I knew we'd get there eventually. I wasn't sure how long it would take, but apparently it took Three shows. Yes. We get to knocking on the door of talking about something that will be of particular interest, I think, to the messianic Jewish community. Yeah. Right? We're talking about the role of Israel The role of the present day Jews in all of this. So and the reality is that back uh in the time of Constantine Uh there uh there were some uh laws that he put into the Emperor Constantine about three hundred years after Jesus. Three hundred years after Christ that that made it uh illegal to uh culturally be Jewish and a Christian and you were no longer allowed to do the two together and um But that wasn't from Constantine only. That was also from the rabbinic community. uh uh in in I think it was in Yavne, particularly where there was a separation of uh uh uh of Jewish uh communal identity uh uh f from those who believed in Jesus. And so they pushed it with Constantine that Constantine wouldn't allow them to be able to do that. I don't know that political connection. Sure. I really don't. Um but it might be but there was a precursor in the Jewish community of identifying Jesus belie uh Jesus' followers as no longer Jewish. And there's a sense that Replacement theology, the idea that the church has replaced Israel as God's people that replacement theology has resulted in anti Semitism in the West in ways that it never needed to Uh and that it's that it's a uh it's that that there's a nuance there that we haven't replaced Israel, but that instead we have joined Israel, uh true Israel that is. And so we've been uh my dad calls it addition theology. I don't know what you guys call it, but my dad says addition theology, that it's not that we have replaced Israel, but that some of Israel was broken off And that Gentile branches were were grafted in, but that the tree has always been the tree of Abraham and uh Jesse. uh the root that grows out of Jesse that that is Christ. Christ is the vine, we are the branches. And uh and and so the way that that plays out is that um that the Jewish people, the messianic Jewish people, are kind of the first fruits, Paul said first for the Jews, then for the Gentiles. And he clarifies in Romans nine, ten, and eleven that many of them have been broken off and have have lost their place in the kingdom of God because of their lack of faith and because their their rebellion, but that God is not done with the Jewish people and that He still has something for them that is unique and significant and how you How you uh parse that particular passage uh defines where you stand uh in a lot of theological circles. And uh and so when we get to talking about the role of Israel where you stand in terms of replacement theology or not. Yeah. And uh and it tends to fall on some pretty significant fault lines. um theologically uh throughout the body of Christ. I don't know that I could clarify exactly which ones, but it's a pretty big fault line. I would agree. That it's a big fault line. And so the question is where do the where do you see as a messianic Jewish Um, as somebody that goes to a Messianic Jewish congregation and ministers, feels called to minister in that context, where do you see the the role of the Jewish people in the end times. What is what is the uniqueness of the Jewish people in their role? uh in history after Christ. Well see you have to see that I'm assuming this is where the eschatology comes from, guys. I'm assuming that Jesus is coming back. and that he's coming back to set up a kingdom based on the throne of David. And the reason th the role of the Jewish people, if you will, and specifically the Jewish religious leadership is to invite Jesus back. Matthew 23, 39 says, I tell you you will no longer see me until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of I said it. Sorry about Ruch. Yeah. And you have to clear your throat a couple of times. Which is what again and I I think I said this uh on the other. the last show or one of the shows uh that we did together, um uh the the common people of Israel were saying that to Jesus in his day. And the religious leaders were not. And he said, the common people just said it. They said you should tell them to be quiet. He said, if they don't say it The rocks would cry out, but I tell you that I'm not coming again until you say it. You guys speaking to the leadership to the religious Jewish leadership of his day. So again, you can't separate this conversation about Israel from eschatology. It's very it's it's they're they're absolutely woven together. All of which drives you back to the Old Testament and the prophecies. of glory to Isaiah, to Jeremiah, all through the Old Testament and the Messianic Jewish view, at least in the TikTok circles, is that all of those promises of a physical return to the land, of a physical kingdom that would be set up in the land uh of Israel and that would then uh would would kind of echo or flow out to the whole world that those were never understood or intended to be spiritual in nature No, no, no. Let me say that differently. That they were never intended to be only spiritual in nature but that they're intended to be not just spiritual but also physical In literal. And that's where even part of why we were talking about the literal thousand years. You have to understand that I'm primarily motivated by my worldview to see things as literal. Including my eschatology, including the thousand years. I mean I I I used as a parallel uh you know uh The the seven thousand years of human history that's expected in a Jewish worldview before something changes. You know what I mean? Something fundamental. So uh Everything that's d driven inside of me sees things as literal, including the promises to Israel. worldview was that God literally comes and interacts with his people. That when God says that I'm going to bless you, it's not just a spiritual blessing, but it's a spiritual blessing that flows out to To financial to to to the to the land itself will be more productive, to there being peace with all your enemies on every side. And so everything has a literal well and intended fulfillment. Right, and part of the reason that I feel it that feel that way is in Genesis the creation of Adam. I think it's Genesis two, it's very specific. that God didn't breathe the spirit of Adam into spiritness. First he built him a body, a literal place. for the spirit of Adam to dwell. And so i again it it the all the repercussions are physical. In other words, if I was built to be a spiritual being exclusively, God would have made me an angel. But instead he made me a man who's out of the earth, Adam, Adama. Mankind and the earth are explicitly connected, and I don't think that that ever disappears in its entirety. I do believe that it's uh regenerated uh or recreated, if you will, in the sense that Jesus was after he was resurrected But you know, he was he said to the disciples, he said, I'm I'm not a s a spirit doesn't have flesh and bones the way that I do, and so give me some food. I want to prove to you that I'm not only a spiritual entity, I'm gonna eat some food. That that also that literal approach or that literal expectation also informs my thoughts on the land of Israel. Even the replacement guys would agree with you though as far as that goes. They they're expecting a a remade world, an actual physical remade world. Yeah, but they don't believe that Christ is gonna come down, put his feet on Mount Zion, that it's gonna split in two and half go to the north and half to the south. You know, um I don't know where you where you fall out on uh Ezekiel's temple. Uh is that gonna be a literal temple or is that going to be I believe it's literal. Yeah. Right. I don't think that they would say that as literal. So we're talking about all these different elements. But we were emphasizing the idea that it's going to be a nat there's going to be a natural reality still. holds to that. It's a quote where you definitely fulfillment of the promises to Israel. In in in time and space. In other words on the planet of the earth associated with land and covenantal promises. Yeah, but the land that's described is about the size of Alaska. Correct. It's gigantic. I agree. So it's not limited to What we see politically four mile by four mile city. Right. I agree with you. So that's not literal in that sense. Well it's not literal He's saying it is literal. I'm saying it's not literal now. For sure it's not literal now. But that it will be literal that Israel will possess that land and that that will be Israel's inheritance for all generations, you know, into you know eternal eternity. And and in fact I believe that you guys actually teach that each of the seventy nations will have its own place on the earth that is that is their, you know, part of the absolutely of the planet to to rule over as sub regents of Christ for all eternity. Right. I mean that's the people who are the kings of the earth that are bringing all the wealth up to Jerusalem. I'm a German so I guess I'm gonna have to go back to Schweitzerland and uh and I'll be there perhaps. I don't know how he's gonna work out the just people think. uh are one of the lost ten tribes, so maybe I'll actually be back in Israel back in the day. Oh no, yeah, yeah, yeah. Now we're way out there. For sure. Um uh And so the point is is that you is that the the Messianic Jewish orientation towards these things most most specifically the Tikun guys uh that you're part of uh believes that the Jewish mentality was way more concrete and that when when in Hebrews uh the writer of Hebrews and Paul spiritualize uh all the promises that that's okay but that that the spiritualizing of the promises doesn't do away with doesn't do away with the concrete physical promises that are going to be fulfilled one day. When Paul's not getting rid of the physical though either. He talks about the importance of having a body. Oh absolutely. He's not he's not a Gnostic guy. Yeah, yeah. But but okay. Yes, I agree. But interpretation the interpretation of the land and the promises that that uh that Israel will be a nation will be at the head of the nations for eternity. So what do you what is what is the role of of Eden in your view? What is the role of Eden? 'Cause it's somewhat the restoration of Israel and I have a tendency to think in terms of a restoration of Eden. Yes. Well uh Uh I have a great teaching that I would try to get you a D V D copy of if you're interested in in in in watching it, of the connection of Eden to Jerusalem. Proper on the face of the earth. God withdraws his presence and sends Adam to the east He finds a guy in Abraham and immediately sends him west to a place that he will show him. And there's this whole connection of uh Eden As a spiritual and physical location. Shalom, yeah. Which is Jerusalem. Right. See so there's this whole continuity uh connected to Eden and Jerusalem. The dew of Mount Hermon coming down on Mount Zion, which is Jerusalem, uh will be where the Lord commands his blessing. And what does that look like when the dew of Mount Hermon, which is like twenty times the size of Mount Zion, comes down to Mount Zion? It's gonna be a paradise. Clearly the implication is that it will look like a paradise. And so some people you you wouldn't you wouldn't call it, you know, a central doctrine, but they can see that There's a connection there. There's a connection there that that was a part. I see that as all of the planet wasn't paradise like just the what we would now call the Middle East of the the eastern shore of the Mediterranean w it would be would have been the paradise like area? Well I I I don't know how how I can uh i i comment in any way in an informed way on the rest of creation. I can only comment on what the scripture tells us about where Adam and Eve was located, which was a garden in the east. I I mean I I have no way of hypothesizing that. Have no uh we have no context from the scripture, but I also have Just no information. I I have no idea how to comment on that. Okay. It does uh give the impression again in Ezekiel with the temple that when the When the river flows out from the the uh altar from the God, um it heals the dead sea and it heals the dead sea and it and it it goes out and it heals the desert. you know, it it brings life everywhere that it goes. That there's a sense that um even that, you know, the whole world would would burst forth with its um Okay. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. The other voice you're hearing on today's show, Troy Wallace, Director of Revive Israel in North America and assistant congregational leader at El Shaddai Congregation. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Fey. So if it's if Israel is a a remaking or a reintroduction of this Eden idea, Eden is pre Israel. Yes. So are we returning back to a pre Israel idea? Why why why is there this need for a continuation of Israel when Israel wasn't there at the beginning? Because of the this is the Israel there's promises that God makes to Israel that that will be an eternal this is an eternal promise from God that you will be in the land. As long as you have to be a good one. No, he made the promises primarily to Abraham. Abraham was not an Israelite. That comes two generations later. I don't have a problem with that. So I'm not sure I'm I'm just trying to walk through and understand how there is this thing in the text though about Abraham's birthright being ex explicitly passed to Isaac As opposed to Ishmael. Sure. Now that doesn't mean that Ishmael doesn't get tons of blessings. If you read the text there, what comes to Ishmael is enormous. Um but it also but it's specific to to Israel or or excuse me to to Isaac at that point and then Isaac has a s has two sons and it becomes explicit to Jacob in part because of Jacob and Rebecca setting up this uh crazy scenario. Uh in fact the word Hebrew, Abraham is called Israel, and so it's so it's to the Hebrews And it's clear that his lineage is is Isaac down to the to the Yeah, but it doesn't but it doesn't just it doesn't it just end there. It all centers on Christ. We're all gonna agree on that. Here let's go there. Let's go with That's why Jonathan was saying that there's seventy nations of the of the earth that also get their land restored to them, if you will. I mean there's complete geographic justice if you could say it that way for all the peoples of the earth, all those who are the seed of Abraham by faith, to use some of the language. uh and attack Israel, they seem to lose their inheritance. They they're told that they will no longer be a people and they lost their their inheritance because they rejected the purposes of God. Because they fought against the purposes of God, and so then they lost, you know, in in an eternal sense, there seems to be d this this idea that some of those people had a place that was supposed to be their land, like the Edomites. You know, but then they lost it because they rejected the purposes of God and then it'll never be restored. And so uh so those people I don't know If you believe that they will be restored as well, but there's some that were told that that they will never be a nation again because of their rejection of the promises of God. Amalekites are destroyed. But I believe in the restoration of land to indigenous peoples I mean I think there's gonna be a justice issue on land that's solved in America when Jesus comes back to Jerusalem. I actually believe that. The lands will be restored to the native peoples. Now what does that mean? Does that mean that no immigrants can live here? No, I don't think that's what it means at all. I just think that it means that the original owners will be able to participate in that process. So the more we do with the I think because those who would not be comfortable with that worldview are going to say, well, doesn't Paul say that now in Christ there is no longer a Jew and Gentile? But if you're saying there's gonna be all these disparate groups still but Well he also says that there's no male and female. Yeah. Does that mean that there are no longer men and women? I mean we're all believers in Jesus here, but we all have wives and they're believers in Jesus too. And I'm really glad that she's a woman and Well, but in heaven we won't be given a marriage anymore, so maybe sexual distinctions do dis disappear. We don't know. But it doesn't mean that we're not people anymore. No, but th but we can be people without being men or women necessarily I mean I have this. Well Jesus was resurrected, in resurrected flesh he was still a man, most likely. I mean we don't have proof in the text. But it seems like he was still a man. Yeah, I don't think Thomas did a cup check. I don't think so either. That would have made an interesting man with an interesting plotter in the point for us to get through. But you understand what I'm saying. Uh just just to just to make the point, uh Troy, you were talking about the everlasting covenant of the land uh that was given to um to Abraham. That was reiterated to Joseph. And he says, I'm going to make you fruitful, increase your numbers, make you a community of peoples, and I'll give this land as an everlasting possession. to your descendants. So that's clearly uh finding, you know, this specific land, the the Israel, the land of Israel, is is clearly uh passed down from Abraham through to Yeah, but again there's kind of that heavy light thing we were talking about before. There's kind of a double thing going on there, right? There's there's the sense that there's a conditional aspect of that because they get booted out of the land. For sure. But even in the unless unless there's also the eternal carry on for the thing. Even in the unless In fact, he says I'll boot you out. He says I'll bring you back. He says to Israel, and Paul addresses this in Romans ten, I believe it is, that and unless Uh unless the Lord had kept the remnant for us, we would have been like Sodom and Gomorrah. So God chose that He would never destroy this group of people And that that these promises would be true to them forever, uh, even though they had been as bad as Sodom and Gomorrah, and that they should have been destroyed, but that God had set up a group of people that he wasn't going to destroy Uh, even if they got that bad because he was going to use them for his purposes and he was going to restore them at some point to the fullness in the land. And that's Romans 929 and Paul's quoting Isaiah. Yeah. As a matter of fact. Uh so there is this there's this uh uh connection to the land that's that's i that's inseverable in terms of the eternal viewpoint. certainly is for a time period because there's an imposition. And we can see that in history. I mean there's always been a remnant of Jewish people that have lived in the lands of Israel. There always has been. Even in the time of the Babylonians and the Assyrians, the whole bit, even in the 2,000 years, give or take, from 70 AD to 1948, there was always a group of Jewish people that lived in the land of Israel Now they weren't sovereign over it, but they lived in it. So even even we even see in the course of modern history that there's some element of truth in it, and that's where Paul talks about the remnant. Again. uh referring to the days of Elijah, etcetera, and that's all in uh in Romans nine and also he repeated in Romans eleven about the remnant, right? You know, try I did a study one time between uh of all the passages that where where God says that this is a forever thing between us. Circumcision comes up. There's a number of different things. I'm going to see if I can pull up my study on that because I feel like it comes into play in terms of our understanding the word forever. in the Old Testament that we let scripture interpret scripture. So another cliffhanger from Jonathan Sweitz, the senior pastor of Cross Valley Chapel. And uh Troy Wallace, thank you again for being on the show. This is like what the fourth show now. He's director of Revive Israel North America. Uh that website again was reviveisrael. org. That's easy enough. Assistant congregational leader at El Shaddai Congregation as well. Uh thanks for our sponsor, Putman Ploning and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit online WFMD. com Keyword Faith brings you right to the Faith Debate page where there's a Monday through Friday daily updated blog. Please email me because My blog is your blog. You can do that by emailing Troy at WFMD. com. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pub and plumbing, how can we make you smile