Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brothers City in the heart of Dridlocks County where pre- With impact like plowing pavement, people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is a Frederick Faith Debate. It's brought to us by Cruise Holidays, BMC Insurance, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keywordfaith. There you find links to podcasts of this show. Well, if you go right now, you won't find a podcast of this show, but if you wait about two days, you'll find a podcast of this show. But if you go there right now, you'll find podcasts of shows very much like it. Uh you'll also find the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog. Email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com Whatever you send me, it could be your favorite pie recipe, whatever, I will post it up there. You can rail against the Democrats, rail against the Republicans, I will post it up there. I don't really care. As long as it's you know, if a four year old accidentally stumbles upon it that they wouldn't be mortified by a word they'd never seen before. That I that I will take out. Whenever I hear the phrase podcast It makes me think of Star Wars and you know, the uh the droids trying to escape in a pod. I just I I can't get it out of my head. So whenever you say it, I think podcasts and I have this picture in my mind of s of of people plugging in to this pod that is sending these droids away. And the funny thing is every time I think of the name Jonathan Sweitzer I think of a droid. I don't know what and he's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I was gonna try to whistle like RTD Follow him online uh at Sweitzer not on on Twitter. At Sweithan. At Sweitzer Jonathan. And let's see, it's it's uh the latter part about Twitter. I think he uh based on his current schedule he will send out one more tweet between now and the end of the year. So hold your breath. It's coming. And joining us this week again, back for round four of her abuse at the hands of Jonathan Swiftro. He's been really nice Our Happy Lutheran blogging at happy Lutheran dot blogspot dot com, Doctor Kristen Largan, who is a associate professor of systematic theology, also teaches Comparative Theology classes at Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg. It's been a pleasure having her on the show. And now we're really going to get to the nitty-gritty. Jonathan ended with such a great question, right, about um what what do we do with a scriptural witness that seems to clearly state that some people are going to be damned And um you and then then you asked, I think what was a broader question about do we not have sort of guidelines in in scripture? Guidelines for communicating to people. in encouraging them to examine their hearts to see whether or not they're in the truth and in the kingdom. Well, you know, it's so it's it's interesting. I mean again we we've we've talked now multiple times over the course of of these weeks about our um how our backgrounds come to play a role. And again, because I'm Lutheran, um, and the the thing that Lutherans are known known for most is this really, really high doctrine of sinfulness. And so I I'm I'm so um I I always get so uneasy when people start talking about telling others to examine themselves because I always think Oh, I could I could spend all my time examining myself before I even try to examine anyone else because I I I know the depth of my own sinfulness and and my own inability to do right before God or or come to God and and and my sort of desperate need for for um the spirit to be at work in me. But how would you know to do that if n no one had ever told you that you needed to examine yourself? Nobody ever told me to examine myself. Scripture didn't tell you to do that? Well, uh that's later. I th uh to me, I think I think that's Um the f what uh I mean I I think right Paul says if if you if you don't know the law, how can you how can you know the gospel? But I I think in some ways If you don't know a gracious God, how can you even understand what you've what you've done wrong? I mean so that there's a s there's a sense for me that's what's right to what's the chicken. And then we fell and then he gave the law, but you know Right. And I think I think God's grace still comes first. And so You know, w when we talk about this kind of uh to me what always feels like the kind of threatening language of, Oh, you better examine yourself I want to say the f the first thing that I want to talk about is the great work of this loving God who is so forgiving and so merciful. And so the because, simply because, I like to think that the fact that God has shown mercy on me, a sinner, undeserving of God's grace, so also will God show mercy on others. Sinners. Unworthy of the other. So this is the distinction that I feel like Troy has been making between how he views what you're saying and what I've been trying to do in viewing it is that um as long as what you're describing has to do with an attitudinal approach to to presenting the truth in the gospel. I'm with you. But Troy's going the other way and saying, okay, attitude aside, bottom line, do you feel like it's important for us to you know, uh i in the parable of the talents to recognize that he who has is going to be given more, but he who doesn't have, even what he does h have, is going to be taken away from him, that we hit the negative And in hitting the negative that that that we're willing to not just attitudinally encourage people in a positive way towards what's right, but but to substantially recognize that a big part of the message of the gospel is repent. Yeah, and no, I d I don't I that's I Would you agree that that was Peter's message on Pentecost Sunday? I mean it's hard to get away from us. You would sum up the Pentecostal the the the message of Pentecost, the birth of the church You would sum up that in one word with repent. I gotta tell you, I wouldn't do that at all. I would say that now we're gonna be on our devices. Yeah, yeah. He sums up, he comes to the end of his passage He says He says, Therefore let all Israel be assured of this. God made this Jesus whom you crucified, both Lord and Christ. When they heard this, what shall we do? He said, Repent. Right? Yeah. And be baptized, you receive the the gift of the Holy Spirit. My point is not that his whole message was repent, but it was certainly the case that that the The fruit that he was looking for from his message was that they would repent. And I guess I'm agreeing now with Troy. I hear that I I hear that Troy's saying That this is true. Sorry, True, I don't mean to agree with you. I know you don't like that. You know. But in this case I'm with you that that if you're not willing to preach repentance I feel like you've chosen to leave out a significant part of the biblical message. Either Christ called people to repent. Just to be clear, repent of what? Of sin, meaning missing the mark. Sure. Sure. Listen, in the Lutheran Church, we begin every single service on a Sunday morning with a brief order of for for confession and forgiveness. Every single I mean that's in our liturgy, that's the first thing we do. people of other religions. Yeah. And I guess I what I want to say is I i I don't I don't even understand it doesn't make any sense to me to try to tell somebody who is a Buddhist the like oh, you need to repent. Yeah. Actually, this doesn't make any sense. I'm saying that I would say to them, man, I had to repent. And and I'm I'm inviting you to repent as well. I'm I'm calling you to repent. The Lord calls you to repent as well. So I'm not pointing the finger. I'm I'm They're not gonna disagree with you about all those things that we we said last week that nobody nobody wants sex slaves. Nobody wants um homelessness, drug use Uh so the Buddhist is gonna say, I totally agree with you about all of that. The Hindu in particular will not agree that idolatry is really bad. Well in a major offense against the the one true living God. Buddhism, in fact, uh really doesn't care about sin because they don't believe that the world as we know it is really real. Well that's not true. That's not true. You just to and you you just said about this missing the mark and Buddhists have a a very active sort of um there there's an active spirituality as soon as you do that you attach yourself Right. To to to the to the thing that you're trying to accomplish and you create more cycles of reincarnation in their mindset. And so it's actually not the highest. It's it's a okay fine you can't really do the highest, so we're gonna let you do this other thing. But the highest Is that you believe that none of this actually does I don't want us to end up in a discussion about Buddhism without a Buddhist in the room, but I do want to say getting back to the question of repentance, it's not just a question of repent from what? Yeah. Right. I mean repentance is about a turning, so it's a turning from sin. But it's also a turning to something. Or better put, it's a turning to someone. Christ. to God, turning to Christ. Right. So a Buddhist isn't they might be living a wonderfully moral life, but they haven't turned to Christ. So they haven't repented. So they uh as I understand the consistent message of of Scripture, of the Christian scripture, they're in a lot of trouble. And I need to, if I love them, let them know you're in a lot of trouble. In fact, the nature of Paul's message meant that he got beaten up and chased out of town by people in just about every place that he went and uh and it was it seemed to be because he would look certain people in the eye and he'd say You are resisting the Holy Spirit. And they would say back, you're really ticking us off now. Get out of our town. I mean like that happened consistently through the book of Acts. Yeah, in fact Jesus said that if they hated me, they're gonna hate you. No student is above his master, and I get a little bit of a sense Okay, how do I say this? I would warn, and I guess I'm I'm directing it at you, but I would warn that an approach that is unwilling to do things the way that Christ did it or Paul did it for fear of pointing the finger, uh smacks of us saying, uh I can do it better than Christ. Yeah, and and what I would warn Um is to say that to make repentance the core of the gospel is to really miss the mark because that's not the core of the gospel. The core of the gospel is a loving God who comes to tell us that we are forgiven and who in Christ has reconciled the world to God's self. And so to insert in that this message of um Condemnation, threat, judgment, damnation is to miss the mark of the core of what the gospel is about. Paul injected it. I'm not injecting it. Let me jump in real quick. Jonathan Sweites are not injecting it right now is the uh senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh also joining us this week, Dr. Kristen Largen, who is the author of Finding God Among Our Neighbors and also a professor at Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg or Associate Professor, I guess is the official title. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930. WFMD. Unless you finish your thought about Paul, although you you said it before, so I'm not sure if it's a repeat of that. But I want to make clear uh my understanding of the word repent isn't just a negative. Just like I don't think the law is just a negative. I think it's out of God's grace that He gives the law. So repent isn't just judging, isn't just condemnation. It's not just a turning from, but it's a turning to. Right. Oh, this is a pause I don't mean to say that anything negative when I say that you're in big trouble and you're lost and your whole your eternal life is at stake. Right, but that's precisely the question. That's precisely the point. Whether or not it's a positive message is not the question. The question is whether or not it's what Jesus taught. Come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. You know, and then he says, I tell you no, unless you repent you too will all perish. Right. Do you want me to do a search in my Bible for how many times repent comes up? I'm not saying it's not there. I'm aware that it's there. Oh well you were saying I I heard you say that I'm injecting it into the message of the gospel. And I'm trying to say I'm not I don't think I'm injecting it. I'm trying to follow what seems to be the clear teaching of Scripture that God injected it. Right. And and again, I mean I think I I want to kind of step back and say why this actually matters, right? Because this is we're talking about other other religions. And I think finally on show four we have come to the to the heart of the of the difference. Yeah, and which which I I I mean w which is the sense uh uh I mean the a couple of things that are going on. I mean, I I personally, you know, you sort of asked do I believe that um other people can be saved I've actually come to a to a shift on this, again also through what what I um read in scripture. I I really don't know I think I I've I believe that just because I have a I can say very positively and very confidently that as a Christian I know that I'm saved because I um am baptized and Um, I know that that um I have a uh re I'm reconciled in in God with Jesus Christ. Ultimately, and I I know you both would not disagree with me about this. It's God's decision, right? We we don't make the call about who is and who isn't saved. Now of course I know you want to say to me, we can look in scripture and we can we can say what has been revealed to us and that may well be true But ultimately, it's still God's decision. So if in fact, as it says in Scripture, at the name of Jesus, every knee will bow, every tongue confess. Well maybe that's literally true. There were some first, second century Christians who believed that was they took that literally and said, yeah, actually, we don't know how that's going to happen. But somehow God's gonna make that happen. Or when you're not gonna do it, whether or not everybody will one day be saved and you're kind of leaning in the direction of the I don't I'm just saying I don't know So for me what I what I would disagree with about what both of you are saying. So you're not sure that there's eternal damnation. Correct. There may be a hell, but it may be empty. That's what Von Balthasar actually says. He's a Catholic theologian in the twentieth century. So there may be hell. We we can't know for sure who is and who is not there. Because that that is knowledge that is not given to us. And I agree with that. I agree with I would agree that we can't know for sure. I b I believe in the concept of the visible and invisible church. There are people who come to church every Sunday that aren't saved. But I do think that we can be sure as Christians of what the message is. And the message is repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. Yeah, that and then then this is my problem. That's a message. And nobody the kingdom of God at hand is not an amazingly glorious thing. Wow. No, no, no. You said the message. What like the good news. We we always had to in in uh in seminary where our our professors uh told us, okay, you've got you you sort of asked Jonathan, I think at the very beginning, what's what's your bus stop? speech about Frederick forty eight, right? Elevator speech. Your elevator speech. Yeah. So what's your elevator speech about the good the good news? What's your elevator speech about the gospel? Mine is not repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. It's not that Okay. Jesus says it though. So why would you say a lot of things? Jesus also said to sell everything that you have and um donate to the poor. You haven't done that. I haven't done that. So Yeah, well you're taking certain passages and concepts from the Bible uh and resting them from their context, I think. So are you You're saying Jesus said it and I'm saying sure he said it. But that doesn't mean that's the heart of the gospel that we're proclaiming today. And particularly I see you have your little your Bible up again. Particularly not the heart of the gospel. No no, I'm just saying I'm happy we can I'm sort I can pull up my my Bible and we can start throwing passages back and forth at each other too. Right, but what I'm trying to grapple with is like some key places. Like when Jesus sent his disciples out, what did he tell them to preach? And he told them to preach the kingdom of heaven is near. Right? And then if they reject you, shake the dust off your feet. Right. Mark includes that you're supposed to preach the kingdom of God is near, repent and be baptized. Right? And so all I'm saying is that that um the kingdom of God in repentance uh as being like the thing that the disciples were to go out and to preach was I what was common. What about the key moment when Jesus begins his ministry? It's the moment in Luke when he begins his ministry. And what does he say? The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to bring good news to the poor. Yes. In fact, he doesn't finish the rest of that passage, uh, though the rest of that passage came to bear. So you'd like to do it better than Jesus does. No, I'm saying that Jesus preached that and he preached repentance in plenty of places. I'm not saying he didn't preach repentance. I'm just saying that's not the heart of the gospel. And as a Christian, my disposition towards others, that is not my guiding overarching Uh well let me ask you this, because we haven't had a chance to to find out 'cause in that Luke passage he talked about, you know, uh the good news. Yeah. How would you describe what the good news is? Right, how about how about John three sixteen? Yeah. How about that? God so love the world that whosoever believes in him will not perish. Right. Which is pretty negative. I mean that in and of itself. That in another self that that's the essence of repentance in my mind is that either you could perish or you could not perish. And God sent Jesus so that we don't perish. That's the good news. Whoever believes in him is what the Whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have everlasting life. Right. He's the one that tied the everlasting life to it in that path. Right. But I'm saying there's a period at the end of that. And there's not also in part of that message And unfortunately, if you don't believe, you're not going to have eternal life. You're reading that in. You're reading that in, you're providing that. And so what you're doing is you're taking a positive that whosoever believes in him will not perish but have everlasting life. That doesn't seem to indicate that those that don't believe won't ha will perish and not have eternal life. No, what I'm saying I mean I feel like that's a pretty obvious Uh action. Yeah, I see that you do. And what I'm saying is what we have You are good at that. What we have Is the the good news is God's love for the whole world and the promise of eternal life. For those who believe, absolutely. What we don't have there is is what I I guess for me what I want to say is How God works that belief, how that all comes to to the end, I really don't know. And you all may be right 150 years from now we may be having this conversation in heaven, God willing. And I might be saying, oh man, you know, back when we had that conversation on the radio, I got a all wrong because you know look at these people down in hell. Yeah no Troy's the one that has to worry about that. Troy is being a bad place from there. We don't know that. And let me tell you until I know for sure, until I'm And then we're going to do that. In the meantime, though, what do we do with the numerous places where Jesus talks about hell and punishment? You know, Jesus doesn't use Gehenna very often. I mean the hell is not actually this the outer darkness. There actually aren't that many passages. So again, if we want to start counting things up There are way more passages about where Jesus talks about. And and look at who Jesus is hanging out with. He's hanging out with all those those people whose morality you have condemned, right? The greedy people, the people who are breaking the law. The prostitutes. And and none of them it didn't c clearly believe They there's not when there are people that Jesus spends time with and there's no we don't have a uh an affirmation story where where they've confessed and he seeks them out before they've even confessed. But he's not seeking them out and spending time with them so that he can inform himself about what they had to teach him. He's spending time with them and to inform them about what he has to teach them. So as Christians who have the Holy Spirit dwelling in us and are informed by the I think authoritative word of God, use that to inform people like Jesus did. That's that's the part that I think we're I don't we're obviously not going to change each other's minds right in the space of one show here. If I mean if if we're gonna and and again Let's also be clear, we're not Jesus. We don't live 2,000 years ago. So I also think we we cannot simply just lift up the gospel text and drop it. un uninterpreted here in in our context. I think that's very probably the difference between us because I'm of the opinion that he's given us everything we need for life and godliness in the scriptures. is is is uh you know profitable for rebuke, correction, training righteousness, that that we have what we need. And I and this is where I agree with you that there's a lot of questions that we don't have answers to. But I feel like there's plenty of places in scripture where it gives clear answers and and we're encouraged to rest inside those those answers. And And my impression is that in those places where where where scripture you know has clear teaching you you want to continue to live in the lack of clarity. Well again And that you celebrate that as we all know scripture if if scripture was were so clear and it needed no interpretation We wouldn't have all of these Bible commentaries, we wouldn't have all of these different translations. We w I mean it it's there are there are different ways to read scripture and so when when you say and I don't. That's part of our Baptist tradition and we say look ma'am read for yourself. Right. You know, uh and we'll talk together. In fact on a Sunday morning, Troy will tell you, uh we encourage during our worship uh times of quiet where people just speak up and so it's not about me defining it. Sure. But it's about us together studying the Word of God and letting it speak to us, you know, very straightforward and it and it seems that it's Pretty straightforward. Yeah. Yeah, and I think there for me I I would not agree with all the places that seem to you to be so straightforward. I think it's I think it's much more complicated than that. And I think especially one of the things that you are not taking i into account is the clear clear witness we have that God wills to save the whole world. That's quite clear. And so the question is, is that will going to come to fruition or not? Or the question is what is meant by the whole world? Is it talking about all the various uh ethnic groups that the he he's not exclusive to just those who are Jewish? Is that what's meant there or is he meaningfully every individual? It's God's will that none should perish but all come to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ. That's in Peter, correct? Yeah. That's the passage she's referring to. And again in Colossians, God God in Christ, God has reconciled the whole world. Yeah. So I but I'm but it's clear. You're look you're looking at the case. It is clear because then he says in Ephesians, he says He says, you also were included in Christ when you believed. Having believed, you were filled with the Holy Spirit. And so it's clear to us how it is that somebody's going to come to faith. I think where we hover is which which passages we're using to interpret others. It begs the question. That is true. But it begs the question, it seems to me, why did Jesus even bother preaching? and equipped his disciples to go and preach. If all he had to do was come and die on a cross over the whole world he could have done that without anybody even knowing. He could have done it he could have done it in secret. Yeah. So if that's the question, why even preach? If there's not a message that needs to be received and accepted. Why say repent for the the the king of the thing? Yeah I don't think anybody said there wasn't a message. I think what we're disagreeing about is the content of that message. I think Christ's life is actually quite salvific and it's not just about the death on the cross. So I wouldn't certainly wouldn't disagree with that. Yeah, and so it is true like I hate to be left in a place where I feel like repentance is is And I'm gonna have to leave you in that place. Jonathan Swife do I need to repent? Well, You mentioned uh earlier about repenting, you know, you needed to repent, and I'm like all the time, right? Every moment of every day. We're constantly repenting. Jonathan Swipes, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you, my friend. Uh Doctor Kristen uh Kristen Largen, who is the uh professor of a whole bunch of classes at Lutheran Theological Seminary at Gettysburg. Great to have you. Thank you. Yeah, great to be here. Thank you. Follow her blog, happy Lutheran. I'm Troy Skinner. What have I been reading? It seems apropos, at least slightly, to what we've been talking about. Heaven, a world of love by Jonathan Edwards. Uh check us out online, WFMD. com, keyword faith, and uh be sure to patronize our uh sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile, BMC Insurance And Cruise Holidays. Till next week, God bless.