Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. And it's because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things, let me tell you. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Equipment Plumbing and Heating, Cruise Holidays, and BMC Insurance Visit us online, face to face is uh found online at WFMD. Getting mealy mouse all of a sudden. WFMD. com keyword face. There you'll find links to news items, podcasts, the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me Troiskinner at Clearchannel. com. That's Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. com. Whatever you send me I post, I will take out the curse words. Forty-five blog updates each week, nine per day, uh each weekday, Monday through Friday, in case you're not sure which days are the weekdays. And not that any one day is any more special than another day Uh I encourage you to pop in. I see how you pop in and see what other people are saying if you don't want to email yourself. That rude interjection came from Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh being polite and friendly and prim and proper as you would expect a pastor to be. is uh John Bromble. He is the uh Senior Pastor of Redeemer Lutheran Church in Damascus. What have I been reading lately? You know I shortchanged you last week and left you with a cliffhanger. Liturgies of the Western Church By Bard Thompson. I don't know. I understand. I don't know. It's you haven't read that book, have you? No, no. No. No. Never met a guy named Bard. You would never read a book like that because you don't care about liturgy. Why would you read a book about liturgy? No, no, no, I read books like that. So that I can come up with things that that we could do spontaneously. Here's a book for Jonathan to read. The Modern Preacher and the Ancient Text by Sid uh Sidney Graidanis. You should you should read that one. Because it's what? Has nothing to do with liturgy, has to talk about being a good preacher who applies the text. You want to do that, right? I do. There you go. Sydney Graidonis. Be all over that. I've been reading both of those books I'm proud of you. And I'm sure that the John has probably read them all. There's not a book system published that John hasn't read. That's right. One of them someplace is ready. So we are talking about uh last week and we're continuing into this week about the what happens if you go to church, you know, the structure of the worship service, uh the elements of the worship service, uh the liturgical practices, you know, what is it that the people do What is it that the uh pastors are doing, you know, that sort of thing. And it becomes an interesting question, and this will be the the this will just be a question to get us launched back in. You can respond to this specifically or g generally, uh either one of you. Uh 'cause I know you both have things you are dying to say after last week's show, so I'll let you jump into those things. But it is important because as was rightly pointed out You know, the the exact uh way of translating liturgy of what it means is the work of the people. Right. And so the church is asking the people to do something. as they worship. And so it becomes an important thing for pastors, leaders in the church to think about because you as leaders in the church are asking the people to do something in their worship of God. Okay, now that's a pretty big deal. I I would I'd put a hair with you on it. 'Cause you do you have a right to ask them to do something that God hasn't commanded them to do. It would be the church that is the ones asking them to do it. It should be the Lord directing all that. Like I'm I'm specifically going that direction that like like like that would be the the orientation that that we're saying that that it's not something that's just directed by the leadership, but that the leadership have taught the people to hear the voice of the Lord and to respond. And so the the very worship service itself, but then coming together, which again we we would make our argument from First Corinthians thir uh fourteen on that, that the very coming together, if the leadership has done their job well, then the people are building themselves up. you know, to do the to to to a perfect man, that they're th they're they're building one another up in love, that they're doing the prophesying, that they're doing all that, led by the Spirit, as opposed to being told what to do by people that you do tell them what to do. We've trained them what to do and then we release them to do it. And we say say come and do this. How is that different than what happens at John Sutherland? Uh I want you to clean your room today, then I want you to do your do your um uh make sure that you touch base with your wife, and then I want you to make sure that you do right by by your daughters and I I outline your whole day for you or I just say, you know, Troy, I want you to go out and do what God's telling you is the right thing to do. You're an adult. You don't need me. to walk all that through. I've trained you're trying to go do it. I think you're trying to split a non existent hair on this one. No sir. I don't I don't see the difference. Your mentality So you're claiming that your church doesn't have any responsibility to do anything. No, no, no, no. I'm saying So you as a church do require them to do something when they come together. You're just asking them you're just requiring different things than John's church is requiring. Yeah, and perhaps fewer of them. Okay, and and I recognize that that it's a that there's a measure of self righteousness in us thinking that our way is better. Okay, so so I'm I'm I I grant that From the outset. As long as you acknowledge that your way is wrong while you think that it's wrong, but the self-righteous fine that we are engaging in is that Is that in the scriptures the role of the apostle, prophet, evangelist, pastor, teacher is to raise up the people to works of ministry, and that it's not ministry that we tell them exactly how to do it. But that what we're saying is we want you to know how to hear the voice of God and to respond spontaneously uh as mature men and women to what the Lord is saying and uh saying to do. And so in our worship service we don't say, okay, we're gonna tell you what to do. We've we've taught you What it is that the Lord wants us to do in terms of the Word of God, in terms of praying for one another, in terms of of of uh of uh speaking the Word of God in uh encouraging and building one another up. So let's do it. Okay. So this is starting to get into what I wanted to get into anyway. So I'm gonna let uh Jonathan was just talking, uh to being clear because there's two Johns on the show. Jonathan Sweitz was just talking. Now John Well, why don't you talk about some of the things that you that the Lutheran view would say are things that need to be part of a worship service? What are the elements of worship That need to be there. Th I I see um uh liturgy as being um I I don't know, so uh like I'm just trying to respond in some way to what what you were just saying. I I see it as organic. I see um the work of the people is liturgy as work of the people is that there's some we are created to worship. And um in in a way similar to the way I live my life is the way liturgy captures um my worship. In other words, I I I've got I've got rhythm and routine and patterns and um form. To the way I live my life. I've got rhythm. I've got rhythm. So so I've got all of this in the way I live my life. Yeah. Right. And so as a being created in the image of God to worship, then my worship takes on rhythm and form and a pattern and and there's a richness there that um that actually enables me to find the um the appropriate response, if you will, uh um uh it w that outlet of the spirit uh in some form of spontaneity, but it's always uh kind of captured in in the context of the rhythm, the patterns of my life. And so I you know, I don't know, maybe I'm splitting a hair there too, but I I'm saying, um y you know, f worship for me, liturgy for me is you got the form so that there can be um a spontaneity to my life. In other words, um we do have those times in our worship where people are invited to to respond. Um and now granted from a a perspective from your perspective you might say, well that's but it's too directed of a response. A way that I think I've heard it put, and I don't know if I can get this exactly right, is the higher liturgical form, the the more structured worship service, those who recoil from that or push back against that uh say, well, you know, y you're telling me what to do, I'm not free then to worship. But the response that I've heard is, no, no, there's a structure so that you are free to worship. There's there there's a structure that's provided based upon the word of God so that you can then safely freely worship and be in obedience to God as you do so. So we're providing kind of the bumpers on on the bowling alley. So you can just stay between the bumpers. and you're gonna be fine, it's you're free to worship because the structure's there protecting you so that you're gonna uh not have to worry about drifting off into some hinterland that has nothing to do with biblical worship of God kind of thing. That's how you understand that that would be yeah that I think that fits. So like you take something like uh the creeds Right? Um, which would be a regular part of our liturgy, uh a way for us as a people to say, This is the God that we believed in, right? This is how we would profess or articulate our faith. I believe in God the Father Almighty created. And so there's that triune um structure to the creeds. Now I know that there are are followers, I don't know if you use the creeds in your worship or not, but there are those um uh Christians who would say, we don't need a creed. We don't want a creed. We don't have any creed but Jesus. We did a series of shows on that not too long. Did you really that would say Uh I don't believe it. Uh you know, I th there has to be some you know, because I don't think that we as human beings, rhythmic again, I'll go back to the we've got rhythm You know, we're rhythmic human beings that there's a way for us to live without having some kind of constancy, some kind of form, something something that we can hold on to. Kind of the classical philosophical argument, right? So somebody comes up with their their philosophical view and you say, Okay, yeah, it sounds good, but can you live with it? Can you actually live it out? Can you practice it? You're saying it doesn't pass the livability test. You know, c um th th th this was what creation was about, right? God God brought order out of the chaos. And and so when God brings order out of the chaos, what does that look like? Well it's rhythmic. You know, this morning, evening, second day. You know, and there's a there's kind of these patterns that we see throughout all of God's creation And and our worship then takes that kind of quality too, that there's patterns to it, and there's shape to it, and there's form and there's you know, constancy and so when when we profess to believe in a triune God, well how do we talk about that? W well then we we say, here's the way that we talk about that. And and but then, you know, there's um like, okay, so this is maybe a little nitpicky, but um we've we've got even within the creeds, you know, we typically will use either the Apostles' Creed or the Nicene Creed. Which, you know, a a a distinct difference between the two is the Apostles' Creed is I believe, and the Nicene Creed is we believe. Well, there are times in my life as a person when I want to be able to publicly say this is what I believe But then there are also times in my life whether w you know, maybe I'm in a wilderness time of you know, a time when it's just like, man, I am so thankful that I got brothers and sisters around me. saying, we believe and I can say, yeah, I'm a part of a community of faith that would profess their faith in that way. Um and and so there's all these you know, qualities to um that the rhythm of our worship that I find um just organic, natural. It's a it's a part of being human in a sense. That's John Brommel. He's a senior pastor at Redeemer Lutheran Church in Damascus. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Fake Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So I'm gonna guess, I don't know, I've never been to your church, John, but I'm gonna guess if you've got some sort of a formal call to worship, uh, and even the songs early in the in the service are more call gathering types of songs and s and songs based on psalms, maybe, or that sort of thing. You probably have uh some sort of uh time of confession, time of uh of of assurance, a time of maybe uh corporate creedal claim. Uh maybe a pastoral prayer. Yeah, you wanted to run through it? Sure. How how how it looks. Um uh actually um I don't know, I shouldn't say this on radio, but uh I've had Uh I've had Lutheran colleagues come to our church and go, this isn't a Lutheran church at all. This is a Bible church or a you know some evangelical church or something. So so our um our liturgical is fairly low in that we you know w we typically in our main worship service we're not following um page by page in a hymnal or something like that. So there are qu th there are the elements of that liturgy that I described last week or whenever it was. um that that we would say, no, that's gonna be there every every week. So there is some way that we call people together and it's it's by prayer, it's by music, it's by you know, being invited into the presence of the living God where we then typically will put our time of confession in absolution. Um and uh then that's gonna lead us into actual hearing from God through the Word and then that's gonna be followed by some form of proclamation and a sermon, testimonies, you know It uh there could be all kinds of different elements to that with uh some kind of a response that's gonna be uh a hymn, a song of praise, a time of prayer, um which will then take us into Um the prayers of the people, the prayers of the church, the creed, you know, those those are the things that you're doing. Um when w so when I say a time of prayer, like after uh after the sermon, uh we will invite people to gather uh as they are prompted by this. There's a spontaneity to that. There's you know, if you feel the Holy Spirit l prompting you to come up to the uh altar rail, you know, the rail around our altar. Kneel down, people are going to come around, gather around and pray with you and pray for you, and people will lay hands on them and there's a lot of spontaneity to that. Sometimes we get a lot of people out there and people with lots of needs. Sometimes we'll invite people because we know something's going on in their life that they just need prayer, you know. We invite them into that. That that's probably not real typical of most Lutheran churches, but um for us that's uh um an expression of our commitment to connecting with the heart of God through prayer. Um and and so Uh and but but but then there is also a time of the prayers of the people when we try and um bring words to what are the needs and concerns of the community, of the wider community, and those sorts of things. We might pray for the people in Oklahoma, we'd pray for our military, or we'd pray for the president, we'd you know, we'd pray for all kinds of things for um. So um and then that uh leads into holy communion. And after holy communion, then there is a time of venidiction or blessing and ascending And um so yeah, those those elements, but they're not gonna at my congregation they're not going to take quite the same sort of formality that Many, many Lutheran churches have. Uh John, I'm going to ask you now, is there anything about that structure that you think is like is wrong, wrong headed? Or is it or or merely it's just a matter of style and preference? You're like, well that's not the way we do it, but I'm totally fine with the way he does it. Or do you think that there's something about that structure that is like wrong, not biblical? Not what God would have them do. Yeah. Couple things. One, I'm like second generation into the the style of um liturgy or lack of litur liturgy that we have in our service. And so, uh, when I get into a setting like what you're describing I it's refreshing to me. I really enjoy it. You know, I I I I come away thinking to myself, you know, man, there's some really good stuff in there. Um those that are in my circles that have come out of something that they felt like was dead and dry, you know, you hear a lot of that kind of language. Um have, you know, their stories of how dead and dry it was and how You know, people just did the same thing every week and nobody really meant it, you know, and and and you know, they they have their story of of why they left that to find something that was more spirit filled in in their terminology. Well, I don't have that kind of history, so I don't I don't uh live personally with a um with a an experience of something negative about that setting. Every now and again I'll go to a church where where they're following some kind of a pattern and I'll be like, man, that was really dry. But it doesn't like it doesn't like cause a reaction to me. Many times I've been in more liturgical services in in even Catholic churches where I come away like, man, there's so much meaning in that. Right. You know, and I'm caught up and I'm thinking about it, you know, throughout the week, you know, like how they did that and how they did that and what that meant, you know, in the in the different parts of it. And so, um, the reason why I continue to be where I am is only 'cause when I look at the only place in scripture where they seem to to describe, you know, a church setting, it seems like that's 1 Corinthians 12, 13, and 14. And he's reacting to what was a really bad setting and he seems to be describing what would be the ultimate, just like First Corinthians is the ultimate expression of of love. Love is patient, love is kind, and and he you know, out of the ugliness of how they were treating each other. He was calling them to the to this picture of what they sh you know, what the idea was. My sense is that he does the same thing with the Corinthian church. And so um I don't feel that there's any great reaction in me toward what you do. I'm blessed by it. You know, uh I'm encouraged by it uh especially in places where i where s where I sense the life like what you seem to be describing uh in your setting. Um and That's what that's what I wanna see. I wanna see the life. I wanna see, you know, the the and how do I know that there's life I don't uh uh uh you know, fruit is important. You know, in it it's a little bit of an intangible, you know, but there's a sense of people being ministered to at the place of genuine hurt and need. There's a sense that the word is is uh accurate to scripture and um not just like a relevant message that kind of throws scripture in but you know is is is life giving, you know, there's an o an anointing on it. And the same thing's true with communion. You could do communion one day and it just seems like this dead work. You could do it another way and it's full of life. And so You know, in terms of like where I stand on it, there's a like I was saying before, there's a measure of self righteousness and things that we tell ourselves in my group of circle uh in in my circle of uh leaders and and churches, but uh I don't know that our way is necessarily full of life. And I've been to churches that run things like our church that are pretty dead. And so You know. By the way, w w when it comes time for you to preach, um, is it fifteen minutes, a half hour, three and a half hours, like what is it? Um That yeah, that's that that's uh a hard one to um nail down. Uh it really depends on um how how that service is flowing. Um generally I would say we do uh constrain our worship time from beginning at eight o'clock uh and finishing up in time for a us to send people off to Bible studies and Sunday school classes and and whatnot by nine thirty. So we're talking about an hour and a half there. And within that hour and a half time there could be, you know, ebb and flow to where you know, emphasis is placed. So in other words we might begin uh in the gathering time and only have uh two songs, you know, two uh a hymn and a song praise song or something like that and and confession and absolution. uh and then go right into uh reading from the word and and the preaching. And there'll be more time to flexible structure. There there'll be some flexib there is flexibility to that. Yeah. So then there's other times when it's like, you know, the um the spirit is is moving and the preacher's going like so I I'm I'm the senior pastor there. I have two other pastors there with me, so whoever's preaching, you know, kind of um in in a sense is entrusted to um follow the Holy Spirit to end that preaching time within reason and if it goes longer than this particular time that means we make up that time. someplace else we might adjust in some other way. Um so that generally we would we would have a worship time that that begins and ends within an hour and a half period of time. So there could be there could be diversity within there. So there there could be a a sermon that's fifteen minutes, it could go half hour. It could go a little bit more than a half hour. Uh you start getting beyond a half an hour, then So maybe on on average or something that's in the median would be like twenty, twenty five minutes. And yours is what maybe twice as long as that. It's usually about forty, forty five minutes. So you don't go that much longer than us, but it's it's that as I was saying w one one of the other programs, we we celebrate Holy Communion at every worship service. So um you know we factor that into our overall time. Sure. Now, I haven't really shown uh I did a little bit on the uh uh on the Lord's Supper issue, the first two shows that this panel did together. I haven't really shared much of where I come down on some of these questions um when it comes to uh church liturgy. I'm a I'm a bit more structured than Jonathan's church Uh but I I wouldn't be as structured as the Lutheran tradition. I'm not a fan of the uh of the you know, the church calendar, you know, the three year cycle and and that sort of thing. Um uh that feels f I've never had to do it, so maybe it doesn't feel this way to actually live in it like you live in it. But I feel like if I were in your shoes I'd feel a little like too much top down control. Like, well what if I feel like my congregation needs me to preach from Job when the church calendar is telling me I have to preach from Mark chapter six. No, you had mentioned that there are times that that you do deviate depending you know, so Again, there's a flexible schedule of the and I would say that we don't necessarily follow that in some kind of a straitjacket kind of way. It's not like a requirement You know, uh I personally like the discipline of it, you know, because uh the lectionary will take us to places in the scriptures that we may not otherwise ordinarily want to go. You know. Right. Which is funny 'cause I seek out those places and I say, Well, I want to make sure that we're hitting those. Yeah, right. If you preach long enough using the lectionary, will you end up touching on all of scripture or does it kind of recycle through the same sections over and over over again. It's w well, I mean within a three year cycle, so a three year lectionary is in that three years going to cover certainly the majority of of scripture, but uh you know, it'd be dishonest to say that it covers all of scripture. You know, certainly we don't spend a lot of time reading the long genealogies and you know, the areas like that. Those are the best parts. Yeah. Hosea, Ecclesiastes. Song of Solomon. Yeah. Um so we do do readings from from But yeah, I think the um for me the discipline of the lectionary. So you're not preaching on Genesis chapter five every day. Not every day, no. Yeah. Every day. That's whole chapters of genealogy pretty much, right? So and so and so lived eight hundred and forty-nine years and then he died. Right. And it goes on to the next guy. Right. I do do a genealogy about once a year though Where I just kinda bang through it 'cause 'cause in the genealogies is basically the list of the stories that are the key stories, you know, in It ends up being a story in and of itself. So I find that every now and again I'll hit that. So one w one of the things that I've found is um that we do like at our church we do do preaching series. And and sometimes we uh will build a series based on a particular uh book that we want for the congregation to be blessed by. And a great example would be um this past fall we were uh focusing on Mark Batterson's book, The Circle Maker. And um if you've read the book, one of the primary images he uses early on in the book is the the story of the quails uh that God sends to to the Israelites in the wilderness, right? And they got we're getting tired of the bread you know, the manna and they were like, Well we want meat, you know, so God sends this deluge of quail. And um, you know, a as I was sort of preparing and laying out what we were going to be addressing from that book and comparing it to the revised common lectionary assigned texts f for those weeks, it was like that story from numbers happened to fall on the week that I was The Holy Spirit network, even if you try to kick him out. That's right. Um life healing choices, uh celebrate recovery stuff. You know, we did that preaching series uh starting the first Sunday in January and it was a similar kind of thing. You know, as you go through those eight steps of uh life's healing choices and the way it played out with the assigned lectionary text for that Sunday it was just like uh this is a god thing it's just amazing. So spooky It's spooky. John Rommel is our uh guest this week from Redeemer Lutheran Church in Damascus. He's the senior pastor there. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel I am Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Cruise holidays and BMC insurance. Thank you so much for listening. Check us out online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. We've got 167. 5 hours to kill until our next show. Make good choices. God bless.