Welcome to Freddy Wow. I feel like a we weird I'm in a tunnel. My h my my headphones are funky. I I I I feel as though I'm speaking to you through a large tunnel, tunnel, tunnel. I don't know what happened all of a sudden. This is the Frederick State Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, broadcasting from the end of a large tunnel, apparently. Jonathan Sweitzer, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Dr. Jace Broadhurst is senior pastor at Foolsville Baptist Church. Ah, there's a short and I failed to correct the short. Now I'm in Fool Stereophonic Glory. Wonderful. Ah, I love the sound of my own voice in stereophonic glory. Our show is brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? And BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. And what have I been reading lately? What went wrong? The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East by Bernard Lewis. That's what I've been reading. And I'm not sure if I should take what Bernard Lewis wrote as fiction, science fiction, allegory, verse, prose, poetry Midrash? I have no idea. I'm very confused at this stage. We've been talking about whether the Bible is in error. That's how we started anyway. It's it's devolved into something other. I'm not sure what to describe the topic as Anymore. I don't know. But the the gist of it is coming down to the question of can we trust the Bible and if so uh Not so much to what extent, but in what ways should we trust the Bible. And we're trying right? Um Yeah, the question comes down to not whether we trust the Bible is what is the Bible. In the Old Testament. Did the donkey really speak? Is it important that we believe that the donkey really spoke, or is it important that we learned the lesson from what was going on when the donkey spoke? That's an issue. Did Jonah really get swallowed up by a great fish and vomited up a few days later on the side of a beach somewhere? Did that really happen? Is it important that that really happened, that we believe that the Bible recorded something that historically actually in fact happened in time and space? uh or or not. Did bodies rise from the grave at uh at Christ's crucifixion? Um I think that they did But some people are going to say no, and they say, well, you know what? I'm going to disagree with you pretty strongly on that, but I'm going to respect your position to disagree with it as long as we're agreeing on that Jesus actually is a phys is a historical figure who is the son of God, who died, who rose again, who ascended into heaven, and they were saved. I mean, as long as we can stay on those points, I'm gonna I'm gonna give some latitude there I think that Jace likes my latitude. I think that John doesn't. Uh but I think that Jace doesn't like that I don't have nearly as much latitude as he might like me or others like. You know, I'm comfortable with your latitude, but that's precisely the point is how much latitude. Like I keep finding myself wanting to ask the question, okay, can you give me a list? of all those places like Jonah or Balaam's donkey where you think that it's uh allegory or myth or, you know, uh a story to, you know, to make a point. Can you can you give me a list so that I can get my head around the fullness of what you mean by it. But I find that it's hard to go there because that's precisely means that o okay I gotta pin you down, you know, on all the hard ones and there's probably certain ones that that like you said earlier uh you work your way into um theologically and you split a lot of hairs and so it gets you to a place where you where you believe it that you might want to just not want to just come out and say it. But that's the problem is that is that how do I not see it as a slippery slope unless we can somehow put some boundaries around well how far Does your use of allegory go? Like like um, you know, do you think that there was really uh that that God really wrote the Ten Commandments with his finger? Or do you think, you know, that Moses did it? Well Moses did one of 'em, but the other one we're told that God did it. Okay, so let's let's take that one. Um like the man in the desert. I don't think God wrote with his finger. Do you think there was man in the Does anybody think God wrote with his finger? Because our our understanding of scripture is that God doesn't have a finger. Right? God is a spirit and has not a body like man. I do you think God wrote it without Moses doing the work D do I think that God wrote it without I I don't I don't know the answer to that, but if you stick with the first one, does that not go against everything that I mean, m my point is that it's not literal, historical, it's something else. It's making you're even now you're trying to make an argument that says all it means is that God that Moses didn't do it, that God did it in some way. I'm saying, okay, then you've already you're already saying that's not literal, it's not actual historical truth. It's trying to make a larger point. Right? And that's what I'm trying to say about the Bible. It doesn't have to be that way. We're gonna go through a list of everything? Well that's what I'm saying. How do I get my head around how far you go. I I'm going to deal with every text on its own merits and deal with each single one and dec decide in the end how I think about that. Jonah, I don't know what to think about Jonah. Scholars are very debated on this partic uh very divided on this one. Um it it's it's hard. A lot of people are are saying that that Jonah is written for a completely different reason than to give you any kind of history. On this on the Jonah's story? Yeah. I I don't know. But I know that Augustine comes down on a lot of historical things, like almost all the genocide passages in the Old Testament, as saying these must be allegorical because God can't be like that. So he has a presupposition about who God is and starts to allegorize things. uh methodology, right? Well sure. But so did everybody for the first thousand years of the church. I mean there's an Antiochan and Alexandrian school, but origin your most famous people approach things allegorically. There was always a not always, but there was a fourfold sense. Right? Literal was just one of those. Yeah, I think that the finger of God thing, it's clearly God doesn't have a finger, and so we can take that as okay The but the point the impact the import of the message there is that it's God's word. It's not laws made up by Moses. This is directly God's doing. And whether it was a lightning bolt And nobody disagrees that's not a debate in inerrancy. where you're saying that the modern mentality approaches them better than Uh then I mean sorry. I what I can't figure out is whether yours is the modern one or whether mine is the modern one You know, because that's really the argument. I'm trying to say that mine's more accurate to what Jesus and Paul did, or you're trying to say that yours is more accurate to what Jesus did. When I teach hermeneutics in the seminary, I have a whole class that's called Read Mythically Or read like the ancients. So I understand what I'm doing, obviously, to be reading like they would have read. Obviously, I'm coming to that assumption by reading books currently that are saying things about that. But that's because we have so much more, for instance, than Calvin had We have the Dead Sea Scrolls. That was that's huge, right? That's gigantic in in the world of trying to understand how hermeneutics work. That's a hugely helpful thing. He didn't have that. Or I I don't think he did. Um that's why the the find was so big. So it's an ancient understanding of how to read. Right. And so again The the issue comes back to that I've said again and again. Do we give more credence to uh to the uh the contemporary environment of the Bible, or do we say that do do we say that the Bible is more consistent with its contemporary society? Or do we say that the Bible is more contrasted with its contemporary society? And I'm I'm arguing that that it does yeah, yeah, but between you and I The disagreement is that you believe that it's more in alignment with its contemporary society, and I'm saying that it's less in alignment with its contemporary society, that it's more contrasting. That's the distinction. I'm not I'm not saying that that I don't give any leeway. I'm just saying that that I feel like the leeway that that is is currently being given is not driven by an approach to scripture that that is driven by faith, but that I feel like ultimately is driven by Modern techniques that are that are promoted throughout the entire educational world. Instead of the water. Just that the same way that you would read any other literature, you're going to read the Bible. Well yeah, uh if it's written for a cer certain group of people, Israelites at a certain time, they need to understand it. So yes, it's written by humans. Let's say Moses. I would obviously argue much later, but that that's historical criticism. We dealt dealt with all that in the beginning. But let's let's he's Yeah, but for the sake of the hearer, I think it's important that they know. Like you're saying that there's parts of of Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy that were written when? Um Exile Exile. So during the Babylonian captivity, that there's certain parts that were written during that time. And like what can you give like a proportion? No, no clue. Uh okay, take a shot at it. I mean you you you gotta give some kind of a uh of a understanding because cause even I would say that there's certain editing that was done at the time But I'm gonna say it's like less than two percent. It's a word here, it's a comment here at the end of a passage, you know, and that that's it. I would say it was it was put in its in its form the way that it is now at that later date. Okay. Whether it was organized for a specific purpose for a group of people that are in exile or post exile. Were there up to whole chapters that were that were written by post exilic authors in the name of Moses? I have I have no idea. Are you open to that being the case? Of course, yes. Okay. That's why I'm trying to get at. Yeah, but I think most of the factors are the chapters from Penetra. Yeah. This is totally off where we were. It just jumped us back. But Well but I feel like it it's necessary for helping to draw out exactly what it is that that is the difference between what we're saying here. I would say it's more human. Okay, that's not really accurate. I'm just trying to bring it down to you think that it's accurate. Well, I'm saying I don't think it's it's totally accurate. I would say that it is completely divine and completely human. I'm not arguing more or less, giving it a percentage, 50-50. In fact, I would I I think the best analogy is incarnational analogy, and I I'm not totally fond of that, but that's an ancient one that Calvin used, I think Augustine even used. That Jesus is 100% God and Jesus is a hundred percent man and and somehow, you know, he bleeds, Jesus bleeds, so the Bible bleeds, that kind of concept. So it has human humanity. It's written by humans. This is the question that you asked previously that that I was uh in in a previous show that that I was wanting to get at because 'cause he does believe that even though the Bible is Christ and the Word of God that like like let me ask this. Do you think that Christ made mistakes when he spoke? That Christ made mistakes when he was a very good thing. You're saying that you believe the Bible is fully God, fully man, fully divine, fully human, so therefore it should bleed like Jesus bled. I believe that Jesus didn't have to be a good thing. Jesus didn't bleed lies. He didn't bleed bleed contradictions. I think Jesus had to go to school. I think he learned things on earth. So therefore, I think when Mary was teaching him two plus two, at one point he said five. And she said, no, no, no. It's four. So i in that error, yes, I think he made errors. I think when he played hide and seek with his friends, he didn't know where they were. I don't think he was like I mean that would be a real bummer for Jesus. Oh yeah. How did you find me again? Okay. So you're saying then later on in his life when he goes into his ministry the a at at the age of thirty, do you think that he is still in the place of speaking about things of which he does not know? I don't what does that mean? You think he's still in the place I think there are things that Jesus as a man still did not know, yes. No, is Jesus speaking of things. Meaning that the the other thing is that that that when Peter was sitting there listening to him and what he said, that at times he said things that later on Like maybe a year after he started his ministry he wo he he would go back and say, Hey Peter, I know I said this before, but you know that probably wasn't right. This is more perspective. Okay, but my question is he would make a comment about Moses, for instance. He would say, This passage is found when Moses wrote this, and what he means by that is this is what everybody understands to be the Mosaic writings. I don't necessarily think he's automatically making a blanket statement that Moses had to have written all of these things. So is that wrong? So you think Jesus knew I I don't know if Jesus knew that or not. But it's I'm saying it's not that important to me for him to have full understanding of everything. And that you're saying that if Jesus didn't know that, it really doesn't matter. It really doesn't matter. Meaning it's okay if Jesus when it was written. Yes. And I'm saying that That's right. That that doesn't bother me. That that bothers me deeply because it um And because why? Because I expect Christ to be speaking of things he knows about. And that I expect Christ to be Well the example you gave, he doesn't he's not making an argument about Moses or or not, so I I just I I just think that's Wait was I just talking about? That he spoke about Moses. Yeah. And it whether it's whether it's Mosaic period or much later on, whether it's Babylonian captivity. I don't think that was his argument. That's not what he was trying to get across. He was just saying in the writings of Moses, which is what everybody says Everyone knows these are the writings of Moses. He wasn't trying to make a point on such a thing. So it's okay with m so I I don't think Jesus was wrong in things that he was teaching. I mean my whole my whole life is based on Jesus' teaching. Everything that he says is is gold to me, is is wonderful and beautiful. I don't think he was inaccurate on these things. But I think that he he might mention things that are true of the culture at the time, saying things in the culture, um what we call accommodation, that he w he would speak to them. Now I don't know whether he as God, I I would say as God, of course he knows these things. He's He's omniscient, I would say. Of course that's something again that I bring to the to the Bible. That might not be fair. Um You mean that Jesus was all known? Uh huh. That's something I bring to the text, right? Because nowhere does it say Jesus was all knowing. So I bring now I think it's a fair statement. Right? Well but again But so he didn't talk about it. So but I'm saying he didn't know. But of God of course he knew, right, because he's omniscient. I'm just saying those things are are placed on the text arbitrarily. Nah, it's not fair. It's not arbitrary. It's it's based on a bigger understanding of who God is. That's the voice of Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, Jonathan Schweitzer on the show again as well. He's the senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinners of the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD It occurred to me in the last couple of moments if if it's possible that in a lot of cases we're asking the wrong questions. You know, the the Bible uh I believe that you know, and I think you agree too, both of you on the panel. Yeah, y you use scripture to interpret scripture Uh we s we believe that the that the Bible is the Word of God because the Bible seems to make a claim about itself that it is the the Word of God. We say that it's inspired because the Bible says it's inspired. There's a circ amount of circular reasoning that takes place Why do you say that book you're reading is inspired? Because the book I'm reading says it is. I mean there's but that's not a problem because everything we hold to be true, if you drill down far enough, it becomes circular reason. It's a question of how tight the circle is. Or a better way I think somebody's a philosophical standard. Somebody once described it as it's not really circular reading, as it it's it's more of a spiral than a circle. And I kind of I kind of like that uh image better. But I'm wondering, what does the Bible claim about itself? It doesn't say it's a history book. It doesn't say it's a It's basic instructions before leaving earth. It doesn't say that. What it does say in a couple of pla in in uh uh three or four places, uh two that I can think of right off the top of my head, John chapter five and Luke chapter twenty-four. Jesus' words saying that this book, these this what we now call the Bible, it's about Him. You read these scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life. You don't realize they're about me? What Moses said was about me. What the prophets said was about me. You know, King David is pointing to me. I I I wonder if that if we get so lost in the you know the the historical thing or the allegorical thing. I think this was, you know, uh uh th this is a brave statement, but I think that um Uh some of those w highly regarded and rightfully so church fathers who were so in love with their allegory, I think, were making some mistakes along the way. You know, I I think that uh Augustine or Augustine, your your preference on how you want to pronounce that, um went w made some in some had some understandings of scripture that were pure allegory. And by that I mean allegory absent Christ being imposed on the text. I think that that should be the rubric. I think that if we're going to impose something on the text, it should be the person of Jesus Christ. And so I think allegory is okay as long as it's allegory that travels through the person of Jesus Christ. It is basic instructions before leaving earth, but only insofar as we understand those str instructions through Jesus Christ. So it is historically accurate uh at least to a certain extent, but only insofar, I think, as i it's important anyway, only insofar as it's through Jesus Christ. Did that king really rule at that time? I'm going to say yes. But why is that important? Well, because i it's important because of my understanding of Christ. It's not important because of my understanding of the ancient Near East. That has I don't care about the Ancient Near East. I care about Jesus Christ. I don't care about modern or postmodern ideas. I care about Jesus Christ. And sometimes I've I'm wondering these last three and a half shows now For asking the wrong questions. I don't know. I it it it's interesting. that the particular school environment that uh you guys come from, um uh it it's interesting to me that this has arisen in that environment because you're s you th that particular school uh really magnifies that it's all about Christ. And this is part of what concerns me is that it's so about Christ that all of a sudden The scriptures themselves. John chapter five verses thirty n uh tw thirty nine through forty. I know I know where you're gonna go with it, but that's gonna miss my mark. That's gonna miss my mark. Okay. My point is that if they're all about Christ, then Two things are happening, and I feel like like what you were just describing is only one of those things happening. One, the scriptures, meaning the Old Testament scriptures, help us to understand what Christ is all about. But I feel like I feel like I don't hear that when you guys are talking. I feel like instead what I hear is is now that Christ has come, now we understand what the old script the what the scriptures were saying. And so Christ illuminates the Old Testament, but I don't hear, and I and I and I and I hear regularly an unwillingness to recognize that the Old Testament also illuminates Christ. That we understand who Christ is and what he's all about, in part because of what the Old Testament does. And so then when he comes, you know, then there's greater light. And so he illuminates the Old Testament while the Old Testament is pointing to and illuminating him. And the point is that for Zachariah, for Mary, for the various ones that that got it right away They got it because the Old Testament had prepared them for Christ And they were ready for Christ when he came. And so they didn't have to, you know, uh they weren't caught up in the traditions of men, but instead they had uh You know? What is it that I just said that has you saying that? Well cause you ca this is something that that you say many times and so I'm probably reading on reading into this and you and I have had the discussion at different times My point is is that is that if Christ is the is the solution, those that uh i that in in the the what all of scripture points to, um Oftentimes what I hear coming from specifically a Calvinist, but then a Calvinist and Midrashic and Second Temple literature viewpoint is that therefore We can kind of change some of what the Old Testament seemed to have meant to the original hearers because the point is it's supposed to be fulfilled in Christ. It's uh it's not so important that that it was really clear in the Old Testament. What's what's important is just that that it's clear to us now. And I feel like it it undermines the authority of the Word of God in the Old Testament. And it treats the Old Testament as somehow Well okay. I'll I'll have a lower I'm not sure that this is what you're doing. As a less inspired book. If I'm hearing you properly then, where out of the sixty six books of the Bible Point to any place that tells me that the Bible is about something other than Jesus Christ. As explicitly as John chapter 5 and Luke 24 say that it is about Jesus Christ, the very words of Christ himself. Yeah, yeah, I feel like that question misses what I was meaning to say. And so my answer is is the scriptures are about Christ. Okay. So we're in agreement. However That doesn't mean that we minimize what what the Old Testament says and how it addresses who Christ is. Like even even Augustine saying that couldn't ha couldn't have happened in the Old Testament. I feel like is his his imposing on the Old Testament some view of what he thinks Christ is that doesn't fit with the clear teaching of the Old Testament. And that being the case, it means that that he's so Christ-centered, are you following this? That that he is missing how the Old Testament points to the fact that Christ, when he comes to judge. He's going to judge with public. Augustus' mistake wasn't that he was two Christ centers, that in those hermeneu when he was practicing his hermeneutics in those moments, he forgot Christ and went s pure allegory. That's what I think is mistake. He did that because he's a fallen sinner and need of salvation. Yeah, because he was so focused on Christ and Christ doesn't judge and he hasn't come to condemn the world that he read that onto the Old Testament. Therefore the Old Testament must be allegory. He's taking what he sees as the the teaching The the the the light of the children. But that's not what the New Testament says that Christ is. So then so you're saying that uh Augustine uh Augustine got uh Christ completely wrong He failed to see Jesus as the final judge? I don't think I said completely. I'm saying that in this particular uh issue. On that issue, back into the Old Testament, something But then his issue there was he should have let the Old Testament No, he should have helped him to see what was happening in the world. His problem wasn't that he had too much of a focus on Christ. This is why this is what I was disagreeing with you. Is that you know because you hear people say all the time, Christ, Christ, Christ, Christ And the reality is that the Old Testament gives us the big picture about what Christ is all about. It shows us what God's been doing through all that time. Amen. I agree a hundred percent. You don't think the Old Testament is talking about Christ? No, no, no I definitely don't think that's what I heard him say. But I don't think it's uh it's illuminating Christ in the way that it seems that the New Testament is In fact you say Zechariah, Mary, they got this right away. I don't think they got it at all. I think Mary treasured these things in her heart and thought about it. Zachariah understood that this was the Messiah, but even his understanding of what the Messiah was, a light to the Gentiles, the compilation of Israel. He had no clue what this was. In fact, I think the gospel's main arg I would say the entire New Testament's main argument is to say, Jesus is not what you thought he was. He's not here to be who you thought he was. Your whole understanding as you interpret it Old Testament is wrong In fact, the only way that we know that that's wrong is because Jesus is standing here and we see it with our own eyes and it's totally different than we understood. And now we have to fit this understanding of the Messiah back into the Old Testament. Okay. Because that's so not what the Messiah is. Ha! And absolute absent a miracle of God, we're gonna have to wrap the show right here. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh Dr. Jace Broadhurst, who got the last word? I'm so excited for him He's the Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by BMC Insurance, Putman Plumbing and Heating and Cruise Holidays. Check us out online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Until next week. God bless.