Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 W WFMD brought to you by Dick Freddie at Footman Plummen Heating. How can we make you smile? I want to encourage you, please, visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith. Sound a little desperate there, didn't I? Please visit us online. Uh email me, Troy at WFMD uh dot com. What am I reading? I know you care. A first John reader. Yeah, and grappling, trying to grapple with the original language. It's it's Greek? It is the hardest thing I've done in my life. You know what I want to see? I want to see Pimsler's approach to Greek. I'm doing Pim Pimsler's approach to Arabic right now, right? Okay. And it and it's supposed to be he's supposed to be like the Einstein of language development And so I'd love to see him do it with Greek. Maybe he could teach you a couple of things about English even when you got it. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor, cross- My mom and brother would like that. And we're joined again this week by Justin Thomas, who is Um the senior pastor of um Ha alma said your church. Yes at Harvest Christian Fellowship. And he's not gunning for your job, is he? No, sir. He is uh at work in the fields of the Lord and rejoicing. Okay, I just gotta tell you, Frederick is a phenomenally giving town. Amen. And we got people working together to plan the forty eight hour uh for Frederick forty eight this year that are very uh motivated and we are making some great connections uh round Frederick. Keep praying for us that uh we'd like to see this be the biggest What two days of giving ever in Frederick. That's what we're doing. And the dates are September September twenty-seventh and twenty-eighth. And people would go online and they can make a donation to the local charities, right? um should be uh up already if it's not. Okay. Uh if it's if not it will be right away. So uh we have a new website this year and and it's gonna be new and improved and and uh have have it super easy for you to uh give to the organization you feel like is best positioned to care for those people that you feel are uh hurting and in need uh at this time. Uh if you missed last week's show, it was a really I thought dynamic and good conversation and uh hopefully the podcast is working these days. One can never tell if our podcasts are working. But if so, send an email to the management here and go back and uh check and hopefully it'll be working. Uh it'd be it'd be worth checking out. And one of the things we brought up but then purposely put off for another show and this this might be that show Yeah. And whether God's wrath is exercised the same way now as it was pre Christ. Is the Old Testament God the same as the New Testament God would be uh an unfortunate way to frame the question, but that would be one way to frame the question. How has God changed or how has the way that he interacts with us? And the question came up about resisting the devil. Yeah. And I thought that was an interesting little rabbit trail So Jonathan and for for for those that um that think in this way Right. And there there's a line of of uh doctrine offended by that. There no, there's a line of doctrine that that is being taught that that sees itself as an answer to the old angry God. um that is is grappling with these things and I feel like they've gone too far. And my thing is that is that we're we're from my understanding clearly taught that in the Old Testament God used earthquakes and uh and storms, hurricanes, whatever, uh famine, uh to to um uh to discipline people that he was attempting to draw back to himself. That the wages of sin is death and that it results in famine in uh various places around the world that it results in brokenness in in various places around the world when people walk away from the purposes of God. And in my mindset I include in that the fact that Russia, a forty years after they kicked God out of the nation uh claims to have n have had forty years of bad harvests. I just don't think that's a coincidence. I think God is just as active today as he ever was in that he blesses those that uh choose to respond to him and that he doesn't bless those uh that choose to walk away from him. They walk away from uh the blessing that he has for them. And but to Justin's point from last week, then how do we go about explaining the international rise to power of China? Right. Great point. Which again is is very clear to me. In fact, how do how did we explain the international rise to power of Russia? Right before the collapse. And now the rebirth of Russia, right? I mean they're you know, they're not the Russia of fifteen years ago. Yeah, they're they're again asserting themselves. That there is a point at which God allows the the wicked to be blessed and the righteous to be cursed. That was that was Job's great question. Why are the wicked blessed and why are the righteous cursed? Why does that happen? And in the context The the glaring um uh reason for that is that Satan is actively working to subvert the normal purposes of God. The normal purposes of God. We see all through uh Proverbs that the righteous will be blessed and the wicked will be cursed. That's the normal purposes of God. But Satan is working to subvert those purposes where even the righteous are cursed and the wicked are blessed. And so in those situations we're led to believe that's where Job, uh God says to Job, Can you tame Leviathan? And Leviathan, the serpent, becomes the great picture of the beast, where Satan works together with the beast uh uh powers on the earth, whether it's uh Babylon or Assyria or Greece or Rome and in working together or, you know, Israel when it rejected God's purposes, and that those beast powers, God allows them for a season to actually make war on the saints to make war on the righteous and to overcome them, but that God allows that for a season so that He can expose how wicked and evil Satan is. And what Satan's trying to do so that he can bring Satan down. And so that's that's a big part of what God is doing on the earth. He allows Russia to have its way for a period of time until everybody can see, man, Russia is corrupt. and broken and it needs to be brought down. And then he he sets a time where he brings the day of the Lord and he brings them down. I think that that he's done that all through history. He's never stopped doing it. You know, there's plenty of uh of nations in in uh various places around the world that have given themselves over to corruption in a way that's that that doesn't even get into their their interaction with God. Haiti for that matter made a treaty with uh with witch doctors way back at the time of their freedom, some two a hundred fifty, two hundred years ago, and they have never been able to rise out of out of their abject poverty. And I'm saying that there's a direct correlation that people chose to make a a a tie with the devil in Haiti where Dominican Republic that is right next door That never happens. So if we extend this, and this would and I'm not don't want to be making too many of your points for you, so you can feel free to voice because I I think that uh I I have a lot of sympathy for Justin's point of view. I'm not sure if I'm uh comfortable with the way you're the Calvinist. Yeah. Because In nineteen eighty nine there was a horrific earthquake in San Francisco. Happened in the middle of the World Series. Yes. Does that mean that that oh you uh big baseball fan? A little bit. So, uh to quote m uh uh Al Michaels, the greatest show open in sports history, bar none. Yeah. Happened right as the the broadcast was opening. But anyway, does that mean that San Francisco was the most evil city in America or even in the world at the time? Or when Katrina hits uh New Orleans, does that mean that New Orleans was the most evil corrupt city in America at the time? Or when Hugo hit the Carolinas, does that mean that Charlotte was the most corrupt city in the U. Why does why does Chicago never get hit by a hurricane? And why does it have to be a hurricane? Okay, if five tornadoes came and it destroyed a prison, we go, maybe that's God. But if it came and destroyed an orphanage, we go, that's not God. Well that's precisely the point because because Scripture clearly invites us to perceive everything that happens on the earth. Through the eyes of a moral, righteous, just God. He invites us to do so, and he recognizes that there's many times that we just don't understand what's righteous and what's not, what's just and what's not. A good friend of mine that lives over in Israel says that there's macro issues of justice. between Israel and Palestine and God, and there's micro issues of justice between Israel and Palestine and God. I think the same thing is true around the world, that there's a macro issue of justice and righteousness that is going on at all times that has to do with God and his sovereign power uh who holds the destinies of peoples in his hands. Our founding fathers were big on this, that we should humble ourselves before a righteous God and appeal to him that he would bless us and that if we do not that he might just choose to remove his blessing from us. What covenant has okay, God made a covenant with Israel really clearly And he said, if you do these things, these blessings will happen. If you do these wrong things, then these wrong things and sin of the nation brings forth the consequences, you know, they reaped what they saw, the con the judgments of God, the wrath of God. Where has God made a covenant with the nation of Russia? Where has God made a covenant with the nation of China. Whereas God said if you do this things will happen. Let me ask you if this is what you're saying. Are you saying that if God doesn't make a covenant with a group of people that he doesn't have the right God made a covenant with Adam, which is mankind. God made a covenant with mankind and he brought a curse to them. took the curse and those who were in Christ are free from the curse. And you're talking about we're talking about the judgment on the nations, which is interspersed with believers and unbelievers. But those who are in Christ are have this this separation there, I believe. So when God is bringing um this judgment, you talk about storms or pestilence, whatever these things When is it, you know, we actually Jesus said he he fed the multitudes, where he rebuked the storm, where he overcame these things, versus us just saying, you know If if that storm's coming, what authority do I have to say, you know, that is not from God? It's gonna kill people, it's gonna bring destruction, it's gonna bring separation and in marriages, and it's gonna just But if if that's from God to say what kind of loving God does those kind of things? Yeah, but the God of the Bible Did that in countless places in the Old Testament. Yes, that's my point. It's a covenant issue. He clearly does it for the whole earth That's the that's the end. We're in a covenant. We're in a separated uh time of grace right now. So let me hit the covenant issue. Yep. He did it with Sodom and Gomorrah, and they had no covenant. And Sodom and Gomorrah is used in countless places through Scripture to describe how God is going to interact with those that walk away from him. Isaiah and Jeremiah Uh uh Joel, the different prophets, prophesy time and again, not just to Israel, but they prophesied to Babylon, they prophesy prophesied to Egypt. They prophesied to Edom. They prophesied to all of their surrounding nations that have no covenant with God. The sense is that God does have a covenant with all those people. He always had it from Noah on, but they walked away from that covenant, and that's why they live under the judgment of God. And so then the question is uh is whether or not we should view all of those things And the blessing of God as something that God bestows according to his will. So then it's a question of what is his righteous will. And it seems to me, like, contrary to to Islam, I've been studying Islam recently, there's no uh sense anywhere in Islam that you're supposed to understand God. Uh if you talk to a Muslim uh uh teacher, he he would not encourage you to try to understand God. That's not a Muslim mentality. But in Judeo-Christian worldview We are invited by God to to to to understand his justice, to see what he sees and how he works things. And if that's the case, he's always done it. He's inviting us to see that, but more than that, he's inviting us into a relationship with him that we would see that his desire is not to curse us, but to bless us. But we should not be deceived. What if God cannot be mocked? A man will still reap what he sows. LA Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Justin Thomas, who is the senior pastor at Harvest Christian Fellowship and Uh I had a question, but I'm gonna let you jump in because you were jumping at the pit ass uh to respond to what Jonathan said, Justin. Yeah, I'm trying to just be respectful of your time and what you're saying. Um Okay. Let's just go back to natural disaster. Somehow we feel up it's natural disaster, therefore Uh you know, God is somehow involved in it. And I think that's a false view of that God controls everything. I I like God's pr like in other words, if a major storm comes, And it gets the Japan or Indonesia and a hundred thousand people in the Boxer Day tsunami are are killed, we go, would we would we assume then that's God's judgment on people? Uh I think that that the Bible encourages us to ask the question, what is God doing? When do we say you know those that like Jesus rebuked the stone? I don't want to keep coming back to that, but I think it's important that it's there. And he rebuked the storm. He's not and so he's e either he's rebuking the father's will 'cause they have unbelief and they're attracting unbelief or whatever it is. Yeah. Or he's actually saying that's just like not of God. I'm not saying that's the enemy, but he's just rebuking the storm. Okay, now that particular storm uh as far as we know was dangerous to who? Or appeared to be dangerous to who The disciples. So the disciples. Which is precisely what Christ's point was. Disciples, don't you understand? I'm the son of God. We are at are at the pivot point of all history. The storm is not going to destroy us. I have a purpose, I as the Son of God and you as my disciples, sure. That the storm's not going to cause anything and he commanded the storm to stop. Right? That's different from a bunch of pagans. uh somewhere in the world. What about the Christians in the pagan society that are being sold, that are fasting, that are praying, that are believing God and wanting these people not to go to hell because God paid that they not one person would go to hell and he's praying. But then they're fighting against God who's bringing judgment on the other side. So one hand, God is squishing 'em And on the other hand, God's trying to save 'em. That's dualism, two visions, that's schizophrenia. It doesn't make biblical new covenant sense to me. Accept that That's the vision that the Bible gives us. I don't see the New Covenant saying look at Second Corinthians chapter five. And I'm sure you're gonna turn to the book of Revelation. No, I told him to start in Romans. Okay. Chapter one. The wrath of God is Yes, John 3 36. That is currently. Ephesians 2 3. Yes. The wrath of God is revealed. What is the definition of the wrath of God? God is effective that men's relationship with them is dead. Dead biblically means separation. God is in no relationship with mankind except for those who are placed in Christ Jesus. And that men are under the wrath in the sense of defining it as all men's spirits are dead. There is no relationship with God and man. And that they're that they're dead. So yes That's the wrath of God on people. And do they reap what they sow? Yes. Is the enemy looking to come and to destroy people and send them to hell? Absolutely. But I says in Second Corinthians chapter five, a familiar verse. Um is um verse sixteen th to uh twenty-one. Second Corinthians five sixteen says There from from now on we recognize no one according to the flesh of the outside, even though we have known Christ according to the flesh. Verse 17, if anyone is in In Christ, he's a new creature. The old things have passed away. Behold, new things have come. All these things are from God who reconciled us to himself through Christ, gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Namely, that God was in Christ, reconciling the world to himself, not counting their trespasses against them, not counting their sins against them, and he has committed to us the word of reconciliation. Therefore, I be see God is saying through the church, be reconciled into him. So we're calling people to to repentance, to trust in him, to to to be in Christ. God is not holding their sins against them in the sense of preaching the message to them, but somehow, according to what you're saying, He's holding their sins against them. And then somehow the storms come 'cause pretty much you're on the storm. I f in the Old Testament, in the older covenant. Okay, good, me too. In the older cov in the older covenant, uh old testament, I see when God brought judgment, you mentioned a couple of storms and a couple things here and there. When God brought judgment, I think he The angels came and all these people died. The earth the law is given. They break the law in the midst of that, three thousand people. or it opens up the sons of Korah, I believe, and they're swallowed up, right? And the earth comes up. When the gospel is given, in Acts chapter two, three thousand people get saved. It's a total reversal from the death of the law to the grace of believing in Jesus. And the other forms of wrath, people died at the destruction of Jerusalem. People that were considered the people of God. And they rejected the Messiah. Right. The nation of Israel. They were the people of Messiah. In fact that's what Christ said. But he had a covenant with Christ. And what I'm saying is that is that God doesn't just judge the people of Israel that way, but he reveals in Scripture that he's judging all peoples that way, all through history, and that he's consistently done that. And um and so Like it says, what if God, choosing to show his wrath, Romans 9. 22, and make his power known, bore with great patience the objects of his wrath prepared for destruction? What if he did this to make the riches of his glory known to the objects of his mercy whom he prepared in advance for glory, even us whom he also called? So right there we see both I don't know. I don't I'm I hesitate to say this because it's going to be used against me. Both hands of God. The hand of love and the hand of wrath working together, bearing with great patience the objects of his wrath. that are prepared for destruction. And this is referring to the nation of Israel, A. D. 70, that is about to happen in like six, seven years after he writes this this uh this letter to the Romans. And and Israel is going to be completely destroyed, and they feel the wrath of God in the moment, and he prepared them for wrath at the same time that he was making the rich of his glory the riches of his glory known to the objects of his mercy. Our inability to see God doing both of those things doesn't take away from the fact that the Bible reveals that God is doing both of those things. And if he did it with Israel Couldn't he have done it with Rome? Couldn't he have done it with Germany? Couldn't he have done it with Russia? Could he now, currently right now, be doing it with China, with North Korea? I think he is in all those places and he's sending his people in, uh calling out those that will respond, and those that will not respond, he's preparing them for his wrath because they're rejecting the message of Christ who has come to save the world, the rejecting the message. And I I believe that there are many times through history uh that that has happened in in very large ways. I think the bubonic plague Everybody that was alive at the time of the bubonic plague was convinced that this was a clear judgment from God. And when I look at church history at that time, the church was in such great disrepair. It was so unholy and broken at the time uh that it was in need of reformation. There were a lot of people who believe a lot of things in nine eleven when it came. That was God's judgment on America. And it's like I I have a hard time believing that in the sense that I mean I do believe men reap what they sow and we're basically given the finger to God. When men reap what they sow Is it God that's bringing that judgment on them or not? I mean God effectively brings judgment. God's not passive in judgment. No, I think that's what we're doing. causing you to reap what you've sown. And so then that's the the wrath of God. That's the judgment of God. I think but I don't fear that because I'm in Christ. Exactly. And in Christ That's not a problem for me. Well, so God might actually be destroying people right in front of me as I'm uh going out preaching the gospel. We can be actively doing that. And Rome. It was the Christians when everybody was dying from plague that went in and cared for those that were dying. Well, why did the plague come? Because Rome was was uh was vile. and wicked in so many different ways. So God brought the plague, but in the midst of it his mercy was there every step of the way, uh, desiring that none should perish, but that all would come to the disabled. Jesus says, I come and that the ruler's world will be judged. And he judges the rule of this world, and the rulerless world is looking to steal, kill, and destroy, it doesn't matter who it is, Jesus comes to give life and life abundantly. And obviously when you I mean again we're talking about two different things. Okay, but you shared a great verse right there, but does that apply to Revelation where Christ is gonna come with a sword? And he's gonna bring the wrath of God. You're talking about Jerusalem. It says the nation of Israel, and he has a specific covenant with Israel. And Jesus said these things will happen to you specif specifically if when you reject me or if you reject me And they did it, and it fulfills his word specifically. Okay. So but you're not of the opinion that God does that with other nations. N from what I'm reading the covenant. No. Yeah, I do but I think Jesus paid for the sins of the world and at that point he God didn't change. The way he relied to people is he's saying grace, grace Come to me, we're in a dispensation dispensation, I don't like that word that much, but a season of grace between the time of his payment to the time that he comes back. Yeah, and so I'm saying that I don't I can't look at any given storm and say, Oh well that's because of that. But I but I can look at the world and say that those nations that are most likely that that have openly walked away from any sense of walking with God They live under a measure of curse today, like like um uh Zimbabwe is such a huge example of this. And and the the stories coming out of there again is that they've they've given themselves over to witchcraft and whatever and so sure, Satan's the one that's bringing it in that context, but it's also the judgment of God. I mean you could say the judgment of God is that is that he releases Satan to do what he wants. I mean that's what happened with Job is that God allowed Satan to do what he wanted to do. But the point is that God Grants that authority to bring destruction. And I think he's done it in Russia. I think he's done it in many places around the world. And I don't know what happened with some of these tsunamis, but I think it's appropriate for us to say God is in control. And that that God in his judgment decided to allow something to happen uh on the earth. If he allowed it to happen, then I would say control. that it's up to us to to come back. Well that's provocative. Yes. We'll we'll have to end with that provocative note and we'll uh maybe pick up with who's in control here. Currently Troy. He says we're done with the show. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Justin Thomas, the senior senior pastor at Harvest Christian Fellowship. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show has been brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, please visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you will find a daily updated Monday through Friday anyway, updated blog. It's not really my thoughts, it's your thoughts. My blog is your blog. So email me, Troy at WFMD. com. There you will find uh links to the audio vault portion of the website, which uh hey, maybe you'll get lucky and the podcast section will be working Uh it also has a link to Jonathan's uh blog or he has a couple of different blogs now. I think he updates them about every seven months or six months like that. It's a year of Jubilee. Yeah, he does. And then and then on the fiftieth year he goes crazy updating his blog. And while you're online checking out our website uh remind me uh after the show make a note to myself, I'm gonna have to link to uh Frederick forty eight from the Faith Debate page, make it easier for everybody to find it. But it's It's uh Frederick48, the number four and eight, right? Right. Frederick48. org. Uh you can go there and find out what's going on. Uh big two days of giving in September, so check it out. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pub and plumbing, how can we make you smile?