You know here I am standing in Big Brother City in the middle of Gridlod County within the social state of Maryland. Just outside the nation's capital, the former Republic of the United States of America. And you know what I'm thinking? I'm thinking it's time for the Frederick Faith debate. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, is with us this week. And again, back for more punishment. I mean more uh Uh uh uh abuse, no. More love from Jonathan Sweitzer. Is Don L. Watts with his yeah, it's a love story. Uh Donell and he brought he brought a he brought a his better half, Celeste, because she's riding him. Donnell wrote a book and and Celeste is telling him that he needs to write more pages. Come on, let's hear it again, come on. More pages, I mean I love that. Donnell wrote a book called Destiny Deferred A Love Story. And you know what? It doesn't have hardly any pictures in it Actually doesn't have any pictures, except on the cover of the book it has a picture. But Jonathan read it anyway. I did. I imagine all of it. My three I'm trying to teach my three year old how to read more than just the the pictures. Jonathan's a good name. Jonathan Lehman. No, you haven't finished any of your books. If you finish one of your books, I'll read it. I swear you did read one of those. Yeah, I read it. Unfinished manuscript. Jonathan have paid full price for it too. Jonathan Lehman uh wrote uh church membership, how the world knows who represents Jesus That's a pretty good book. I'll give it a B. A B. Give it a B. So our sponsors, by the way, Putman Plumbing and Heating Help could make you smile. And I forgot, you know, for several weeks now, BMC Insurance uh is a sponsor of the show. So so you know and you know Brett has guys. He he's the current owner of BMC Accounting and uh he and I sat on a board at the Marriage Resource Center for must be three or four years together. And uh, you know, I really like him. He is uh solid Uh he's uh he loves the Lord and uh his integrity is is solid right down the line. When he came on the board, I remember thinking to myself, you know what? Our team just stepped up a couple notes having him having him on the board And so I highly recommend this guy. And in case you don't know, the the Marriage Resource Center Center in Frederick used to be called Marriage Sabres. That's correct. Right. So if you're confused, what's that? Maybe you know marriage 'cause we I don't know if we had a show on that topic since this name change. But we had uh Bob Donk on the show. Yeah the concern was that people would think that it's all about the political homosexual marriage issue. And the Marriage Resource Center is about helping people in traditional marriages, but it's not driven by uh a political agenda. And so Uh we wanted to make sure that it was clear uh at the time when I was on the board that it was about resources for marriage. Now helping to save marriages is is an interesting connection to the story, Destiny Deferred, a love story, is really about two people who are lost. One of them seems more lost than the other, but they really both need salvation. Right? I mean that no matter how and 'cause that's a justification. Well I'm not as bad as that person. Hm. Is that true? But she starts out without faith, so she needs to come to a conversion. Right. The character is Tamara, uh, the female character, and the main male character is David. And one of those two main characters, the father, is distant, doesn't show affection, that sort of thing. But oh but praise the four meals. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, that's that's the character of David, his dad. David's death. Yeah. Yeah, he's kinda um he's kinda distant from um his son as they as they grow up. But yet he has some um uh redeeming qualities that um that the character David picked up on. So I'm that in and of itself is a whole story for, you know, a lot of people, you know what I'm saying Yeah. A dad that that has a sense of being uh righteous in in and Christian but ultimately doesn't make the connection And then unfortunately, you know, the children sometimes will grow up and their their mom and dad are are sort of religious. Maybe they actually even are Christian. Yeah. But they're not Showing affection, not being loving. Th there's not a whole lot of fruit going on there. So I ain't gonna bother with it. Right. We were talking last week towards the end of the show. We're going to pick that up this week. Does God work? Oh, I hate saying that. Does he work? Courtney works. But that's not what it's about. It's not about God works. It's this it's again it's the psycho babble stuff that we're talking about last week. But you love that phrase. Righteousness is all about how God designed everything to work And if things work according to the way that God works, then they are righteous. The definition of righteousness is that things work Right. And so if God works, it's because everything is coming into a place of the way it should be. God works. And and this gets into it in the book too. We're going to tie this, we're going to keep this on the book as best as we can. By the way, Destiny Deferred, a love story. You can find it from Crossbooks. Sold on online Amazon, Border Books and and Donnell's got a webpage up somewhere on the on the the Google sphere. And you'll and you'll find it. If we're focusing on, okay, God has this design, He has this plan, and if we obey God's rules for life, you know, right, basic instructions before leaving Earth. How many times have you heard that? That's what the Bible means. Bible means basic instructions before leaving Earth. That's not what the Bible is. I'm sorry, but the Bible is I didn't realize that's a that's a mnemonic. Did you guys get that? That's a mnemonic. Basic instructions B I B L E. Did you figure that out already? You had? And you knew it was a mnemonic? I've heard it before. That's two weeks in a row you've given us a word of the week by that. A mnemonic device is how your brain works, and so you tie something to something else that you already know And in that way it helps you to remember it. See that's the problem with this whole it works mindset. Yeah. The Bible is not about instructions before leaving earth. Basic instructions. But that is not what it is. It's about it's the story of our fall from God's grace and our need for a redeemer who is Jesus Christ, and God loves us enough to restore that relationship when we don't have the strength to do it ourselves It's a love story primarily. It's a relational story. It is not a workbook. It is not I mean, it has those things. It has wisdom instructions in it. I mean it it definitely has those things. The language of the day, if something works It works because it's right. Yeah, but you said last week toward the end of the show, I I I wish we had more time then. Yeah. But now we have more time now. You said it towards the end of the show last week, you know, what we need we know the therapy and all that sort of stuff. We were talking about the the the not too long ago. Yeah. Uh young uh boys and girls were killed and and some adults were killed too. I mean a hor horrible thing. Right. And you know, people are talking about therapy and mental illness and what we have to do about that. And then and Jonathan, you're right, as far as it goes, as far as it goes, that you know we need prayer in school and all that sort of stuff. But I'm sorry, prayer in school is not the answer. Because what if I pray to Buddha? Yeah. Okay. What if I pray facing Mecca? Right. What if I pray to my own inner self in some sort of yogan trance? You saw when I said prayer in school that I was referring to a multicultural anything goes prayer? Well why wouldn't I? The secular school, most of the people in that building Probably aren't Christian. Yeah, and we probably have a chance to have a chance to have a chance to do that. Most of the people in our culture aren't Christian. We haven't had this discussion in a long time. But it is the case that the promises of God are dependent upon our coming to him by faith. And that those promises are uh he said that I've come that you might have life have them more abundantly. And he said that that's both for now and for the coming age. That there's a sense of abundant life that is promised to us. And so if The gospel works if God works. I'm not talking about Buddhism working, I'm not talking about Islam working, I'm talking about God working then it means that we are restored to a right relationship with God. And being restored to a right relationship with God, then we are living according to His leading and guidance. according to the power of the Holy Spirit, where he's empowering us and he's giving us gifts and we're producing fruit in keeping with repentance So that's the definition of what it means that God works in my mind. You know, another thing too, when we talk about prayer in school, I don't, you know, just just just to backtrack a little bit. Um, prayer and school would be very kind of difficult in this society 'cause you would be of infringing upon other people's rights. You know, what I what I think would really works, um You know, it I think it has to start at home with the parents. You know, they have to um you know, of course, you know, being a Christian myself, um, this is what I'm talking about that that parents have to be uh godly parents raising their children, you know, in a godly way. And that's that's what I think really works there. And you know, w in the backtrack just a little bit more about the Bible itself, basic instructions before leaving earth or or we may say a a love story. And I do agree that It's both. You know, it's a love story and it is is it is instructional. But you know, for me I see the Bible, um, I think uh there's a scripture that says, Lo, I come in a book that's written of me I think the Bible is a book about Christ. Because in each and every book in the in the Bible, you will see some form of the person of Jesus Christ. And and this is the most wonderful, the most precious thing that um we can l agaze upon the character of Jesus Christ Yeah, there's some things in the book. 'Cause I want to make sure that we pay attention. By the way, uh how much does it sell for? Uh sells for uh fifteen ninety nine soft cover and thirty-three uh ninety nine hardcover. A bargain at half the price Very nice. Like I said that if you download it on the case, you can't get it. That was a joke by the way. Three ninety nine on your candle? Technology. Man, that's nothing. You guys need to get my joke. I said it was a bargain at half the price. Oh wish. I don't get it yet. You still don't get it? No, I still don't get it. We'll tell about it. All right, I'll later on we'll tell you what I'm talking about. But in the book, right, we've got this um Th th there's a story of poverty that starts out in the book, right? Where there's mice and roaches and all sorts of bad things going on. But then toward the end They start doing well. The main characters start doing well. They've got a big fancy house. I don't know, it's like a six thousand square foot house or something. I don't know. Some big giant house with lots of fancy furniture and fancy cars. That's a big part of the story. Early on, can't afford a car, taking public transportation, and they don't get a car, they get two cars and they're brand new cars and they're nice cars and and that would be an example of, see, they became Christians and God worked But that's not the message we want people to hear, right? That if if you're in poverty become a Christian so you can become wealthy. That's not what it's all about. Then we got this the thing about, you know, you get witnessed to by a friend, the main character gets witnessed to by a friend, goes to church uh is converted, at least so we're led to believe, uh, and starts living a very religious life. Mm-hmm. But then falls back into the old habits again. So living the religious life, that's evidence. Oh, he's doing all the right things. God works Obviously not. Fell right back into the pornography and the prostitution and the drugs and and all that sort of stuff. So if but that's just an example of how he wasn't doing it the way that God is and said to do it. And so God wasn't working I know but internally we get it inside out and backwards. We do the right things because we have a restored relationship. We don't get a restored relationship with God by doing the right thing. In fact, I'd say we do the right things we we love him because he first loved us. The point is he did it right. He did what was right and in him doing what was right we were attracted to him and began to let him redefine how we do things. I know I know I'm pushing back kinda hard on this, but it's a l maybe it's a pet peeve I have to go, you know, repent of this This fixation I have. But if we're gonna say if all we this I I'm putting words in your mouth. Genesis chapter twelve where it says, I will bless you, and you will be a blessing. I will make you into a great nation, I will make your name great, and all nations on earth will be blessed through you. I will curse whoever curse you curses you, and I will bless whoever blesses you. That's the first preaching of the gospel according to the New Testament that we see. That the gospel was preached to Abraham way back when. The essence of that is blessing. I'm just saying that's the essence of the gospel. And and and the the the full fulfillment of that gospel is that the blessing is due to we're we're we're looking to God for that. The context is that they just came out of the Tower of Babel where they tried to make a name for themselves instead of letting God make a name for you. Why they where they tried to be a great nation by themselves. instead of letting God make you into a great nation. So they're trying to bless themselves. The question is where we go for the blessing. We go to God because God is what is right. God is what is true. And so we do it his way. He teaches us that his way is love and that we're supposed to love one another. And in doing so we've been converted because we recognize that we fell short. And so we had to be reconciled. But the point is the essence of the gospel is God bless you. You know, I think that the works are important. Uh you know, we we we do good things And um uh you know, God blesses us. Um, you know, we reap what we sow and and if we do good things, God will bless us. You know, it's just the universal law of God. But I think one of the important things and for me I maybe for the most important thing when we talk about Abraham, uh when I think about him I think of one of the most important things he said, and he believed God and that was a counter to him for righteousness. Yeah. See you know, even um That's his his conversion point. But the gospel came first. Um, with the main character, you know, and I think Troy talked about it before, they started off in a in a poverty way, but they um they uh worked and were were blessed by God And sometimes, you know, I don't know if it's God's blessing people that that that they may gain riches. You know, sometimes the the very thing that you think is a blessing may be a curse, you know. But um but even with the main character As he started off, you know, they started off in a popular way. But what happened um in in in the script I mean in the book, the main character had to come to a point where he believed God. Yeah. And that's when the healing took place. The stuff didn't make a difference. Poor or rich. So like the whole context of him going to the therapist and that kind of thing, would you say that the help that the therapist brought um as it's referred to in the book. Obviously you're the author, so we can we can ask what is in the mind of the author at that point. Like what's in your mind at that point as he's going to the Christian therapist. Wha how is it that the Christian therapist brings right, he's bringing change and he's helping the young man to to change, to to be different. What is w what do you understand that to look like? Uh well with the Christian therapist and you know and we do know that um you know uh people are gifted, you know, um, you know, teachers and and and and firemen and and therapists. You know, they they're gifted in a certain way. And some you know, uh for the character, the uh the therapist was bringing out um things that um he didn't really want to face. You know, I've had the opportunity to talk to um uh disad uh a few people uh concerning uh the the story. And um you know, one one young lady told me that, you know Um I I was talking to her and she was telling me about um 'cause I was telling her about some of the books, uh some parts of the book is inspired by true events. She said You know, um, well that that was that was interesting. Did you actually go through that? And I said, No, well I won't tell you what's true and what's not true. It it was the point of the book, it was the message. But she said, Well I don't want to talk about my childhood. We don't want to go there. And I think that's what people I think people don't really want to go there, especially if it's very painful. People don't really want to c they they set those things out. And so I I think good therapy, good Christian therapy, I think that they they are able to bring these things out that we're gonna be able to do that. So why didn't Why didn't Paul say that Christ ascended on high, led captives in his training, gave gifts to men, the apostle, the prophet, the evangelist, the therapist, the pastor, and the teacher? How come we're not taught about the need for therapy. Like like where do you w when you think about the role that therap therapy played in your life. Well, I are you asking you to be able to do that. But up there the descriptions does testimony therapy when he talks about Um there's um uh I think there's wisdom in uh in in a council of of of many. What do you think therapy? I think that the the therapy, if you will, the counseling No, well counseling and therapy are not the exact same thing. But uh at least in my mind they're not. I I think that there's a there's a Well you and I disagree about what works mean, so tell me what the difference between therapy and counseling. You've got this expert in the way of the human mind and and the psyche or whatever who soul, emotions, mind who prescribes a fix You know, go do this. Call your mother and make sure you say these things to her and look and next week let's get back together and see how that went. So make two phone calls and call me in the morning. You know, that's kind of that approach. And counseling is more holistic and organic than that. It's more relational. It's more penetrating deep questions. Let's let's hassle this. It's more wrestling with each other. And which one because you said Christian therapist. Which one did did your therapist in today's society and and and how we know counseling and therapy I totally agree with you, but I mean we go back to the scriptures and uh the scripture says that um okay um you know Jonathan well I'm not saying Jonathan was a doctor, but um someone gave counsel. I can't c call up a a name right now, but you know, if someone gave counsel. You know, it could be they would talk to him in a therapeutic way You know, uh you know all depends. And I think that's what I think that's the pastor role. And you're you were running through the you know the the fivefold office. I think the pastor would be that when you're pastoring somebody, when you're shepherding, when you're giving care for someone That care isn't just making sure they have, you know, three squares and and enough water to eat, you know, and shelter over their head. It's it's it's fuller than that. It's it's definitely full of it. But this is interesting to me because your insurance won't pay for a pastor. But your insurance will pay for a therapist in uh in today's world, you know, in its mindset. If you're if you've got mental health issues depression, whatever it is, they won't pay for a pastor. And it's and it's something that I feel like is is uh is accompanied by the rise of secularism. Sure. It's because we live in a post Darwin post Freud world. That's why they won't pay for it Right, and so all that being the case, the pastor and as a pastor I get a little bit frustrated about this, the pastor is considered to not have the uh the skill to do what what a mental health expert can do. And the fact of the matter is there's a lot of study sets that goes into it. But um Why is it that Christ seemed to be of the opinion that or the the New Testament seemed to be of the opinion that that what was necessary was post profit, penis, master, teacher, you know, with other gifts of mercy and and uh, you know, leadership, other things. Like it it doesn't go into this specific role and and yet in the book And I'm of the opinion that therapy is really helpful. But I guess I'd like to I'd like to make sure that that we don't turn into okay what we need is what the Bible presents and then a little bit extra, but that that we're careful to recognize that okay what a good Christian ther Christian therapist is bringing is what scripture says right here. Bam bam bam Otherwise, I mean, is it possible that our New Testament is inadequate for helping us to truly be transformed by the renewing of our minds so we can test and approve what God's will is? Are you asking that rhetorically? I'm asking it rhetorically. And I don't think the New Testament is inadequate, right? I feel like because of some of the language about therapy and that sort of thing um uh it can end up looking like you know that's the case. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. That's Jonathan Sweitzer who was asking rhetorical questions a moment ago or joined this week by Donnell Watts and his Beautiful wife who's right now, she's typing him messages on her on her texting, telling him Need more pages, need more pages. He's the author of uh Destiny Deferred, a Love Story. Um find that done. Uh be glad you can't see Troy when he says that. Um by the way, uh uh I don't know if it was on purpose. I mentioned a couple weeks ago some different things I wonder if they're accidental or not. Chapter six Sin knocks at the door. Yes. Chap it's about falling back into sin, right? It'll be temptation. Yeah. Six. Absolutely. The number for sin. Did you mean it? Yeah. Did you purposely line that up with chapter six? I tell you, God is there for you. God is there. Yeah, it's six, the number that just misses the mark. She's like, Man She's like, Ooh, baby, you're good. I'm saying God it's good. Alright, so yeah. Yeah, now in the story, the the character David is having you know, he he grows up afraid. He's a scaredy cat, right? He's kinda hiding from his own shadow. He he can't deal with the real world, so he has imaginary friends and he kind of living his life this way, uh, into his his tough boy, you know, uh high school years, but he's still not all that tough. And then he finds the courage at some point to stand up to a bully. Yeah. Right? That's that's that's bug and Tamara, the the the love interest, right? So that's an example obviously of God works. He was a wimp and then he stood up to the bully. That's right, just like David and Goliath, baby. There we go. But that's an example in that story where he didn't do anything but walk up and say, Hey, would you mind not uh picking on her anymore? And the bully stands down immediately. He could have squashed David. But the right but the buttons. But he did pray. He did pray before he Exactly. So my point is God is trying to show that I'm here for you. Yeah. I got your back. There's a relationship. I'm your I'm your true Heavenly Father T you reached out to me, I'm gonna give you uh just enough to give to show you that this is real. Yeah. Right? Yeah. So it's about the relationship. And so So the bully did not exactly did not stand down because of the prayer. That's the point. So if we pray in the schools, that's not going to necessarily do anything. Okay, so There's no power in prayer. There's power in God. And there's power in God responding to our prayer. Let's see if you can follow this. The individual that gets distracted and is no longer trusting in the Lord What happens is they go back to trusting in themselves. They're not trusting God any longer to provide a car. That's correct. But they think to themselves, I have to provide myself a car because obviously God doesn't work. You know, so I gotta do it myself. So they quit trusting in the Lord and they start doing it in their own strength, all of which wears them out because none of us can be righteous in our own strength anyways, and so we're trying to be righteous and we're trying to provide for ourselves, all of which God's supposed to be doing And the result is we get down the road, we're exhausted, and we say, Man, that doesn't work for me. I'm gonna try something else. Right? And the point is, Troy, exactly what you're saying, that when we do it God's way, meaning based on relationship, humbling ourselves before the Lord and trusting him in all things. Then God comes through on our behalf and God does all the work. And if God works, it's because God works. Suppose he would have prayed and still the bully would have crushed it. Yeah. What's that? That's right. That's what I'm saying. Good point. I mean just saying At which point I think we would have to go to Job. And clearly God didn't seem to work until God did work. Because God never stopped trusting, and God ended up with I mean Job ended up with more blessing and more favor and all the kids that he'd had previously. I mean the story of Job is not that God doesn't work. sometimes but sometimes we have to continue to trust even when it appears that God's not working and that is the point at which you know the true Testing of our heart happens. But you know some of our purified like fire. Job is a wonderful um example, a wonderful prophet. But as some people I think some people miss the lesson one of the lessons God was trying to teach. And he was trying to teach Job something about Job. Because um I think near the 40th chapter Job said He put his hand over his mouth. He said I abhor myself. Because I think God went on b uh in chapter thirty-eight or thirty-nine went on to ask him seventy-three questions. about um was he here when I you know caused the I hung the stars upon nothing and held back the waters and gave him boundaries. And there is a thing about Job that God was trying to teach Job some things. So even though even though g uh Job was a a a a great example of of trusting God But he was also God was on the other hand saying, you know what, Joe, I need to teach you a few things about me. So um, you know you know, this is what makes God so mysterious. You know, because God at the same time you're learning about His greatness, but at the same time you're learning about yourself, you know, how fallible and flawed we are. I have too many more things I want to talk about. Can we do one more show next week? Sure, no problem. All right, we're moving. Jonathan Switzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Wrong again. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate Right, once again And I know him right 'cause Donnell Watts, author of Jestiny Deferred, a Love Story, agrees with me, and so does his wife Celeste. So there. The uh softcover paperback uh soft cover, not paperback yet, right? The soft cover you know, even though I'm being persecuted right now I still believe John works. I don't know, fifteen ish dollars and the hardcover is a little over thirty bucks, something like that, right? It's going to a good cause. Thanks to our sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How could Make You Smile, and also BMC Insurance. Yes.