This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master of the Master Ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Let's get ready to rumble. Weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Corner weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweitzer. part series that we're uh thinking of as kind of a pastoral popourry or sort of uh ask the pastor series. Some of the topics that were stirred up when we were working on scheduling uh these past three shows and then today's show. included uh harm reduction and social justice in the church, uh the impact on faith in Jesus within the context of church abuse, judgmental attitudes of divisiveness affecting the church, the difference between the Denominations, views on sex, marriage, who's right, who's wrong, and if there's a chance at salvation after death. We can't possibly talk about all of that in today's show, uh, much less even get to all the things you've seen in the previous weeks. Uh We're gonna talk about as much as we can uh today, uh in the time that we have allotted to us. And so here we go. I'm Troy Skinner, joined by Pastor Jonathan Schweitzer and pew sitter Jerry Gilbert. So do you really sit in pews on a Oh Jerry still had a pew. Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's a hard chair. It's not a bad seat for a church. I've had some I've had some much more uncomfortable church seats, this is not too bad. So something that I uh I think I might have possibly mentioned that they all run together after a while is this idea of has God wept because of hypocrites uh claiming to do evil in his name? I did this evil thing because God told me to, kinda thing. Has has God wept over that? Was one of the things that when we were emailing back and forth and had a conversation was a question that came up. The first thing that came to my mind with that was when I wrote it down was the Spanish Inquisition. Something along those lines. You know, that they're doing that we're doing this for God. And we're 100% out of it. Yeah, whether there was political overtones and why and all that jazz doesn't really particularly matter. You know, what does that do to the church? What does that do to the modern church in the view or in the eyes of unbelievers who Who may be searching, who may be uh feeling down and and you know uh desperate, hopeless in life. These these should be people the church is running to to embrace. But they may very well be, you know, holding up hands at a distance because that's a bunch of hypocrites who are judgmental. Yeah, I would say that it's interesting because we should weep. Because the uh Uh the reason for the Inquisition uh was that a whole bunch of uh or one of the one of the driving reasons of the Inquisition is that there was a whole bunch of uh Jewish people in the Spanish Cordoba uh area who had been forcibly converted to Christ and uh it became increasingly clear that uh that then there were those that were faking it. Mm-hmm. Right? And so there was a need to clarify Well, who's faking it and who's not, meaning that if you force somebody to be a believer, can you really ex uh expect there to not be hypocrisy? And and so anyways, there was just uh a twisted reality there that uh that that is a deeper question that I think it's easy just to say, oh, in Inquisition bad But but they were d they were dealing with with really significant uh questions that there are ways to do that without ripping shoulders out of joints and burning people at the stake though. Yeah and you can't force someone to believe. So the foundation of what was going on there wasn't biblical to begin with. I mean and there's other there's other plenty of other examples through history. I mean the other one that comes to mind is is you know, the the Catholic Church when Hitler was in in in ascendance, um and basically just kind of appeased Hitler. Uh they've caught they've been a lot of back and forth I've heard, you know, read some books and and some some documentaries on on that situation and you know, places where the church has has tended to lose some Some high some moral ground. Yeah, and the Crusades come up with the C and the C and the U. and uh the Salem Witch trials uh come up and I mean there's all sorts of boorish uh non-biblical ungodly behavior in the church and that that's why it's important for Actually, uh in a a a a more present now example, I don't know if you'll get the reference because it's pop culture, Jonathan, but uh there's a TV show called The Bachelorette. You heard of this? Yeah. Alright, so there's this, you know, woman that she's, you know, kissy face with like dozens of men throughout a season of television and then she picks one to marry at the end. That's the idea anyway. But in this particular this this year's uh version of the uh Bachelorette Um Hannah Brown, I think is her name, is the Bachelorette, and she is uh out there professing her Christianity, which a lot of Christians were excited about, like, wow, there's a Christian kissy faces all these dozens of strangers on on TV. Isn't that exciting? Um and she's done some things on the show that had people who were excited to have a Christian on the show like, wait a minute. That's not very becoming for a Christian. That's not how Christians should behave. And Hannah Brown is pushed back saying, look, you guys could be critical all you want. Jesus still loves me. Uh and there's there's truth in what everybody's saying. It's true that if she's a Christian and yes, Jesus still loves her. He he he can be weeping over choices she's making and still love her. and and and and d and desire better for her and of her. Um and those who are going to be critical say, you know what, that's not good Christian behavior. That's not how Christians really should be representing Christ and his church And so they're they're all right and they're all wrong. Um I I think it's a reminder that It's Christ who is the Savior. It's Christ who is the King. It's Christ who is the example. You know, if I'm going to be honest, I am a horrible ambassador for the church most of my life You know, and i if you're gonna be honest, I think Jonathan you would probably say something similar, and Jerry probably you too. I that and if we won't go there and say, well no, that not as bad as that person, then the pride gets in. So was the church horribly behaving itself during the Crusades and the Inquisition and the witch trials and what was going on in Nazi Germany. Yeah, but if I'm gonna be honest, I'm horribly behaving as the church every day of my life And I need to own that and point people away from me and point them to Christ. Yeah, see the church as an institution, whenever whenever something's big enough that it's like wielding power, not just influence but like wielding power. Um it's always the case that that there are um there are things happening in the moment that are not being responded to well, you know. So even here as the United States right now, uh we're so divided partly because some people think that the way that we're handling the immigrants down on the border is the worst thing imaginable and akin to Nazi, you know, Germany and uh, you know, uh the the worst possible racism and people on the other side are of the opinion that that it's the exact opposite, right? Well history is gonna fall out somewhere where we'll look back on it and we'll we'll be like, wow, those guys were, you know, really off And it you know, it's really obvious in in hindsight. But right now, uh I don't know that I can tell where that's exactly gonna fall out. And it feels to me uh just Recently I spoke with uh people that had come over here from Liberia and they described back in the 80s some choices that uh no late 70s that Jimmy Carter made. that that impacted the entire western part of Africa and caused there to be like, in their viewpoint, like major uh just uh unrest and brokenness and wars and just that break broke out that was the the US policy undermining what was uh uh uh peace and uh you know The my point is just that I would have never th thought that about the United States. You know, we were the good guys, you know, bringing, you know, peace around the world. And the reality is that every government out there, whether it's Venezuela, Brazil Russia, you know, uh that that when you're dealing with governments that are wielding power, and I think that's true about the church as well. And uh in I guess my point in saying that, am I defending that it was okay for the church to do that? I'm not. I'm just saying that that it's not only the church being that way when it's been in power. I'd I I just don't see where the humanity has ever been it took me a long time back. Um self-professed spent you know a good ten, fifteen years you know doing my best to run from him. Um when I came back to God there was some things I had to wrap my head around. And and one of 'em, um, actually but this was a a Catholic priest that one time I had a great conversation with, um, said, you know, you really can't hold God accountable for the evil that men do in his name. And uh it it really stuck with me, but by the same token, you know without without actually dealing with with history, are we doing the church and future future believers, uh you know, uh seekers of truth. Are are we doing them a disservice by not owning up to our own dirty laundry? We gotta own up. Yeah, but I don't know that uh uh that I agree that we have it uh corporately as a church owned up. I mean we're not trying to hide from what happened with the crusades or not. Well I mean we're still doing that one. Yeah, there are individuals who did horrible things and then there were other individuals who chose to engage in some sort of a cover-up uh sort of thing. But Here we are on the show as Christians, as part of the church, wagging a finger at that and saying that was wrong, calling it out. So we're not trying to sweep it under the rug, we're owning it. They didn't own it when they could have But the reality is if I had that power and I was, you know, at the head of Catholic Church or the head of uh you know Bill Heibel's church or whatever, you know, uh uh I don't know that I could be trusted any better than any of them could be. I mean when I look at my own heart and I look at how uh I'm trying to do my best with my kids and with my wife and you know in the in the places where I do have influence, uh power is a it's it's a drug. Absolute power drugs up. We had to go there, right? And so uh so anyways i it doesn't excuse it But my point is that f it's a lot easier for me to wag my finger down here from from my point, you know, less powerful position where my Nobody uh nobody has to deal with the consequences of my bad character. Only a few people have to Now these sorts of things uh can lead to uh external reasons for having questions, but there are also internal reasons, and Jerry, you just uh alluded to it uh uh maybe a minute and a half ago. you know, you said when you talked about coming back to God. So let's talk about something else we were intending to spend the time on. You know, uh regarding, you know, feelings of isolation from God, doubts about the presence of God, the provision of God, having doubt about your own faith. Uh obviously you've uh had an experience uh at least one experience like that because you said you came back to God. Um and I think you were interested to know if others have had that experience. kind of I was curious as to whether you and John have any have spent any significant time running away f trying to run away from God. Um and if so, how does that Is there an experience b my experience is different than someone who has never tried to push God away. Um when talking to a non-believer, um How are those conversations different? Can I can get in the head of someone who doesn't think God exists? I I've been there, I know that. People who who haven't been, that's a different conversation. That was Jerry Gilbert posing that question. Jonathan Sweitz is about to uh uh uh attempt an answer. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So I'm not sure if I if you were meaning to say this, but I heard this. Are you saying that that with the background that I come from, I shouldn't be expected probably to be effective in uh having conversations about Christ with the um I was just curious that curious number one if you had spent any time trying to run from God. Um or And if not, how do you have those those conversations with people? Not that you wouldn't be effective, obviously you've you've done this. So the nuance of that is that I'd say my whole life I've been running from God while at the same time my whole life I'm trying to reach out to Him. Right? And so uh Yes, probably my whole life everybody that looked at me would have said, Oh, that's a that's a guy that claims to be a Christian. So the answer to that is yes. Uh but my experience would be that that that entire time up until today uh there's aspects of my heart that run from God and uh that um struggled to come to terms with and have dealt with isolation and fear and loneliness and and uh you know guilt and and whatever you know you might describe while at the same time uh having a deep confidence that that God had more for me in Christ. So so the point is just that I lived in that tension, probably similarly to how you did Maybe I just had a stronger sense that that there was the love of God, but I didn't know how to walk in all of that and I'm still learning. Does that make sense? And there are, you know, uh internal self-originating uh influences and reasons, and then there are external uh influences as well. So the world is throwing things at us and giving us reason to have a sense of isolation from God, doubts about God, questioning our own faith because of you know accusations, uh uh temptations, uh troubles in the world. You know, you have uh uh an experience like what happens in the book of Job, you know, when Job has his whole world ripped out from underneath him and then fall on top of him. Uh and it's like, holy cow, I'm feeling kinda isolated and uh not so sure where I stand with God right now. I'm a little confused, God. Can you explain yourself please Yeah, there's those external factors. And there's also, yeah, what Paul, the Apostle Paul, writes about in Romans uh chapter seven and eight when he's talking about you know the the the wrestling against the flesh. He he he doesn't do the things he knows he's supposed to do, and he does do the things he knows he's not supposed to do. Well, when he's doing those things he's not supposed to do We were not doing the things the Isles do That's a sense of running from God. You're running from God's standard, from his provision, you're not trusting him. You're trying to go your own way. So there's this wrestling. So we can all I would agree with Jonathan, I think all Christians are living that life in a complex way. at all moment. In each moment of our and I would even say this, and please understand that that it's uh that it's a poor comparison, but Christ The righteous that was never separated from ground God knows that experience of isolation because of a choice that he made to do what was righteous. and that is to lay down his life to serve others. And so uh I don't I don't know if there's a space where for me when I've when I've made the choice through the years, by God's grace, to serve and to say I'm gonna go, you know, s just give of myself to serve others um that, you know, for all of my naive self righteousness, you know, I'm still f trying to follow the footsteps of Christ and the result usually in those situations is is is the cross and and sensing the cross and feeling the cross and and the brokenness and the isolation that that comes in that kind of a space of But that's the difference. At that time when I was when I was you know actively running from God, I didn't feel the cross. Wouldn't have wouldn't have said there was a cross if Jesus was historical. Yeah, and then when I came back to God or when I I should say when I was wooed back Um there was there was a calling and I followed it as long as I could. Uh but you know there w there had there was a convincing. Um not only was there a a um uh a spiritual kind of uh d dam break inside, you know, at at at at one point. But then there had to be a rational convincing, a Okay, you've you've had these experiences, this is not um you God is pushing you, God is actively trying to get your attention here. Um then there had to be the Okay, we'll explain the explain the evolution stuff, explain the the historical Christ, explain the all of the stuff that that had kind of started to get ingrained. Yeah. But living outside of the parto for a while. One is uh you know the question of salvation, how does one come to be saved So when somebody's running and they don't have a relationship with God and they're not interested in a relationship with God, how does that reality change to all of a sudden they desire a relationship and have a relationship? And we've talked about that in Ozman. We can't do that in lightning round fashion. And the other thing then is the apologetics questions, you know, the the philosophical, historical, uh um uh physical hard science uh quote unquote proofs for God, the arguments for God. How do you respond to somebody who challenges your faith about creation when they're a staunch proponent for uh you know uh eons long evolution uh kind of thing. And um but and all of us in those moments on the apologetic questions have wondered, oh, maybe I'm wrong. Right? And so So that's the moment of crisis, right, when you're really trying to grapple with, you know, like what is what is really going on. And and so in that moment I think it feels the same to all of us. Okay. But I uh you know, how will we ever know? I want to be humble enough to know that there are certain things that we hold to be true that we're wrong about And there are certain things we hope to be true that we're right about, but we if we knew exactly which ones those were, we would change our mind on them. Right? But there are at least a great way of putting it But there are certain things that the that the that the you know the authentic Christian, you know, the the honest to goodness, you know, Christian uh i is not going to be confused about. You know, the historicity of Jesus, you know, his death on the cross, his resurrection from the dead, his ascension to heaven. We touched on this off the air a little earlier actually. Those things we're not going to be confused about Uh if you have a crisis of faith on those things, then you need severe intervention from your Christian family to help you work through those, because those are those are altering kinds of crises. What do you call them the non-negotiable? You know, those are non-negotiables. You lose those and you've lost you've lost the game. You've lost everything. We only have like two minutes, so this will keep us we'll have to h demonstrate some discipline. When the Bible speaks of the elect, what's it talking about? What is the elect? Can you do that? Can you answer that in forty five seconds, John? I I've always felt like the elect was um was God's chosen people and their interactions in history and that it that it refers to what God is doing through them. in history and so they're elect you know, to to certain things. I I don't see uh the uh the election language tied to Well, obviously it is tied to salvation, but uh predestination, you know, refers to um you know, eternal um that that moment where we're adopted as sons, you know, where we're changed to uh you know to be with Christ. But election uh has always uh felt to me in in the passages where you find it to to be God's people doing things in history. Does that help do you have a definition for elect? Honestly I was waiting to see what you guys came up with. Um I mean After reading through the New Testament a couple of times I see passages that I can understand where some people get in a get certain opinions on the elect, and then I read other passages that No, this sounds much more wide open. Um I was kind of curious as to what your Well the huge it's been a raging debate for gen for generations, uh uh hundreds, thousands of years even. It's been a raging debate Uh I w Jonathan and I have slightly different views on this particular question because this is a a dividing line kind of question between the Arminian and the and the Calvinist, the Reformed uh theology approach and other so uh from my point of view I I would say that uh I don't equate chosen and elect. Uh I'm not sure that John does, but he he hinted that he might in his answer earlier. I don't equate the two. I think that the elect would be a subset of uh within the chosen. Uh the chosen is the i is a group of people and not everyone in that group might be elect. I think there are those among the chosen who are uh who are elect and those among the chosen who aren't. The uh you can Google this later. Uh Google the the visible and the invisible church. Uh and and you'll kind of get an idea of the concept that I'm pointing to there. Anyway, we're out of time. Jonathan Sweither, Jerry Gilbert, I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, businessonline at uh WFMD. com. Till next week. God bless.