Welcome to the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Or I'm Troy Skinner, and I'm pretty sure I'm right about that. Joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and let me look over. Yep, I'm pretty sure I'm right about that. And Jake Broadhurst, who's senior pastor at Foolsville Baptist Church, and I'm absolutely certain that I'm right about that. You better get all your rights in here at the beginning, because it's not gonna happen for the rest of the night. Our show is Brought to a or morning even. Yeah, that's right. Or is it? Yeah, yeah. Is it morning or is it night? No, it's gonna be a long day for you. Who's right? Our show is brought to us by Footman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile by BMC Insurance? Brett Hess and the guys and I'll be doing Brett say hi to Brett for me and Cruise Holidays Three sponsors now I want to go on a holiday who is this guy cruise Let's go. Not Tom Cruise. No. No. Is it a uh is it a ship cruise? Well it's it's a travel agency that that that does a lot of cruise package you know packages. Uh so cruise holidays, but I think they do more than just handle cruises. Well welcome aboard. All right. So uh what we're talking about this week is what's right and what's wrong. I'm pretty sure I'm right about that. What is right? What is wrong? I got two pastors here. I figure I got two pastors. I can ask them the question. Everybody really wants to know I got this black bound book with gold embossed writing on the cover. It says something about the Holy Bible. And people claim that it's the truth. Well, that's that's a related question, but a separate question. First, before I decide whether or not I think it's the truth, I want to know if what it contains is right. Is it right or is it wrong? It's all writing. Just for the record. I thought that was witty. By the way, do me a favor, grab your mic again and let go. We're got here we go. It's me. I'm electric. Oh it's still there much fire to get holding it. Is it there still? Oh I think we're good. Uh huh. Oh no. This is gonna be interesting. Hold on a second. Let me try this. Yes. Say something say something winning. Uh I'm not the witty guy. That's John that's John's shot totally. Here, you can have my microphone. Got anything witty to say? Because we are crazy in love. with our microphones this morning. How's the weather today? Probably pretty warm I imagine. And so so the question is Whether or not Troy is right or wrong about most things of his life. I think your mic is now clean. Oh. Except I touched it again. Now it's not clean? No, I think we're okay. Okay. It's fun working in the House of Mirrors, isn't it? Indeed. Alright, so welcome back to the Frederick Face Debate with John Sweitzer and James Rodhurst, I know. We save our best for you, Jace. Thank you. All right, so uh there's a big theological word, inerrancy. Inerrancy. Alright, so there's kind of there's the three eyes, right? Infallible, inerrant, inspired. Huh? No, I'm forgetting one. What am I forgetting? No, you said it earlier, but I don't think it's an I one. Inspired, inerrant, authoritative. It'll code in me later. No, it'll code in me later. But anyway, that's not important. But what does that mean? If if we want to say the Bible is inerrant, or saying the Bible is without error, meaning it's not wrong. The Bible is not wrong. The Bible is right. That's a very basic, simple kind of way of looking at it, but it's not as simple as that, is it? Because if I say to you, Jonathan, is the Bible right? You're gonna say Yes. I'm going to say Jason, the Bible write, and you're going to say. Now I'm going to say, Jonathan, is the Bible inerrant? And you're going to say I think I would be I I think I too have a moderated position, but I don't moderate it I think uh the way that Jace moderates. Or he knows how I moderate. This is impressive. Alright, so he's he's actually I don't know. I'm I'm interested to see he's prescient. So there's another big word, huh? And and and Jace is gonna give some moderated views. So why is it so hard? The Bible's right, yes, it's inerrant. Well yeah, I suppose it depends how you want to define that. So how has the word inerrant been understood and defined maybe as a good place to start? And errant has to do with whether or not it has any errors anywhere, you know, from Genesis to Revelation. And uh since the Bible has been passed down through the generations in general Um there are uh there is the impression among those that study it closely that there are uh different places where um you know like where the uh The witnesses of the crucifixion, one of them says the cock crowed once, the other one said the crock cock crowed three times. So which was it? You know? Is one of them right and the other one's wrong You know, and and how can the Bible be inerrant if one of them is wrong? So in those places we have to recognize that there is some room for uh uh for Uh what's the word for um accepting the truth of what it says without requiring it in our uh minds to be inerrant, meaning absolutely perfect. So the question is, how far does that inerrancy go? And uh my understanding, Jace, I mean you tell me, uh well, how do we define that? I don't even know how to get into that. They all occur to me now, you know. Um it's the inspired inerrant, infallible word of God, right? Or the inspired, infallible, inerrant word of God. But those those three flop the tongue together usually in these discussions, right? And we want to say no I in team, Troy. And we w Just saying. There's the three I words. But there's an I in Sweitesers. That's all I need to know about you. It's right in the middle. Just like pride and sin. So we've got uh It being inspired is what leads these other discussions. Okay, well if it's inspired of God, it can't have any errors in it because God doesn't make mistakes. So but what's the difference between inerrant and infallible? Jace? Okay. Um let's see here. Let let's talk about inspired first. Inspired is the only actual biblical word that we're talking about here. The Bible actually does say that it is inspired. So it talks about that in one place, God breathes, that Theoponustos um idea But we don't even know what that means. That just means that God breathed it. So we all agree, I assume, that it's inspired because the Bible says that. Inerrancy is a a made up word. Um more theologians deal with this, the same with infallibility. And Arences had a long history, of course, it's an English word, not error. But um the idea of inerrancy has been around for a long time, but even that has shifted as to what it means. So when we ask what inerrancy means today we We're asking a very different question than what did it mean for Luther or what did it mean for Augustine for the scripture to be not in error. Today, most people when they say inerrancy, they're talking about the Chicago statement. Um Chicago Statement on Biblical Inerrancy, 1980s sometime. And it just means trustworthy. So then we take it a step further and we that then we have to define, well, what do you mean when you say that? And infallibility is usually a a very different word, although directly connected. Infallibility means that God doesn't make mistakes is probably the best if I'm gonna narrow it down for everyday language. So inerrancy means the Bible is is true, infallibility has more to do with God and it has to do with that God didn't make a mistake in that he put something there. So it could technically be God didn't make a mistake in putting it there, but it is an error in actuality. So that is he allowed the error to stand. So it could be infallible and not inerrant. Right. And so I it seems to me like we need to give some examples You know, in terms of what excuse me, infallible like what would be an example of something that you would say is not infallible? Wait. What is an example of something that is nothing in the Bible meaning that that shows that it's not actually infallible? But maybe in but inerrant, is that what you're saying? Like uh So I don't think it could work that way. I would say I would say i the Bible is infallible. That is uh what I mean by that is God didn't go, Oh, that I didn't I totally I didn't mean to give Paul that that impression, sorry everyone, it got into the Bible and it and it was my mistake. I don't think that happened. I think God is in control of all of that and everything that's in Scripture is there for a reason And he has a plan for it. But yet that's different than inerrancy. Right. Inerrancy deals with the words themselves. And of course when we speak of inerrancy, we usually mean verbal plenary inerrancy. Right. Every word, every single word is there and God directed it in some kind of a way for that to happen. That's usually what we mean by that. So my struggle is with inerrancy, not really with infallibility. I don't think God was caught off guard. I don't I don't think he's anything less than sovereign. Now this is the broad brushstroke way that I think I've heard it described. The infallibility is that what the Bible teaches that is true, you know, the the general principles, the overall overarching teachings of the Bible Those are true and will not fail you, right? They're infallible. But that doesn't necessarily mean that each and every jot and tittle, every word, every you know, if you want to get uh get the bio under a microscope or magnifying glass and look for small little errors that could be inerrant but maintain its infallibility. Right. The the message of the Bible is without fa w it doesn't fail you. God is infallible. But there could be some quote unquote mistakes, some errors in the Bible without the fallibility of the Bible coming towards the body. It could be errant but still be infallible. Still be infallible, right? That's correct? Yes. Infallibility has a sen ha it mostly focuses on the bigger picture stuff and inerrancy focuses on the smaller well that word It's a it's a spelling mistake or that that leader d wasn't born yet when they're claiming he was the king. Or, you know, that's a f that's a historical factual error. It doesn't change the fact that the message is still true and i I can still trust it for my salvation, but maybe I shouldn't be trusting it for some of these other things 'cause it has errors in it. Like that's is that where the Arguments? What my understanding the general separation of the words properly? W uh specifically the what I understand to be the the difference between where my where Jace and I fall on this, and again it's it's hard to to get into it, is that um Is that man, I don't even tell if I can describe We've been doing this show for over eight years and there it is the very first time. First time. First time right here. Jonathan Sweitzer. I remember this. Really? Yeah, wait when I was here. So amazing Like where he couldn't get it out. But that happened for a different reason. Yeah. I remember that one. I don't think I don't remember what it was. I don't know if I've seen him quite that The problem is I don't know exactly where you're at, and so I'm hesitating to want to define where you're at on it. Right. And so let me define where I'm at it on it. I believe that when we when we read the Old Testament that we can trust the Old Testament to mean what it says that Moses wrote uh uh most of what is in Moses except for a few places where redactors came back and added some commentary on it, uh short commentary is what I would say. Uh and that the same thing was true about uh about First second Samuel, first second Kings, first second chronicles, that there's some redaction. Redaction is the word for people that that were copying it down later on and passing it on. uh to uh to their generation redacting means editing yes yeah they added an editing phrase or comment here or there uh but that little cutting and pasting going on that editing no well I I'm not I I I don't know that I'm w uh willing to go that far. You don't think that's what redacting means? I think that there that that that the majority of what came down to us was um was handled by the people at the time that it was written and yeah okay uh I I'll say cutting and pasting in the historical books and that the guy that wrote it in that time in history Somebody else had to take what he wrote and then put it into the book together with what everybody else wrote. In the annals of the kings or in the you know, the the annals of the of the history of of the kings of Israel. And so so somebody, you know, they wrote it, they gathered it, and then somebody down the road kind of said, okay, well these are the pieces that came down to us and put it together. But that that there's not a major um uh rewriting of it going on. That there's a uh that there's a few editing comments, but that that for the most part they're they're putting it in as it came down to them. and simply rearranging it into a book that is a that is is a consistent book. And then I'd say the same thing about the New Testament, that the the New Testament expects that of the Old Testament and that the New Testament uses the Old Testament in a manner that Expects that the Old Testament really means what it says, that it's not um that it's not with significant historical error and or um doctrinal error. You're beginning to sound like Charlie Brown's teacher to me. I don't know. Uh totally. I know It's your job to make it understandable. Johnson Sweiser is Cedar Fats or Cross Israeli Chapel, also known as KA Charlie Brown's teacher Uh Jace Broadhurst, the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, uh long time friend of the show. This is like his uh 7,000th appearance on the program. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh again, just to revisit, you don't have to answer it because I we want to move on to what we're hoping to talk about here, but we're not talking about infallibility because everybody here in this room is going to say, yes, the Bible is infallible It right, w because I say take that I understand that, and that's what I was trying to clarify to make sure my understanding is correct. I understand infallibility to be much more of a of a of a a general feeling about the Bible. The Bible is authoritative. It is generally trustworthy. We can count on it for what it says. And it says everything that we need to know about salvation and everything that's important for us to know about Jesus Christ, all those things that without fail, it is there for us. But then some people will say, Okay, that's all true And yet, there's some things in the Bible I'm not exactly sure are historically accurate, or maybe there's an editing mistake, or there's this other thing here. It's not infallible. I mean it's infallible, but it's Not inerrant. So we're focusing in on is the the the inerrant question. Is the Bible without any error at all? in its original form, right? Which is I'm sure where we're gonna go before this series of shows is over is what is the original form. And Jonathan was hinting at that when he was talking about it came down through and then there maybe there was this cutting and cutting and pasting, although I don't like that, but there was some editing, whatever. So there was this at some point we decided this is the Bible. There's gonna be some question of what is that point? Is it the point at which Moses wrote it, if he indeed wrote it Is it the point at which those who heard the stories of Moses when they wrote it, or is it a compilation of what Moses wrote and Joshua wrote and some other guys wrote and they put it together into what we now call the Pentateuch or the Torah? Right, all of these uh Okay, so let me see if I can boil it down. It seems to be, and Jace, tell me if I'm a right or not, that the big question is how much of the Old Testament was written after the Babylonian captivity And re-inserted or not re-inserted into the text, even of Moses and the kings and the and Samuel and all of that, how much of that was inserted in by the editors after the Babylonian captivity versus how much of it was uh reflected what Moses wrote And what what what was written at the time of Joshua and at the time of Samuel, you know, in uh in in that. Like that's the big question. How much of it was was added later uh and and manipulated and changed later versus how much of it came down to us accurate at the time. Okay, well I would I would say I I wouldn't say that that's the big question. For me, that's a historical critical question and a very important one. Um the question of inerrancy was probably closer to where you were you were thinking about that, Troy, with You know, are there mistakes here and things like that? Um and I I couldn't give you a percentage as to how much came comes after versus before, but the transmission of text is a very complicated issue and there's There's no such thing as the Bible. I I I mean I could I could say things like we all believe that the autographa is inspired. Well I I I would say the autographa is a myth to begin with. The the whole idea of autographa doesn't even But there for me there's no such thing as original autograph. That the whole thing doesn't make sense. So that's an irrelevant statement. This is where where you don't think that there's an argument and it doesn't mean a whole lot to you, but that's precisely where like like that's why I'm here tonight to have this discussion with the Chicago State. Because my sense is that uh is that that there is meaning to that and in my My conclusions at this point, uh humble though they may be, is that your conclusions on that issue are driven by a modern approach to history that is is modern and is not an approach to history. So this is where the discussion is. What did you mean when uh a second ago, Jace, you said that you know there really isn't a the Bible? Uh you might want to explain that because that could be a a striking statement. To somebody who's listening, they just, you know, popped in, they turned on the radio. What do you mean by that? Uh I mean by that uh for instance, uh the New Testament took hundreds of years to decide on what books were considered part of the New Testament. The Old Testament is still not determined. Right? Unless you're a Protestant and you know, I assume there's people listening that are much further than that. I mean if you're E Eastern Orthodox or you're Catholic, you have a different canon. So which books are part of the Bible? That's that's a big question. And then once we even get outside of that What about things like the Samaritan Pentateuch, or the difference between the Septuagint and the Masoretic text, or the difference between how many different Masoretic texts there actually are? These are just Hebrew Bibles versus Greek Bibles is all I'm trying to say there. Right. So I was hoping uh maybe there's people out there that don't have a clue what I'm talking about. I was trying to clue that in. But uh the the transmission between just the Hebrew text alone has so many different changes, so many differences. We take that back, we can come up with something something that looks very close to what we have. And I'm I'm willing to go with that. Something close to it. But then the question that you were asking gets even bigger because you have this later-on text, this this text as we see it now, versus a text like Genesis chapter one, which probably did not originate with Moses. Um probably originated long before Moses because we have other texts that look like Genesis one that are long before Moses was on the scene. Sure. That Moses took as a redactor himself, as an editor himself, and added some things to it. So we'd ask the question, which one's the autographer? Is it is it the original text that it stood there or the one that Moses got together and put with Genesis chapter 2? and then put some pieces in between. And then of course Moses, for instance. Again, to to just uh draw a contrast in terms of what you're s what you're saying. Um m what I what I feel like happens so often in this discussion is that is that when we see those places where where it appears that Moses i has had something passed to him and he has decided that it should go in the text of the Bible, that it that that it is uh that that it's something that should be included with what he's saying should be taught to the Israelites. you know, with with the law. What whatever he puts together with the law, he's he's giving it to the Israelites and he's saying, This is this is what we believe and this is what you need to you need to teach. And he adds it along, you know, all the stories about Abraham, Isaac and Jacob clearly came down to him, you know, in some kind of a historical narrative. And and my sense is that what happens with can can you can you give me a term to use for your perspective so that I can I can say what these guys do because I I I want to give a term to it that isn't Mean spirited. In the conversation we're having right now, it's a historical critical approach. Okay. Uh guys that believe like I do, uh also follow historical critical approach. It's just the question is how far do do those conclusions go? So it's So so you're arguing that that is the historical critical approach. I'm saying that there are those in the historical critical approach that that draw the distinctions and lines that I am. So what's the difference? What's the difference between Um uh someone who thinks that Daniel is second century versus seventh century. Yeah I don't I don't know if that there's a term. Okay, so I'll should I just say uh See this is the problem. How do we define the difference? Um because by defining the difference it's gonna end up being a little bit of a um caricature. Right? And so that's why I'm asking you to come up with the language. Maybe you know um Yeah, I've never been asked that question before. I don't I don't know I don't have terminology to just um the heavy redactor approach versus the light redactor approach. Okay? Very good. Okay, so my sense is the guys that that are the heavy redactor approach, meaning that there's major major editing going on in my viewpoint then uh that the heavy redactor approach that what happens is whenever you see a place like that then what happens is it becomes a reason to to doubt What was there and instead to look at the history of how other people wrote literature at the time and assume that instead of this being something that is inspired by God and something that that that has the stamp of God's yes, this is right, that instead we should view it as something that Uh you know, they're just doing what the people around them were doing. They you know they're adding stories according to how they were writing them. Why why can't it be totally inspired by God and Look just like all the other evidence. Calls us to expect the Bible to be holy, that the Word of God is sharper than any double-edged sword dividing between soul and spirit, that we should expect the Word of God to stand above. all the literature of the surrounding peoples of the time. Above how? Above in the sense that it's more accurate. W why is that? Well I mean what is it that that comes in your presuppositions ahead of time that says What I mean by being holy means more accurate. And not just more accurate, but more accurate in a precise way that you're going to obviously let us No here. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well I'll tell I'll tell you why it has to be that way. Why I think it has to be that way. Okay. Because God makes this sh in in several places in scripture says says that I am holy in me there is nothing wicked there is nothing uh false Right, there's these phrases that come up through scripture again and again that give us the indication that we are are we are to expect from God something that is better, something that lifts us To a higher plane, and that that lifting to a higher plane is something that the word of God stands forever Right? Stands forever means that even though the modern modern historical criticists that are the heavy redactors, even though those guys think that they've discovered something new, that the word of God is going to prove itself to be the word of God and to stand forever, even though they want to they want to take issue with it. That's that's that's my orientation that the very words of the scripture itself demand of itself something higher and if it's not, then it's really a big issue. We're we're gonna hash all this up. We're gonna redact the show and come back in a clearer, cleaner way next week. This is Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick News Radio 930 WFMB. Jonathan Sweitzer, Jace Broadhurst, thank you. Thanks to our sponsors, BMC Insurance, Putman Plumbing and Heating, and Cruise Holidays. Check us out online, WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week. God bless.