Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate at Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Show is brought to us by Deer Valley, Heartscape, Landscape and Masonry, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the panel this week, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and co-founder of this very same Faith Debate Show And Haran Kureshe, who is a agnostic theist and currently attends a Unitarian Universalist Church, also uh was a Muslim, uh grew up as one and uh um last couple of years really has uh ha w would not self-identify as a Muslim. Uh he's trying to figure out what the truth is. That's what this show is all about And we hold out that promise to you that by the end of today's show you will know the truth. Yes, but please know we're not arrogant in any way though. By the way The Promise is the name of a book by Ted Decker. Uh-huh. The Promise. And keeping you up to speed on what I'm reading these days. Trust me, one of these days I'll give you a book that's not a Ted Decker book and you can go read it Right, but that'll be like next year or something. Yeah, probably yeah. Well yeah, we're running out of time now. Happy Thanksgiving, guys. All right, so nothing better to talk about around the uh Thanksgiving and uh and holiday party tables than the question of hell. Particularly if you can bring up some Old Testament story like, oh, I don't know, let's say the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah. That's right. Huh? So Jonathan, you were saying Okay, the question that was on the table is whether or not if you are surrounded by life circumstances that um that reject God and that reject what is right, whether or not that would overwhelm your sensibilities so that even if you've got the freedom to see what is right you would still end up being determined by your circumstances uh such that you can't choose what is right. And therefore it would be wrong for God to judge you. Um my my answer to that is that I think at some level you're probably right. The children of the adults in Sodom and Gomorrah that were not at an age of accountability You know, the children that that were the children of of Canaan that survived the sacrifices to to the Baals, you know, that that lived and that that were surrounded with wickedness and and and selfishness and and uh lust and and immorality. Um, I think you're right that that those children, the most merciful thing for them is for God to destroy them along with their parents. Mm-hmm. Like he did in Sodom and Gomorrah, like possibly he did at Pompeii. Maybe Atlantis was a situation, you know, where that happened. You know, where God decided uh that that place What Bible are you reading these days? Well th yeah, those ex those last two were s were uh a little bit of Ted Decker fictionalism thrown in there. Uh And so the point is is that is that I'm of the opinion that it would be it would be merciful for God to to kill them before they reach the age of accountability. and then deal with them however he's gonna deal with them. And I don't know that the Bible gives great clarity for how he's gonna deal with that. But if they have not reached the age of accountability, I'm I'm going to leave it to God to deal with how, you know, how he'll work with those particular children. He'll hold them accountable for whatever it is that they should be accountable for. But in terms of people that have reached the age of accountability, like in Sodom and Gomorrah, Lot is living there with his family, um, God rescued the righteous that were choosing righteousness out of Sodom and Gomorrah. And all I'm saying is that in those situations when people reach an age of accountability Uh every kid that I know that I've ever worked with, every adult that I've ever worked with, their greatest problems are dealing with the the selfishness that their parents imposed upon them. And nobody that grows up with selfish parents grows up thinking to themselves, oh life is great. Everything's fine. They grow up thinking to themselves, man, is this what it's all about? Is there any hope? There's gotta be some hope. Oh God, are you out there somewhere? And my point is, is that once you reach the age of accountability, you've been there. I've been there We all have the capacity to begin to ask ourselves, is this all there is? There's got to be something more. And I'm saying that that once you reach that age of accountability that that you have a responsibility to choose faith, to choose gratitude, to choose courage. And when you do not, then you are rejecting life. And it doesn't matter how severely you're surrounded Uh the the whole resilience factor is based on your choice to believe that there's a God that that will help you and to not choose um despair to not choose um uh that to that that there's no hope whatsoever. Which is the opposite of faith, hopelessness. If you choose hopelessness, then you have rejected life. And that's an adult decision. We're talking about adults, not children. Right. But but but I think the one thing that we have to think about is that m when we talk about adul adults is that we were all children and adolescents at some point. Which is why I can recognise. But but but there are certain children, not certain there are many children, many adolescents who are whose brains are not developed, their bodies are not developed, they haven't experienced what life in in reality is really. uh they are being guided in so many different directions, they are being taught so many things, they're having so many traumatic experiences, stressful experiences, that they're not simply prepared for. And these things really and truly they make up that individual. So by the time when they become adults They've had all of these traumatic experiences, all of the uh not knowing what to do with it, and it shapes who and molds who they are. And so the unconscious, which is something that Freud came up with it it it it it absorbs all of these experiences. And so w uh when as an adult when we're reacting to the external stimuli, when we're reacting to the world that that that we're living in, we're doing so based on years worth of conditioning, years worth of uh of experiences that we aren't even aware of that are m that that are contributing to the tr h uh quote unquote choice that we're making. And so it seems as if we're when we're an adult that we're making these trends. Adult Is in a relationship and chooses to think about themselves instead of the other person and chooses that selfishness, they are a free, responsible moral agent. And they will never be free until they accept that fact. And there are many people, as M. Scott Peck recognize that he counseled and counseled and that tried to help them, tried to surround them with with an environment that was nurturing, that that was an environment that was opposite of of uh what they had grown up with. And they still refused to come to uh to choose courage. They still chose to believe the lie. And what I'm saying is that that is true in in huge and significant ways, that that all humans, uh adults in particular uh have that freedom to choose. And when they choose against that, they're choosing against life. And and listen, let me put it this way. Um Uh who's the Bert not Bertram Russell, um Edmund Burke, uh back in England, used to argue that that discrimination was a great thing. That that uh that that there is a a a level of choices that we make that are based on um like a subconscious that is based on training and so therefore we need to we need to train people to do certain right things without even thinking about it. Well, it's modern science that has rejected that and instead they came up with the subconscious instead of uh it's it's not the word um I'm gonna have to see if I can come up with it. It's not the word discrimination, but it's the word prejudice. was the word that he used. That that prejudice is a good thing. Prejudice tells me that when I see somebody like you walking up towards me, I'm going to choose to to smile and to shake your hand and to greet you. with joy because it's my responsibility to do so. So I don't even think about it. It's a subconscious, it's it's a non-thought about kind of a thing. But what has led us away from that in the West has been a scientific orientation that threw out prejudice and threw out biblical morality, which is God's attempt to r to bring people to a right place, and they totally threw it out, and in throwing it out we come to Freud. And Freud Freud was one of the kings of psychology that was throwing out biblical morality. And he came up with all these other ideas. And the point is that those ideas have been around forever. But Freud's approach was that we should just we should just give into and and and work with whatever's happening inside, which is more of a Buddhist approach. And which I think is is precisely the reason why our nation has lost its moral foundations and its moral anchor Mm. And I don't even like the the validity of the scientific idea. Yeah, there would be so many exceptions to that rule. People who grow up in disadvantaged homes, they might have been sexually molested as a child, their parents could have been alcoholics, uh they didn't have uh the the same opportunity for certain kinds of education. They moved around a lot. They so they didn't have a lot of friends. You know, all all these negatives you say, oh, this person was set up for disaster and yet they end up being a good quality citizen contributing to society as an adult. So is that just an exception to this rule? How many exceptions do we have before it's not a rule? Every movie out there practically that comes out of Hollywood uh gives this idea that people can do that and that they can reach out in various ways. But and as much as our society has chosen this approach that is more Buddhist uh that that somehow it's inside of you instead of recognizing that God is not inside of us but above us and that that that we have a responsibility to reach out that instead we need to look inside. Ever since we've chosen that, our society here in the United States has gone farther from its moral foundations, not closer to. And so my warning to you is that if you really want to help people to choose what is righteous Uh I'd I'd get a I'd get out of the Buddhism orientation. I I'd find a different in fact I would say this, I would argue that Buddhism is spiritual suicide. Because uh it's either Buddhism or Hinduism. Both of them are spiritual suicide. One of them says that we're trying to lose our personality in the great personality, right? And the other one says that we're trying to quench the flame of desire So that we can be freed from the cycle of suffering. That's spiritual suicide. The Bible says the exact opposite, that you were made in the image of God and that you will be eternally in the image of God, that you don't need to somehow lose your personality. In fact, what needs to be done is just that it be redeemed and your desires are appropriate. What a man truly desires is unfailing love. You need to fan the flames of that, not somehow try to patiently, carefully through spiritual exercise, quench it so that you can be released from suffering. The Bible says the exact opposite. and says it with with you know with great fervor and in in um in pleading, please don't go that direction. Why would you do that to yourself? Why would you try to destroy what is in you instead of letting the Lord redeem what is in you and bringing it to to fulfillment in his purposes? I mean I I would love to discuss Buddhism and Hinduism with you but but but I I mean it comes right back to the the idea of resilience. There's so many people who have been molested, have gone through so many traumatic experiences and they're still resilient. That that's true. That's absolutely true. But what about those that don't We we always forget about those that we always say that there's exceptions to the rule. But what about that those that th those that actually end up becoming criminals? Well what about those that have every advantage and they end up becoming uh child molesters and drunkards and uh and and should be in debtors prison because they don't pay their bills. Well the circumstances that got 'em there. There's still not even even in that situation Wh where they might not have had those experiences in childhood. Maybe they had they had in in adolescence. Maybe they ha and they had it for there's reasons why So the very people that are teaching what you teach are arguing that we need to get God out of the public schools and that bringing God into the situation actually is is an abuse against the child So the very things that that would be done by society to establish a prejudice towards life are being driven out of that society by the people that are teaching what you teach in the schools where you teach that God is dead, that all we have is science, and so therefore what we need to do is we just need to nurture, nurture, nurture, nurture because otherwise you know, all these abused kids are n are are never gonna have an opportunity to break free. And all I'm telling you is that s is that if you look at our society and what and European society and um uh uh Russia, China, all those places that have chosen that approach, that there's been an an increase in despair, not a decrease in the in despair in those in those environments. But I mean Again and again. Well what I would say is that y y you might call it God, but i even an atheist can have spirituality. Sticking to the mechanisms of all that. Because if you just stick with the biology, chemistry, and physics of all that is and you and you're a mechanistic and your approach, that's not really going to get you like a big thing. So are you of the opinion that there's any Evil spirituality? That there's evil spirituality. Is spirituality inherently good? Well spirituality is the experience of life, so there's both good and evil in that There is very Buddhist of you. Right. Which is interesting because I feel like I feel like the rise of rationalism and science in the West is a natural mate. to Buddhism and Hinduism. It is. And that's what concerns me because what Buddhism and Hinduism created in India is a scenario where uh where the untouchables have no freedom to rise up. But uh what what has brought the biggest change to that has been a Western idea that rose out of the context of a of a Christian world view that says that there are basic human rights given by Buddha, no, given by God who created us. And so human rights does not arise out of a scientific orientation or a Buddhist orientation, because those orientations seem to give give Buddha permission to never even touch the prostitute and those that are hurting. Whereas Christ did the opposite, he touched them He hugged them, he ate with them, he drank with them, he loved them because he recognized that the path to redemption is through suffering, not through somehow trying to quench Uh the the the flame of personality or the flame of desire. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. So uh you were starting to say something and Jonathan was was reacting to it. Yeah. I want to give you a chance to finish what you where you're going with that. Um, in terms of uh spirituality or in terms of suffering? I think well th well in terms of suffering, the again the idea is that there's a pe there's there's those individuals who are not able to be resilient. They become a part of the vicious cycle. They were molested and they become molesters. Well that you can't as a child I have to go molest somebody now? Well it depends on your conditioning. People are conditioned in in in unique ways And it also depends on grainhouse. One they're both molested, they both have the same conditioning, they both have the same life experiences, and one of them goes on to have a w productive satisfying life and the other one has a disastrous. But they have they have the same genes. But but it's it's not just genes, it's not just brain chemistry. It's experiences, it's a perception of that that those experiences It's it's i it's additional circumst it's add additional stimuli. For example, one person they're not always gonna be together those twins. They're going to have experiences in the and predetermined environment. I agree with you actually. I don't think any of us has it within ourselves to pull ourselves up by our own bootstraps. Uh and ha and and and save. Right. Who does for us what we can't do for ourselves. than conditioned by a fallen sinful horrible world. Yeah, I'm in agreement with that. Right? Uh-huh. However, Farhan, it sounds to me like you're choosing a world view that claims that the cycle of suffering, it's very Buddhist. Uh-huh. You claim it's rational, but it's it's really more Buddhist than it than uh than it's just rational. It's assuming ahead of time Suffering is what we're looking to be set free from. And uh as a in instead of saying that you know, I I tell people all this time, marriage is the closest thing to heaven on earth and hell on earth. And what makes the difference is not if you try to avoid the suffering, but if you embrace the suffering to serve your spouse and to honor them and to forgive them. whether it feels good or not. What makes the difference is not that you're trying to be set free from those things, but that you embrace what is right to do And you look to God who is above you, not in you, to give you the strength to do that. Whereas Buddhism is is is all about the enshrinement of the cycle of suffering and it's so enshrined that it doesn't just end with this life, but it goes on and on and on, life after life after life after life, for whom who knows how many lives. And it's an inherently hopeless worldview. And I appeal to you. Don't choose that. Please. Well I I think that I'm open to the possibilities. And and I I again all human beings are biased. Psychologically we're conditioned to be biased and that's inevitable. But I mean I think that the idea is to be as open minded as possible. If Christianity is the truth, why would I want to deprive myself of that? I and and that's something I said in one of the previous shows. I don't want to go to hell. If Christianity is true, why would I deprive myself? So I have to I have to go according to what appears to be true to me. According to my subjective experiences, subjective knowledge, and subjective perception of reality. Postmodernism. I feel like you're describing it very well. Keep going. Okay. So according to my subjective experiences, my subjective knowledge and my subjective perception of things, I can only embrace what appears to be true to me. If I don't and I profess something that doesn't appear to be true to me, I'm dwelling in hypocrisy. I totally agree. And you must not ever live in hypocrisy. This is a very important truth. So so I would say to me. So I I would say to me if Christianity or I don't even like calling it Christianity, I I would rather say if Christ appear to be Lord and Savior to me, then then I would embrace that. And I would want to embrace that. I don't want to go to hell. I want to be I want to live in I want to be in heaven. I want to I want serenity and security and all of those things In fact, Maslow's and in psychology teaches that the very basic essence of what we want is is security. Yeah, Maslow's which again is based in a Scientific naturalism not based in the right. I say it as a joke, but you should read more fiction because I I keep hearing and I I know this is gonna come across with an edge and I don't mean to back up a little bit. I'm concerned like Jonathan's giving some pastoral concern right here on the air.