Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Project Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Eating, as we make you smile, Cruise Holidays, and BMC Insurance. Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com, keyword faith A little slower this time. Wfmd. com. Keyword Faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page where you'll find links to podcasts, news items, the Faith Debate blog And as you heard me say before, if you've listened to the show before, my blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. What you send me, I post nine times a day, Monday through Friday, forty-five blog postings a week. Encourage you to pop in and see what other people are saying if you don't want to email yourself. On the Faith Debate today, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and John Bromes a blogger. Huh? Does that make you a blogger Is that a well let me ask you, is it a good thing to be a blogger? Times a day. Times a day. It's not the same thing as a froger. It's a blogger. But I'm not actually doing the blog I mean, I'm just taking somebody's stuff and pasting it into the page I'm not actually I'm not actually doing the logging. I'm a blaister. Okay, so so you you you are rejecting the blogger to think of important things to say and post it nine times a day. I take other things that people think are important and just I'm the conduit Yeah, but isn't I mean? I should charge a fee, actually. Little men always get a cut. I think you should go for that. See how that turns out for us. Uh anyway, we are oh by the way, I didn't get to mention last week what am I uh what have I been reading and it's actually uh related a little bit to what we're gonna be talking about, what we're talking about last week, what we're talking about this week, what we'll be talking about the next week or two. Uh at the Origins of Christian Worship by Larry Hurtado. Either one of you read that? Have not. Okay. I've I would recommend. It's a it's an interesting read. The Origins of Christian Worship. At the origins of Christian worship. Meaning going all the way back to the original church. Like a historical survey of how worship the different traditions of how we worship where they kind of come from. It's it's and it uh has a lot of uh a lot of stuff that's old in it. So if you like stuff that's old to read, you will like this. If you don't like old stuff to read, then you know go get the latest Harry Potter and be done with it. Is there such a thing as the latest Harry Potter or they're done? I don't even know if there is a latest Harry Potter done, right? The last Harry Potter came out like five years ago probably. I don't even know what's tw Twilight's not even popular anymore. Right? What's like the new thing? It was Harry Potter, then it was Twilight. All I know is my kids watch watch um Phineas and Ferb. All the time, which is a cartoon with two little boys that spend their summer every day doing things that their older sister is trying to bust them for. to their mo to their mom and it's they just think it's the greatest thing ever. So Phineas and Ferb is my kid's latest thing. Okay. So never seen it. I don't know that I've ever heard of it. I think it's a boy show. I don't know that girls would be you only had 'em you know. Are you telling me that because you think I wouldn't like it? Well what are you saying? I'm saying your daughter who just graduated from high school would not have liked that. Gotcha, gotcha. Alright, so we're talking about um the Lord's Supper. Right? Right. Uh last week we gave a quick uh it wasn't as quick as I would have liked, but we gave an overview of the four primary views of what's going on with the Lord's Supper. Uh view A is the bread and the wine turn into, even though we can't see it with our s you know perceive it with our senses, uh it turns into the actual physical body and blood of Christ in a substantial way. Uh that's that's that's uh issue one. Uh issue two of the Lutheran view. Uh that yes it turns into the body and blood of Christ in a substantial way and yet is still somehow bread and wine in a substantial way. And we talked about the mere symbolic view where It's not turning in anything, it's just uh it i it's it's a practice the church does to remember. Huh? Mere symbolic view. Well it's just not mere Well be no, because the even the Roman Catholic and Lutheran views, which were the first two views, there's symbolism going on there. So it's not absent of symbolism absence of symbolism. But these winglies. Okay, even though I don't believe it's a substance of Christ, I think it's a very substantial view of sorry, I'm just having fun. Picking. And then we finally got to uh kind of a compromised Protestant position uh as I understand it with uh John Calvin's view that it there's a spiritual transformation that's taking place. Something spiritual is happening there. It's not just a symbol, but it's not actually turning substantially into the body and blood of Christ. Um it's spiritually turning into the body and blood of Christ kind of thing. And Jonathan kind of ended on the note last week, and I'm going to pick on him a little bit 'cause this will be fun. Good. This will be a way good way to get us going. He kinda ended on the note like, eh, what does it matter? What does it matter if a couple of guys, you know, were out drinking and wanted to start a fight I'm trying to do my best Hillary Clinton uh uh excuse there. You say what's it matter for it's unity You know, if you want to believe in transubstantiation, you want to believe in consubstantiation, you want to believe in a in a spiritual thing that's happening, and I want to believe in a symbolic sort of thing, what's it really matter? And I'm gonna challenge you on that because obviously four hundred and seventy-five years ago, serious thinkers, serious Bible scholars serious my seriously minded pastors who understood there was a sea change taking place in the church and they wanted to get it right. spent a lot of time writing about this, talking about it with themselves, arguing with each other about it. So I would put to you that maybe it does matter. And here's an here's a reason why I think they would s might have said, if they were here today to join us Transubstantiation, it actually turns into substantially the body and blood of Christ. It actually becomes the Lord and Savior in the sacrament in some mysterious way. If that's true, doesn't that change how we should relate to the bread and the wine? Shouldn't we adore the bread and the wine as our Lord and Savior? The bread and the wine is God at that point, because Jesus, our Lord and Savior, is God. And if it transforms substantially into Christ It transforms into God. So isn't that an important thing to decide, is this God in my hands or not? And that's what they that's part of what they're arguing over. It certainly increases the intensity of the spiritual moment. If what you're holding in your hands to say the least is Christ. I would I would agree with that. Uh So yes. So it does matter. It it's so we have a reading to talk about it. However, the uh the the reality is that you are Filled with the Holy Spirit. Christ lives in you. Right? And wherever two or more are gathered, there I am in their midst. In the mystery of the ages that is Christ in us. the hope of glory. Christ in the church, the hope of glory, right? This is the the great revelation that that Christ would dwell in Jews and Gentiles. My point is is that is that so then do I bow down and worship you? Or do I recognize the spirit of Christ and I worship Christ? But it doesn't actually become Christ And that would be a that would be a good idea. Or that there is a spiritual presence in the elements that is more than the spiritual presence that is in our midst right here as the three of us are are in this room here together. Yeah, I don't know if he blocks it out quite so clearly because there's a mis there's a spiritual mystery that's taking place. So I don't I don't know I don't know how he Yeah d articulates it quite as cleanly as we w might like him to, but I don't think I think he does that on purpose. I I may be I may be uh not remembering uh my Calvinist theology well at all, but um the way I remember kind of making sense of this uh as I was reading and studying learning Calvin uh and his position on the sacrament is that this the the real presence of Christ is that spiritual presence in that by the Spirit of God we are united with the real Christ. Um that that there's almost a um like we're spiritually um how would you say that trans transported to the throne of of God where Christ sits and uh and that He is really present there in that communion. So we talk about the communion being um uh we we actually have this closeness to the presence of Christ in the sacrament and and and so that it didn't have anything to do necessarily with like you were saying, a substantial quality of the bread or the wine, but that it was a spiritual um not the same as whenever two or more are gathered in his name. And somehow significantly different from that. Um Kai, so this is the interesting thing though, is that It's more palpable maybe. Does that minimize the significance of the presence of Christ with us right now? Uh one guy was uh Costa Dierre, a uh pugilist turned Christian from um Ako uh in Israel, Palestinian guy, planted hundreds of churches across northern Africa. I I had the chance to sit with him one time and he's and he says It's is it's a great moment. He says awareness, sensitivity, and obedience. These are the three most important things. Awareness of the presence of the Holy Spirit, sensitivity to the leading of the presence uh of the Holy Spirit, and obedience to the Holy Spirit. And it seems to me like our awareness of the presence of Christ changes everything. Right? And so I'm a little bit inclined in my emphasis towards remembering um to to go back to the Passover where um there were four cups in the Passover and the one that Christ took at the end of the meal and passed it, uh it would have been the cup of redemption. And so he's he's taking something that had already thousands of years of history in the in this in the Jewish uh mindset and he's saying, This is my blood. What is? The redemption, the cup of redemption. And wine, uh the wine all through the the prophets represented uh the wrath of God, you know, that that he's gonna tread out the wine presses and and we see this this idea, you know, sprinkle out throughout the prophets that the cup of redemption is the blood of Christ, the wrath of God coming on Christ and him taking it for us and there's the redemption at the the the third cup out of the four and then um the breaking of the bread uh th there was uh even before Christ they would take one of the masses and they would break it and then they would hide it until the end of the meal and then they would go find it, you know, and there's that sense of Christ being hidden but now he's found um uh where he was buried for a couple days and there were three of those and and and one of them's broken. And so there's meaning there that when Christ says, This is my body, which is given for you, again I'm less inclined, like a Greek perspective, to start going into, okay, this means that this is Christ's actual body, so much as as as getting into the mindset of what seemed to be the Jewish Passover and Christ saying, everything's being fulfilled from all of the prophets and the law, and I'm it Oh, in fairness to the Roman Catholic and Lutheran view, however, I don't think that they would say that they're taking a Greek position. They're taking the Lord at his word. He says in scripture, this is my body, and they take it as a flat fact Right, but the but the definition of substance in and all this this other terminology is is again language and I've been there so many times, so you and I go there a lot. And uh I it's probably less important to you, I realize that. But my mindset that language is not language that that the Jewish religion at the time of Christ had any interest in trying to figure out. The Jewish religion had interest in in the sacrifice that takes away the sins of the world but there's a thing that is the thing that takes place. Exactly. Th it's a new covenant. Yeah. So you're talking about the old covenant Passover, but something new happens. But but that's the point that you've got to do. And the Roman Catholics and the Lutherans are going to say part of that new covenant is that now when you eat the bread and the wine of the quote unquote Passover meal You know, that's I'm really stretching 'cause the a Lutheran Roman Catholic wouldn't phrase it that way, I don't think. Uh they're saying it's not it's not the same as the old covenant meal. It's now a new meal that is new in a special way, and that special way is Christ's body is actually present in the elements. Right? Well yes, uh uh what resonates uh uh for me uh and what Jonathan is saying there is that um kind of going along with what you were just saying, Troy, that that it's not so much about the the Greek philosophy, although when you try and bring language when you try and articulate the mystery and you try and find a way explaining it, you you're you're sort of at the mercy of whatever Greek language you can use to to bring to that. And uh there was you know, in a sense I think Luther was really want to say, you know, let's c how about if we back away from the substance language. Let's just talk about the power of the word. And so when God says it is, then it is, you know, which in my mind fits um nicely with a more hebraic kind of way of um you know, understanding reality, right? God said, My word will not return to me void. It's going to accomplish what I put it out there for. The word of God has um has always kind of carried that weight of God is going to bring fulfillment of whatever God speaks, you know. So um there's this uh uh idea that prophecy you know, is like it has a purpose when the word is given, you know, so there's like an application to the word, but it's a living word because it's the word of God, and so it finds fulfillment in Christ. So when Jesus is with the disciples on the road to Emmaus or when he's with the disciples even after uh they they get back and he appears again right there in chapter twenty four at the end of chapter twenty four of Luke. And uh and it says and he opened their minds to understand that yeah, everything in Moses and the prophets and the Psalms was all about him. You know, it's kinda like There there's a continuity there. And then he breaks the bread and that's when their eyes are open. connection to that, which is really cool. Maybe we can get to sometime. But um but yeah there there's uh there's a sense in which the while we talk about an old covenant and a new covenant, it's not like they're separate and distinct. um there is a fulfilling of you know Jesus. Yeah as I was preparing for tonight I was noticing that the Lutheran approach to the law and the gospel says that we preach both the law and the gospel because the law leads us to Christ, but if the gospel, you know, that is the point of all of it is that we come to Christ. And and again there's a discussion uh Troy and I have had often, you know, clearly we need to see the whole Bible through the eyes of of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And yet We understand Jesus Christ through the terminology and the idea of the whole Bible. And so when when uh in Acts fifteen they were they're asking the question What should the Gentiles do? They they said uh the Gentile believers they gave uh you know a few basic instructions and then they said, and let's not worry about the rest because the law is and the prophets are taught every week. you know, in the uh um in the synagogue. And so they didn't have to worry about us getting the ideas, you know, that that are in the law because we would still hear the law and those things being taught. But it would be in the context of the gospel. And so, um, yes, it's a it's a new covenant, and Christ is the fulfillment of all that, but that's the point is that it's a new covenant because he is fulfilled all of that. And so what is it that he has fulfilled? He's fulfilled all these Old Testament things and it seems to me like that i for for me, that's the the More important direction to go in trying to understand the fullness of the meaning and Christ came, and because Christ came and died, the Spirit of God was poured out on all flesh. And so the Spirit of the Living God lives inside of us. And so this whole reality of the presence of God, yes it's because of what happened with his sacrifice, which is, in my terminology, represented by the communion that he is here with us in fullness. We have the full access to the presence of God. you know, that the veil is torn and we boldly come, you know, before his throne. And so is it in the the body and blood, or is it that Christ was saying This is what you guys have been doing all these years. It's all about me. And my spirit is now with you every time that you guys are together and doing this kind of thing in my name. It's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh, on the show this week. Also another John, John Brommel from uh Redeemer Lutheran Church in Damascus. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So now, Jonathan, everything you just said sounds wonderful in a vacuum, but a Roman Catholic would disagree with you. Because you basically just advocated for a heightened symbol symbolic view, maybe not a merely symbolic view, but something that's a hybrid of the Calvinist view and the Zwingli view is what you were just advocating. Yeah In fact, and so if you're gonna have an argument w what if we had a Roman Catholic priest in here and he's arguing tran for transubstantiation and he's gonna disagree with you? Well you can say, no, no, we just need to see. And you say, well I don't see it that way. Well this is And then you start trying to find language to find terms and where can we agree? Where do we disagree? Right, right, right. I'm with you. You know? So So the point is that it's important after all. So how do we get away from it And I was not only is it important after all, here's the question. I I mean, uh I've been wrestling with this in in my I didn't do a lot of homework for this show. I probably should have. Uh but I was doing some some meditation, kinda some th giving some thought to what we're gonna be talking about. Yeah. And it struck me, I mean we've got baptism instituted by the you know the Lord, part of the new covenant. Yeah. You got the Lord's Supper. Yeah. Right? Mm-hmm. I mean, Christ gives these to the church as Significant things. We uh we should probably try to understand what these things are that he's given the church, don't you think? Yeah, absolutely. And yet we have all these various views that after five hundred years of Protestantism we still have these varying views. Like we haven't been able to pin that down. Now I understand the earliest use of the word transubstantiation is Like like when is that? My understanding is that is that the use of that term didn't really come until the time of of the reformers when they were when they were discussing all this. uh to to distinguish you know like what the understanding of of it coming into you know believing that that it turns in the body and blood of Christmas. Which wouldn't be surprising because usually the terms and the the terminology that we use comes in the context of some sort of an intellectual argument. It says in the eleventh century when you're disagreeing so up until then you have the church the Roman the Roman church was the church for the western half of of of Europe. All alone. There was no so there was no disagreements, dialogue. They just it was it was what it was. But then the Protestant Reformation half and say, No, no, no, the Roman Catholic Church is doing all of these things wrong and including among those things and perhaps centrally important among those things was was the the supper. Is we gotta figure this out. And so that so then all of a sudden they start a affixing labels. So they could identify and have shorthand for communicating with it. Yeah, like the Diddiquay said it this way. He s it says um which was, you know, an early first century document. uh considered to be authoritative among the apostles. It says, Let no one eat or drink of the Eucharist with you except those who have been baptized in the name of the Lord, because it was in reference to this the Lord said, Do not give that which is holy to dogs. Right? And so then Saint Ignatius of Antioch said, I desire the bread of God, which is the flesh of Christ, and that's in AD 106. And so it is true that from the beginning that there was a very strong sense that this is actually the body and blood of Christ. Yeah. And I you know, so to to go back to what you were saying, Troy, I think that um y you know, f it with the Protestant Reformation, at least from from Luther's point of view, he he was not arguing that the Roman Catholic Church or the Roman Church um was doing all this stuff wrong. I mean he w he was wanting very much to say uh we still believe the same thing. I mean w we're we're still in this together, right? It's there's only certain things and I mean when you you look at his ninety five thesis he was not arguing about the real presence of Christ in the sacrament or anything like that in the and and that piece there but um but really was um you know wanting simply to bring some reformation to our understanding of Uh you know, certainly one of the big things was the um the abuse of indulgences and that kind of thing. But um as we, you know, move forward and as you look at the the development of that history uh and you have thinkers like Zwingli and Calvin uh coming along, there was um sort of a freedom, I suppose that that you would say, that was brought about by um that Reformation period to start saying, no, wait a second, um I this this isn't gonna be dictated to me by some you know it's like um I don't know the c clericalism or whatever of how however that was understood in that that time period. But we're thinkers ourselves. We can engage the word of God ourselves, which was a big deal for for Martin Luther, wanting to get the scriptures, the Bible, into the hands of the common people in their own language, you know, so translating the scriptures into German was was huge and Luther's Day to to do that so that people could begin um, you know, having that personal understanding themselves rather than somebody else telling 'em It has to be this way, you know. And and so that in that freedom then is where we I think s start seeing some of the diversity of how do we talk about this, how do we articulate it. And um That's you know, wanting to bring clarity to those kind of explanations of things that are mysteries of God, I think, i is what leads to, as we've been talking about, the the denominationalism on the Protestant Reformation. Yeah. You know, so um I I think that um within um all of these various perspectives of uh the Lord's Supper um that if there were something that we would all agree on. uh it's in the power of God to do something awesome in our midst through a gift like the Lord's Supper. And taking backing on what uh John just said, that's the voice of John Brummel, who is the senior pastor at Redeemer Lutheran Church in Damascus, uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossworth Valley Chapel, on the show again this week as well. Um Yeah, we're not gonna come to an agreement in this room, right, on on all of this sort of stuff because we're we're talking about, you know, last week and this week combined is an hour. We're not gonna solve a centuries long debate. uh in an hour. But a every pastor in the area is now gonna be mad at me if they figure out if they can trace this back. Today when you go to church, you listening right now, when you go to church Find an opportunity to go to your pastor and ask him, what exactly does our church believe about what's happening with the Lord's Supper and why do we believe that? Yeah. You know? Excellent. Or maybe ask your pastor why don't we celebrate the Lord's Supper? W why do you do the things that you do? And I in some cases you'll probably get very thoughtful answers. In other cases you'll get blank stares like, why are you asking? So anyway, have some fun with that Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate. I am Troy Skinner. Our sponsors BMC Insurance, Cruise Holiday, then Putman Plumbing and Heating. Visit us online at WFMD. com keywordfaith. And I didn't mention last week what I've been reading, so I I mentioned at the top of this show what I've been reading, so I'll give you twofer. Nice. And this will bridge into what we're going to be talking about next week with this same panel together. Worship reformed according to scripture. By Hughes Elephant Old. So what do we talk about that? Liturgy and worship structure. From a reformed view, I imagine? Not necessarily, no. Oh, okay.