This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. Our sponsors are Putman, Plumbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile, Cruise Holidays, and BMC Insurance. What have I been reading lately? I think it's related to what we're talking about here. Yeah, sure. So I'm gonna I'm gonna mention what I've been reading in just a second. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Hello. Chase Broadhurst, the Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. Good morning. I am your affable and friendly morning Sunday morning radio host. Yeah, yeah. I need to dull it down a little bit. So I've uh recently read uh Mark Dury, The Third Choice Islam, dimitude, and freedom. And you're thinking, wait a minute, I listened to last week's show, and last week these guys were talking about biblical inerrancy and historical critical method and what's the difference between infallibility and inerrancy and if it's inspired by God, w how does that work into this equation? And Jonathan had his hands around Jace's throat and Jace was kneeing Jonathan into the groin and it was getting pretty rugged and and then I come along here and with this book about Islam, you're like, how the heck is this possibly related? But it is, I think. And here's why. A big distinctive between what are arguably the two largest world religions, or at least the t probably the two most important at this stage in history, world religions, Islam and Christianity. Right. The intersection of of of modern civilization is is kinda happening there. Right. W one of the big differences is their approach to holy scripture, sure. The Muslim approaches his scripture as though it's a direct revelation dropped from heaven by the angel Gabriel on Muhammad's head, basically. And Christians say, well, I suppose God could reveal some things that way, but he has a whole palette of options available to him. He might he might reveal through redactors, which we learned last week is a fancy word for editors. Right. It might be the kind of thing that his revel his revelation to us, the truth of his word, unfolds over thousands of years until finally the church puts its stamp of recognition on, ah, the Holy Spirit has inspired his church to recognize this as the word of God. So we have a broader approach. I say we because the three people on the panel today are all Christians. We Christians have a broader approach to how God could reveal his written word to us than just a Here is the absolute word of God dictated as though it was given to a stenographer through a through an angel, right? Because that's kind of the the that would be one of the ch one of the challenges to Christianity from Islam. Our Holy Scripture is basically a dictation from God. Your Holy Scripture is a mess. And here we are arguing about how to understand that quote unquote mess. I would argue it's not a mess at all. But I actually like the terminology. I I would not argue it's not a mess. But I am okay with the Bible being a mess. But I'm gonna let you guys I'm gonna let you guys hash out the mess part and then after you're all done I'll clean it up because I've I've got the Right, right. That's why you're here. Jonathan is just wrong just generally on principle. And and Jace, I don't know why Jace is wrong yet, but I'm sure he'll say something where I'll be able to point his teeth. Um trying to talk in a theoretical sense, theologians and philosophers And pastors with PhDs, Dr. Jace Broadhurst, and uh gadfly pastors like Jonathan Sweitzer. I'd love to talk in the theoretical. But the average person is like, okay, I I even mentioned last week it's like Charlie Brown's teacher talking. So let's try to make this a little bit more, I don't know, gritty real. I open my Bible and I read in one section on page, you know, I've got new uh NIV translation, you know, nineteen seventy-two, page three seventy-eight. says this. And I turn 300 pages ahead and it says this and this and that don't seem to agree with each other. An apparent contradiction. Jonathan's gonna approach that contradiction differently because he doesn't like the idea that the Bible could be a mess. And Jason is like Yeah, you know what? Apparent contradiction might even be an actual contradiction. I don't care because the Bible, I'm okay if it happens to be a mess. So let's pick an example. Can you pick a a well-known, highly publicized? Yeah, let me let me give a little uh illustration first before I before I do that, and I can definitely do that. But uh most recently in uh And probably one of the reasons that we are arguing about this uh good naturedly is uh uh m very recently, within the last year, Michael Lacona wrote a book, a seven hundred page book on the resurrection where he defended heartily, I mean just strongly, the resurrection, the actual historical re um resurrection of Jesus. And and in a little tiny section there it says that Um that the dead rose. Not just Jesus rose, but at you know at the crucifixion that bodies got up out of the grave. Right? You guys n you're probably familiar with this passage and we don't need to hash it out in detail. But In there, in his defense of the resurrection, he says that this could have been just apocalyptic imagery to make a larger point, that it is possible that they didn't actually get up. Okay. Norman Geisler and along with uh most of the the big gatekeepers in the evangelical world uh just went crazy on such a thing, um totally hit him up refor forced him to recant, which he didn't, um or else he'd be kicked out of the Evangelical Theological Society, which has as its main premise inerrancy, which is what we're talking about, that things are not errant. And he he he backpedaled a little bit, but he didn't totally recant, as I understand. I think he's still a part of it and still dealing with some of these things. This is what's going on in the academic institutions, but it's also happening, I think, in the churches. People are coming across things, text that they see that they've always been told the Bible must be perfect, and then they define what perfect means, you know, that it has to have no error, nothing of contradiction, because that's the way God is. But they come across these things that look like they're problems. And they don't know, they just assume they can't be problems. And so they just kind of sweep them under the rug or they ask their pastor and their pastor gives them some harmonizing technique to make it work. And but i i it sits in their head and this just uh it goes through. So you your question was, to finally get around to it, sorry, um, was give us some kind of an example. So uh Uh I I've got I've got tons of them in my head and we'll probably just throw them out just for fun later on, but um I'm thinking about the the passage about Judas. where two different gospels explain I believe it's two different gospels explain how it is that he dies, what he does with the money, the thirty pieces of silver that he betrayed Jesus with. who bought the field, why the field is named, what it's named. And there's there's a the the two different passages say very different things. So it's actually Matthew chapter 27 and Acts wherever. Um so it's not a big thing. One says that he hung himself, the other says that he and split it open split open. Right. And so we harmonize it by saying, well, he hung himself, but the rope break broke and he fell down and he spilled out his gut. Okay, and we read that and we go, all right, well, if we come to the Bible with this premise that it has to work that way, I guess we can let it stand. But it's not what we do with most books. I mean if we're just honest with ourselves, we would say, look, these things don't agree. He either hung himself or he fell, right? Or he returned the money or he kept it. You know, a Acts says that he kept the money. And the other one says that he returned the money. The priest buy the field in Matthew. Judas is the one who buys the field in Acts. So we've got these things, and they're named different things for different reasons. You know, it's named uh whatever the Potter's Field. I can't remember what it's named, but I I obviously I'm not looking at the Bible right now. Jonathan will probably nail me to the wall on that. But I'm I'm giving general things that all scholars are well aware of. And before I turn to to Jonathan for what might be traditional harmonizing methods and those sorts of things, I don't know but Uh I'm fascinated uh that you can be comfortable saying, well, you know, that might be wrong and like not have that bug you. Does or does it bug you? Um I would say it bugs me because my history, my my world is evangelical. And so this is this is edgy evangelicalism. So yes, I I can say comfortably or uncomfortably It does bug me. I I want things to mesh perfectly together. But I'm starting to I'm starting to say maybe I should let the Bible speak for a instead of me imposing my understanding of inerrancy on it. Somebody comes to you, a a a parishioner or you know somebody in your congregation or whatever, comes somebody listening to the show, comes to you and says, All right If this part of the Bible got what Judas did with the money wrong, and this other part got the death of the the the mode of death of Judas wrong, and this other thing got this other thing wrong, and this other thing got this How do I know it didn't get the death, resurrection, and ascension of Jesus Christ wrong? Sure. I mean yeah, uh this is all I ever hear is the slippery slope argument, right? So if this, then this. Well I would say each thing has to be taken on its own merits. We need to deal with each one. But that but that is a legitimate I'm not I'm not talking about a slippery slope. I'm talking about if you can say this this is wr this is an error Then why couldn't the very next verse also be an error? Well, first of all, if we agree that it is an error, yes, then the very next verse could be an error. Okay, so I I don't that but that's the s that's the slippery slope that that says it is automatically an error. Right? But if this one is wrong, then the resurrection is wrong. Well, not necessarily. This one could be saying something, and the resurrection could be right. You were saying in the big there's a big picture flow through scripture, but the details could be Inaccurate, not precise, not videotaped. And so what I was saying last week is that my impression is that the heavy redactors, you know, again, I don't even know if that's a good phrase, but but what you what what your mindset on this represents tend to approach a passage like that in that your inclination which feels to me like a modern imposition on the scripture because modern the the modern approach to to all history has been to rewrite it into into um actually it feels more like a postmodern imposition on the text to me where It might be true, it might not. Doesn't really matter. Yeah, probably postmodern. Okay. No, I'm I I I would accept that. Meaning meaning the the late nineteenth I mean the late twentieth century uh began to uh to to claim that all history is propaganda and that and all history being propaganda that this is that this just shows us that that it's not actually true, it's just people are just trying to make it to be true. But propaganda doesn't mean they're just trying to make it to be true. Propaganda means you're coming at something with an ideology that you want to promote. Every word in the Bible is for that reason. Can we agree that the Bible is propaganda? Okay, I'm happy to accept that, but in today's terminology I understand the propaganda in its precise, definite definition might mean that, and that maybe scholars try to use it in that way But to the common man, when when we say propaganda, so I'm not using it in a scholarly way, I'm using it in a common way. It has a negative sense. Right. Right. And so my point is that is that the approach than is to assume, uh, it probably can't be trusted. And in and and in so doing what happens is ah there's a little crack. Ah, there's a little crack. No, I I would say it can be trusted. It's but trusted to do what? And that that's what our big question. Trusted to give us historical accurate information? Or is there possible that it's trustworthy for to do something else? Can myth, for instance, uh or like Michael Ocono was saying, apocalyptic genre Can it get across what it wants to get across? Robert Gundry did this with the Matthew passage that we're talking about, this resurrection. He said, this is midrash. This is just a way Uh which is just a Jewish hermeneutical uh way of understanding something. It's it's a way of getting across something without without getting you the details of history. is an inappropriate way to approach scripture. And the reason why is because Jesus very clearly identified in several places that the teachers of the law have followed the traditions of men. which is basically midrashic tech technique. Men reading scriptures and adding on to the scriptures their traditions. And Jesus again and again says says, so because of your traditions, you no longer obey Moses. He addresses it in several different places. And so then once again, my sense is that what Jesus is doing is warning us to not approach him or the truth or the scriptures the way that the contemporary society is, but he's exalting them and he's saying, no, we need to treat these differently and trust them and not add traditions of men to them. Okay. Which is precisely what it feels like you're doing. You're just doing it with a sophisticated postmodern language or modern language that that that somehow claims that we know better than they knew back then. All right. Well I don't ever want to mean try to mean that we know better than they did back then. Okay, for the record, Peter Enns, who is one of the guys that you said I should read to help understand where you come from. He says that openly. Yeah. That we know things now that Jesus didn't know and that pe that Paul didn't know. F that's fine. And I I agree with him on that. I I certainly that I I know things that Paul didn't know. I know things that Paul didn't know. I mean about the Old Testament. About the Old Testament. Yeah. And so you're saying he includes Jesus in that. He's he includes Jesus that Jesus didn't know that parts of Moses were written after the Babylonian captivity. That's what Peter N says. I and I'm asking you, do you believe that? That I can't just state yes or no on that one. That's too big of an issue to I have to give lots of explanation and as I were stating it, I wouldn't have to be a little bit more. Midrash, you know, that this is just the way literature and and uh studies of the the the scripture were done back then, that that it creates these cracks that even though you're not ready to go there, ultimately you're there. I mean that's where you are. But what we're doing is w again, this is this is a a false and an unfair one actually, is you're staking one little thing and you're jumping all the way to the conclusion. We need And what that does is tell all of our listeners what you're saying, but that is what you're saying about me, is if you believe this, automatically everything you have to say is rubbish. That's just not that's not fair. So let's let's take it a little slower. Right. That your approach Allows a crack to say, uh, maybe it can't be trusted. One of them might be wrong. No, I I stated very clearly it can be trusted, but that doesn't mean it's necessarily trusted for historical reliability. Okay. Or for accuracy. That is a that not being able to be trusted for historical accuracy, it's just a crack. It's a crack in our understanding of scripture. It's a cracking in your modernist way of thinking about what history is. That's correct. And I'm not sure what I'm saying. I'm arguing that your approach is the modernist approach because it's what's been argued uh ever since uh ever since uh the deconstruction of history in in in modern universities. But Midrash is second temple interpretation. So we're I'm talking about I'm I'm talking about looking at scripture as people did two thousand years ago when it was written. No no no no. You're talking about looking at scripture through the eyes of the rabbinic community at the time of Jesus not looking at Scripture through the eyes of those that were in the body of Christ at the time. Jesus is a rabbi. That's my point. He's a rabbi. And he is arguing don't do it. No, he was not. That's a total misunderstanding of the midrash. He and all these verses that you just say are out there They they're they're not saying what you're saying they're saying. They don't say don't use mid rash. We've got there's there's no scholars that are writing books on a on on this literature that are saying Jesus is not using their way of speaking. He he uses their way of speaking all the time. His arguments, they would never hold up in a law court, but they held up then because that's the way he spoke. Read along I'm talking about evangelicals here, good conservative evangelicals. This is this is basic knowledge. And I'm arguing that that what you're arguing is basic knowledge is basic knowledge in your In your way of thinking, but in the academic field. Jesus was was um was exalting, was raising our approach to scripture above his contemporaries. Yes, he might have used idioms and he might have used language of the day. Clearly he has to speak so that he can be understood in the day, but that doesn't mean then that that we need to read everything that he said through the eyes of his peers He was clearly intending to raise our understanding of Moses above the eyes of his peers, that his peers couldn't see it. Because they didn't believe Moses, they didn't believe him. Jesus doesn't say unless you believe Moses You you won't believe me? He doesn't say that? What does that have to do with how you understand literature and the other thing? Because the people of the day were interpreting things a certain way and Jesus was claiming those things was wrong. It was the traditions of men. And so you use your traditions to set aside the word of God. And that's what he was pointing them against. I'm wishing how this has to do with Durash at all. by the Pharisees and the rabbis of the day to interpret the Old Testament. And Jesus and Paul, right? Well and Jesus and Paul. Paul does it all the time. Allegory. I mean there's all kinds of Paul's an allegorist, right? Uh midrash is one way, allegories and different kinds of things. Do do we do we look at Paul and Jesus through the eyes of Midrash? Or do we look at i in the the the contemporary literature of the day? Do I understand them as people of their time? Or do we Uh yeah, I'm gonna I'm gonna disagree with you on that. I'm gonna say do we understand them because this is precisely what I'm trying to clarify Right? And you're saying that the clarification is wrong. I understand that. But what I'm trying to clarify is that the uh that Paul and Jesus when they spoke were specifically speaking to correct the people of the day and not speaking in their understanding to raise them to a higher level. He wa he was he was speaking of how literature is to be understood? Or of content like Gentiles are in or I am the king I'm the temple. That's what they're trying to get them to do. In fact, they're using the same things in order to convince them of a different issue. The same ways of arguing, the same methodology. Except that Jesus said that the traditions of men, the methodologies of understanding the Old Testament, wasn't it? That's not what the traditions of men are. Two things of men are not in what are the traditions of men. That the rabbis that Jesus was speaking to were. What are those traditions that he was saying your traditions are causing you to not understand Moses accurately so you know you no longer believe Moses and therefore you're rejecting me. So you're what are those traditions? Alright, I I'll answer that because I I mean that's not not a problem, but I'm just trying to Well one thing, I know you tried to get in a whole lot of times, so should I let you or Well I was just gonna say it was like five minutes ago we were about the midway point of the show, so I was gonna say that you gotta give you a little Broadhurst, Dr. J Sproadhurst, Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Resolve Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. And I'll let you continue, but I was going to add a little line that Uh much of what Jonathan says uh I'm uh I uh am sympathetic to, but there were some things that Jay said earlier uh that I'm sympathetic to also. So it'll be interesting when we have round three next week Uh to talk about some of those things. So you were gonna say. Okay, so I I'm trying to understand the traditions of men. So you're saying that when Jesus is talking about the traditions of men, he's speaking of methodology and hermeneutics. That's what he's talking about. Not, for instance, boundary markers that deal with Gentiles versus Jews or temple questions. or any of those things. You think he's speaking of hermeneutical methodologies? Yeah, I'm saying that you can't separate the two. Methodology affects the mess message. And how you go about it. I mean that's that's the essence of of the beatitude. So when he is a thing, but do it in the wrong attitude. When he's rebuking the Pharisees, I'm with you there. When he's rebuking the Pharisees or rabbis or whatever, he's actually rebuking the way that they interpret. Not not the not the answer. of their interpretation but the way that they derive that they they arrive at meaning. Sure. For example if my son comes to me and lies to me about something I need to not just correct the lie, but I need to help him to understand how he got to the lie and how that's wrong. You don't just correct the conclusion, but you recognize that there's there's means that bring you to an end. And when Jesus is addressing the end, that you are in error, then he says, because of the way that you approach Moses. You don't believe Moses, and therefore you don't believe me. And let's face it, that was a large portion of the Jewish world at the at the time, at least of the Pharisaic world that was rejecting him at the time. Yeah, I just I can't see in that text and I've never read anything but that you rejecting Moses and rejecting me has anything to do with their methodology and how they interpret scripture. They simply weren't following Moses. They were holding to one thing and and he was saying, Here's what Moses was saying. Moses was pointing to me. Here's what Abraham was talking about. He was pointing to me. You're missing the whole truth of Scripture right in front of you. It's me. I'm the fulfillment of all this. Right. It's not that they argued poorly. It's that they came up with a few years ago. All right, good. Christotellic, you need that one on your eye. that the Old Testament always pointed to Christ, always did point to Christ, and even pointed to Christ in the minds of Moses and David and Isaiah and Jeremiah that it always pointed to Christ. And so those that were reading the Old Testament And and were were not able to see that, oh, Christ is the answer to all that. It was because they were reading the Old Testament inappropriately. That is methodologically inappropriately. That is that when they used allegory, they were wrong. When they used midrash, they were wrong. Yeah, I'm saying that there was a tradition of men that had corrupted the way that you approach looking at scripture. And as a result, it blinded them when Christ was standing right in front of them. That that when is it Zachariah comes to him in the temple and says, This is the Christ. that he was prepared for that because his approach to the Old Testament was was such that his heart was ready. He was believing Moses, he was believing Isaiah, he was believing David, and the result was, you know, this is this is Jesus. When uh when Nicodemus visits with Jesus up on the uh on the top of the the house and i at at night and and j God's uh Jesus talked to him he says you're not far from the kingdom of God You know, that that the point is is that he was believing Moses. He was believing what he'd been taught, and the Spirit of God was working together with what he'd been taught to help him to see, ah This is the thing that we have seen through a glass darkly. It's Jesus. And that that's the point of all the old. I guess I don't disagree with what you're saying in those last two illustrations. I just don't see how they have to do with methodological Uh because methodology flows from the traditions of men. Right? I mean cu do Show me an example where you think Jesus uses midrash. Because I'm not sure I agree. Do you believe okay, l let me just because I can't write off the top of my head but I'll be able to do it by next turn. Sure. Does Paul use allegory? Um, the Chicago statement says that we use grammatical historical exegesis. That's how we do things. If this were a football game, I'm not sure what the score world would read, but I know if we are looking at time of possession, Jonathan Sweisser will be winning that. So we'll see if we can balance that out a little bit in uh in the second half Uh this is the Freddy Faith Debate. Uh BMC Insurance, Bookman Plumbing and Heating, and Cruise Holidays are our sponsors. Jonathan Sweitzer, Jase Prodhurst, thank you. I'm Froy Skinner. Check us out online. WFMD. com Keyword Faith. God bless.