This is the product face to base. Brought to us by Putmint Flubbing and Heating, BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Dr. Jace Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church, on the panel for round three, ding ding, ding, of a world heavyweight match Uh what have I been reading? You know, what I've been reading has done nothing to prepare me for this show. Uh Anthropological Insights for Missionaries by Paul G. Hibert. Nothing to do with what we're talking about today, but I've been reading it and it's actually good. I would uh I w I I would rec I would give it a almost hearty, almost hearty recommendation. Not quite hardy recommendation, but it's almost hardy recommendation. So what we're talking about the last two weeks and now again this week is the Bible. Is it really good for anything at all? And can you trust a word that says, is it right, is it wrong? I wanna know And we don't really have a clear answer on that. Oh I've got the answer. I've got the answer. We've talked about infallibility versus uh inerrancy. If it's inspired, then what does that mean for its infallibility? Can it be wrong and still be infallible? Can it be wrong and in contradiction somewhere and I can still trust it? Um to paraphrase, uh some on this panel have said, well, yeah, I could probably have a contradiction here or there, and I can still trust it. And others on the panel have said, uh not so sure I'm willing to go there. And I found myself in sympathy to a lot of uh what was said on both sides of the fence last week. When Jonathan was talking about uh Jesus spoke differently than the other rabbis and he didn't teach in the same way that they did. He didn't use their mid-rash technique and and all those sorts of uh things in the same way that they did. I was feeling like I was tracking with them on that, uh because um Matthew seven twenty nine comes to mind where it says that he spoke with authority. He didn't speak and teach the way that the scribes that the other Jewish leaders did. And so there's something special and unique about the way that Jesus taught So he wasn't dependent on the scholarship of the day. He was speaking as a son of God who knew what the truth of the matter was. So I think there's I think there's enough of a distinction between how he taught and the others taught It was distinct enough that people noticed it and said, Wow, this guy doesn't talk like the other guys talk. He doesn't talk like Jonathan Sweitzer and Jason Broadhurst. He speaks with authority. His own authority. He's not depending on the scholarship of the day. So I think I was having some sympathy to what Jonathan at least part of the point Jonathan is trying to make. But earlier in the show last week, Jace was talking about, you know He's the example of Jesus uh at uh at his crucifixion. There's an earthquake and all sorts of uh uh uh unusual natural occurrences happen, including graves opening people coming back and um yeah some have suggested that with some controversy that you know maybe that's just apocalyptic imagery and language there and we shouldn't we don't need to h understand that as historically people came up from the grave. And I'm sympathetic to that uh to a degree because I believe that we need to understand what we understand literature based on the kind of literature that it is. I understand a poem differently than I understand a newspaper article. They're different genres. And gospel is a genre onto its own, and we only have four of them. So what are the rules for understanding gospel literature? Is it to be taken as absolute historical record? Or can it have allegory and mid rash, some words we used last week, and some apocalyptic language in there? Maybe. I don't know. I I'm I'm willing to What was the auth the guy that got all the uh all the hot water? The evangelicals are mad at him now who said this about Mike Lacona. Mike Lacona. I'm willing to throw Mike Lacona a bone and say, you know what, I don't know that I agree with you But I'm going to respect your uh your right to hold that position and not call you a heretic or anything like that. But there are other books of the Bible that I think are more clearly designed to be understood as historical, and there are facts given to us that we should say you know, when they're talking about certain things as though it's a fact, I'm i I'm gonna be more hard pressed to say, well, gee, it seems to be a genre, a type of literature that is presenting itself as historically accurate, so I'm gonna have to try to understand. Can we can we bounce off that um in just a second? Let me uh let me back up to the mid-rash question from last week and give a an actual apology to Jonathan um because I think that's deserved. I I kind of came down as if nobody No one thinks that Midrash uh isn't done. And the facts are, obviously, the reason we're having this debate are many people think that Jesus wasn't using Midrashic literature. So I I didn't mean I was just getting excited and going with the moment, so I apologize for that, truly. That never happens to me. Yeah. Thank you for that. Uh that was gracious. Um I I mean to say that The world is bigger than evangelicals, first of all, m considerably bigger. And so um You mean the Christian world is bigger than the children? Well, even the biblical world is bigger than evangelicals. Okay. So there are scholars out there that aren't Christian, then there are Christians that are scholarly and dealing with this. And pretty much evangelicals are the only ones that I'm aware of. I can't I don't want to be too too uh far sweeping there, that would that would say that he was not using the material of his time. And even within evangelicalism It's a majorly debated. That's why we as evangelicals are kind of having this conversation, which I would consider myself an evangelist. among evangelicals, the the the evangelical zeitgeist moving in the direction of what like you described the rest of the Christian world teaches. And I guess I'm standing athwart progress here on this path. Um and I don't know if we want to spend tons more time on midrash or go where Twor was of the history, but uh you did ask for text. And I was just thinking allegory is obviously Paul's use of um Hagar and Sarah and the mountains. It's a clear he even calls it allegory. In Greek it's allegory. means when you use the word out they have their own idea. You're probably going to have to give a little bit of an explanation of what midrash means. Um okay. Midrash is a technique uh that was used by rabbis at the time and it's It deals with gapping. For instance, if there's something missing, it'll fill in the gaps. It hits on small issues like a word and then bounces off of it even without context. Um it'll say, oh, you use this word? Okay, well here's my my larger argument then, here's my point, and people would just be able to follow that. Whereas in our day, grammatical historical is the way you would interpret it. they wouldn't be quite so keen on using it that way. And so uh as an example of this, I was thinking about Mark chapter twelve. This is one that is often used. Um I remember doing for my PhD studies work on this particular one. And I don't think your listeners are going to care one bit, but it just it bounces around the idea of I am the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He is not the God of the dead, but of the living, you are badly mistaken. It's bouncing off the idea of the I am presently right now. So obviously he's the I he is the God of the living. And yeah, that's an argument that we would never let happen in a in an exeg you know, in real exegesis. And so that's it. Why wouldn't we let that happen in real exegesis? I mean he's saying I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And and the argument seems to be that that Jesus is saying that Moses' record of God's words were describing that Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are still alive. And that that when God spoke those words Abra uh uh who who is it that he uh that he it is in the account of the bush that that when God spoke those words to Abraham, I mean sorry, spoke those words to Moses That when he spoke those words, that Moses would have understood them to say that God is saying Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are still alive. And so what you're saying is you think that was Moses' point? I'm saying that they're still alive. I'm not saying that was Moses' point, but that Moses um certainly would have understood that to be the case. That Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob are still alive. I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And that Jesus is not somehow adding on a new interpretation to Moses, but that that Moses himself was given revelation from God and that maybe he understood all that it meant, but that that when ge when Jesus would have said this, Moses would have been like, Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's right. That Moses was in heaven as Jesus was saying it before he came to visit him on the Mount of Transfiguration, that Moses was in heaven saying, Yeah, yeah, yeah. Finally Jesus is setting it straight. All these years I've known this to be the case. And and and what I'm saying is that is that I feel like the approach that you're taking opens up significant cracks that do tend to get bigger and bigger. Yeah. And we can use allegory. I mean uh Is that an example of allegory or no this one is mid rash so Paul Haggard. Correct. But if you're reading books on Midrash and the way Jesus used it, this will be one of the examples that is brought up. as well. And so I feel like this is a good example of of what what I feel like is an approach to these scriptures that says, uh, you know, Jesus, you know, really wasn't handling scripture in as well you would say it would was accurate, but it was midrashic. And and I'm arguing that that that was his point is that he was drawing their attention back to Moses Because Jesus had just said pre you know in in in other places he had said, if you believe Moses, you believe me. And here's an example where he's saying, This is what Moses said, if you believed him Then you would get it, but you don't believe him. And so Moses said it that God said to him, I'm the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. But because you don't believe that Moses recorded that accurately and that God really meant what he said Therefore you miss it. And so then the midrashic technique of somehow explaining this as as as Jesus taking liberties was something that Moses said that ah Moses didn't really mean it. Well I mean we can admit this wasn't the con that's not what Moses was trying to make his point anyway. What Jesus did was reached in and took a present tense verb, I am, which even in the Hebrew is is more difficult than this, but we can't get into all that. And he's trying to say, because he used that present tense verb, this is what I'm going to derive from that. And that's that's a mid-rasic technique to to do that, to just bounce off something like that. And my argument is I'm arguing that whether it's midrashic or not. Okay, so I'm sorry, go ahead. I get your argument on this and I'm willing to concede that this is the difference. of opinion on how to take this text. I'm even willing to concede that I might that this might not be mid rash. Okay? That that it might be a grammatical historical understanding of what he's doing. My bigger argument is what I won't not ready quite to concede to, is that is that Jesus is a man of his time. that um or Paul or if we do if we don't stay away from Jesus because there's too much uh um baggage there, you know, that he can't be a man of his time. But Paul is a man of his time. But I gotta encourage you, if you mean it For Paul and for Jesus, then we don't want to stay away from Jesus. I mean if there's all that bag then then that's where that's where you gotta stand. I just don't want I want to be able to go there. Uh uh Progressively. I know, but you want to control that process because you're afraid people are going to think wrongly about you. That is exactly accurate. Yeah. And what what is the problem with that? Well, I think that's the way that's the same thing. It's not controlling other people. I'm trying to say things slowly and carefully and not all of a sudden say, here's the end thing, and people go, Wow, I can't believe you're saying that and then they stop listening. So I I need to take people there. It's kind of what we do as sermon preaching, things like that. I appreciate that. We can't avoid it. I'm okay with not avoiding it. And you're applying it to Jesus. We've got to go there. We can't avoid that that there's a lot of baggage there. Because the point is that you're applying it to all of Scripture, including Jesus and His comments. And and that's precisely the point. I'm saying that's what Jesus says to the highest of standards. Alright, see, but even before we get to that though, Jesus doesn't speak in scripture. Jesus is only recorded in Scripture. So I don't have any writings from Jesus, so I can actually get out of this just by saying what I mean is Matthew or Mark. Because what Matthew is not record Matthew is not recording the exact words. Or if he is, then Mark isn't. Or or somebody isn't, because we know that. And that's that's I can be a little more Even there I feel like is is a crack that that I I precisely feel like that's where the second temple midrashic approach, not that we're using midrash, maybe midrashic or or or what you're recommending, uh it all of a sudden it it it finds Even in Mark sharing it differently than Matthew, like all these large areas of disagreement that that again, boom, oh well there's a disagreement there, there's a disagreement there, there's disagreement there, there's disagreement there, and And all of a sudden we have this plethora of areas that that are lumped into, oh see we you know, scripture's not in you know, not uh inerrant Okay, well h hopefully we're not we won't do that. I mean obviously we only have a few sessions to do this in. But I'm not trying to s I mean, for me the Bible is fully authoritative and beautiful. I'm a pastor. I think it's wonderful. I'm not trying to to diss it in any way or show that it's that it's wrong. I think it's trustworthy and and wonderful. But I think that we may have im impressed on it our particular parameters as to what it must say or must do. That it has to behave the way that we think it should behave, when it might just be a product of its time. And I don't mean by just merely a product of its time, but it can actually be a human book. and still be divine. Let me jump in for a second. Um the last person just talking, Dr. James Broadhurst, Senior Pastor at Poolsville Baptist Church. Jonathan Sweitzer is senior pastor of uh Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh a couple of things have been said in the last couple of minutes that um in the spirit of being careful, um I I'm not sure if you would mean it this way, so I'm gonna f because I i it it it made me start back a little bit. Like, wait a minute. The you're not gonna say the Bible is Jesus speaking? I think the entire Bible from Genesis one to you know, Revelation twenty, what, twenty-two, twenty-four, well how many chapters in Revelation twenty-four, twenty-five. Uh are uh are Jesus speaking, 'cause Jesus is the Word. The word is God and we have the written word, so I think it's all in a sense it's all Jesus speaking. Um that's probably not what you meant exactly. I get that. But also the idea that probably is I think I think there's some clarifications, at least in the people like Ends that you're recommending, that that that issue that they would say, uh, the Bible is human. And therefore because it's human is and and as far as that goes, I think you expect you agree, right? Because I agree. The the Bible is written by humans. Yeah, but that's different from saying that the is human. It's also written by God. It's it's it's it's uh you know it's a mystery of God that it's it's it's it's God's word and written by man. So and the other thing is a i I know it's a harmonizing technique, right? But just because Mark records Jesus' words uh a little bit differently than Matthew records Jesus' words doesn't mean that one of them got it wrong. They Mark might be recording Jesus' words spoken on Tuesday afternoon, and Matthew might be recording Jesus' similar words spoken on Thursday morning. Right, he might have been giving the same spiel over and over to different groups and they were so I'm not saying that that's what the case was, but that doesn't mean that Mark is in contr is in contradicting what Mass. is precisely what bothers me. Why should we have to apologize? Ah, I realize this is a harmonizing technique. I don't mean to use one, but, you know, this is what could have happened. I mean why not But why you know, even even the chapter on love, love always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres, I mean uh it it says in there that that it it believes the best. The reason I want to apologize though is because my harmonizing techniques are not inspired by God. Right? I th it's it's a scholastic exercise. I have to be careful not to give too much weight to my own personal approaches and figure It's possible that Mark is talking about a speech given on one day and Matthew is talking about a speech given on a different day. That's possible. But my point in your heart is a very important thing to do. I don't know for sure if that's the case, but it's the best. Why not choose to assume the best about the passage? Why choose to assume that it must be that the two have written something that can't agree with one another? And so therefore Therefore we're gonna just have to accept that this is an error. Why choose to assume that it's an error. I I think see I would go the other direction on that. I feel like inerrantists of which I kind of fit in are making an assumption that the things must work together. Whereas if they were reading this anywhere else in the world, that it's not in their inerrant Bible, that they've already put on the hat that says inerrant Bible as I'm reading it they would they would go, okay, these are these are not the same stor or or these are the same story but they're just told from different traditions. I think it's just a natural reading of those kinds of things where um one time he says it this way and one time he says it this way. I I think the national reading was the these look like the same story. They both are told on a mountain, they're both this, they're both the this is the same story. They just they just disagree on the on the details on those things. And I think we'd be okay with that except for we come with the assumption that says These have to agree perfectly or they have to be somehow harmonized to make them work. And I'm just saying, why are we impressing that on the Bible? Did the Bible say that it had to be that way? I'm not sure if you I'm uh I'm actually in agreement there. Because Mark, when he writes his gospel account, when Matthew writes his gospel account, Luke Mark when each of these guys write their account, they have an agenda They have an audience propaganda? Right. Well, okay. Yeah, I mean I agree. Sure but that word I think is very unhelpful to the discussion because because But whatever. But see but you know, Matthew is is primarily speaking, I think, to a Jewish audience. You know, Luke seems to be much more careful in his historical And it's interesting. We talked about the uh the graves opening and the people walking around after the dead. It's interesting that Luke does not have that account. So is you know, is Luke's account More historical than the other accounts which might have some allo more allegory, more apocalyptic imagery. I don't know, maybe I'm willing to to to try to suss that out a little bit. Um so could that be true about the y you started this all off talking about the history and whether we agree with it and things like that. Couldn't that be true of all kinds of genres So if we go as reporters to cover a speech given by uh Barack Obama and we come back, we file our stories, and you're in the Tribune, I'm in the Sun Times and whatever, uh, we our stories are gonna be different. They're not gonna be word for word exactly the same story. But they're but they're gonna be essentially covering the same thing. We don't have an issue with that. So I I don't have an issue with unless you say that Barack Obama used his thirty pieces of silver to do this And John says he u he didn't ever get it uh the thirty pieces at all. Because now you've got some kind of a contradiction on here, right? Totally. An apparent contradiction. An apparent contradiction. you know, this passage on on Judas seems to do exactly that. Okay, and I'm saying that all right, y you your claim is that everywhere else in the world, when people read something, they're gonna assume, man, hey, that's a contradiction. In I mean, uh c would we call that skepticism? No, it's just it's uh you would just read it and say these are two different things. They're just It's not it's not skepticism. There's no reason to harmonize them. They're just my predictions. I can either approach you thinking to myself, uh that there's a problem here. There's an integrity issue here. Right? He's he's he's saying one thing one place and another thing in another place. There's an integrity problem. But Or you don't have a problem. But because I know yeah, well p yeah, okay, possibly. But in my mind, I'm gonna say to myself, Okay, I know Jace. And because I know just like in s in uh Chronicles of Narnia, so Peter uh Peter's more likely to tell the truth? No, Lucy is. And Lucy's the one that's telling you that she went to another world? Well, yeah. Edmund's right. Yeah. So who's right? Edmund or Lucy? Well, Edmund is the one, you know, do we approach it with skepticism or do we do we approach it with trust? And what I'm saying is that the Bible is presenting itself to us as the one that's to be trusted. And that we're taught that uh that that are that what we're supposed to do is to recognize that the uh the thoughts of men, that that the worldly approach to things is not to be trusted. Right? I mean that's the basic and so we don't we don't take the way that we approach um Nietzsche or the way that we approach um even for that matter uh you know a history of the civil war. We don't approach those things the same way that we approach the scripture. We're approaching scripture saying these are the people that we trust. And and so naturally that means that we're approaching it with a with a normative expectation that this is trustworthy. I mean we don't disagree. I think scripture is trustworthy. Let's put it in the right. I don't interact in my relationship with you the way that the world interacts with itself. I hope I don't. I approach you from a direction of sincerity. In fact, I even do this with with uh somebody that comes into my congregation that uh that that is a is a sinner I approach him with sincerity and until he preached the biggest. That will be every one of them that come into your congregation by the way. Yeah, yeah, okay. I mean I mean yeah, I mean I mean I mean somebody that you know that's brand new, that's an unbeliever. You know, I approach them, you know, f with sincerity. Uh because Jesus teaches us to approach one another, you know, with love and with with grace and with you know and love always trusts, always hopes, always perseveres. I mean First Corinthians thirteen defines that for us. And so sometimes it it seems naive. the way that I'm approaching people. But when I handle it that way, rejoicing with the truth, I expect that God's going to protect me from from evil when it when it arises. That it that I don't spend my time trying to judge the evil of the world, but instead I come with an expectation of trust. And I feel like your approach Doesn't do that. It's precisely an unbiblical attitude. Why why is it that I am untrust I'm not trusting Scripture, but you are? I'm trusting Scripture. I'm just saying scripture is trying to get across a different message than you think it is. I want it I want to hear what it's actually saying instead of imposing my understanding on it. I want it to say, uh y you know, when I read a story, for instance, of a donkey talking, I think we did this a few years ago or something. I I read that as saying, okay, does that mean the donkey actually talked? Or if I read it anywhere else in except for scripture, I would obviously assume the donkey doesn't talk because I know donkeys don't talk So I have to do one of two things. I either have to make it a miracle, which it doesn't seem to be a miracle. It doesn't it doesn't really fit the miracle genre. Right? Yes it does, but I'm gonna let you finish. Okay. Or or I have to say maybe this is a fable to to get a different point across. Same way with you know Jonah and and the big fish. If I come to it with an assumption ahead of time, this must be a historically accurate text. That tells me automatically I have to interpret it in a certain way. If I come to it as saying this is a genre of literature which could imp could have lots of different ways of talking about things. It could be parable It could be apocalypse, I have no idea how. Um, it could be mythology. If if it can if if the Bible can inhabit that world then I have to look at it a little bit differently. I can't just automatically assume this is giving me a historical accuracy. I'm saying that from my perspective, and maybe I haven't read enough, it appears to me that what causes you to think that way is your educational environment that is a modern uh construct of how we approach any kind of passage, any whether it's whether it's literature in the world or literature in Scripture. And that that Thereby approaching it that dire that direction. Like, does Augustine claim that uh that Balam's donkey didn't speak to him? We're gonna find out the answer to that question next week. Cliffhanger Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Valley Chapel, Dr. Jas Broadhurst, Senior Pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsors have been uh Poolsville uh Poolsville Baptist Church is not a sponsor, he's a pastor here. He should be putting plumbing and meeting he should be kicked pointy up here. Uh Putman Plumbing and Heating Help We Make You Smile, BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. Thanks for listening, God bless.