Frederick Faith debate That's what this is. Troy Skinner, that's who I am. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, that's a good looking guy over there. Thank you very much. He's the senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church and Come on, say it. Jonathan Schweitzer. Yes. Big ugly loves right there. Woohoo! Senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. And our sponsors. I always compliment you. Yeah. I always compliment you too, just not on how you look. All right, our sponsors are BMC Insurance, Footman Fleming and Heating, and Cruz Holidays. You know, I I loaded for Bear this week. I read two books. Ooh. I read Paradigms and Polity by David W. Hall and Joseph H. Hall and I read Doctor Seuss. And I read the collective writings volume two of John Murray, Systematic Theology. Oh, that's nice. Neither one of those will help me in today's program, but I loaded for Bear anyway. So if you guys deviate, get off topic at all, I'm ready All right. You stay on topic, I have nothing to contribute whatsoever. The bears are contributed to the colour. RG3 is going to be back next year, baby. Yeah, I don't know. Here he comes. He'll be on crutches the whole season, probably. Let's hope not. So there's a couple of questions we could ask. I'm gonna I'm gonna set this up with a couple of questions we could ask, but we won't ask those. Alright, we we could ask, what's the Bible? But we're not gonna ask that. That's a great question, though. It's a great question. But you know what? There's a question underneath that question, or that could be layered over on top of that question that might be a better question. Okay, I'm I'm I'm intrigued. We could ask, who is Jesus Christ? Do you like that question? We're not gonna ask that question. Follow my sermons, uh how yeah. We could ask why exactly Detroit choose that tie to wear today. Well we won't ask about either. You didn't. Dina chose it. She chooses my clothes always. Pretty much every day. Alright. I chose her so that she could choose my wardrobe. Well done. Well done. You chose it wisely. Thank you. What I'm gonna ask, quote matrix, when we grab the book that we call the Bible, what should we expect of it? What is the Bible doing when we read it? So this isn't what is the Bible? It's What is it we should expect from the Bible? What does it do? Does it tell me how to live my life merely? Does it Tell me about ancient Near Eastern history merely or at all? Does it talk about important periods of of time where God was acting miraculously? Uh it uh and it's fable and myth and folklore and legend uh that we can glean from what we will. Is it storybooks? When when I was a kid in Sunday school The Bible was a storybook. So if I were to ask a Sunday school, if I were to ask the typical eight, you know, eight-year-old, what's the Bible? What is it w when you read the Bible, what what what is it doing? And they would say it's telling me a story. It's a storybook. Not at my church. They'd say they'd say it's the Word of God. Your eight year olds would say that? I think so. No but don't we should say both of this but that's not answering the question. What The question isn't what is the Bible? The Bible is the Word of God. The question is what is the Bible doing? The Bible is the Word of God doesn't answer that question. It's telling us what God wants us to know. I think they would answer something like that. They wouldn't say I don't think they'd say it's a bunch of stories. Okay. My kid's better. Okay, so there's a bunch of stories. They w yeah, yeah. But I don't mean by that fiction. I just mean a bunch of stories. Right, sure. Stories can be true. Sure, of course. We're all living out stories though. I think all the stories are true. My life's lean by that. Alright, so but yeah, they would say So what was the the answer you hoped, I mean, in your own you know fictitious land that your that your eight year olds and your church would give would be what? The Bible what? It tells us the school kids will all answer. It it it tells us what we what you said. What it tells us what we should believe is that what you said? No, no, no. It tells us it tells us uh about God And what we should understand? Tell us about God. And yeah, what God did. Alright, I find that to be an unsatisfactory answer. Good. From an eight year old? Uh no, from an eight year old good. For the for this show. For you bad answer. For the for this show. I'm sorry, I lost you. I thought you were still talking about the age of the biggest. I don't know. So I'm not trying to put words in your mouth So you're asking me what I would say? Yeah. Okay. So now throw away the eight the eight-year-old and let's talk to the I don't know how old you are, but I know you behave like an eight-year-old. So let's Uh at least that's what I hear from your wife, as she tells me he's like an eight-year-old when Vina's not dressing. So, now I'm asking you, Jonathan Sweites. When you read the Bible, when you're instructing others to read the Bible, they should read it why. It's gonna do what? It's gonna tell they should approach it with what expectation That it is going to divide between soul and spirit, join Samara, that it's going to judge the thoughts and attitudes of their heart, that it's going to teach, rebuke, train them in righteousness. uh and that it's going to give them the revelation of God's purposes on the earth. Okay, we can follow you on Twitter, right? Sure. What is it? At Sweitzer Jonathan? Okay. So now you're gonna you're gonna tweet something. Okay. What are you gonna tweet? About how I should approach the poor Twitter guy and so I'd probably put that whole thing down there. That wouldn't fit. So I'd have to write it all out in the description. Articles, the and and I gotta take out in order to leave it. So, okay, so you really want me to say, I would say that the word of God is going to give you life And it's going to nurture you in faith so that you can do great things in God. Okay. Okay. Now w I'm going to give Jace a chance to uh offer Yeah, I like his whole um that first part of that. That was actually good. Obviously you can't tweet it, but um I have no problem with that 'cause I don't I don't think scripture is designed to uh do only one thing. So I think there are many messages that it that it's going to do for us. Um if I was forced to pigeonhole to give it like a little phrase or something like that, it would be something like um Scriptures designed to confront us with God in the person of Christ or or something like that. Now obviously it's way bigger how it confronts and things like that. But um I I like the fact that even when he said uh the word of God gives life. Um, although I would I would say yes yes he does. Um I'm not sure it does as much as I think he does. But he asked what the Bible did, and I think you answered what Jesus did. And so I don't want the Bible to ever get in the way of what Jesus who Jesus is. So for me, the word of God is Jesus. And he's the one who gives life, and the Bible is a record of how he goes about doing that. Now it this is a helpful exercise, I think, because We I would struggle just like you did to g give a bumper sticker answer to the Bible does this. Because the Bible, it's sixty-six different books, all written by God, but also written by multiple human authors. you know, in different historical contexts, uh different climates using different genres, different purposes. Um it does a lot of different things. And so is there anything in your answer that you just gave about it's it's life-giving and it's revealing, you know, God's will for our lives and what we how we should live and all all the different things that you you said divides between you know soul and spirit or what you know all sharper than any double edged sword, all that sort of stuff. Is there anything in all of that that makes historicity critical? Does the Bible have to be historically accurate in every finer deep detail across the board? for all of that to be true. Because I think that we've been doing a series of shows with this panel. We've been talking about is the Bible inerrant and what's at stake. in the inerrancy question is kinda what I'm asking now. We can talk about whether it's inerrant or not and and and beat each other over the head with whether we think it is or isn't and why we think it is or isn't or whatever. What I'm asking now is to to to quote a good friend of mine's named Jonathan Sweiser. At the end of the day What's the import of that question? Could the Bible be historically inaccurate throughout, hypothetically, and still accomplish everything that you're saying or not? My response to that would be above all else, guard your heart, for out of it is the wellspring of life. And when I was taught to guard my heart. It it it it lines up like say we're we're uh we're told about Jesus at the end of John chapter two, Jesus would not entrust himself to them. Because he knew what was in the heart of a man that that I'm guarding my heart against those that can't be trusted. Those that are worldly, those that don't speak the truth And uh and so in in my mind, in my interactions with you guys, uh I trust you and as much as I know that you're speaking the truth. And if there's an area of your life where Can I speak the truth without being absolutely woodenly, literally, accurate in every detail of what I say? I think I I think the answer is yes to that my own question. But I'm I think you would probably say yes too. I feel like there's times that that being overly technical um For example, I could say I'm so hungry I could eat a horse. I'm not really gonna eat a horse. I'm not really that hungry, okay? Yeah. That I could eat an entire two thousand pound animal, not gonna happen. Well all all metaphor is intrinsically deceitful. Aristotle made that very clear. The Lord is not my shepherd. He's not. He's not a shepherd, but he is my shepherd. W yeah, but he's not a shepherd, right? I'd say he is, and you're the sheep. I'm not a sheep. So I mean I guess we can debate this one if you want, but I'm not a sheep. I am like a sheep. I have in some qualities I'm like a sheep. In other qualities I am not anything like a sheep. So and he's not a shepherd. He doesn't have a crook. I'm getting orderies. So, you know, he he's not a shepherd. But that's not the point. I mean he is a shepherd, of course he is. Sure. I I understand where you're going with that she's got to be able to do that. So we're all agreeing. So now it's a question of okay, well where do we draw the line between, okay, I'm not really so hungry I could eat a horse. to, my goodness, I think that guy really could eat a horse. Where does that line get drawn when we're reading the Bible? Because we're we're expecting it to give us life. We're expecting it to reveal Christ and our need for Him. We're expecting it to penetrate the deepest part of our person, of who we are, right? We're expecting those things from it. And sometimes I think it delivers on those points with historical accuracy. In other times, clearly not. There are some things that are clearly not intended to be understood as historically accurate. Right? Correct. Parables. Yeah. Okay. Okay, yeah. You mean you mean like parables? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. I'm in agreement with that. One has to be more accurate than the other one, right? There's nobody that reads, you know, uh th that reads certain parts of the Bible says, Well that's Jesus is clearly telling something that happened, you know, fifteen years ago in his teenage years to make a point here. He's making up a story, uh Once Upon a Time in his parables, right, to uh a morality tale thing. So we don't expect historicity in that moment. But there are other points when we do. Why? What are the points that's where the differentiation I think is comes down between the points of view he represented on the two members of the panel. Jonathan's going to have a stronger tendency towards no, this is history. And Jason's gonna have a stronger tendency towards I don't think it needs to be. In fact, he might even have a stronger tendency towards I don't think it is. I mean I'm in certain cases. I'm not sure that that's fair, but I think it is so when I'm raising my sons, my daughter Um and they are having fun telling a story. And it's clear that that's the case. I don't make a big deal about it. Though I might clarify to them that, you know, there's a right time to tell a story. There's times when it's foolishness and it you know, that that it uh By telling a story meaning that they're they're fabricating an embellishment to make their story more exciting. Yeah. Rather than tell telling just a fun you know, imaginary story. As though it's true or just because it's a fun imaginary story. Well, that's that's what I'm getting at. Okay. There's other times when when my kids are are talking about something and they're all having fun and it's just not clear whether or not they're just having fun and being imaginative, or whether or not they're embellishing something to make themselves look good. And I and I call 'em on it and I say No, we're not going to do that. You know, we're we're not we're not in the business of exaggerating what happened to make ourselves look good. You know, we want to speak forward. You had a concern with the motive of the child. They're trying to make themselves good or or whatever it is. So if we assume together that the motive of scripture is good because God has inspired it. Isn't it is it possible that his motive is still good and yet he's still telling a story that you, as a modern person, don't recognize as a story, and I'm using the word story the way you did, fiction or imaginative, or I should say probably a more of a mix, just just the way that they did history. So we'll just call it historiographical literature. Yeah. That he was trying to get it acr get something across by historiographical literature. that maybe the people at the time would have understood or maybe maybe they just wouldn't have cared. They wouldn't have said, is this true or not true? Accurately. They just they just heard the story and went, okay, I get your point. And nothing else really mattered to us because that wasn't the picture wasn't history. Of course, you asked, does some history mat what's the boundaries of those kinds of things? Of course some history does matter. And granted, we're going to come in with presuppositions again. But it matters to me that Jesus was raised. That that's more significant than whether Jericho was raised, for instance, R-A-Z-E-D. That's that's more more significant to me historically. They may both be true, but one is more significant, I think. But the Jericho example, because that's been debated because they couldn't find the ruins and all that sort of stuff, right? But what would be the motive, what would be the good guy god purpose for putting that story in? Why would he make up a story about a destruction of a city? Why put it smack in the middle of what appears to be history? Well yeah, the whole book of Joshua is is a historical narrative. That doesn't necessarily mean that it's giving you a history. I mean every m every fiction book is a historical narrative, right? Well not everyone, but Um it it uses narrative in order to express its thoughts. So why could not the book of Joshua, and I'm by far not arguing for this, I'm saying why could it not be a story about God rocks. God is bigger and better than all you Canaanite gods and all you Canaanite people and here here's where he's showing. Crush, crush, crush. Why can't it be i the ideology, an agenda, in order to show that God is better than the other gods? Except if he didn't actually crush, crush, crush then it makes it feel to me like, well, it's just a fabrication of my imagination that God isn't really all that. I just m somebody just made it up along the line. In fact, I would go in fact I'd go so far as to say that Every religion out there is doing it doing that about their gods. And if we're just doing the same thing that other religions are doing about their gods, then uh I'm out. I'm done. I mean I mean I no longer have trust that there's anything special about what I'm doing. And I might have to go the direction of just saying, okay, we all just worship the same God and it's, you know, God's just kind of this spiritual thing that makes us, you know, feel good about ourselves. So it's important that we, you know, uh have some kind of a spiritual, you know, um uh approach to life to help us to be moral people, you know, but but I wouldn't care about any of the the the doctrinal rights. So would you be okay then if it was a mix of history and fiction? Provided That it's clear. Well it's never clear. I mean I I I don't I can't think of any Old Testament passage to say here is something that's somewhat fictional. That's my point though. So then no, you wouldn't be start with Genesis 1. And and outside of there being something that that that indicates to me that it's uh that it's not historical, you know. I I th there's all the there's all the the people from from Adam down to Noah You know, Enoch walked with God and then he w you know and then he was no more. You know, and then and then uh Noah's life being being you know a certain number of years and then the flood came and it was a certain number of days. You know, I I I say to myself, huh, these guys are giving me, you know, historical data and and I and it when they get into poems and in and songs, you know, like the song of Deborah or Miriam's song, you know, about the horse and rider fell into the sea, then then I expect a little poetic License, but then it goes back into the narrative. So you can't okay, so you're granting that there's poetic license in poetry, but no poetic license in prose Because obviously it's not poetry. So if it's historical narrative, no license for anything except for straight history is what you're saying. Yeah, it's presenting itself to us as historical. Why? Why do you assume that something this narratival form is automatically presenting history when we ha our full chock full of books that are narrati narratives that aren't. Clancy. I mean these are who who says that it has to start does Clancy start off saying this is a fiction book Make sure that you do not I mean isn't it possible that some of the things and let's take it a step further because ancient Near East don't think like us, right? So we're thinking three thousand years ago or whatever you think it is. Right? They would have mixed their historiography. Well, I gave the three thousand years for you. I would say twenty-two, twenty-three hundred years, or twenty-five hundred years. So well but my answer to that is gonna be but that's the point is that if it's if if the Bible is just doing what all the other literature was doing and mixing in historiography with with myths Then I'm out. But why? Why? Why can't God work like uh like he does provided he makes it super clear? Why Because you're imposing that on the text. God must tell me exactly what he's doing and how to understand this. And he has. He's told me that this is perfectly inerrant and all these things are exact but he hasn't said that So why do you why are you forcing that on the text? Everywhere flawless. Flawless to do what? If you add anything in addition to it, let him be a curse. To do what? To flawless to historically be precise in every single situation, then what do you do with the Judas passage that we started this off? What do you do with the different routes that the people took um going for the Exodus? I mean these are opposite different directions. Pi Okay, pick the Judas one. That's the one that we started with. Yeah, but so I like the Old Testament better because I'm better at it, but that's fine. I so it it seems very possible to me. with the Judas example that Judas took the money and said said, you know, take your money back. They said back to him, we don't want your money back. And he said, well do whatever you want with it. Buy field with it or something. And so therefore Judas bought a field. They took the money and they bought a field and they, you know, and so so he went and hung himself and his intestines spilled out. I mean, all of that seems to me like it could be parts of a s of a story that are presented by different people that, you know, if it's Judas's money and it is his money, by every right Like it makes sense to me that there that that there's a way to tie all that together that is it's reasonable. None of that even appeals to anything supernatural except maybe his guts coming out because he was cursed. I mean that's the only part that really goes in any way supernatural. I'm uh I'm hardly appealing to anything supernatural. I'm just I'm just saying, okay, there's two, you know, one story given, say, by uh by an observer that was a a priest, maybe another story given by an observer that was a a disciple, and and if you put the two together, yeah, it was all true. I'm comfortable with that and I don't I don't see any reason to doubt. Why doubt that? Why not just say, uh, yeah, sure. Like like the the the cock crowing three times versus the cock crowing one time, I have no doubt that the guy that that was listening that one guy heard it one time. It makes total sense. He he said what he heard, and it was true. The other guy said, you know, I heard three times, accroded three times. That's very reasonable. It's it's accurate. They're giving they're giving in uh the the their perspective of what happened. I heard it one time For that matter, uh John seems to indicate that Jesus carried his own cross. Well, was John there the whole time? I think it's it it seems like John's the one that ran away. you know, in the uh garden. And so it's very possible that John only got there at the very end when Christ is finally getting up to to the crucifixion and maybe he saw Christ carrying it. And so he said Christ carried his own cross. I think it's that's very likely. But again, we're sharing accurate, truthful portrayals that they're putting into the into the stories. And I'm comfortable with that. I don't I don't feel like it's any great stretch of the imagination to say, huh, Troy was right, you know, it happened this way, Jace was right, it happened that way. All that happened. I would just I I would just think it it may not be a stretch of the imagination to you, but I think the average reader reading a text, one text that says, Judas gave the money back And one text that says he kept the money, their most natural assumption on those things are these are telling two different things. They're not to be harmonized. And I'm saying the only reason that you insist on harmonizing it is because you come to the text with the assumption that it has to be historically precise and must be harmonized. It must work together. Okay, so so let me put it a different way. If if I come up to somebody that I know to be a liar and and I start seeing differences in the story You're right. I'm gonna assume that he's lying to me. If you come up to me and I hear two different things that you've said, I'm gonna look for a chance and then I'm gonna come to you and say, hey, you said this, then you said this. Like what's going on there? Like I'll ask you, I won't say to myself, oh man, he's a liar. I'll say it huh. I just I just need to get more perspective from him You know, and and I'll trust that somehow, you know, it's all gonna tie together. And so if I'm coming to the text Saying, eh? I don't have any reason to distrust it. I've seen what God's done in my heart through Jesus Christ. I have the the witness of the Holy Spirit as to what he's accomplished. I'm sealed, you know, for eternity, and I know this to be the case I have no reason to to to to distrust what I'm reading. I don't have a reason to distrust it either. I I think we're it's not it's not a mistrust in scripture. I totally trust scripture. I just don't think it's d trying to do what you think it's trying to do. I don't think it's I don't think there's anywhere in Scripture that said, make sure that all of these traditions are perfectly compatible with all the other traditions. I think there's a multi um multi-vocality going on in scripture sometimes that that is actually designed in scripture for a reason, that we're supposed to actually discuss these things and wrestle with them and sometimes the tensions are exactly what brings out the agenda of you might not like that word, but the agenda of each of the authors. I'm more comfortable with agenda 'cause I feel like the other word carries connotations that in Uh the other word is suitable for small children to hear at this this hour of the day, apparently. Uh Jonathan Sweister is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Dr. Jace Broadhurst, a senior pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on British News Radio 930 WFMD. Our shows are brought to us by BMC Insurance, uh Putman Plumbing and Heating. And cruise holidays. Had to think about that for a second. Oh nice. I didn't get enough sleep last night, apparently. Uh thanks so much for listening. Uh check us out online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. You can follow Jonathan Sweitzer on Twitter at at SweitzerJonathan. Is that correct? Yeah, at SweitzerJonathan. And I don't think you can follow uh Jace uh on Twitter, but you can follow him on a Facebook. You can follow him around Poolville if you want. Something like that. Anyway, thanks so much until one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless