Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Roy Skinner. The Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leader to share and discuss their views. of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom, and in that spirit we will seriously wrestle with important ideas and might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. This week we're going to discuss bad things and does God cause or allow bad things to happen? For example the tsunami For example, getting stuck in traffic. I don't know, whatever you might consider to be bad things. Uh here to talk about uh such bad things. Uh John Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel is here again this week. Thank you, John. Khalil El Shazli, the uh president of the Islamic Society uh here in Frederick is uh is with us again. Thank you, Khalil. And uh Drew Boswell from uh Dave Ray Community Church uh is with us uh again as well. It's the second or third time that uh that that that he's been on the show. So uh thank you all. So about uh how many weeks ago is it now? Maybe a couple of months ago. Big news story dominated the international news for for many a week. Giant killer tsunami wave caused by an earthquake uh in the Indian Ocean uh wipes out entire islands, uh destroys entire villages, uh entire families and extended families washed away and gone. uh hundreds of thousands of people uh dead and or dying. Uh the numbers just keep escalating. Some people and things like that will happen. will say, where was God? Did God cause this? Did God allow this? Would a good and loving, merciful God, you know, let this sort of thing happen? So we're here to talk about that. And I'm not sure who would like to go first, but I'm gonna let Drew fire away first. Okay. Um so the question is did God cause the tsunami? I guess in the simplest terms, yeah. Okay. Um I I'd like to kind of address the question maybe a little bit differently, and not so much the question of did God cause it. uh but uh a God uh maybe looking at the attributes of God because we really don't know uh you know God's all all the things that God knows. Yeah we really we really can't I I really don't want to play with judge and and uh and kind of say, yeah, those people deserved it or or uh, you know, God did it. And and so I don't know, to be honest. And uh so I think it's easier to maybe look at the attributes of God that's revealed to us in Scripture. We know that God is a God of grace and love and mercy and and the fact that He has provided a way for all people to be saved and to have a relationship with Him. And he's also provided a a glimpse of time, which I think is important to bring into the discussion as well, because when you think of you know the horrible things that happened like on nine eleven or the tsunami or different things And we think of a day or a year or even a lifetime as uh a long time, but but God sees it as just a moment, a glimpse, um um you know a puff of smoke as he described. And so um and so when we're looking at God and did he cause it and and uh did he play a part in it, I would say yes, ultimately he's sovereign, but he's revealed himself as a God of love and mercy and that he provides all people a way in which they can have eternal life and have uh relationship with him and um and and that if someone chooses not to, whether it's a sudden moment or if they die of old age, the ultimate cause is still they're still gonna be in the same place. Hm. Okay. Okay. Kind of evaded my question there a little bit. But when we but we so we kinda have to step back and say, well, what type of God is God? You know, or w when you look at who God is, God's described as a God of justice and wrath and He he separates himself from sin and that's where the Bible calls a place called hell. But he's also God of grace, love and mercy. Through Jesus Christ, he sent his only son that whoever believes in him shall have life and you know eternal life. Um so I I think it gives all people an opportunity to I don't feel like that's an evasion of the question, Troy. Uh and the reason why I don't think it's an evasion is because I think the reality is is that there is no way that any of us can know whether or not God did it. But what what Drew is saying in a nice way is that it's very possible that God did. But we don't know for sure. We don't know God's perspective on those nations that were affected most affected most directly. And we don't know if it's possible that God said, you know what, it's time for me to uh to to do something in such a way to bring judgment and to uh to reset uh reset the the culture, if you will. Clearly he did that in Egypt, clearly he did that with Israel on several occasions. We're told in the prophetic books that there's several times where he sent um um acts of nature as a specific tool of judgment to show a group of people that if they're going to reject him long enough then the time's gonna come where he's too he too will turn his back on them. Uh I think we could claim with a with uh with a large measure of um accuracy that those nations that rejected God through communism within forty years of having rejected him, within a generation, every single one of them uh didn't have enough food in the nation to feed their own nation. They were in economic uh disarray and corruption was at every level of their government and uh that was true all through uh all through Russia, that's true in Albania, that's true in all the Eastern Black nations, that to the extent that people reject God, there comes a time where there's consequences for that. And I think that that's an extremely unpopular thing in today's society for anybody to acknowledge that that's true about God. Clearly God is a God of love as represented in Scripture, but there's this balancing side to God that says that if Alright, no, let me approach it a different way. We're so big on saying a good God could never cause such such evil, but if God sees men that are so evil that they cannot be brought back. I. e. like a Hitler, I think he would be the common example. Does God not have a right? to do a good act in removing that evil from the face of the planet. The point is, cannot God act to protect the rest of the planet from people that he might view as evil to protect the rest of the planet from those guys, would that not be a good thing? Is it not possible that there that there can be people like Hitler that are so evil that they deserve to be removed and their removal would not be an act of evil but would be an act of goodness? And that's the problem I think most people have with a good God allowing evil on the face of the planet. They don't realize that it's not God that's evil, but it's us as humankind that has such huge potential for evil in our own hearts. And I guess that's where I would stand on it. That that I think that in a question like this, did God cause it or not, the tsunami, I think it's it's possible that he did. I personally Won't try to stand in that position. I'm glad he's God and that I don't have to make that decision. But I would say that God does do those kinds of things and he does it to protect the rest of the planet. from evil. Give Khalil a chance now to opine. Okay, I think we all agree that uh God is love, God is all merciful, uh comp compassionate. Also God is uh has a power over everything. He has a power over the universe. He has a power over uh what's going on in nature. Uh what happened there was uh purely physic. The physics of uh of earth is taking its toll. Uh we see that with floods, we see that with earthquakes, we th we see that with tsunamis. So that's nature's way, uh, physically of what's going on. Uh could God step in and prevent it? Some people ask that question. Uh where was God? How could God allow this Uh well uh you know, uh we all know the story of uh Abel and Cain. Could God have stopped the killing? Yes you could have, but this is the way nature takes its toll. Human beings have their own uh um way of thinking and doing things, uh not necessarily sometimes it's evil, sometimes good. Uh God allows allows both to happen. Uh that's why the day of judgment will be judged on what we do. Uh could God have intervened Uh absolutely. He ha he has intervened. We all know the miracles, the stories of miracles of the uh whole family. Uh I think they're from Australia uh a man, his wife and his two children. They were all separated. They were all on top of the wave. They all end up on trees in separate locations. And uh lo and behold, they all got back together. They were alive. We all know the story of that uh gentleman who was in the water for ten days and saved by a ship. Uh so yeah, God had intervened. He separated those who were not destined to die from those who were destined to die. And uh the claim that those who died deserve to die because they were good or bad, we know that people from all sorts of religions, people of all sorts of backgrounds uh died, so it's not necessarily a punishment Uh it's it's it's a natural disaster that took its toll. God had intervened of course. He was power he's all powerful. Could he have uh intervened and prevented the whole thing? Well, we could debate that, but God is the one who uh decides. Uh and and and uh controls this universe, not us. All we could do is think about it, think about what happened, learn our lesson. Uh we all know the story of of some of us heard the story of uh the lady uh who saved all her money. uh all her life just to go to the beach and enjoy herself for a few days. And what happened? She goes to the beach and boom the tsunami hits. So we really need to think about, okay, what kind of lessons we learn from that What are priorities in life? Are we serving God the way we're supposed to? Or we're just serving our uh interests and hobbies and and and following our desires? That would be the question. You're listening to Frederick's face, uh the Frederick Face debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Uh you just heard the uh voice of Khalil el-Shazli, the president of the Islamic Society, here in Frederick John Sweitzer spoke before that. He's the pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel and the beginning of our round robin was Drew Boswell from Daybreak Community Church. uh here in Frederick. And I forgot to mention at the beginning of the show that All Shred is sponsoring the program, All Shred Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow, 1877 2 Shred. Um seems like there was some consensus that Maybe we don't it's not our place to say that God caused this to happen, but everybody seems to agree that uh certainly God was within God's power to stop it if he had chosen to stop it. Yeah. So how do you how do you agree with that? And Khalil kind of he alluded to this question in his answer. You know, for somebody who's mad at God. How could God allow this to happen? I would I think I would address uh kind of Khalil's response by saying is that um Uh my personal belief is that we probably all, according to Scripture, the Bible says, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And so if you kind of take it in a big picture, we all really deserve to die. Now when that comes in or or or scripture describes death as being separated from God. Uh and so whenever we whenever that happens, whether it be In the sudden cataclysmic event or at old age, we still deserve to be separated from him forever because of the sin that is within us And I believe that where we might disagree would be where uh of how a person deals with that sin or how that sin is kinda taken away. So if you say, Well how could God cause this or why did God take these people's lives, I would kinda say, Well God really we really deserve to take our just our lives deserve to be taken away from us because of the sin that we have done. Uh and so I wouldn't so much put it on God, why did God do this? Why did He allow it to happen? But instead put it on us and say, Well we have because of our sin, we have voluntarily separated ourselves from God and we, according to Scripture, deserve to die and to be separated. And it's his grace and mercy and love that um that he's shown to us that allows us to have peace and reconciliation with him and and to have an eternal life and to go to heaven and and those type of things. See I I think that the number one tendency of mankind is simply to not take responsibility for his own actions. If I can blame somebody else, whether it's my wife or my kids or somebody else at work or the economy or, you know, my parents who raised me, I'm gonna I I'm gonna tend to wanna to wanna get the pressure and the focus off of me and onto somebody else. And God of course is the ultimate uh scapegoat. You know, in fact we think that Christ was a scapegoat in every sense of the term, theologically. You know, that the point is that that he took all that responsibility upon himself willingly. And and I I think Drew, you're absolutely right, that that when whenever the question is asked, how could a god good God allow evil I think the question first needs to be answered before anybody tries to answer that question, whether or not you and I are honestly dealing with the potential for evil that is in our own lives. If we're not honestly dealing with that question, then I think that that we come to our attempt to judge God as being somehow wrong or somehow um less than good enough, we come to that that endeavor with an extremely skewed perspective, uh a perspective that hasn't pulled out of our own uh eye uh some some splinters and some logs that that make us think that somehow we're better than what we are. And I think that that's the the key issue in uh to deal with in a situation like this. Is it possible that mankind deserves this kind of thing. I d I do wanna uh say this that that it is true this would probably be my c most controversial statement of the day, but it is true that those nations that were most affected by the tsunami uh are on record for being uh being in in the top nations on the planet that reject Christ And um I I don't personally know that I can make their f ma make a you know quid pro quote from that that automatically if that's the case that therefore God was bringing judgment, but I do know that those nations around the planet, once again, that are m that that seem to to be the most uh resistant to God and Christ and the gospel of Jesus Christ. And Calil, unfortunately, I I will address that that this seems to be uh something of the case in the Middle East as well. that those nations experienced the greatest levels of famine, the greatest amount of desert in their nation, the lack of ability to grow things, the greatest amount of disease. And uh and you know, y there there's several nice scenes around the face of the planet, and all I'm saying is that in the Old Testament we're clearly told that God interacts with nations as a corporate body and that to the extent that they reject him, they will uh they will feel a rejection back and that that God's patience only goes so far. And all I know is that in the New Testament we're not told anywhere That God has stopped interacting with nations around the face of the planet in the same way. And that He still judges them on the basis of their interaction with Him. In fact, we're told And revelation that in the end times there will come a time that that if people don't come up to worship God through Jesus Christ at Jerusalem every year that that for that year that nation will experience famine and disease as a result. And Scripture is very clear about that. They they make it they make it a quid pro quo in that sense, that that this therefore that And uh again, I think that that we're unwilling to realize as humans how un uh unkind we are to God, how how how little We appreciate how much we have rejected him and been rude and disrespectful toward he who created the planet, who gave us life. who gave us families, who gave us love. And in giving us all these things, we turn our back on him and we say, forget it. And and we think that that somehow he has a responsibility to us to to take care of all these things. And I think that I think that as a result we have lost a fear of God that is appropriate. Khalil, when John was talking about uh you know the nations em affected most by the tsunami were uh the most anti-Christian nations on the planet, and I couldn't help it notice a change in your posture and a little smile on your face and you start jotting some notes. I know you have something to say. Okay. Uh I kind of agree with John in the in the sense that When God is mad at nations, he will send some natural disaster disasters that's mentioned in the Quran and many, many, many, many stories about perished nations. Uh the only thing I disagree with him that uh saying that most of the nations, uh referring to probably Muslim nations that were hit by it. Uh there are some of those that are Muslim, some that are Hindu. Okay, but Muslims don't reject Jesus Christ Muslims uh would not be Muslims without believing in Jesus Christ. Uh can I make a distinction on that? You think of him differently than than I do. Yeah. But Uh we you know Muslims do believe in Jesus Christ in the sense that he's a prophet, but not a God, the son of God. Right. But that would be the only distinction. Uh and then we're not going to be able to do that. That distinction would be enough to put according to the Bible. I'm not saying according to the Quran, but according to the Bible as uh as it is um you know well documented this is very orthodox statement. According to the Bible, those nations that reject Jesus uh uh well those who are killed by Hitler, whether they're Christians or Jews or Muslims, uh will fall to the same category. Uh those who die in the hurricanes here in the southern states uh this past hurricane season. Uh there were also mostly Christians and and uh about those who uh get hurt by the earthquakes in uh the epicenter in San Francisco Well again, I don't know the mixture of those things of of different religions. But I know for sure in Germany that that the majority of the church at the time was extremely liberal. And did not believe the tenets of Scripture as we have them here, but in fact they believed that Scripture could not be trusted and they had rejected the the deity of of Christ as God. you know the tsunami was uh it's a physical uh aspect like if you live in Japan or San Francisco for example, it's always an area where Uh it's very well known scientifically that it most probable areas to be hit by earthquakes. Uh if you live in Florida Where is it again? Japan and San Francisco. Okay. If you live in Florida and the states around it, uh Cuba, Guantanamo, you know uh this areas uh they're always susceptible of uh being hit by hurricanes. Yep. So you can't say that God is bun punishing These people, because of their beliefs, they just happen to be in an area where it will be hit by hurricanes. So can I agree with you though? I'm I'm not saying that I disagree with that. I'm saying that one God does use those things at times in history to bring judgment on groups of people. And all I'm saying is that the thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is that the other thing is In fact I'll say this that that sorry you okay? He's uh fighting off a little bit of a Bronchitis there. Um uh I I have found that um that scripture is very clear about this, that it's gonna rain on the righteous and the unrighteous. In fact you probably agree with this. I agree. But the point is that the righteous are quick to recover because God brings his blessing and protects them in the middle of it. There were some preachers in this country who came out and said, Oh well, you know, these areas that were hit by the tsunami, you know, they're they're terrorist camps. You know, uh there are children, elderly women, uh pregnant women uh you know, who died who instantly died in this. So you can't really generalize and say, you know, oh they're Muslims, it's Muslim camps, you know, they're Well again that's why I would avoid saying that I absolutely think that this you know I reject this notions because uh natural disaster happened could happen to anybody. And and and and everybody dies in it, you know, whether the Muslims or Christians, whether the uh Buddhist, whether the Hindus, uh they all died in this natural disaster. So you can't s you know, yes, then maybe God's collectively punishing everybody Which which might be possible. And I I I don't know for sure. I personally wouldn't wouldn't say that there is a quid pro quo though. I just don't know for sure. But I do know that historically God is the kind of God that If you reject him long enough, then he brings rejection back. Now I gotta ask you this, because I think you would agree with scripture and micro on two. So you would agree with me on this. If God brings that kind of judgment, does it not if if he brings that kind of judgment on a particular society, whatever society it is, let's say there happened to be a society that both you and I believed were genuinely deserving of that from what your Quran says and my scriptures say. If that was the case, would you be willing to say that God's judgment would affect both the leaders and the widows and the children and the mothers that it would affect everybody in that society, not just the leaders of that society? Absolutely. When it when when a disaster hits, it hits everybody. And everybody's affected by it. So that's my point. That's my point is that when it happens can't separate out in a society. God works that out himself. We taught in Islam and the Quran that uh when a calamity hits when it hits good people, it hits them. It's a test from God. He's testing your faith. He's got to be a good thing. You know, say, Oh, I believe in God but when you get when you get hit by enemies like then or where's God? Then you have to really uh test your faith. And don't let's not all forget the one who's tested the most about his beliefs, Prophet Abraham. Or Christ as well, obviously. We're taught in the Quran that uh he was hit with the most calamity. Uh he he he he he was put in fire when he was fourteen years old. Uh he got kicked out of Iraq to the Ta Palestine area. God ordered him to take his wife and his child, only child Of course there's a lot of those things that are in the Quran that I wouldn't necessarily agree with. Nevertheless, certainly Abraham I would agree went through some tough times. For us as Christians we find that Christ went through the work. We had a real good give and take there. The the uh the unfortunate product of the good give and take is that Drew didn't have a chance to contribute very much. We're running away. I'll give Drew a chance to maybe uh to to add a few thoughts here because we're running we have like uh a minute and a half left on the show. I would I I think I would agree with agree with what Khalil said about uh there's probably various depths to reason reasoning of why a natural disaster might happen and the and you know like God would have different more than just one reason absolutely that we don't necessarily say, uh, pinpoint with this nation is deserving of judgment and this one's not, because when we do that then we We're playing judge at that point, but also we are looking at ourselves as a judge ultimately. Uh and we're and and we're saying that you know we're we're kind of playing a judge at that point, and I think only God can do that. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, uh we have uh about thirty or so seconds left, so I'm not gonna ask another question because it'll be an hour and a half before So I again want to thank uh our sponsor, Al Shred Mobile Document Destruction. Shredding today for growth tomorrow. Again, 1-877-2 Shred, 1-877-Number 2, S-H-R-E-D-D. Thanks again for uh for being part of the show. John Sweitzer from Crossers Valley Chapel. Good to be here. Uh Bruce Boswell from uh Digberry Community Church And uh Khalil El Strazli, the President of the Islama Society, thank you for coming here and battling that uh uh that broncaidas that you have. Yes. Um If you are a local faith community leader or you know somebody who is, maybe you go to church somewhere or whatever, uh have them contact me, Troy Skinner, at the offices of WFMD. You can email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com My name Troy Skinner at ClearChannel All One Word dot com. Or you can call the radio station, of course, and ask for me. Or if you just have a topic you'd like to hear us talk about on the show, we're open to your suggestions. So you can do the same thing, just email or call Um glad to take the uh the input. Next time we're gonna talk about uh we're gonna I think we're gonna expand on this idea and why good things happen to bad people and explore that a little bit. John Sweiser said something early in this show and I want to bring that up Uh next week and expand on it. So I won't. It's John's fault. God bless