There is a retraction or at least a correction forthcoming. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner, Pastor of Household to Faith in Christ, John Lina Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week again by Daniel Razby and Imran Razvy, also known as Daniel's father or Daniel's dad, I forget what he said, which one of those he said one of those two. Daniel's father. Daniel's father. So so we we are not infallible, we actually do make mistakes. Every now and then. That's what you're getting to, right? Uh yeah. We unlike speak for yourself, Knox, I'm speaking for you. Unlike God, who is infallible. Yeah. We do make mistakes. So anyway, you can find the Rasbies online at concordbylove dot org and uh they co-pastor a church that's called The Church that Meets at Imran's house or the Church at Meet at Daniel's father's house. Maybe that'd be a that's fun. We should rename it. Or the Raspbies House. That'll be a that'll be a fun name for a church. That would beg all sorts of questions Anyway, so with last week or the week before I forget which show now because we record these shows kind of in bunches. And so they all blend together But I was railing against last week. Was it last week's show? I was railing against the Defense of Marriage Act and I was using like mental shorthand and I wasn't being as careful and precise as I should be So in nineteen ninety-six, if memory serves, the Defense of Marriage Act, the DOMA, as it was uh as then called, was passed during the Clinton years. Uh and then uh during the Obama years there was a big Supreme Court decision. Obergefell. Yeah, the Obergefell decision, and it was like two thousand thirteen, two thousand fourteen. Mm-hmm. And so they ruled a key portion of that act unconstitutional and so you couldn't quote unquote discriminate against people who weren't really married who said they were. That's basically so they they gutted the key thing in the act. Right. So what you were trying to say the Defense of Marriage Act was actually by and large a good law Initially. But the but but the court decision that overruled that was a bad court decision. The Defense of Marriage Act itself is actually a good law. But now but they didn't rule the whole th I And I'm not a legal expert. This is more your bailiwick, right? 'Cause you went to law school and uh all that sort of stuff. But um my understanding is that they didn't strike the Supreme Court did not strike down the entire act. They just took one provision and said that's unconstitutional. So now we're left with a Defensive Marriage Act that is actually law that in a sense now forces people to recognize two men or two women who say they're married to one another as so since two since that decision in twenty thirteen, the Defense of Marriage Act has Uh i i i we'd be better off for not having it. That's that's kind of how I understand the legalities of that. And that's what I was railing against Uh a a post a post-Obergefell reality is what I was railing against, not what was passed back during the Newt Gingrich Congress and the uh Bill Clinton presidency. Right. How the world has changed, right? Bill Clinton signed that. Yeah, well I mean even even Obama the first time ran on a traditional marriage platform. Yeah. Right? So we were talking about like uh what are some of the marks of uh a a good church and one of the mo most important things you should find out is not only does your church have a gay pastor, 'cause that's pretty easy to find out. You don't even have to ask them. You can probably look on their website and figure that out. But would they be opposed to having a gay pastor or lesbian pastor or or i would they be uh happy to call somebody a Christian who is in a homosexual relationship that is open Um and and and not repentant of that. So if a if a person is thinking about joining a church and they've done some due diligence but they still have some questions, and one of them is this, like the website doesn't seem to say a lot about marriage. They visited a handful of times and marriage hasn't come up yet, and so they just they want to make sure they want to check that box. So they say, Mr. Pastor, sir, um glad to meet you. Wha how would you define marriage? What kind of answer w should they be hoping to hear? Marriage is a covenant before God for a lifetime commitment between one man and one woman. to raise a family together. That's the I mean that it's it's should be pretty simple. So one man, one woman, so it can't be two men and Two women. Right. No? It can't be uh two women and one man? It can't have si no sister wives? It's it's no longer marriage. Now you can call it something else. You can call it uh whatever you want to call it. But it's not a marriage. God called marriage between male and female, one man, one woman. And and so then you get into the question about polygamy and and so on and and there is certainly biblical. Well, th bestiality is a little bit separate from polygamy 'cause bestiality is specifically condemned in all cases in the Bible. There are some things like divorce and polygamy there are you you could argue are not explicitly condemned by the Bible in certain circumstances. It's just shown that it's Every circumstance that is ever given an example in the Bible turns out bad. And Jesus himself said God's original plan was one man and one woman, not multiple women. Yeah, I think the ideal is clear. The ideal is put forward clearly, but then when people deviate from that ideal, what is that? And yeah, I think implicitly, like you said You can trace it out. If you if that what Daniel just said, take the time, find out who had multiple wives, and then look at how those multiple relationships affected their progeny, their lives, their wealth, their their success in life. It's always bad. Every time. Not a single example of it. Every single time. Yep. And including divorce too. The the divorce as well. And and that's why Jesus was was trying to clarify, look, you know, th there there may be certain circumstances where divorce happens, but that's not God's plan Um so a pastor could give an a somewhat nuanced explanation of divorce or maybe even, you know, that that that polygamy thing which we just talked about, but it should end up with well God's plan is for one man and one woman. That's that's There is no nuanced explanation of homosexuality or bestiality. What about a woman who doesn't marry a building? That's happened, by the way. Well that that would be I'm making that uh more of a uh call within that definition. It's mental illness, yeah. No, she identifies as somewhere on that spectrum of fifty-seven genders. Identifies is is a problem, right? Right. Well who gets to do God. God gets to what God created you. And again, the your pastor should be able to have a quick, easy answer for this that marriage is a man and a woman. There is no other marriage And there's and if they're not if you're living together and you're not married, you know, some people say, Well, that's kinda the same thing as a man or woman, right? But what if somebody who's, you know, um uh got the plumbing, I'm trying to figure out to kind of keep this uh G rated. Got the plumbing of what we would identify as a man says he's a woman. Doesn't he qu qualify as a woman? No. No, he's got a mental illness and should be treated as such. So so what's a woman There was a documentary about that that you might want to watch. As you said, the plumbing uh and the genetics proclaim what the woman is and what a man is. It's very simple. There's no there's no argument, there's no guesswork. It's there's clear and simple. It's based on biology and it's it's it's pretty obvious there's only two uh types of people. There's men and there's women. And even beyond that, you know there are practical l living out life things that are the the the the the the the purpose of a woman or the the call on women's life. There's something about femininity that is unique to femininity. Right? And there's something about masculinity that's unique to masculinity. Like there or if not unique, at least um Uh but they're more heavily emphasized. Like men should are men are to be providers or to go be conquerors, right? Protectors and providers. Protectors and that's what you know, and women are nurturers and and helpmates or to help to help their husbands if they're married to take over the world. But so they they have roles. So it's not just that they're plumbing, but then there are things that God explains You mean d gender is not a social construct? There are things that It's a biblical construct. Not a social construct. It's a biblical construct. Right? So the gender roles are commanded by God and yes, so the the your your pastor and your church should be teaching what are the proper roles that God has commanded for men and women. But Th there those I mean, various men or women may feel more or less masculine or feminine, but it's still very clear that it is a woman and it's a man, right? There's 'cause there's some of those roles can certainly overlap in certain areas. And you know, and maybe you have a a a uh a widow and now she's kinda have to p provide for her family also, not just even though the husband's job is is to provide. So Sometimes some of those roles can overlap slightly, but you don't want to usurp the role and take over the role that somebody else is supposed to be providing So that's something that should be taught in the in the church. But just at a basic level, if your pastor can't determine eagerly easily what's a woman or a man Then you know that did you see that clip? It wasn't too long ago. Riley Gaines is a very accomplished collegiate s swimmer. I think she was like maybe the best female swimmer in the country. Uh, and then she she was so good in fact that she tied she tied the male swimmer. Right? That's how good she Is. Well this was a very slow male swimmer, but just to just be clear. He would have been way last place in in the men's competition. Oh yeah, i compared to men. Right. But he was good enough that he was winning all the competitions against the women because he's a man. He has blown em out of the water. And yet he didn't blow her out of the water. That's how good she is. So she's this rare woman that's good enough to tie the like some five hundred and fiftieth ranked male swimmer in the country, right? Right. So that's how but anyway, because of politics and virtue signaling all that sort of stuff He got the win. Like he was awarded the accolades. He he he was up on the stage as the winner, even though she tied. She wasn't treated like the winner. So anyway, but did you see the the clip with her? She was speaking before some government talking head, pinhead guy somewhere, I don't know where. And he actually asked her in like a hearing, a public hearing Uh well Miss Ms. Gaines, uh do you have any studies or documented evidence that uh you know Individuals that are born male have any sort of a advantage over women in an athletic contest Are you kidding me? You need studies for this? There's studies that have been throughout. Well there are studies, but do you even need them? No. It's just as you open your eyes, there's just evidence right in front of your eyes. The the bone structure is bigger, the bone density is stronger, the muscle mass is more, the taller. Yeah, the wingspan uh for a swimmer the wingspan is hugely important. The m man have longer arms They have a longer leg kick. I mean there are so many things that are that are built, even if they put on uh testosterone blockers and that sort of stuff, they still have the infrastructure You know, they're using uh you know E eighty seven uh octane gas as opposed to E ninety three octane gas 'cause they've they're limiting their testosterone, but it's still a muscle car. Yep. You know what I mean Anyway, you were about to say something, Daniel? Well but it it doesn't even matter. Even if you're able to show that somehow they're equal in power and strength and whatever, who cares? God said there's different roles for men and women and they should be treated differently And men marry women, they don't marry other men. Right? Because it's not it wouldn't be marriage. I mean these poor Well, I I can't help but call these young women girls, right? College college women in my mind they're so young that I these poor girls, they spent their whole life getting to a level where they can compete. at a championship caliber level um against other females and now they're being robbed of that opportunity. It's just not fair. And then yeah, you throw the biblical worldview thing in and it's like, okay, but even with without y Just uh general secular society ideas of fairness that doesn't even pass that test. It's fascinating that this is become the phenomenon that it has. Right. But this is the faith debate, so we should really uh we really want to focus on why why it is this way. I mean because everything comes back to God and when you le when you eliminate God out of the culture then there is no standard of morality. Well w why wh why is that fair? This other person, this other man feels left out, so that's not fair to him. So you can you can make up all sorts of reasons why something should be fair. Life is not fair It all has to come back to God. Well without God everything's a social construct. So right? So this idea that oh I identify as a woman. There's no right or wrong. Says who? Yeah. What's the basis of right or wrong? Why do you identify as a woman? Why don't you identify as a blah blah blah? That's not even a word, but it's what I identify as. Like who's I mean you're all random molecules bouncing around with no meaning or purpose exactly. Right? So speaking of that, what is the purpose of marriage? The purpose of marriage is to um really imitate or uh what God had planned for us. Okay. He has male and female and as he is going to marry his his bride, the church He has uh made an example of us uh uh male and female being married and having a family and and taking dominion over the world. So it's a picture of God's relationship with us and to have children and to populate the world. A man and a man cannot have children. A woman and a woman cannot have children. And what is the very first commandment given to humans in the Bible? Not the greatest commandment because which uh we all know is love God and then love your neighbor is the second greatest commandment, but the first commandment, chronologically, the very first commandment ever given is to be fruitful and multiply fill the earth. You cannot be fruitful if you're married to the same sex. So there's no way to have uh biologically anyway, to have children and multiply unless you use marriage as this decide, well yeah, yeah, oh, they're just living together, they're not married. Well, God commanded it to be in a construct of of marriage But he does say be fruitful or multiply. That's the very first commandment. And it's it's one of the most important things that our we're supposed to do on earth. I don't care if you think the earth to be overpopulated. First of all, you're wrong. The studies don't show that. They say we're we're about to have a population j giant decline. But God said to be fruitful and multiply. Therefore, do so. And spiritually speaking, it gives us a uh particularly in a Christian context anyway, it gives us a picture of uh spiritual realities, Christ and his church, you know, the bride of Christ. Uh and he is a faithful husband, if you will. Husbands are to be f in uh human husbands are to be faithful to their wives and to love and care for and provide for. And then the church is to be of sir uh of of service to help Christ advance his kingdom. He doesn't need us to, but He uh he chooses to work through means and so we have a role in that. And so there's a there's a relationship between Christ Christ and his church that we see pictured between uh a man and a wife, particularly in a Christian marriage. Um and it's the kind of thing when I'm doing uh you know marital counseling that I remind them, I tell the wife, I said, Look, you uh are to behave the way the church behaves to Christ and you, husband, are to behave the way that Christ behaves towards his church. And the church loves her Lord. And Christ loves his church. So y you need to love each other and serve one another. And and the other thing that's important there is the church isn't God. So God's got his place. And neither's your pastor. And the church has its place. And you don't flip those places, right? Christ has his role and the bride of Christ has her role. Right. And the the bride should never try to be the bridegroom and the bridegroom isn't going to try to be the bride. Like we have roles and distinctives within those roles. We need to understand that It doesn't mean that men are are just because they're bigger and stronger and faster generally speaking than women. I mean there are some women that, you know, are way bigger, faster, and stronger than me, for instance. But on the whole, men are gonna be doesn't mean that men are better And there are some things that mean women can give birth to babies. That's pretty cool. Does that make them better than men? Well they're better at giving birth to babies. But if they're not better on the whole, they're just different And that's hard work and that's a lot of pain. Uh there's a comedian I saw that said that was saying, Hey, if if men could give if men were the ones that could give birth only, there'd be like six of us. 'Cause I see only six men to be brave enough to actually have a baby and all that paina endures. So back to the the the churches and and the pastors and how to discern and things like that. So what is a pastor's reaction? When somebody comes in and asks these questions, how can a pastor react? Because w the what are the the the there's like three or four different or five different whatever uh ways that a pastor can take somebody in. You know, one is, well, I have a new c possible convent, a new source of money Or that's one. Or I have a new congregate and new source of uh n some news to disciple and I don't want to scare them off without a actually having a chance to build a relationship. That's number two. Number three is, you know, I don't want to get in trouble, I don't want uh a whole bunch of people uh you know, uh boycotting this church and making trouble for my flock. That's the th third one. So how does a pastor actually react? So one of the things is the pastor has to have faith in God and not in himself and not in anything else. If he has the faith in God and that's foremost and the most important thing, then he should react and say, Well, I'm glad you asked that question Can I ask you why you're asking that question? Do you want to know what God says? Or do you want to do you want to be appeased and have a place that you can have your view? Because if you want your view, this is not the church for you. If you want to learn about God, let me tell you what God says. And that's really I think the way a a a pastor should address that the question. He should not fear the person or fear reprisals, he uh or a lack of uh another source of income for the church. He should really truly just love the person but say, hey, why are you asking that question? Do you really want to know what God says or do you want to know are we going to accept your views and change for you? That's uh Imran Razvy. The other voice you're hearing on the show today is Daniel Razvi, and I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio. 9. 30 WFMD. We've got you know five or six minutes left in in today's show. And one of the most uh poignant and important things that was said um Um over the last however long we've been, twenty minutes now, was what Imran Raz just shared about it's about God. Make the the focus, the prominence is on God, who he is and what he says, what he thinks. And there are too many pastors. I actually was listening to uh a podcast the other day, I can't remember which pa what the pastor's name, but he he was making a similar kind of a point And he he talked about he learned a lesson when he was a younger pastor. You know, he was uh he was affected in ways that he shouldn't have by what he heard from the congregation So after a sermon, you know, somebody would come and chastise them and say, How could you be so stark and and and uh Uncaring. And yeah, a a and challenge a people like that and beat them up and you know Like that's not very loving, you know, you shouldn't be a pastor and it would bother him. Or, you know, sometimes the same sermon. Somebody would walk up to him and say Man, we came here needing to hear the word. We were so discouraged. And well, you really challenged us the way we need to hear. And the Spirit moved through your words today. And and I just want to let you know I was blessed greatly by it. And that would affect him. But he came to a place where he finally realized I can't be worried about what these people think or what they say. I just have to be obedient to God, to his word, what he says, and what would God have me do? What would God have these people hear? And so if you're a pastor, we have pastors I I'm sure that listen to this show at least on occasion. If you happen to hear this portion of the show, tell them the truth. Right? Give them the Bible. And God's word never returns void. So if they turn around and walk away, okay. I mean God's sovereign, He's in control, and at this stage in that person's life that's what's gonna happen. But you have to be and if that means your church is gonna be tiny, you're gonna have a church of less than a hundred for the rest of your life, okay. And if you're going to have to that maybe in a little bit. Yeah, or if you're going to have a church that ends up growing exponentially and you start planting a whole bunch of other churches as a result or something, okay. But that fruit is coming from God blessing what you're doing. Um, but you didn't do that. That's the point. Like you're not gonna make that that's the big problem. We mentioned Stephen Furtick, I think it was last week's show, the guy in North Carolina. Big mega church, right? Hugely impactful in a worldly sense. He's ha he has a huge amount of influence on unfortunately on people. Um and pastors and churches. Um but he's not growing the kingdom. In fact we'd be better off without him. Without those pretenders. And the people that want to have their ears tickled and they want to come to a church and have the pastor say to them what it is they want to hear The church, and not just your local church, but the church, the you know global church, is better off with those without those people pretending to be Christian. That's part of the problem we're in right now is too many people call themselves Christians that aren't. And it's because pastors aren't telling the truth in the Bible kind of thing. Anyway, that's a bit of a soliloquy. Um And I think that that is really the m true meaning of taking the Lord's name in vain. Not cursing and saying G D or whatever, but it's more of Hey, I'm proclaiming to be a Christian and I'm leading people astray. I'm not following Christ, but I'm saying I'm a Christian. That is taking the Lord's name in vain. I think that is really what God is uh is frowning on and and counseling against And we have enough time to bring up this because I don't think there's a whole lot we're going to say because I'm sure we don't disagree about it at all. But I think it needs to be said in the context of marriage and what churches should be advocating for. Um it's really, really important one because God says so, but also just practically speaking I've seen it happen being unequally yoked is a problem. Yes. You know, so if you're a believer and your idea is well, he or she isn't a believer yet, but I know if I marry 'em and work on 'em, they're gonna be Don't do it. It's it's a it's it's a mistake, one, but it's a sin, too, right? God tells you not to be unequally yoked and you go do it anyway. You know, you're you're sitting against God's word. Um now if you're already married and then you uh experience conversion, well you don't run off and get divorced. No, God commands you to stay with the person. But if you're if you're not already married and you're not a now I can say there are times when you might think the other person's a believer and so you get married and you come to find out a few years later your wife is gets converted and you're like, I thought you were already a Christian I mean we don't know these things for sure, but if you have every reason to believe and that's why you want to have a council of of people to to to um to to weigh in and help you determine some of these things. And I think that's ultimately those classic wedding vows, you know, if anybody has any reason why they shouldn't get married, you know, speak now for everyone who's hold your peace. I think that's one of the main reasons why that's in there. Some they can say, Yeah, they shouldn't get married because F Bum's not a Christian. And she is. They're unequally yoked. And I in good conscience can't just stand here and abide this. No, they shouldn't like and then the a good pastor's like, Oh, wait a minute, what? You're not a Christian? I I thought you were. You know, I I think that's part of it. So I uh we can talk more about some stray uh tales on things that we didn't get to this week. I we I brought up the idea of kinism. I w I do want to talk about that And we touched on divorce, but we didn't really talk about divorce. We probably just spent a little bit of time talking about that because that's something that a lot of people unfortunately are are dealing with and wrestling with either in the moment or in the after effects of uh after effects of it. So anyway, Daniel and Imron Razby, uh thank you so much. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD Find us online at WFMB. com or Householdsoffaith in Christ dot com. We'll continue again as long as they keep having us back next week 100 Sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now. Till then, God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com