Good morning. Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you for spending part of your day with us here. If you're listening live, we really appreciate that. You know if you're listening later via podcast, well have a blessed day no matter what day of the week it is And as these shows are recorded, some of the things we'll be talking about today are rather proximate, but as you hear them on the radio, it's gonna be kinda like a time capsule. So you'll be able to listen back to what life was like in the Summer of twenty twenty four. Um but seriously there are so many things going on coming so fast. It seems a little reminiscent of what happened the summer of twenty twenty where the news cycle was just on hyper drive and here we are another presidential season. and the news cycle feels like it's on hyper drive once more. I'm not sure if that's a coincidence or if I'm imagining that or or what have you. But we do wanna uh start today talking about the whole Trump assassination thing, but not the X's and O's and I mean we might touch upon that. Yeah, how did the guy get up on the roof and why didn't the Secret Service do a better job and but really uh uh this is the faith debate And I want to take some time to talk about some of the biblical, theological, church world stuff that was talked about in ways maybe that it shouldn't have been. Or that uh or maybe in some case we'll give an ad a boy. Maybe we did a good job talking about some of these things. Or things were completely ignored that should have been talked about. Um the first thing I wanna want to bring up is the uh the Ephesians 6. 11. Uh apparently uh I wouldn't have known this if people didn't make the Ephesians 6. 11 connection. But apparently the bullet whizzed past Donald Trump and clipped his right ear at 6 eleven PM local time. And so people say, oh It was 611. Ephesians 6. 11. Full armor of God, don't you know? And that sounds reasonable, right? Totally reasonable Seriously, uh uh I think I'm speaking to a friendly studio audience right now. What is wrong with that sort of biblical exegesis? Well they had a one in sixty six chance of getting it right. Well at least all the books that have six chapters. Yeah, and and that's the voice of Elijah Dirksen, by the way. He is a uh seminary student pursuing his masters of a divinity degree and And uh he's been on the show in in the past. We're talking about Christian nationalism and maybe some other things. I can't remember exactly. And the other what you're about to be hearing is that of uh Imran Razvi, known as Raz, to uh some of the locals who who know him and his business. Uh Higher Ground Financial is a company that he owns and he's also founded a a ministry called um Um Conquered by Love. I don't know. I I have this hard time remembering the name of that ministry for some reason. Conquered by Love Ministries online at Conquered by Love. dot org. You can follow the show, of course, at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ dot com. So they had a uh one in sixty-six chance that's a really good point, right? Why didn't they pick out One of the eleven or Job six six eleven or Son of Solomon six eleven. In fact Let's see if I can oh is it not there anymore? Oh here it is. I actually picked one up just just for the sake of it. So here is Genesis 6. 11. Now the earth was corrupt before God and the earth was filled with violence. Trump must be full of violence. That works too, right? Okay, so yeah, they they just randomly pick the time on somebody's watch and point it to a Bible verse. Mm-hmm. They have one of sixty six chance. Well, if you believe that any one of them would apply, they had a one of sixty six chance. Uh Imran, any additional things you'd like to add to the Idiocy. Well the there it seems like people are looking for something, right? They're they're chasing some kind of mystical thing to attach to this. And well, why are they doing that? I think uh, you know, Elijah and I were talking earlier, I think it's because the lack of of uh the church not providing the path to God, the the the straight understanding of who God is and what God's doing. Trump Trump is really stepped into the void where we used to look to the church for our our source of moral guidance and now we we're going to this womanizing, foul mouthed presidential candidate. Because there is a void right now. Yeah, and uh I'm gonna make a note so I don't forget uh Pastor's void because uh I uh I have a thought about that Um others have shared similar kinds of ideas uh in recent days and weeks uh in the post-Trump assassination attempt world. Uh but I wanna I w I wanna finish the Ephesians 6. 11 thing first. One of the real just practical reality problems with trying to do this sort of bizarre cultural proof texting The numbers in our Bibles like this, the chapter headings and the versifications are not inspired No. They you know, Paul's not writing Ephesians and saying, Chapter six, verse one Now verse 2. He's not doing that. It's it's it's one big long letter. And as recently as about 500 years ago is when we finally have verses in the Bible So for the first seventy-five percent of the current history of the church, there were no verse numbers. So would you argue that since that was added to God's word that that person and whoever added that is gonna have all those plagues that the Bible says they have. Well I would make the argument on that poor person's behalf. I hope that you're not that there's nothing to He's not adding to the word, right? It was merely meant as reference so you could more quickly find things. More organization. Turn into your Bible to Ephesians chapter six, verse eleven, say, bang, okay, I can find it, as opposed to open your New Testaments somewhere in the middle. There's a paragraph that begins with, now go down four sentences. It will take you know a long time to get to where you're trying to go. Uh and so I don't have a problem with there being versifications, although I will say sometimes they're problematic. Sometimes where these chapter visions or even the verse numbers are placed don't make a whole lot of sense You know, like there's a new verse in the middle of a sentence. It's like it's the same thought. Like why'd you break that into two verses? Or or sometimes the thought like the the big uh one of the big pieces of the argument isn't ended yet and now chapter five, verse one starts. It's like no but it's The argument's not over till chapter five, verse four. So why didn't you wait until verse five to start the new chapter? Like there's some problems with it. But we we can't pr treat it as though that's inspired. That's it For sure. That's an unhelpful kind of a numerology. Now I'm not a guy who's opposed to uh j what's called gematria. Uh that's the um uh seeing um uh uh the the letters and words uh counting up to numbers and those numbers meaning things. Uh but it's got to actually be in the text And you have to have reason to do that. That has to be in the mind of the author who's using it. Yeah. D did the Apostle John intend for you to make this Chumatria connection in the book of Revelation? And I would argue in some cases yes Mm-hmm. But to artificially just start m randomly ni willy-nilly picking things and say, Oh, 'cause there's twelve letters there. Twelve. That To me a lot of these these things like they grab something tangentially related. It reminds me a lot of soft reading and psychics. Like I I'm seeing the letter M out here. Your does your name start with M? Well no it doesn't. Well does you do you have a dog that starts with whose name starts with M? Or maybe you have a mother the and and that kind of soft reading to kind of get you to the point where it makes sense. Right. Just kind of pull these connections and a lot of times it's just pulling it straps. I I still it comes back to I think we don't have the majority of people don't have a strong connection to Jesus and what is really spiritual. So they're seeking spirituality where there is none And that's why they're grasping at these tra they they're going to any place and say, Oh well look at this. This is an amazing thing. Now we have something more spiritual to talk to talk about and he's looked, he it's in the Bible But there's no leadership in this church of today. And that brings me back to the point I made the note about that I didn't want to forget. So we're styling right right back to where we were, which is good. I don't disagree that there is a leadership problem in the church. It's actually one of the reasons why I decided decided to go down the house church path that I took was I felt like it would give me the opportunity to mentor men and develop more leaders within the church, that sort of thing. So it was a it was a it was one of the driving forces behind me uh uh leaving behind. I was gonna say abandoning that's that's the way Right way to think about that, leaving behind the more traditional American model for church and doing a house church. However I think that that also w the way we tend to phrase it and hear it said begins to also put the finger on what the real problem is. You know, people They expect to get leadership from their pastor. They're they're looking to the church for guidance, you know. Yeah, as far as that goes. But only as far as that goes. The real problem is we're not looking to God for our guidance. We're not looking to his word for the truth and how to make it. The thing is the church should be pointing to that The church should the church should be what directs society in that direction. Think back of like John Knox. He was a a hugely influential political asset of of the the church in England and the church in Scotland. But the he was the one who dictated what was moral. He was the one who challenged the Queen when she was being awful. Eventually she killed him for it But because he was standing up to her and he was actually challenging society's norms. Where are those Christians today? Well now we're afraid to be canceled, not be killed. Well and I th I do think those I think that those Christians today do exist. Uh you know, uh Look, I I think that um it it's been a problem throughout the history of the church. It's been a problem throughout the history of of of mankind, right? Men uh are prone to being derelict in their responsibilities to take leadership. You know, we see it all the way back in Genesis chapter three You know, that was that was the uh the big driving force behind what's going on there. Uh uh Adam abdicated his leadership role. Eve was all too happy to step into the leadership void, and here we are Uh so I I'm disagreeing with that, but there are so many people, particularly in today's world where everybody's got a podcast. You know, uh I mean heck, we're on the radio. I mean if we can be on the radio, come on. So everybody's got some sort of a platform now and everybody's voicing and taking pop shots at The church, whatever that's supposed to mean. Well, you know, my experience, generally speaking, when I'm reading the Bible, is the pot shots end up getting taken at myself. Right? I'm reading the Bible and I'm convicted. And so I think we need to that's when good when God is the leader, when when we're looking to God for our answers. We have a tendency to be looking at a mirror at that point and we see the warts and freckles uh of of our own complexion and we realize I'm falling short. So yes There are far and we've talked about on the show before, so I'm I'm not opposed to uh we've named names before on this show. I'm not opposed to that. There are some really bad actors, some horrible pastors and and leaders within the church dropping the ball. But if that's where it begins and ends, and let's say you're listening to this show and you're a man, you're like, yeah, those pastors, okay, that's fine But now what about you? Yeah. It it it's not just the churches that this is the that we're calling to to account for this. It's every single Christian. Everyone has some kind of sphere of authority. Whether it be just as an individual putting to to death the sins that in your life, uh whether that be your family, uh leading them effectively, whether that be your church, you have a awesome influence in your church And even within the state, go out there and make your voice heard as a Christian. And m make sure everyone knows what your values are and knows that you that they should respect them. Yeah, I think uh the society and culture as as even the uh missionaries and street street preachers and all those, it's all about saving lives, but not really by discipleship. We've talked about this before. And so there's a real lack of where do we go where do we go now? We're looking for something something, searching for something, and as we're searching, then we try to connect the dots where there may not really be a dot there. and the line that goes from point A to point B, but we're trying to connect it because we want to have meaning in our lives for what's going on. Now, the Bible does say well, God puts people in authority, right? There's no one's gonna be president of this country unless God allows it. And so with things like that, people are trying to connect those dots. So is God doing this? Is he working through Trump? Well, I was kinda disgusted. I mean I voted for Trump. I did. And uh but now he's become pro choice. He's uh uh totally against um You mean it's it's a baby and you know if if you if it's not a baby then you're not pregnant. Simple as that, right? Yeah. And that itself has really killed my desire to vote for him. I didn't want to do it. And it's on the agenda for us to uh get to maybe not on this show, but we're gonna do a series of shows along hot topic current events in the summer and trying to put a biblical lens on it and talk about the theological implications and uh and I've got some thoughts on that as well. I want to amplify what Imran just said and Elijah probably does too. By the way, good opportunity to uh reset. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the faith that you just heard Imron Razvi. Uh Concordby Love. org is his website. He's one of the pastors at the Church of Meets at Imrans. And Elijah Dirksen is a seminary student pursuing his Masters of Divinity. uh degree and so uh that's typically the degree you get when you want to become a a a pastor or get really serious about uh uh your ministry efforts and so that's uh the path that he is is on. So you talk about trying to find these connections and looking for some sort of mystical, spiritual oh, this is what's going on in the world. How do I make sense of this all? And we talked about Ephesians six eleven already. Another thing that happened in the aftermath of the a attempt on Donald Trump's life was the the the fact that the uh bullet grazed his right ear. And so he got blood on his right ear. Would you like to expound upon why I'm mentioning the the right ear and the blood, Iran? God um told Moses to uh sanctify Aaron and his and his sons and they sacrificed a a an animal I used the blood to anoint the right ear, the right thumb and the right uh toe and it became very evident, um And and and I've heard pr uh pastors preach on this, that he's been anointed. He's got blood on his right ear, right thumb and right toe. And why right toe? Well w he was is uh seen and heard uh saying that I need my shoe, my shoe is off. So who took his shoe off when he was shot in the ear to anoint his uh toe? And again anointing This is this is his own blood w first of all. And there was a person that died. It wasn't an animal that was sacrificed. It was a person. I don't know that God is out there in the in the business of sacrificing people for for i himself. Um he's killed people out of uh anger. With one major exception. Of course Jesus. Yes. Yes. But but that's it. I mean that's Jesus. So he's not doing that and Jesus rose from the dead. Right. And it's him h offering himself up as well. I mean it's a whole but there's so many things that are missing. So somebody who hasn't Yeah, study the Bible or or crack their Bible open in a while, particularly in a book like Leviticus. Right? That's that's the part where people start to read read the Bible in a year program and they get to Leviticus and by that point they're done Yeah. So it was like See you guys your family has a prophetic insight. So picking up and and it's in Leviticus chapter fourteen, uh I think is what Imran's talking about, and picking up with verse twelve Then the priest shall take one of the uh the one male lamb and bring it near for a guilt offering. So Was there a priest uh on the stage with Donald Trump on that day? Yeah, that Secret Service lady that was bowing behind him. Was there a male lamb anywhere near what was going on Was there a guilt offering happening? Was it a religious ceremony, in other words, it was happening? It was a political ceremony. It pointed to a greater lamb sacrifice. That that that's the point of this. It wasn't this made these priests so great. It was, we're going to sanctify these priests by pointing to Jesus, who would be sacrificed for them in the future. It goes on to talk about the male lamb being slaughtered. uh offered up as a burnt offering in the sanctuary. Again, none of this was present uh on the on the day that the the former president was was shot at and a and hit in the ear. Uh the priest shall then take some of the blood of the guilt offering. Um I'm losing my lines here. And the priest shall put it the priest shall put it on the lobe of the right ear of the one to be cleansed, and on the thumb of it wasn't on his lobe. I never saw any blood on his thumb. Was there were there pictures of blood on his thumb? I never did see I don't know. I mean I'm sure he probably grabbed his ear. Yeah, and it got on his hands, right? 'Cause he reached up and so it definitely got on his hands somehow. But yeah, that's not the same I Anyway, and uh I don't know. I guess the only way that you could talk about the right toe is if somehow blood dripped on to his big toe when his shoe came off. Right. Who took the shoe and sock off. Which is bizarre by the way, right? You you you hear that on a tape on uh afterwards, like they're running trying to go on Facebook. Wait, wait, wait, let me get my shoes. He wanted to be comfy. Why did he take his shoes off? Or did they tackle him and knock him out of his shoes or something? Like I that was that's bizarre. But then his sock would have to come off too, unless the blood went through the sock and I mean it's just The you you're grabbing a things and yeah, he probably used his right hand to touch his right ear and got blood on his thumb And then uh you know, maybe maybe one secret service agent stomped on his foot and he had to take his toe out to rub his toe with his the bloody hand and now his toe is uh gun blow. I don't know But there are pastors that that were been actually pushing this all through summer there there's been several different churches, several different pastors have been on the air and p putting videos on how this is just an anointing from God and how Trump is gonna be here, he's gonna save this country, he's gonna save these people, he's gonna save Christianity. I don't think any of that's true I think God's gonna use Trump as he wants to. But no. Well God is using Joe Biden as he wants. He used Barack Obama as he wanted to. But the same would also apply if Joe Biden had a near missile an assassination. It was still part of God's plan for him to be able to do it. God sovereignly, his hand was sovereignly involved in the assassination attempt. Yes. Yes. Right? Nothing happens outside of God's control or he's not sovereign. Absolutely. So a okay, yeah, he's protected from what God orchestrated to begin with What I would disagree with would would be this is uniquely part of God's plan as opposed to every anything else that's happening, which I is I think how a lot of people are using it just God specifically intervene in this particular instance but no other time because Trump is God's anointed. I don't think I don't buy that Now here's uh uh Brandon Biggs, apparently is this gentleman's name, and this made the rounds big time on social media Let's let's see here what uh this uh prophetic uh prediction of the Trump assassination apparently made back in March. of uh of this year. March fifteenth, I guess. Uh he said this on his on his podcast or somebody's podcast or something. Let's see. Michigan. And then I saw Oklahoma and there was embers of people and they were all on um these these they had torches all throughout Oklahoma and they were raising up these torches that looked like fire and they were bringing forth a new patriotism upon the nation and it was coming it was being birthed and it just kept Spreading like fire all throughout America, all throughout and I saw Trump rising up. And then I'm not sure if you're not sure. Did we see anything like that? Were there a bunch of torches in Oklahoma? Did I miss that news story? No something about Wisconsin. I'm I'm just making sure I mean I don't watch the news like I used to, so maybe I maybe I missed that one, but okay, let's we'll see what he has to say next. I saw uh attempt on his life Uh that w the this bullet flew by his ear and it came so close to his head that it busted his drum eardrum. In fact, what actually happened in history is that the bullet hit Donald Trump's ear. It didn't whiz by his ear. So that's a factual error in this prophecy. And his eardrum was. Secondly, his eardrum was not busted or whatever he said. Right? So that's two errors in this prophecy. Let's what you know, let's give him the pep and let's listen a little more And I saw um he was he fell to his knees during this time frame and he started worshiping the Lord. He got radically born again during this time frame. I'm talking W people say he's saved now, but he becomes really on fire for Jesus for what So did he fall to his knees worshiping Got tackled. I mean he might have fallen on his knees back there but I don't think he came up worshiping and I don't think he and he never repented, he never made a statement that I Yeah, this uh he did give credit to to uh to Jesus. He did say credit to God that God saved him and uh for I heard him say credit to God. Did he say Jesus specifically? I don't know if I caught that. I don't know. I I don't remember But he did give credit to God several times and by the grace of God, by God's mercy I'm here. So he gave credit And he was saved because God's on his side. Yes. I heard him say that too. God's a public, right? Has has he changed? But God's not on anybody's side. side. Right? And the question is whether or not we're on God's side. That's the question. And now there's a little bit more to this. I'm not sure uh that I remember how this ends, but let's let's see if there's anything else. Interesting. What I saw coming. And um then I saw people interceding when he I and I see him I saw him winning. the the presidency. Uh through great uh the Lord showed me it would go clear into the the summer. Great persecution would come on him through the judges and through the um through the law and all these people trying to sue him and all this stuff, but there would be a stop to it and their things would start to to break free, come toward the fall. And then I saw him winning uh the election uh through uh the Patriots coming out and voting. Alright so the law fair, that's not a prophetic, that was just in the news, that's news coverage. Uh and the um whether he wins or not. So There's no no way to know right now whether or not he's gonna win, but he whether he wins or not, I mean he had a fifty fifty chance of of calling that one. Right. This guy's getting credit as being like a true prophet who predicted the assassination. Down to the details people were telling me. What am I missing? Am I missing something? To be fair, I I hadn't seen the video before and him guessing the right ear I th I can see how some people would think, oh that's that's awesome. He actually predicted it. But yeah This is what I think a lot of the Elijah's a real Christian. He's generous and kind hearted. Not not like me. Jaded and bitter and angry at the world. Okay. Well here here's my jaded part. All he's doing is what a lot of uh false teachers and false prophets do. They throw a lot of things at the at the wall and see what sticks. They f find something that's plausible, a deeply unpopular president who a lot of people are super angry at Yeah, that it's probably likely that he's gonna get assassinated or have an assassination attempt. Well, okay. So I'm I'm not alone in this. So you can send your heat hate mail to all three of us. Anyway, that's gonna be the conclusion of this week's Faith Debate Show. We're just plum out of time. Uh Elijah Dirksen's the last one you heard speaking before me. I'm Troy Skinner. The other voice you heard today was that of Imran Razby. Find us online at wfmd. com or householdfaith in Christ dot com. Pull you back Next week and we'll be talking about um I think the Olympics. That's what's next on our agenda here on News Radio 930 WFMD.