Welcome to the fake debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here. As uh we're here every week and if it's your first time, well you're in for a treat. Not sure why. If I just feel like saying that, you're in for a treat. Every week. Nine o'clock and nine thirty on Sunday mornings. You're in for a treat. Uh my name is Troy Scarrow, I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. You can find everything I'm about online at household of faith in Christ dot com. I'm joined this week by Imron Razby and Daniel Razby. They co-pastor a church in Thurmont called the Church that meets at Imran's. And they uh also run a ministry that they founded quite a number of years ago now. It's called Conquered by Love, and their website is Conquered by Love. Love dot org, hung by love ministries and the website hungballove. org. So we've tackled a lot of really heavy theological things in recent years. We actually went through some and tried to digest and process what was being said in these these tomes. Right, the theological tones about all the key issues in the world. And um before we got into all that though, we spent a lot of time talking about what's going on in the the world. And what Christians and what the Bible would tell us, and how Christians should understand all that, interact with that, you know, what should our policy positions be on certain things, that sort of thing. And so we're kind of pivoting back to those sorts of discussions uh today. So some of these, as I'm look- we've got a list of like five or six different things we're going to hope to recover during a single recording session. For those who are on the outside looking in, we we tend to record a whole bunch of shows kind of at one time, uh, in show arcs as they call them. And most of these were instigated um by side comments that were made by somebody on the panel. Most of them were Daniel Rasby's side comments and I thought, ooh, let me write that down. You are good that way. But let me write that down. That'll be a good show topic one day I I think one of these maybe was a d uh a David Forcey thing, but he's not here to comment, so we can just bludgeon his position to death, whatever it might have been. And uh perhaps one or two of these is my I don't know, I'm not sure, but I think most of these actually were were Daniel's uh I don't know if they were suggestions for shows, but they were things he brought up that others thought, ooh, that could be a good suggestion for a show. So I'll be curious to see what we all have to say, particularly Daniel. So the first thing we want to talk about is Drugs. I I wish I could do like with my mouth, an egg cracking sound effect and then the sizzling. Remember those commercials back in the day? This is your brain. This is your brain on drugs. Drugs. Should they be legal? Now I know when I was um much younger, much, much, much younger, uh my mother had this to say about drugs. She said, don't do dope, because it'll make you a dope That stuck with me. As corny as it is, it stuck with me. And so I was never big into drugs, you know, you know, I'd have some alcohol. You know, you want to count that as a drug. And I've had some pharmaceuticals prescribed by physicians when I was ill, if you want to count that as a drug. Uh or given my audience in the studio, Imran, this is for you. I've had my fair share of sugar Which I know some consider to be a drug. So um guilty as charged. However, I've never been too big on Thinking about what the policy positions should be about drugs, most of my life I had kind of a libertarian philosophy about it Um like, you know, hey, if somebody wants to go be comatose stoned high on whatever their drug of choice is in the basement of their house for days on end, whatever I don't know that it's the government's job to worry about that for them, but maybe I'm wrong. Um I do see the damage that's caused by it. And so should the government or what if it's not the government, what entity? So Again the question is drugs, should they be legal? So And now we have the big epidemic of fentanyl. I mean you got the walking dead now in most of the the country with fentanyl that uh and you know, mixed with horse tranquilizer and all sorts of nasty stuff and It really makes you people just stand there like they're dead, but standing up up upright. It's crazy. I wonder if that's what I saw you I wonder. Does does it happen maybe in flashes or or they're they're standing there dead for a long time? Uh both. Because I was driving with my wife the other day going to a store in Frederick and we turned a corner and there was this guy with like a I think it was his a bicycle or maybe a little motorbike or something off to the side and he was staring down Almost like in a frozen, slightly cockeye, like he was ready to tumble over into the road. And we're like, is that guy okay? Is he c and so we're drove past him slowly to make sure we wouldn't hit him and then I could my wife was the one driving. I could tell she was thinking, should I stop? Like do we need to go help this guy? And so she slowed down to like five miles an hour and and all of a sudden we noticed like he came back To life if you will, and stir upright and then start a walk against it. What the heck was that? You think it was spent all maybe? Yeah, probably. Wow Yeah, there's a the sentinel mixed with something else that that's been going around that that that I've seen on the news a few times about that type of thing. I guess uh to answer the policy question like we we should first figure out what does the Bible say about it, you know, and and a lot of people I I've I've heard proponents of drugs say God gave us every green herb Every green herb to to you know for for for us for our benefit, you know, as in all of it is created by God, right? So shouldn't it be useful for all purposes? And I think A lot of the the drugs uh that are used in in extremely small doses can be used for uh, you know, anesthesia and things like that or for certain health uh benefits and and and stuff and I don't want to make this into a uh discussion on the benefits of C B D oil and all that because I don't I don't really have a lot of dollars in that area. I just know there's a lot of proponents of that, back pain and all these things. But I think there is there is a lot uh a lot of uh biblical teaching on drunkenness. And I think that's probably a really good analogy because when you're under the influence of drugs it it can be very similar and in many cases worse than the influence of alcohol depending on the drug and what you you're doing and how it's affecting you and so on. And I think Uh my position on alcohol would be that the Bible does not prohibit you from drinking alcohol. It just says don't be drunk. and you know, then there's all sorts of people that argue, well, even a couple of sips is gonna make you feel the effects and make you impair your judgment and all that. And so we can go off on that tangent as well. But I think just as a general principle the biblical uh and something that I think most Christians should be able to agree on is the Bible condemns drunkenness. Some Christians would go quite a bit further, says the Bible condemns alcohol as well. I'm not one of those. I think Jesus did drink wine, not grape juice and uh as some would say. But I think uh don't be drunk and and I think that can apply to other drugs, to marijuana, to cocaine, to fentanyl, to anything else, to mushrooms, uh, you know And I think there are certain types of drugs that do open you up spiritually to demonic influence. Um, I think either housing housing uh drugs are going to invite uh spiritual um attacks in ways that uh you may not want or in in many cases the some of the people that that are doing them uh they're proponents of them they do n they do want that's the uh if if they're more occult in the occultist meaning. As far as what the government should do about it, I don't know. I mean I think the i I I I come back to m my my principle is what what was prohibited in Scripture for you know for people and then what was the government supposed to enforce because there are many crimes According to Scripture, you're an adulterer if you look with lust, but those adulterers were not condemned to death under the law only ones who actually physically committed adultery. Um, even though God is clarifying, you know, you're w just as worthy of hell as somebody who committed the act if you're thinking about it, that doesn't mean for thinking about it you're gonna be killed, uh, on this earth or punishment on this earth. And I think there's a lot of sins and vices that are like that. There's n there isn't much in scripture about penalties, like f uh civil penalties for drunkenness. There is the one example of, you know, parents can bring out their uh the son and uh and say, well he's He's a dru drunkard and uh and a glutton and he doesn't uh obey, he's of no benefit to society and all this, and then they they stole him. So there's there's a specific isolated uh case law or or um uh law about that. But by and large I don't I don't see a lot of micromanaging people's behavior that's in in a biblical uh uh light that the government should be doing I think there there's things you should do to live honorably before God and then there's other things that the government should enforce, mainly as it affects Other people immediately sell. Like there should be consequences. I don't uh yeah, I'm more of a libertarian in that aspect as well and biblically as well. You know, you have access to all those, you would the government shouldn't be involved, but if you m make an impact on somebody else's life or their freedom or their enjoyment of life in any way, then you've got to make recomp recompense And that brings us into the other topic we're talking a little about is is jail and incarceration. And neither one I believe is is biblical, but uh the in this situation So oh, if we had a system where we would actually have people make recompense for something they did while they were intoxicated or under the influence that would be sufficient. And then if you want to be whacked out in the basement and and do that and ruin your life and y you know, ruin your family, I don't think it's the government's job to regulate that. Um the government tries to babysit us way too much Yeah. Yeah, it's it's I'm I'm glad that Daniel was very quick to make sure we want to frame this. But what does the Bible say about it? Because if we do it just based on popular uh opinion these days. Uh again, a story about me and my wife. We were having to wait in the car well, we'd have to wait in the car. We chose to wait in the car. I we went to place an order uh for takeout. And he said, Oh, it's gonna be like fifteen, twenty minutes before it's ready. He said, Okay, so walked around the strip mall you know that surrounded that restaurant a little bit and after like five, ten minutes there really wasn't anything that was interesting for me to like walk into and check out. So I thought, okay, this is a boring strip mall. Let me Let me go wait in the car. So we sat in the car and we waited. And if we were there for like, I don't know, ten, fifteen minutes waiting. And during that time More people there's a dispensary in that strip mall. More people by far went in and out of the dispensary than every other store in the strip mall combined. I w it was Shocking actually. Uh we didn't know what it was at first. Like, what is that store? They're doing bang up business. Like look at that place. Like every thirty seconds somebody's walking in and coming out of that store. What is happening? So you didn't go in to find out Well then we saw there was a security guard stationed outside and was like, What the heck is that? And then I think my wife was the one that said, Oh It's one of those marijuana places. I was like, oh you're right it is. So we went on popular opinion Oh, it's totally fine. No harm, no foul kind of a thing. Um I would agree with pretty much everything's been said so far, so I gotta figure out if we can rustle something to get more of a debate going. I don't know. Uh I think the debate would be Uh in some of the grayer areas around the fringes of where positions are. Uh I don't think anybody disagrees that drunkenness is bad. Uh even non-Christians probably would say drunkenness is not a good thing. And all Christians are going to agree that, you know, being a drunkard not a good thing. There are some though that will have gradations, like, you know, being a drunkard Might me like you're habitually drunk, you're you're like Otis from Mayberry on the uh Andy Griffith Show or you're just constantly everybody knows you're the town drunk and you have that reputation and that's what it is to be a drunkard. You shouldn't be that. But if you If your metabolism can handle uh one or two glasses of wine within, let's say, two hours, but you have three glasses of wine and you start to feel the effects a little bit, you get just a little bit tipsy or warm or whatever you however you want to describe that that feeling, but that's okay because you're not really drunk. And even if you are, you're not a drunk erd, you're just in that moment uh hyper relaxed, let's put it that way. And then there's others of course that goes so far as to say you shouldn't touch it and uh grape juice is okay. And I agree with you. I there's not a biblical defense for that, honestly. I mean if if it was the argument that's made is that the word is the same for grape juice or for wine. But look at the effects that are having the context of the uh uh of the passages seemed to indicate it was actually wine. Yeah, and Noah sure did get rather drunk on uh grape juice. You know, I mean if And in fact there's passages in the Old Testament that say when you go on vacation and you get your tenth of your all your um so by the way and and maybe this is another topic, I think uh there's a biblical precedent for spending ten percent of your gross income on vacation. Um I think that's that there's a vacation tithe in the Bible. And n not a uh it has to be a God honoring. I don't think I've ever heard that before A vaca did you make up that term vacation tithe? Uh the term vacation uh maybe I made it up, I don't know but you coined the term. But there is there's several different tithes in the Bible as you as you know. There there's a tithe that you give every year to the to the Levites and there's the tithe you give every three years to the poor. And then there's there's also a tithe every year for one of the feasts you take uh uh uh uh ten percent of all of your increase. And if you go to Jerus to Jerusalem to celebrate, and if it's too far, take all your uh physical increase with you, you turn it into money, and then when you get to Jerusalem, it says spend it on whatever your heart desires, whether it be Wine or strong drink specifically. So not just wine, but also strong drink. Wow. Um and other I I would I would c the caveat that any sort of analogy to the modern times that we make with that it would definitely have to be a God honoring vacation. I don't recommend you take ten percent and go to the strip club. Right. Okay. Um but would be acceptable to use in a s at least in a certain celebratory uh occasion, um, which i I thought was interesting and I think that kind of flies in the face of the people that say, well, the wine just means grape juice, well how do you deal with strong drink, um, you know Yeah, I think you know, there's no restrictions on on drugs. We talked about the drugs. I don't see any restrictions the restrictions on behavior. There's restrictions on not being in control of your of your senses and behaving inappropriately or behaving in a whi manner that is dishonorable or um you know not proper And if you hurt somebody well then you're responsible, whether you meant it or not. Because even if you killed somebody by accident, you never had any um ill intent towards them before you're still guilty of murder but you have a sanctuary city to go to. Yeah, we're and we're we're touching upon the spheres of s uh spheres of government really and usually you talk uh and when you talk about the spheres there's three that are mentioned but I always like to include a fourth So, you know, because I think um the government has control over certain things, right? That the church has control over certain things, the the family has control over certain things, and I've argued that the fourth one, that the self is to have control over certain things. And so I think this falls into the context of a self-control measure. And if you can't control it, I think the first line of defense is your family to say Like, you know, in your family, if you know, if if Imran's getting, you know, lit every night on on his favorite, you know, alcoholic beverage, Daniel's gonna say, Dad Come on. You're like the leader of the family. You can't be doing that. The family's gonna hold you to account, I would assume. Well that and that's that's what we've talked about briefly and maybe we'll talk about someday all in more depth on the show about honor and shame and the idea of collective uh collective guilt is maybe a a good way to understand it. Uh societal uh you know uh you know you you but before your for your family, right? And we don't really have that kind of feeling in this country Everybody's well that's his problem. If he's if he's my dad and he's a uh this or that, that's his that's not me. That's his and and we we feel some of it through sports That's my team, we won. We won. No, you had nothing to live. But we won. that's brought to the family or to your clan or to whatever. And I think that's actually a good thing. Um and I I agree that will be a way to impact. Now how do you implement that in a society that does not have collective honor or shame Uh I don't know. Um I think he here's an interesting uh curve ball to throw in. If we're gonna say, okay, so what you do in the privacy of your home with the uh um you know the alcohol or the the cocaine or the fentanyl or whatever you shrooms, whatever you want to do. That's that's your business, that's none of my business What do you then say to somebody who says, Oh yeah? Well then I can I call myself a girl too in the privacy of my home? Can I have a a gay relationship in the privacy of my home? Can I kill my baby in the privacy of my home? So the maybe we can argue, well that's a different person, now you're affecting another person specifically. The homosexual relationship, there is a specific uh um command in scripture and it does say this is in a purview of the government is to uh punish any form of fornication, if heterosexual or homosexual Uh and there is the death penalty for all of that. So they're not singling out gay people, but men and women too. But the that's that's something that especially right now, and I think this is very irrelevant because a lot of conservatives are saying, well You can't train as the kids. But what do you do in as an adult, consenting adult, if you just want to hold yourself out as a woman, I mean I don't have to call you a woman, but you can dress in a dress that's okay, put a dress on, no problem with that You're not hurting me. And I think that's because of confusion over what the spheres of authority and and control over different things are. So if the person All of those things I think I I maybe I've missed one or two that I wouldn't include, but I think every single thing you listed there as the kinds of things that a libertarian mindset would say, hey, you know, to each his own Uh the Bible, you know, God tells us those things are bad. Avoid those things. There is never a situation where dressing up as a woman and and holding yourself out as a woman is okay. So never a situation where homosexual acts are okay. So keeping it on you know the drugs and alcohol theme, if you want to get completely wasted every single night, you know, you're sinning. Sure. Right. And so that's where your friends, your family are going to step in hopefully and have like one of the what are those meetings called? The uh account not called accountability meetings. Intervention have an intervention, right? And if that fails and they're church people, right? You can go to the leadership of the church or or mature people in the faith and say, Can you get involved and help here? Because uh This person needs help to understand that they're sinning against God, they're sinning against their family, they're sinning against all that's right, true, good and beautiful. Uh and the church can exercise some discipline if they if if it's found that they are an unrepentant drunk and and they refuse to stop being a drunkard, well then th their Matthew eighteen comes into play and you you exercise church discipline to try to call them to their senses. All of that aside, we usually don't talk about that stuff because we don't really have family value anymore. We have it takes a village value these days and there is no self control. It's never my fa fault is always somebody else's fault. And nobody goes to church or cares what the church has to say. So all we're left with with are the civic powers, the the the civil magistrates. And what is their role? It sounds like all of us, unless I'm misunderstanding, all of us are saying Yeah, it's it's there's a role for all those other things to be involved, but there's not really a role for the civil government to be involved unless they do damage to somebody and then what big reparations is the big word these last few years, right? Reparations. The word we should be focusing on is restoration. We should have a restorational justice system so that if I do something that's harmful to you, I should restore things. And that's what you're talking about. You go drunk driving and you hit somebody's car, well they should fix it Mm-hmm. So so we're all on the same page. Now they can't earn an income. Now you need to be providing for their family now. Because they can't provide for their family. They're not alive anymore, right? That that there are consequences to acting under the influence of any Substance much better than actually going to jail and sitting there and nobody wins. Yeah, and we're going to talk more specifically about prison and jail in next week's show. So here's the dilemma. So here's the dilemma then. If we uh let's say we all agree this and this is normally uh regulation of drugs and alcohol is more family and maybe the church, but for sure not the government. Well what do you do with the fact that those t spheres of influence aren't existing anymore. You only have the government. So is it a is it is it incumbent on the government to step in because these other institutions are not doing their job? And that will be the argument that people make for welfare, right? Well the church should really be providing the charity. They're not, so therefore the government should provide it. And You know, the and then the that now that the government is providing it, the churches say, Well, we don't have to 'cause you can just get on the government benefits. Yeah. And so now you have that problem. I think if It's it's a big problem it's growing. And we have roles and we have lanes we're supposed to stay in for a reason. And uh sometimes a ridiculous argument is best understood by a r ridiculous example. Those who would argue that well if if if the husband's not doing what he's supposed to do as a husband. He's not providing a paycheck to support his wife, for example, then the government has to come in and do that. Okay, well if the gov if the husband's not fulfilling his husbandly duties in the bedroom, does the government have to send somebody in there go have sex with his wife? Of course not. Right. That's not the role of the government. The government shouldn't be having sex with your wife. You know, so we all have our lanes and our roles of responsibility. And we need to do that. Somebody doesn't do it doesn't mean you can get to usurp your authority in another way. In another area. We talked about that with women pastors previously Because there are no qualified men to lead the church, you still doesn't mean you can have a woman pastor. Now the one thing you said earlier and I made a note 'cause I wanna and we have a couple we have like ninety seconds if you can just give me a quick reason why 'cause I'm not sure I see a difference. from somebody being open to demonic activity if they're just completely b plastered on alcohol versus being stoned out of their mind on some other pharmaceutical is it. I think certain drugs do have a specific hallucinogenic effect and there are some spiritual aspects to that that are not present in normal. So the hallucinogenic part of it. Yeah. I think that when you're d uh uh opening your mind up to hallucinations and uh and uh So you're really annoying all the Native Americans right now. Who that's specifically what they're doing with the coyote is is is balances I I I don't have a problem saying that. Yeah, I mean that's that's what it is. It's it's it's inviting demons to come possess you and walking in the spirit world and they'll say that they're walking in the spirit world Uh the Bible says it's it's possible. It says don't do it. It is possible to do. Uh and you know you should be filled with the Holy Spirit and and be in communion with God. Okay, yeah that no that's a that that that's a good distinction I think. Yeah, stay away from that hard stuff. And it's funny how the s the hard stuff has changed over the years. When I was, you know, just a little little type back in like the You know, the seventies, the the thing that was talked about on TV, all the cops and robber shows, you know, uh heroin was the big scary drug. And then the eighties, you know, cocaine and crack. was the the the the scary drug. And then the nineties I'm not sure transitioned into s some some other I forget what and then you know fentanyl eventually and well pills were a big deal too. It was a thing. And then the the painkilling drugs, uh the the oxyton and oxycodone stuff, uh that was fentanyl probe and now it's fentanyl. And it'll be something else next year probably. It's there's always some new thing that we're trying to destroy ourselves with All in the name of fun. Isn't it fun to destroy evil? Yeah. We need Christ. Yeah. So without Christ that's all meaningless. So next week we are going to transition into jail, whether there should be jail systems, prison systems, that sort of thing. And and Imran is right. There's a logic to our progression here. So we talked about drugs and illegality or legality of that and then what you should do about the incarceration of people or what the penalty should be. Imran Razi Daniel Rasby. Again, you can find them online at conqueredbylove. org. They co-pastor the church that meets at Imran's in Thermott. I'm Troy Skinner. You can connect with me either through WFMD. com or through Household of FaithinChrist dot com. Now that's more keystrokes, but it's worth it because there's a whole lot more stuff that's related to the ministry, the show, memes, social media links, all that sort of There's a lot more content and stuff at Household of Faith in Christ dot com as it relates to the faith debate than you can find on WFMD. com. And that's not a slight to the radio station's website, but I have an entire website dedicated to the stuff that is important to me that I'm involved with. Got one page on WFMD's website because they have other pages. I'm not sure why they only need the Faith to Bay page, but they've decided to have other pages. So anyway Well, we're gonna pick up our conversation where we're leaving off this week next week, about 167. 5 hours from right now. Until then, God bless.