The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. That's right. You know that True. This is the Faith Bay. Thanks for starting your Sunday. Well, we woke up hours ago. So spending, maybe not starting, but spending still will be our Sunday morning with us here at 9 30 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, a longtime host. Come up on eighteen years I've been doing this show. They haven't kicked us off yet, so don't tell anybody. They don't know where I'm in the air. So, if they find out we're off in a minute and a minute and a half, I'm sure. Um, we're gonna be a little bit sh shorthanded today, but you know, I think Daniel uh by the way why have the right mic say something. Try say something again. Say something again. Microphone. Oh there we go. Okay, now we got the right microphone. And you'll notice you're the Funky music, yeah. You know, we live in an internet age now and uh radio station to pays royalties so that it can it can use commercial music and all that sort of stuff. So music we use in the past has been broadly available commercial kind of music. We've had three different theme songs in our coming up on 18 years. Now our fourth. Why have we changed? Because we just changed to the new one when we changed the format with the uh the standing set panel of the RASVIS and uh David Forcy and and me. We've kind of s an established panel week after week. And we changed the music with that change in how we're doing the show. But you know, I realize I kept getting uh little little flag warnings from the Internet police because even though the radio station's paying for copyright on these songs We don't have necessarily the rights to all the music on these various platforms. So I went with royalty-free music uh moving forward. And so that's what it is. Kind of upbeat, kind of fun. Anyway, I mentioned the Razbeys in general. Daniel Razby is uh one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imrans. And I don't know if you're involved with the ministry, if that's just your parents thing. Are you involved with that as well? Yeah. Okay. The um Conquered by Love Conquered by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. Uh you can find a bunch of resources there. And so okay, so That's how you can maybe connect with the Razbies and what they're all about. You can also learn something about them at my church's website, household of faith in Christ. com. That's household of faith in Christ dot com. So last time um we have a tendency to record shows in arcs and once upon a time we would pick one topic, sometimes two. and talk about that one sometimes two topic all in one evening and and record them as like four or five shows What we've been doing more recently is we're still recording four or five shows at a time, but we're doing been doing different topics for each show just because there's so many things we want to try to cover as quickly as possible. And uh we just got a little behind the eight ball last time and uh so I don't know if our welcome to a Reignite our memory banks, remember all the things we wanted to say last time we recorded, because we are going to talk about the the uh the the ethics questions around the shots. So this could be all shots. Yeah, not just COVID. Great. There's the COVID shot which um I I I think is probably mo most forefront on most people's minds these days and whether or not there are uh there's uh a abortal fetal tissue involved either in the in in the ingredients or in the testing or in the development or whatever and what are the ethical questions and Um it's not something that's gotten a lot of attention compared to what one would expect. It's gotten some attention, but it hasn't gotten a lot of attention and To be honest, I don't know that we've tackled it yet on this show. Certainly not since we've gotten this new panel, and I'm not sure if before that we Right the action. And this is related because if it is an ethical, religious objection kind of a thing, then being mandated to do something that goes against your religion, goes against your conscience is something that we want to be informed about. Um the way I framed it was, should a Christian volunteer to be because I'm I'm just off the off right off the bat I'm gonna say nobody should be forced. Right. Regardless. So the question for the Christian then is, I'm with you. If you're being forced and you want an advocate, I'm your advocate. I don't think anybody should be forced. But should a vo a Christian volunteer? to be injected if the shots, any shots, were developed using aborted babies. So what say you, Daniel Razby? Well let's let's I'm glad you use that last phrase, aborted babies, because they are babies. People say aborted fetal tissue makes it sound very sterile and very not uh you know not a person. And I cleaned it up even more so than I might normally because to be honest, murdered babies is what I'm what I'm trying to do. Murdered human beings, right? Um, I'm laughing as you say that just because of the insanity of it all. Now, there is there is a caveat though, and that is At least officially, and you know, there's all sorts of conspiracy theories all the time about whether things are continuing to be done, but at least in theory, most of the medical research that is done using dead baby parts, um is not now today being done by killing more babies. There are more babies being killed due to abortion, but Most medical research is using cell lines from babies that were already died like 40 years ago. Um and So that is that is a distinction. Some Christians feel that's not a distinction at all. Um some feel it's a very important distinction because there's n you're not actively participating in new death. And you might compare that to, you know, w the US hired a lot of uh Nazi scientists uh after World War Two so we could win the space race and these were scientists that were guilty of a lot of horrors in uh World War Two. Um and regardless of hiring those people, we we uh build research on uh on the billing box of other research conducted by very immoral and evil people in the past. Not just from Nazi Germany, but other you know, places in the past. People torture and kill other people and then they use that uh knowledge they gain during those things for medical research. So the question is then can you do you have to throw out everything? Do you have to come out with scrap from scratch with a new research line and maybe we could stair step it a little bit? So let's let's say That there's a new and let's not use anything that's currently on the market so that we don't have to worry about people think we're picking on a particular issue. So Six months from now, the world has introduced to this brand new miracle shot drug that's gonna like add fifty years to everybody's lifespan and make them, you know, look like ro not just not just be alive hanging on, but like robust life for fifty more years. And uh all you gotta do is go get this shot and you're gonna be when you're a hundred it'll be like you were fifty. You know what I mean? And uh but They had to uh you know use the body parts of dead murdered babies uh in order to make that happen. Well it's green. And and they had to do it this year. Right, their their final testing all that so w it's fresh. This is new. So given the the the incredible upside, people living longer, living better lives There's there would be a lot of ethicists making a kind of a moral equivalency argument. Right. Can a Christian trying to be obedient to what the Bible says make that sort of a moral trade-off? Well I would say no, because now y i if if you're talking about you are directly killing a life in order to prolong your own life, um that doesn't seem like a biblical concept, right? Biblically we're supposed to lay down our life to protect others. Um so it seems kind of the antithesis of what a Christian should be thinking about or doing. And if if there are babies being killed actively in in order to provide this advancement of w whatever it is, then I think that should give you pause to begin with. If there actually baby parts in the uh the the thing itself that you're taking whether you're swallowing it or uh putting in your in your blood or whatever and you're actually injecting yourself with human uh parts, you know, there's th that's that's a whole nother issue and uh you know, I think most Christians should instinctively think okay something's wrong with that, you know. Um Christian shouldn't participate in the development of it for sure. I'm hearing at least that much. And then once it's out in the market you're saying, yeah, it's like you put 'cause it's so fresh and new B but what if somebody said, Well I'll be me. I'll be I'll be the guy, right? I'll also th Hey Daniel, I mean come on, I didn't kill the baby. I mean they already killed the baby. They killed the baby back in January. I had no idea they were gonna kill any babies, but they did. And now here we are, it's October. And there's this miracle drug kind of thing, and I mean y uh I can't be held accountable for what they did in January. Uh I shouldn't take advantage of the fruits of that? That's that's the argument people use about those the cell lines. Right. Right. And when you make it January now it sounds oh, okay, well that doesn't sound as good. But if it's forty years ago, maybe that's so and That doesn't mean that the answer that you're you're giving or the thought that goes through your head is is correct in either case. Um and the argument has been made that pretty much everything, whether it's a vaccine or not, even Agile um was tested on these uh uh uh fetal uh uh cell lines. So if you are gonna be a little bit more than a few. It's shocking how many how many things have been. If you look it up online, it's it's astounding how many things we use all the time, we don't even think about it, that has a connection to the uh the baby killing mills. So I think you can certainly hold a a consistent position with saying you don't want to have any ingredients going into your body that are parts of other human beings. um certainly w ones that were murdered. Um there there's a whole nother argument to be made about the transplants and things like that, which is we don't really have time for on this show. Um that I think is a little bit different a concept, especially if somebody's volunteering giving a part of their body and they're still living as a result of that, right? Kidney tr uh donations and things like that. But I don't know uh th yes th there were atrocities committed back whenever it was, whether it was a few months ago or a few decades ago, a and are you profiting from that? And the the question is What c I I I think what kind of message does it send, right? As a Christian are you are you saying, look, I'm supporting that this this is a good thing. Or if you are you actually saying, look, this is a terrible thing, it's murders that were done. Um now we've gained this knowledge which I mean we can prove to be true by other means as well, you know, this this uh whatever the medical thing is, let's just say you can prove that something works and this it's good for you and you can prove it In other ways besides the ways that have already been proven by using those uh uh aborted babies, well, I I would say that okay, well, just because somebody gained that knowledge originally by uh committing a sin Um that doesn't mean the knowledge itself is wrong to have. Um if you're actually using the uh the the baby parts to build whatever you're trying to build, then that's that's a little bit different, I think. Um the per so I and I'm it sounds like you and I have an awful lot of overlap in how we're thinking about this. So far I'm not sure. I may maybe I wasn't paying close enough attention. There's a little nuance here or there that we could pick at and disagree on, but I I feel like I'm agreeing with where you're coming from, which means whatever I'm gonna say, you're gonna agree with where I'm coming from. Uh but let me ask if this is also true then. Because of the level of agreement I think is here, I'm wondering if you're gonna say, Yeah, I'm I'm I'm there with you. I'm trying to figure out where the line is. So clearly killing a baby is wrong. Yes. Unambiguous, completely wrong. So those who killed babies. And just so for our listeners, a baby is somebody that has been conceived. That's why that sperm has touched the egg, it's a baby now. Killing that baby is so it's murder. So we're good we're agreeing there. And somebody who knowingly commissions that that be done so that they can make a profit or a big name for themselves or something, they're participating in those what we you and I would describe as murders. Not everybody who hears what we have to say is going to agree that that's murder. But I would say the Bible says it's murder. Yes. Uh so they're guilty. But what would the biblical argument be? This is where I am. This is this isn't me trying to be cute or or a gotcha question. I'm really wrestling through What's the biblical argument for saying it would be a sin for you, Daniel, for me, Troy, to to benefit from somebody else's Sin they intended it for evil, but maybe God intended it for good for you, for me, whatever. So where does the line get drawn? Well that that phrase that you took it comes from Joseph, right? Right, yeah. You meant it for evil, but God meant it for good. Right, yeah. And at the end of the book of Genesis. Right. And eventually his brothers actually profited from th having sold him into slavery. Which was wrong in the first place. Um so I Right, yeah, because their lives are saved because they get to move to Egypt and have all the food they can possibly want. Exactly. All because they sold them into slavery. Exactly. So why So is that selling in somebody into slavery is okay to profit from well that in that case in that case God meant it for good. And I think intent does matter, but intent is not the only thing that matters because the ends do not justify the means Right. But intent does matter. We have a legal concept and law egg uh uh in what was your intent and the Bible has the same concept. Because it talks about in the in the Torah in the Old Testament it talks about if you sin intentionally, presumptuously, or if you sin and you didn't realize you sinned, there's a totally different restitution you make. You're still guilty And you're still in a position of shame having committed that sin, but the intent does matter, right? So there there's a whole section, I don't remember uh what chapter I think in Leviticus it talks about if you if a soul sins presumptuously or a soul sins out of ignorance those are two different things. And you bring an offering and you say, Look, I'm sorry, I re I didn't realize I I did this uh after the fact, right? A as opposed to oh you did this intentionally, now you're gonna have the more severe punishment that's associated with that. Um I think that That sounds like something that would apply maybe to like an Abby Johnson, you know, a famous um pro-life advocate. She's not uh on the abolitionist team, she's more on the pro-life team, and those who are involved in those arguments know what I mean by that distinction She was the woman who her it was her life story that was part of the movie Unplanned. Mm-hmm. Uh that that came out how many years ago is that now? Several years ago now. Um and it got a rated R because of one scene, which it's crazy because I've seen some PG thirteen's that were way more graphic than the the that movies are. Let's face it, it got rid of R because they don't want the kids and young people to understand that it's murder. But she's somebody who was participating in it and then realized, oh my gosh, I don't know what I I didn't know what I was doing and now I know and and I repent. But again, that's somebody who's involved in the killings. You and I haven't been involved in the killings. So is it is it a sin for you and I, or the person listening to this show, is it a sin for them to get an inoculation for something that these killed babies were used in the testing and the ingredients and the what have you. Well that's the th those are two different things though. Testing and ingredients are two different things. Right? If you're actually putting the baby parts into your body versus you've you tested uh while committing s uh you know, evil acts. I definitely see that there's a difference and and that it's probably an important distinction to make, but again, you know, this is this is the faith debate where Christian pastors Sony says, well, help me understand the biblical argument. So what does how would the Bible dis define that distinction? And I'm sure it's there. Sure. And it feels icky and wrong and I want to find the biblical argument because I feel but that's eisegesis. I don't wanna I don't wanna find the Bible and have it agree with me. I want to agree with the Bible. Right. And I I don't know so is it ever wrong? Some people, you know, they they get stranded out in the middle of nowhere in the middle of winter and there's some famous stories about these sorts of things where they end up surviving because they eat the flesh of their dead comrades, right? They they they become cannibals for a season to survive. Is are are they in sin from benefiting from the flesh of their dead buddies? You know, it's it's related it's it's related to that question, but that question assumes that the Old Testament laws on kosher uh apply today Because that would be a food law. So how is it different if you're in doubt? Is there a difference between taking in the dead body into your mouth or taking in the dead body into your vein via an injection? Is there a difference? Well did you kill that person? And now we're getting into that question. Right. What if I didn't kill any of 'em? Right? I mean this is the this is the challenge, and these are the kinds of things that people who are looking for a religious exemption from getting some of these shots. They're making these arguments and they're getting pushback from, oh, what are you kidding? It was forty years ago and you know, you had nothing to do with these babies, these babies have been dead since before you were born. And you're worried about this? And come on, that's not a legitimate religious exemption. And yeah, I I would like to have an ironclad kind of way of helping them think through that. And I'm not so sure that this is an area where we have ironclad killing the babies is wrong Right. Profiting from the killing of babies is wrong. Treating baby parts like they're commodities, like they're not actual human being body parts is wrong. All of that is the technology now to do stem cell research from living adults. You can harvest stem cells from living adults and continue to and it it doesn't kill them, it doesn't hurt 'em at all. And you can use that in research. and in many cases do the exact same research that they used to do by using dead babies. And they it didn't all it wasn't always abortions. I mean they were miscarriagers and they they uh they uh um captured those um dead bodies and use them in in research, just like you use a cadaver of a of an adult person that dies in research. Um s you know, somebody that dies in natural causes. So it's not all not all of the cell lines and things are are are from abortions, but most of them can be traced back to a couple of specific abortions that occurred in nineteen seventy or seventy one or something. I don't remember the exact year So don't you know, quote me on it. But there supposedly in in the research I've done there's really just a couple specific babies that were killed at that point and then they just keep reproducing cells from those babies. So then now the question is were they actually are they actually dead or are we still um you know, because it's it's cells that have the same exact DNA of those original um babies in their living cells Um so are they uh are we keeping them alive for the purposes of continued medical reason? And there are other ways where we have benefited without even knowing it, probably. Well us, you and I, other people might know it, but we don't even know. The Tuskegee uh experiments about uh on on sexual uh transmitted diseases and stuff. I'm sure they learned some things from that that people benefit from today. Should they not benefit from that because of what they did to these poor people? Right. A lot of our medicine Uh the medical knowledge from the mid twentieth uh century comes from what Nazi scientists did by uh torturing and killing Jews. Right. and they found out things about the human body that w are actually useful bits of knowledge to know for medical science, even though the the um acts that they were committing were completely horrific and evil acts And so then the question is, okay, well now you read this fact in medical school, you go to medical school, you hear this, this is what the human body does and this is why we know it. Oh well now do you have to forget what you just learned or find it some other way in order to for it to be valid still? I I I don't know. I I think there is there's a point at which you can't undo the past and you just gotta move forward and say, look, I'm not gonna support any further um atrocities it's not not worth it. Right. Um Yeah, I think we want to be care I mean there's a lot of g guiding principles and I do want to give some people and if you have some thoughts too about some of the uh different kinds of religious exemption things you could angles you could take. Uh about that. We can share that. But I do want to say our God is not a ridiculous God. No. And so we can you know y I think it is important for us to think things through To the point of does it get to a point where it's ridiculous? So if somebody murders somebody and they fall dead on the ground and their their dead body decomposes and causes a rich environment for fertilized area and then later on some wonderfully ripe, rich, beautiful tomatoes come up as a result of that and you eat the tomato. Oh, you can't eat that tomato. That tomato tomato only grew because that guy got murdered and now you're a murderer. Like that's absurd on the f so We want we don't want to be absurd and that's why I'm not sure that that's the best ar well I think there are other arguments. Sure. So we've got like just a few minutes. Um you know, and then there's arguments whether you can call it a vaccination because it doesn't do the same thing vaccines historically have done. Uh you know, w whether it Prevents COVID or not. Um and that's that's not to say, you know, and you and I have discussed this on the show before, but that's not that's not to say whether they are or are not effective, but they uh or uh you know, but but the idea is that they're a little different than like the smallpox vaccine. However With that, I think the strongest argument as a Christian is the reason that I c can't take it is because it's being mandated. That's that's the number one reason, because I believe in the Bible and I read the Bible, it's it says very clearly to me that in some future time there will be a government that requires something to be done to my body in order for me to be allowed to buy or sell in the economy and transact in the economy. And even if you don't connect it with the market of the beast, the body the you know the Christian body, it's the it's the dwelling place of the Holy Spirit, it's a temple I did not just call this the mark of the beast. No. Let's be clear. No, but there are there are you you don't spend as much time on social media as I do probably. There are people that call it that. They're out there. I would not call this the mark of the beast. However, I I mean I could you could call it a dry run or you could call it preparing people to be able to do that. I think the because it wa it is being required in many jurisdictions in order to be allowed to to have the privilege of interacting in the economy, that is the number one reason I would say why a Christian should very have a lot of hesitation. Um and you can argue about the the different uh sa uh you know, ab abortion and and so on You can also talk about the ingredients or the efficacy and say, Look, I I'm not convinced or whatever I've seen the evidence or or haven't seen the evidence and I'm not convinced. That's something that you gotta determine and it is your responsibility to treat your body like a temple. Jesus said our body is a temple of of of God and and we need to be a treat it right. That's why you don't shouldn't be smoking, you shouldn't be doing drugs and you should eat healthy and and all those different things and so that goes with medicine too. You should be only putting things in your body regardless of anything. That inc you know, i if even if it's sh it's sugar, if it's tobacco, wh whatever, you need to know that this is This is good for you. Well we're gonna we're gonna wrap up there. And if there are other uh shot related vaccine uh you know research related things that we want to bring up next week we can, but we're gonna stay kind of on topic. Because as we're doing these shows, this week's and next week's show, we uh there's been a draft. I there's I I think it's been in the news. Something said about a leak maybe from the Supreme Court. I I haven't heard much about it. I think it's been like Like towards the end of newscasts and things maybe has been mentioned a couple of times. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. Daniel Razby, thank you for with just the two of us today, huh? We have to really flex our muscles and stretch out a little bit this week. But I don't know if he'll be here for next week's show or not, but probably the show after that, if not next week is of course we'll be saying that. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to Faith Debate. You can follow us online, of course, at wfmd. com, or you can find out about all the social media stuff I mentioned and the resources and the podcast and link even to the podcast for this show at household of faith in Christ dot com. Faith in Christ. com. That's Naked Church. The church that I pastor. Anyway, until next week, thanks so much for listening. Beautiful, wonderful Memorial Day weekend. So 167. 5 hours from now.