This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gap fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the master of divinity. From Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh. Troy Skinner. How is the human soul affected by sin? Or another way of putting the question, are some parts of the human soul affected more seriously? seriously by sin than others. For instance, does the human mind maintain a sin free ability to reason? Does the human heart have the freedom to emote without the hindrance of sin? Can the human will act in a way that is not corrupted by sin? Is it even appropriate to frame the question in this way? Here to talk about such things today, we have Jonathan Schweitzer. You might know him as a pastor, as a former candidate for the Frederick School Board the key player involved in bringing convoy of hope to Frederick. And also on the show we have Andrew Messinger, a singing face player who produces many movies, I'm told. And oh by the way, he's a believer and follower of Jesus Christ. So Here we are. This is our second round. We if you missed last week's show, go online to WFMB. com. You can listen to the podcast. It kind of sets the stage and the foundation. It defines some terms and establishes what we mean by some of the things we're talking about. Which is important because You know, uh we did the show, this is a quick aside. We don't have a lot of time, so it'll be a very quick aside. John and I started doing this show back in two thousand four. And I don't think I don't know, John was probably faster to figure it out, but I don't think I figured it out until about two thousand seven that wait a minute, we need to take time to define our terms on this show. Because there were too many times when somebody would talk about Christ and they meant something completely different than what I think the Bible means by Christ. Right. Or they talk about You know, sin even, or I'm trying to think of different terms that they would talk about things. Or they talk about Jesus as savior, but what they meant by savior was very different than And so you think you're agreeing and you find out at the shows of like we didn't really agree at all, did we? Very weird. So I'm amazed at how often that's the case and it's uh it it can get really frustrating. frustrating I think to people to have different definitions because those with different definitions from what we would say are are the historical definitions we end up feeling like their new definitions mean that they are heretical in their teachings. And so they don't all the time appreciate us uh zero zeroing in on those definitions. Now we decided toward the end of last week's show that we were going to focus primarily on uh the question of the impact of of sin Yeah. And I guess the impact of illumination for in the life of a believer on the heart, the mind, and the will Right. And once somebody is a follower of Jesus Christ, commits their life to Christ, they are, to use a theological term justified, they are declared righteous. They have a right standing before God because of the righteousness of Christ. That's some big theological words there for you. So they're declared not guilty But they continue to do guilty like things because there's this process called sanctification where you still act guilty. You still you still do things that would bring guilt Except that that guilt is paid for by Jesus Christ. uh at times when we're actually not guilty, meaning that that we we in our emotions, in our psyche carry this this guilt um uh habit. Well that speaks to what we're talking about on this show, right? Because should we? That's right. We feel guilty. That's a good way of putting this, right? It's an emotional reaction. I feel guilt. Should I trust that? In fact I would argue like I often argue that that there's a difference between the conviction of the Holy Spirit Which convicts us of guilt and uh the condemnation of Satan where he's accusing us to make us feel guilty to get us all tied up. which I which I need to learn to reject versus the conviction of the Holy Spirit that I want to learn to not just accept but but follow. And so that would be an example of of something that's mental but is also emotional, like all at the same time. Right. Well the conviction of the Holy Spirit obviously is necessary. It's to bring us to the realization that we're in sin because we are fallen humans and we will find ourselves in sin quite often. But guilt generally in my in my experience means that feeling of oh I'm a terrible person, you know I've done this thing, feeling guilty. That's right. Um, and that is definitely not a Christ-like attitude for a simple reason is that Christ has already paid for our sins on the cross. And that to continue feeling guilty about it, excuse me, is almost a rejection of that forgiveness. Right. Because God the Father looks at us and sees Christ. We look at ourselves and see ourselves. We're supposed to be looking at ourselves and see Christ in us. And for us to look at ourselves and say, oh I'm a terrible person, I've you know, messing this all up is to ignore the fact that those sins have been wiped away by you know the glory of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So far it sounds like we can trust our thinking more than our emotions. So what's an example of a time when our thinking gets uh out of whack and we can have uh and our heart, our our emotional center, can provide a corrective. Yes, the Second Corinthians uh one and two is is so key where Paul says that um my throat's itchy kid Okay. I turned off all the mics there, because the first turned off all your mic and I think it was still rather loud. Yeah, it's just a reminder that the spring has taken forever to get here. Please forgive me. So um that first uh second Corinthians talk talks about that Paul says that I resolved to know nothing when I came to you except Christ in him crucifies. And and he goes into this extensive um very uh clear dis discussion about how uh we we must not Let ourselves get caught up in philosophy and uh and trying to be wise, uh, but that in fact God chose the simple things or the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. And so, uh, again, there's many in certain parts of the body of Christ that would that would say that that's arguing for us to not be doctrinarian, to not be overly mental about our approach to things, but that we need to go back to very simple truths and uh and you know, of course, in Second Corinthians, Paul's going into Great um emotional language about his desire to to show the Corinthians his love in lieu of the fact that he's just rebuked them about you know some pretty significant things. And so so it's a very uh you know emotional set of passages where Paul is describing all of his suffering, all of his hardship, where they choose joy in the middle of all that And and so again uh we would say that that that's at least a passage that would warn us from being too intellectual in our approach. And we're told as well that knowledge will pass away. Right. Of course. So it can't be uh the of the utmost importance if it's gonna pass away. Yeah. In fact that in and of itself is I mean that's an amazing d and in a what remains is love, but should we understand love as merely an emotional thing? Uh and I would argue n no, I'd not argue that love has all three of the components to it. I would have to agree with that. Yeah. Love is oftentimes a choice as opposed to an emotion. There are many times, at least in my life, where people I know are frustrating to me and I I don't want to treat them the way that I ought to treat them. But I make the conscious decision to love them. Sometimes I don't make that conscious decision, but I should make the decision to love them in spite of And so then like the fruit of the spirit. The fruit of the spirit isn't uh it doesn't say love, um Great memory. Uh you know, verse quoting, you know, it says love, joy, peace. And of course peace again is is a word that well all of 'em, you know, uh really have components of of choice, you know, will have components of of thinking, you know, about it. So I mean all those have all three, but at least you could argue that all of those have a very strong emotional component to them that would at least seem to indicate that that being led by the spirit uh is something that we don't always understand in you know uh language about tongues, language about um having a gift of the spirit that doesn't uh all all of which seem to transcend um Uh training, maybe that's a good word, meaning it's a gift of the spirit that that God puts in you, and and it could be a gift of knowledge, it could be a gift of wisdom, it could be a gift of whatever. And when you look at the passage there in uh First Corinthians twelve When it talks about those gifts, it seems to leave the impression that the Spirit could give any one of those to any one person in the church on any given Sunday or any any given gathering. So it's not just one person owns them. But but but the implication then is that the Spirit's moving in ways that go beyond our ability to understand it, meaning he moves in a way that that we can't quite explain. And so then those that emphasize the ministry of the Holy Spirit would would say, Okay, well uh we don't want to overly analyze, you know, that there's something that we want to trust there that that goes beyond what we can understand. And in our Old Testaments when we see the word peace, it's usually a translation of the Hebrew word shalom, which is a much richer, deeper, profound word than what we typically mean by peace. It's the It's the whole being. It's the heart, mind and will uh coming to some sort of flourishing, uh a f a fulfillment of your purpose and what you were made by God to be and having all of those things coming together. It's not just about feeling peaceful. You know, it's way more than that. So I haven't studied the Greek on the word peace, but um one passage that that would lean in the direction of peace having a strong emotional component is where it says, be anxious for nothing but in everything with prayer. That's a request being made known to God, blah blah blah. And the peace of God, which transcends understanding, will guard your hearts and minds in Christ Jesus. So again, there's a there's an emotional thing that transcends uh understanding that would seem to indicate to me that that when I go to prayer something's gonna happen that I can't understand, that I can't figure out, that uh that is gonna leave me in in a less anxious, more peaceful state. By the way, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. That's Jonathan Schweitzer and uh Andrew Messinger is on the I did it again, didn't I? Messinger I keep saying I keep saying the G wrong. Either of them work, it's fine. Well it's yeah, they they work. Yeah, but we say that all of us because we're tired of correcting people after all these years. By the end of our series of thrills I'll probably finally get it right. Uh so we've talked about the the heart and the mind a little the way I think about it, maybe I c y you could stand for some correction from you guys to think through this in a different way. I don't typically think about my will affecting my emotions and my you know, my thinking, uh my will affecting my heart and my mind. I usually think I usually think the other way. So help me yeah help me think through how is it that my will changes my mind, that my will changes my heart. Well I think it actually goes both ways. I think that our mind and our emotions affect our will. And then in turn our will affects how we think. It it sort of is a spiral effect. Um but our will as we find earlier, is our intents and desires and uh you put it better than that, but I don't remember exactly what you said. It was brilliant, I'm sure. But regardless, so our at least I believe that our intents change the way we think about things. Right and our and having a having a committed intention to do that. Uh what Inca Indians is it uh down in the South America? Yeah, famously uh that that died uh at their hands. He said that there are parts of God that we cannot understand until we obey God. And and that's been a phrase that has often been it's not scripture But I d I do feel like uh the you know the so now I'm thinking of I'm trying to think of passages that would lean in that direction. But but I've often thought in the in that direction that's the thing. But Uh most people have probably seen the Indiana Jones movies. Oh. Have you seen them, John? Uh yeah. Like all of them, I think. I'm not sure if it was the first which one it was in, but there's one where I was eighteen. Where he has to cross a cavern. And Yeah. The walk of faith. Yes. Okay, so it was the first one? No, no, no, it was the fourth one. Then I must have seen that one too. Okay. And he's standing on this edge, this cliff, basically. And he has to get to the other side and he knows he's and he's had a limit limited amount of time to do that and he's like holy c and he's scared out of his wits. So his emotions are discombobulated. Right. And visually what he can see is informing his mind that tells him as he thinks about it There's no way to get across. It's an optical illusion. Yeah. But he doesn't realize. He wills himself to step forward. He wills himself. And as he does so, he then gets a changed perspective and is able to see there's actually a invisible path there. I was lost and Indiana Jones found me. Right. Uh we I maybe you could argue that Naaman in the Old Testament, when he's told that he has to uh bathe seven times in the Jordan River, the dirty Jordan River, uh he does it by an act of will, even though he thinks it's stupid. And uh total waste of his time, but he does it in obedience to Elijah's Elisha's command, and the result is that he gets healed. So that would be an example. And it's about in obedience to what as a believer it's about obedience. Right. But we're this is because it is. But but I just want to clarify because I think a lot of people would say that That there's plenty of people with will, with strong will, that guides them who are not believing. This is actually exactly where I was going. So what is the will being obedient to this? So for the Christian, when the Christian is living right living rightly, that obedience is to God. Even when you don't feel like it. Right. Even when your brain is telling you, I don't think this is right, but I'm gonna trust God. Your obedience, your allegiance, the allegiance of your will is to God. In fact, the the unbeliever at that point might even argue that you're not being true to yourself Because you're forcing yourself to do something that you don't really feel and th that you might not really believe, but you're just doing it just because you know the Bible said kind of a thing is. understand what a what a Christian is saying to them is that feels hypocritical to them or something. But when I'm when a believer is most obedient to God is when you're most true to yourself. Definitely Because we are created in God's image to be his servants. And so when we are obeying him, we are living up to our our purpose. And that often carries with it a sense an an emotion. I'll I'll join your side for a little bit. Come on over. It's all about no emotion. So you're definitely coming over to the dark side if you're giving in to any anger or love, right? That's how that's how Kai w whatever his name is uh all the uh Darth Vader guys go bad is because they have emotion. So I just want to say I got Star Wars on my side here. No. Against me. Yes. People that are listening to the case. I'm just astounded to use a pop culture reference. Who are you and what have you done with Jonathan Flystream? If only you knew what I've been doing the last two years. Well what were you saying I don't remember what I was saying. It was about emotion. You were coming over to my side. Oh yeah. So when we are are living up to our purpose of obeying God, it often tends to feel right. We have an emotional response to that, that, oh, I am doing the right thing. But I think it's dangerous to trust your emotions to tell you when you're doing the right thing. I think it's a byproduct, not a a sign, not a road sign. You shouldn't use that as, oh, I feel like I'm doing the right thing, therefore I am. Right. Like for example Um if parents are doing a good job, they're helping their kids to do stuff that they don't feel like doing. Right. Right. They don't want to. It's not their it's not it's not their will, it's not their thinking, it's not their emotion. I mean they're just not there Right, but as they continue to do it, you know, and exercise the same way, there's a joy, there's a there's a uh a a emotion and even a thinking that comes after the fact. Right. And so that but that again is putting will first before emotion and thinking at that point. And so it doesn't really answer the question, can we trust the mind? More than we can the episode. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Why? Have you seen Fireproof? I have not. Oh. Because he's not married. That's like the Christian movie for married people, right? You've seen it, right? I don't know if he would because uh he has a strong standard about about uh just like you do, about how oftentimes uh the emphasis in Christian circles of having a message in your media ends up lowering the value of the artistic uh uh you know, endeavor in and and uh just causes it to be a lesser movie. And so the movie is he's actually written a paper on that recently. The production value of the movie isn't bad because it has a message, it's bad because they had no budget. Okay. I mean they made the movie for like five hundred thousand dollars and by today's standards they that's like one percent of what they did believe they spend tens of millions on movies these days. Anyway, there's a scene in that movie where uh the Kirk Cameron character, I forget what the character's name in the movie is, right? He's talking about he he he he's gonna follow his heart. Yeah. And his colleague, the Christian in the movie, who helps lead him to conversion, says, tells him not to follow his heart, but to lead his heart. And I take that to be what we're talking about, the will and the obedience is you need to let the spirit of God lead you. Do you need righteousness to lead you? You need to be obedient to God and let that lead where your emotions are good. Because how often do we hear that in today's world? Right? Follow your heart. Follow your heart. Totally. In fact that that is the heart of moral relativism. you know, in today's postmodernism that everybody should follow their heart and quit telling me what I should feel to quit telling me what I should think, you know, I'm just doing what's in me. You know, I'm being true to myself and uh of course that's what we would argue is so dangerous at Landscape because it could be a lot of trouble. Yeah, it could lead people in a lot of a lot of trouble. Yeah. Alright, well we're gonna wrap on this show. These go so fast. This is like a postage stamp size radio show now. You know? Yeah, it is. Yeah. Used to be a postcard size show, now it feels like a postage stamp size show. Yeah, imagine putting our show like onto Twitter or something like that, you know. It'd it would take like, you know, a hundred and twenty different Jonathan Sweitzer, thank you. Andrew Messinger, thank you. I'm Troy Skinner and thank you for listening to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD online at WFMB. com. Faith, till next week, 167 and a half hours from now, God bless