Alright, so I'm sorry. Last week we spent so much time worrying about words of the week and so I didn't do what I promised I'd do, which was to give you another book from my uh For my end table or my uh my my what do you call that? Uh what's the table at the side of your bed? What's that called? Nightstand. Nightstand, thank you. We were robbed. You were robbed. So I'm gonna give you I'm gonna give you Uh the one I should have given you last week. Okay. And then another one for this week, right now. Two in a row. Bang bang. Okay, here we go. Alright. And I'm still I'm still on this Ted Decker kick because I got caught into this series. Uh I got sucked into a series. And just when I think I'm out they s Suck me back in. Yeah, yeah, well that's a sign of a good writer. You know, so anyway, Ted Decker. Yeah. Uh I r I mentioned last week black. Yeah. I've also read uh read red. Uh-huh. And I have read white. So black, red, and white. I have uh read them all. And uh those were the the trilogy, but now there's actually a fourth book in the circle series it's called called Green. Yeah. We'll talk about that another time. But anyway Very I would recommend them. And I would as well. And I don't mention the books that I'm reading because I recommend them necessarily. Sometimes I might mention a book I'm reading just because I'm reading it. Yeah. So just because I say I'm reading it doesn't mean I recommend, but in this case I recommend Well known. All right, so that's Jonathan Sweiss, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Deer Valley, landscaping, hardscaping, and masonry, and also putman plumbing and heating. How can we make you smile? All right, I gotta read this. This was an email sent uh to me because I'm in the media. Apparently this really ticked you off. I i can you say that on the radio? I guess so. Yeah? Tick is there ticked? I don't know. Yeah, I don't know. I'm a pastor, I'm allowed to say that. All right, so That's a whole nother discussion. Now here's an email that I got because well I guess I'm in the media. Okay. So they're they're hoping to book an interview here. Okay. Oh. So now unfortunately they're gonna get a little bit of uh free publicity I guess, unless I don't mention the website. Yeah, yeah. Maybe you should just give 'em a I'll just gonna read this minus interview. Should we have 'em on? You know, maybe it might be worse. I don't think that we'd be doing the kind of interview they're hoping to have. Let me read. We'll give 'em an interview. It says pleasant enough. Yeah. The whole thing's actually pleasant. It's my reaction that's not pleasant. Right, right, of course. Good morning. Which part of America is most likely to have an online affair? Which part of America has the lowest divorce rate? Would you believe it's Washington, D. C. ? The lowest? has the lowest divorce rate and is the most likely to have an online affair. Alright. Now, according to an infidelity service, insert website name here, Washington, D. C. has the most insight company name here, users per capita in America at 3. 53%, which is 42% higher than the next U. S. state. When asked why Washington, D. C. residents are the biggest perpetrators for online affairs, this company, their president, says his name's Noel. Noel says, a city like Washington, D. C. , attracts a personality type who has taken multiple risks on their way to the top, and so taking a risk within their personal life. Since they feel they are made of Teflon is a natural extension. Simply put, the more successful you are, the more prone to cheating. Oh, that's so Oh he adds having an affair can help to preserve marriage. So it's no surprise to us that the District of Columbia has the lowest divorce rate per capita according to the US Census. Uh well here you go. According to the U. Census Bureau, there are two divorces per 1,000 people in D. C. , making it the state, if you call D. C. a state, uh, with the lowest divorce rate in America. Now to reward these residents of DC, this company is going to give a 100% free access to all new members who sign up for it uh in their m in the in the in a month that has now passed. Uh this is the first time since its creation that the infidelity service has extended its offer one hundred percent. His statistics are fabulously skewed. He's tying two things together. Here we go That that mathematically uh it's such a lie. You see it so often in the media anyways, but anyways, go ahead. So I had to share this with some people. Yeah. And in and and sharing it, I forwarded it and then had my own email comment. This was my email response to this email that I received. So this is so with lots of O's. Misleading. Washington, D. C. is a city, not a state, first of all. So comparing DC's data with an entire state is a little like comparing apples to oranges. Even so There are reasons why fewer people are divorced in Washington, D. C. than most other places, but not the reasons given by this company and their completely dishonest or incompetent use of the data. There are fewer divorced people in D. C. because there are fewer married people in Washington, D. C. compared to other places. Washington, D. C. is the only place in the country where the median age uh at first marriage is over thirty. The median age at first marriage for all other fifty states is in the mid-20s. This is part of the reason why Washington, D. C. has the lowest marriage rate in the country. To help drive home the importance of this, fewer, far fewer marriages will generally equal to far fewer divorces. For example, if a state is populated by nothing but single people, then the divorce rate would be zero. You can't have a divorce if there's never been a marriage. And the need for clarification doesn't end there. Here are the numbers to keep in mind. This year, I think it's projected that something like six people out of every one thousand in the United States will get married this year. About three people out of every thousand in the U. S. will get divorced this year. In D. C. , it's about two out of every thousand getting divorced. That's approximately a fifty percent advantage to D. C. , it would appear. When looking at marriages, DC trails the national average by 100%. So instead of being about 50% better than the rest of the country, really nearly 50% worse. I'll be generous and say that my math is rounded too much. Let's say that the state of DC is really forty-two percent worse than the rest of the nation, okay? Wait a minute. Didn't this company say that DC's use of their cheat on your spouse services uh is forty two percent ahead of any other state? Both forty two percent? Is it a coincidence? A Pew Research survey found that only 23% of women and 28% of men in the DC area are married. Statistics don't lie, but liars can statistics. Only twenty-three percent of women, twenty-eight percent of men in DC are married. You hear that? Compared to forty-eight percent and fifty-two percent nationwide. Yeah. The rates in DC are so low that they lie entirely off the pew maps color key. Yeah. You hearing that? It's not even on their map color key. The closest states to DC's numbers are Rhode Island, where forty-three percent of women are married, and Alaska, where forty-seven percent of men are married. Again, in DC it's in the twenties. While Pugh attributes this to D. C. residents getting married later than those in any other state, there's another factor that even Pugh overlooks, and that is that DC has the nation's highest concentrations of homosexuals in the country. Homosexuals can't get married. So they can't get divorced. Well they can now, but that was all previous to to them being able to. So, if anyone wants to attempt building a case on cheating on one's spouse and say that this is good and healthy for your marriage, you'll have to look for something other than the facts. to use as your building materials. So there you go. That that was a uh a well researched You've got the data and you are knocking that ball out of the park. Unbelievable. Not just one time, but about five home runs in the face of a uh a woefully unprepared opponent. You have got to be so careful what you receive or what you might forward to somebody or whatever. time if you go to the WFMD uh website and go to the faith debate page, by the way, WFMD. com keyword faith, um you know that's a there's a on the right hand side of that page um there's an opportunity for me to post you know, daily items or whatever. Yeah. And usually I use that as a place for people to be interactive with the show. Right. Yeah, 'cause we don't take calls, the show is recorded in advance. We can't take shows 'cause Jonathan's busy getting ready to preach Hopefully the truth. Yes. Right? The truth most times? Nine times out of yeah. Yeah. Ninety-nine point nine nine. So we tape the show in advance. So to give you a chance to give me feedback, I post emails that you send me. And a lot of the emails that come my way are like, hey, thought you'd find this interesting. And a lot of it is political in nature for whatever reason. Yeah. And a lot of it is spiritual in nature And a lot of it in all of those in in that and other contexts is just wrong. It's amazing. And the senate is like, hey, isn't this great? And I'm like, yeah, it'd be great if it was true Well this is a huge problem in our current cultural environment, right? Because because absolute truth has been undermined, there's this orientation that, okay, well, it's not Who cares about really being true? If you're if you're that worried about it like you just were in writing your email, then you got something stuck up your hind end, you know, and you're just there's something wrong with you. You know, you're obsessive compulsive But the rest of us are just kind of laid back, you know, whatever, dude. You know, and so if we like what they're saying, then fine we go if if we don't like it, we don't go with it That's the essence of moral relativism. And you're saying, basically in your response and how you respond, that moral relativism at the end of the day produces a whole society that can't see the truth even when it's staring in the face. I. Hitler, you know, i. e. Stalin. I mean how many how many situations have we faced in history where something like that happened, where a whole generation loses its capacity to see the truth when it's staring them right in the face. And you know, I'm at a a phase in my life where uh my wife and I m our family is beginning to explore, you know, the college scene. Right. Our daughter's gonna be going away to college in a couple of years, you know, we've got to be thinking about that. And so Yeah. And she thinks she has some s loose sense of what she might want to study, but she's not really firmly committed to any sort of uh you know, career or choice. How old is she? You know, she's uh coming up on sixteen. Gotcha. So She um yeah, she doesn't know what major she's gonna want to choose. And I was saying, you know what, let's not worry about that. Let's find a school that is gonna teach you how to think. Yeah. Teach you how to learn. Yeah. Teach you how to do research. How to how to have some discernment. Yeah how to be a critical thinker. Yeah, that's good You know, that's the most important environment is going to foster critical thinking skills because that will travel with you no matter what career you're in or what life situation you're in. And certainly it's the case across the the nation that universities have gone the direction of this moral relativism where there's no longer they no longer tolerate uh dissension. They l no longer tolerate somebody disagreeing with them. even though they claim to be open to everything but but with hate speech laws on campuses anymore, uh things like Christianity, you know, which certainly was one of the leading uh influences in the founding of our nation are completely mocked. out of the public square and there is no critical thinking. There is no healthy debate. And uh and it's you know it's financed that way, you know, uh on campus uh organizations, you know, like um like clubs and that sort of thing are financed uh in such a way that that there is no real encouragement of genuine debate. Rather what they call genuine debate is to say some things that that would really offend Anybody that is a natural Christian and would offend it offend them so bad that even people that are not Christians are offended by it too You know, and that's real debate, as opposed to people that are on all sides of the debate really thinking critically and bringing facts to bear on the situation. And you know what's become a um a a key component to um uh Americanism, yeah, which is, you know, what I I call the religion of our country now, Americanism. It Th the the key foundation of civil religion. Yeah, civil religion. The key foundation of that is tolerance. But what they mean see, I'm not I'm not in agree well that's current Right. Americanism. Exactly. Right. Right. But what we have now is tolerance. Totally. But what they mean by tolerance isn't tolerance. They redefined terms. Yeah. We know this on this show we've had people redefine what Christ means, what salvation means. Right. We're using the same language, but we don't mean the same thing. Right. When I say tolerant, uh I'm going with a classical like Webster Webster's dictionary, Miriam Webster's dictionary definition of Yeah, meaning I'll tell you that I disagree with you. Acknowledge that it is wrong but I'll tell you I think you're screwed in the head, but we'll listen Side by side with one another and we'll be at peace with one another. That's tolerant. But that's not what the world now means by tolerance. Even more so, not just accept it, but respect it. But celebrate it with us. Yeah, yeah. We're celebrating this, and you won't celebrate it with us? You're intolerant. No. Yeah. I'm not intolerant. They intolerantly claim that we're intolerant. Yeah. So they put the Christian religion in a position where hypocrisy. Wh where you can't win Exactly. Because the Christian the foundation of the Christian religion is. In fact, you get the sense that that's the foundation of Americanism is don't be Christian. Don't be white Anglo-Saxon Protestant. Don't be Christian and don't be Catholic either. But anything else we tolerate it. Yeah. That seems to be the essence of it. So you got even if you're Muslim, even if you're you're a hardcore fundamentalist Muslim in the United States right now, you are celebrated. Even when you're when when you're pro Sharia law and pro, you know, eye for an eye, tooth for tooth, pro burqa, all those kinds of things, in the United States in the current tolerance movement They will hate Christians and shut them up, but they will promote that kind of stuff out of Islam. And as a result, we don't have the healthy debate that we really need that that Islam is it coming into the nation if it's going to assimilate into a liberal democracy, the only way that it can do it is in the context of the clash of ideas. where they get confronted publicly about uh about the weaknesses in their religious background, but nobody's willing to do that anymore. And so as a result, they really are gonna be a danger. This is the Frederick Faith oh go ahead, you want to finish your thoughts. I was gonna say if we were allowed to have those debates I would be way less concerned about Muslim neighbors. But as long as we're not having those debates, then our Muslim friends are being encouraged to think that Sharia law, uh, with all of its elements are compatible with with what it means to be American. And that is very dangerous. We'll we'll lose our liberal uh demo democratic soul in the name of tolerance. And that would be the essence of the destruction of what we were from the beginning as Americans. That's like the word tomato, right? Tomato, tomato. Sharia, sharia. Oh do I? But I've heard it both ways. Anyway, this is the Predict Faith Debate. We're going to debate the proper way to say the words. Uh he's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads LA Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, and again this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I want to make sure 'cause I missed the story, I guess, and you mentioned last on last week's show, I think. talking about in Florida where a court decided to use Sharia or Sharia law. And unfortunately the uh the the anti-Sharia law people are really jumping on it and I think they're shooting themselves in the foot And this is why. It's a situation where where the local Sharia um health organization no, the local Muslim health organization had a board of trustees and they got they got fired in a Sharia law compliant way, but in a way that doesn't match our laws um uh for uh boards and nonprofit organizations according to state law. And I'm a little bit uncomfortable with using that as a as a situation because um I think that the Catholic Church should be free to fire priests according to their law. I feel like Protestant church churches should be free to fire priests and Protestant organizations, Catholic organizations should be free to hire and fire people. according to their internal ecclesiastical law. And so I feel like that particular issue is the wrong issue for the anti-Sharia law people. I think they're gonna end up exposing themselves as being uh being not sophisticated in their uh arguing these particular issues Yeah, yeah, that does sound Yeah. They're they're picking the wrong uh case. Yeah, yeah. There's plenty of other cases, you know, where um where they're teaching from their pulpits uh anti Americanism and where they're pushing for things that uh where they want to set up like a a a sh over in uh Europe Uh they they push for in their community uh having a court system that is run by Sharia law for the for the Muslims that are in those communities. And so if you get caught stealing, then you don't go to the to the secular court of law, to the to the British court of law or to the French c uh court of law. Instead you go to the Shirai Court of Law, which has the freedom to impose an eye for an eye or tooth for tooth, or to impose whipping and those kinds of things. And they've allowed that to be um to you know to be a part of their whole culture over there. And we haven't quite seen that here. But uh the guys that we had on on this show way back at the beginning, president of the Islamic Society of Frederick, and uh guys that I debated down at Johns Hopkins University. They are arguing openly that Sharia law is the better way to run a society. And so it's clear that they're looking to go that direction. And that kind of thing is not compatible with a liberal democracy. And if we if we want to continue to have our liberal democracy with the Bill of Rights and those kinds of things, somehow we've got to be able to rise up and see these things for what they are. And I'm not sure that we're able to yet right now. It concerns me deeply. Uh uh Khalil El Shazli was the president of the Islamic Society way back when. I don't because I I quit soccer with him. I quit playing soccer because my ankles couldn't take it. I just haven't been in those circles often enough recently. Yeah, it's been a few years. Yeah. We should try to look 'em up. Yeah. Anyway. Yes. Uh last week or was it two weeks ago or whatever? I guess it was two weeks ago, we were talking about prayer. Okay. And and you you uh I think It might have been off the air. I don't know if it was on the air. I think it was off the air. You kind of went on this slightly uh parallel but different path and were and was ask you you were asking me about the founding of our nation. Yes. Um could you remember how you articulated that? Yeah, so what I'm arguing is that the founding of our nation at the founding of our nation are founding fathers, uh, a good portion of whom I won't say all of them, but a good portion of whom were fundamentalist Christians. I mean they were of the opinion that that that the gospel was Jesus Christ and that alone. But because they wanted to set up a a nation that respected the freedom of conscience for each individual to make up their mind on their own and to not do so at the at the point of the sword uh or at the point of uh of uh you know where where your blood might get shed. In that kind of context, um they they set aside for for a period of time the the obligation to preach the gospel so that they could create the infrastructure inside of which everybody else could preach the gospel completely and free freely. And I'm not saying that they compromised their faith when they did so, but they recognized that in that setting they were creating a structure that would be more godly and more righteous. than what King George had over in England and uh Bloody Mary, you know, and uh Louis the the Sixteenth and all those other guys that had you know, totally created these uh authoritarian autocracies, forcing everybody to be Roman Catholic, forcing everybody to be Calvinist, forcing everybody to be uh Lutheran, and that instead they're saying, no, let's let people be whatever they want to be according to their conscience. in in the state. And uh and so in setting up that structure, they said, in that context, even though we we know that we're free to pray in the name of Jesus and to preach the gospel We're going to withhold for a period of time in order to set up that infrastructure. Well, I'm not sure what their motivation was. I don't know if their motivation was really Christian informed or not, because I'm not sure how how fully they understood their Christian theology, those that would even profess to have been Christian at the time. So it's hard to know. I would say in a secular from a secular mindset it was a good thing. Yeah. And I could just let it stop there. But from a from a church standpoint. This is the Frederick. Yeah, exactly. So we won't let it just lie there. Because we are intolerant. That's right. But from a church standpoint, what what should the church make of that? I think the church would make of that, but if there were areas where there was some selling out, we should call Call it what it was. There were actually many that were. Um some some Christians went up to George Washington, Ben Franklin, and said said, How come the Constitution doesn't mention God? uh at all. Uh the the Declaration of Independence did, but the Constitution does not. And um the you know, there were some that felt like that was a problem. And um Ben Franklin's response apparently was was you know, I don't know, I guess we just it's flipped our minds. We're just so intent on creating Aaron Ross Powell That says an awful lot though that God slipped their mind, doesn't it, about where they were in their thought process and Well he's not saying that God slipped his mind. He's saying that putting God in the Constitution slipped his mind. There's a little bit of a difference there. Yeah, okay. Well Ben Franklin wasn't a Christian though. Uh yeah, Ben Franklin, but he clearly to my mind it was not a deist. And the reason why is a deist is of the opinion that God's at a distance and he and he set everything going like a clock and then he's not really involved anymore. But Ben Franklin clearly had the sense that God was real and that he was i listening to and responding to the prayers of people on earth. He just was of the opinion that Jesus, uh, and the miracles of Jesus and that sort of stuff uh was not trustworthy. So he he was not comfortable with saying that Jesus was the son of God, but he was of the opinion that God is actively interacting with humanity. So that's not quite deism. Well as a Christian I would say that setting up the government so that there can be a freedom of religion is the right way to go. Okay. I think that's what the Bible would prescribe for us. Okay. Because the Christian religion is is not coercive. Yeah. So there should be a freedom of choice, a freedom of conscience. We have human free will, we're free agents. We choose God, we reject God. That's that's it's not for the government to force a a religious structure or Well Christianity fell into Yeah, in the three hundreds. The three hundred Constantine a forcing of and Constantine uh at best was a uh immature Christian trying to grapple with those kinds of issues. At best. Yeah. Yeah. There's much debate over that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Over that. So I would say that y that's good. It took a while for the Christian world to if we're in power we would not force people. I think the problem comes when okay, now we've established this structure. We have this we have this this place where we can have a freedom of religion. Yeah. And now we as Christians don't step out into that freedom. We don't want to upset the Apple cart. We don't want to be intolerant or make somebody feel uncomfortable. I mean after all, everybody's free to make their choices, so I'm not gonna proclaim the truth in any sort of bold way. I'm not even going to mention Jesus' name if I'm praying in the public square because I don't want to Well you're not stepping into the freedom that the freedom of religion gives you. Okay, so this this is what my dad has always taught me all through the years. He said in any given debate there's a tendency to polarize. And if you swing way off center, uh anti religion in a secularist direction The tendency then is to counterbalance that and every chance you get, you're going to put Jesus in people's faces, like uh Paul Mundy was saying uh last week or two weeks ago. that that there's this tendency when you get the chance to pray that you're gonna pray in a way that you're preaching to everybody and you're really laying it in laying into them. Yeah, see that's missing the point too, because a prayer is not a preach, it's not a sermon. Well I can pray, right, in a way that is a great sermon. But you speak you're praying to God. Right, but but but this is the whole people. The sermon is God speaking to people. A prayer is the people speaking to God. So this is the point, is that is that is there a situation where we could argue that the infrastructure the the ideological infrastructure of the nation has has fallen down so that most people are are secularists and that the Christians have been overreacting to it that maybe a Christian or two, when they get the opportunity would pr to to pray or to interact in those settings would help to reestablish the structure of freedom of religion that our forefathers had in such a way that All of us would feel free once again. I think that that's not the Christians' ultimate responsibility. Ultimate responsibility is to stand for truth proclaim Christ and and let the Holy Spirit do what the Holy Spirit's gonna do. Right, but can a Christian first set up a structure of freedom and then go about his ultimate responsibility. But is that necessarily what's best? We were talking off there right before the show. Is that necess look at the the the Christian religious climate in this nation compared with the what's going on in the Christian climate in China and Korea where there's great oppression and they're growing a hundredfold Yeah, but it's So which is better ultimately that more people would come to know Christ and would live eternally with God or have a a nice mamsey pamsey milk toast life now. What kind of country sent out the most missionaries to the entire world What kind of country? Yeah, it was a liberal democracy that was founded by both uh non-Christians and Christians. that set up that structure for freedom of religion. And I'm arguing that we have lost that structure here in the United States and we need to work to set it back up so that we can continue to be the most powerful force for evangelism around the world that we could be. Well that's going to be the last words of the Faith Debate. He's Jonathan Schweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening. God bless.