Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Frey Skinner. We're online at WFMD. com and you can follow me on line at household of faith in Christ dot com. Last week if you tuned in, you heard us talking about pastors, elders, overseers, under shepherds, whatever level you want to attach to bishops, I guess. Uh are they the only ones that can preach? Are they the only ones that can administer the Lord's Supper? or baptize someone, are there certain roles that are reserved only for the pastors? And we came to a consensus really early, so it wasn't a huge debate show last week, but this week might be different because Daniel Razby and David Forcy uh have differing opinions, I think. We'll see if I'm good at guessing. But I think they have differing opinions on whether or not pastors uh only should officiate the wedding ceremony, but more particularly, this is a fun question, can only married men serve as pastors. So those will be the primary focus of today's show. Uh you can um uh what was I gonna say I lost my train of thought. I I was telling David uh Forcy earlier uh today before the show that I think I'm losing brain cells by the half by the same thing. Did you remember that author, Troy? Um Still no. William The author of the Shack. Who wrote the Shack, Daniel? I don't know what's the shack. Oh man. What's the shack? He's too young. Wow. Oh my goodness. I actually did a whole teaching series about the shack And for the record, against the Shaq. Sure. Um and because this if you want to get a a sense of every uh popular heresy in the American church today. Just read the check. They're all in there. Every single one. It was a it was a bestseller. Go figure. It's amazing. That that takes some talent to squeeze every heresy into one novel. That's a gift. You sure it wasn't satire? This is a teaching tool. Yeah, you did. Anyway. William P. Young. W I got the William Young. Good job, good job. And he goes by Paul, that's what throws me, because he goes by Paul Young with his friends, and so the young part And he's old, so that threw me too, because he's older than me, so he's an old guy. I I feel like we need to circle back to last week actually a little bit. Because I I I feel like we we're not gonna be a good thing. Pretty thoroughly talked about. Wanna circle back? Yeah. You standing behind uh a podium in the White House press briefing room or something? Maybe. Uh we we talked pretty fairly about the Lord's Supper and Baptism, but I I don't feel like we actually spent much time talking about Who should do the Who should do the preaching? Yeah, I mean you you said the a couple a couple words on it. Yeah. But there's been there's I've heard some teaching that that when it says prophesy In the New Testament there often is just meaning the preaching, what we what we would call preaching. Um and that that argument's usually made by cessationists who would always say that you can't ever prophesy anymore, but I think Linguistically they they do have a point where some of those passages are really including anything that that exhorting that's going on. Um is sometimes translated, prophesy, sometimes preach. Uh I think to put uh an additional point on what I said last week, and if you didn't hear it, go listen to the podcast. Uh well basically I I felt uh the the the short version of what I said last week was I think that the uh the elders, the pastors of the church are responsible for what is taught in their church and so they have responsibility to oversee that. But if they uh will sign off on somebody else preaching that I think that's well within their authority and I think it's a good thing. And and I think it cannot be a woman that Are we circling forward now? I don't think that is. kind of agreed on that in the past, but I I I would maybe make an exception for a woman who has come back from the mission field and wants to give a report to the congregation on some of the things she's seen God do. That's not necessarily teaching them or expounding theological points. It's more here's a prayer request, here's something that I that I happened to do last week that I think is i is a reasonable thing for uh congregations to to to let women do, um and certainly to teach any of the other women. uh position on that from you. So that's surprising. You surprise me all the time, I gotta tell you. I think going back, circling back and I'm staying behind the podium in the White House to last week a little bit to put a finer point on things because we never got around to d to defining, okay, so what is that special role for the elders? Like if if i if they're not the only ones that can do these things, w what the heck do they do? I think their ultimate responsibility and all three of us on this panel are pastors, so our ultimate responsibility is to be guardians of the gospel and proclaimers of the gospel and teachers of the gospel and clarifying the gospel. And if somebody if the gospel comes under attack to identify those wolves that are attacking the gospel, if people who are you know are um uh selling the the the good news somehow it's our responsibility to try to rectify the situation. I think that's our our that that's what is distinct a distinct responsibility for the elders. Specifically within the church. within what is taught and and believed in the church. Yeah. So so that and that would blend in the city. The elders are an ac the elders are an accountability system. And should have among themselves an accountability system, but they are an accountability system for the flock. That's kind of like a mini church council that's happening, and they have a responsibility, a real responsibility, to to hash those things out, figure them out, and be biblical. They that so all crit so that's where the difference comes because Christians all should do that But I think that those who are ordained into those roles have a special responsibility and so not all should desire to be in those leadership positions because there's a greater weight of responsibility and you'll be held to a higher account uh by God. So and I think that goes into all of this. And so the the elders, the pastors, whatever you want to call them Uh they need to make sure the Lord's Supper is done the way that those elders feel like in their church it should be done. They're the ones that need to make sure that those who should be baptized are baptized and no one else. And that the baptism should be done in an orderly way and uh in a proper way. And if those elders feel like immersion is the only way to go, then they need to police that. If they're okay with sprinkling, then they can police that. But uh they need to make those res and so that gets into the w what we're talking about more specifically this week, I think. Wedding ceremonies. Um that's a a a covenant that a man and woman enters into and there's so much cultural confusion about that question and it can have a real spiritual impact on on the local bodies. I think the pastors should not be exercising oversight over that. Hmm. The marriage the marriage is negotiated by the two fathers. If they're unavailable, somebody else, the families are negotiating the marriage. and there's a public uh uh uh proclamation of we these two people are getting married, uh husband and wife obviously. That that will be the part that the pastor is to be pleasing, that these you're not calling something marriage is not marriage. But yeah, I mean Or the who you may oak for that matter too, right? If the what if the That's between the that's the families that should be uh that that should be uh and then maybe they can go to the cast pastor for counsel. Um but in I I am even more Christian. Yeah. Yeah, I would say the pastor should be teaching on that On that subject and somebody's in our church. And he wants to marry his believing daughter off to uh a gentleman who, you know, is the son of some other father, obviously, who's not a believer. And I say, y you you can't enter into that kind of you can't do that. Well he moved forward anyway. It's like I I the pastor have no spiritual responsibility and that's the same thing. Sure, you sure you can be uh you should be exhorting him and and and teaching him what What the uh um And even challenging 'em with, you know, Matthew eighteen. Sure. Church discipline, right? Potentially, yeah. But I I think it comes to then not more than any other area of the yeah. Exactly. That's that's kind of what I'm thinking, because People make marriage out to be that well, this is something the pastor has to do. I I want the pastor to marry me or I want No. In fact I'm eh I mean I I I'm I don't know if I would say exactly that I'm I think it's a bad thing for a pastor to be officiating a ceremony, but I uh I would almost be in that camp. Is it as important as getting married in a church building? Well well I don't I don't think that you should be necessarily getting married in a church building. special significance to that. No. And there's no. In fact, I think it I think it detracts I think it detracts from the bu biblical representation of marriage when you insist on the pastor and the church being the involved to that extent. Um because I think biblically marriages uh be between the the the man and the woman he's marrying w in with the encouragement and and guidance and potentially arranging of the families. They're the ones that are that are d uh doing this and the two families are inviting other witnesses to see look my uh kids are getting married and then you take her into your tent and you're married. Like that's the marriage ceremony. There's a lot of celebration involved, all this and that but for a pastor to stand there and say, Okay, repeat after me, here's the different vows, you have to say you have to no, no. The fathers should be involved making sure that they they trust that these people are making a commitment to each other. And whatever they decide if they want to say some vowel or not say some vowel or whatever they're making a public proclamation that these two people are married. The the practice of pastors having to be involved and in fact legally being required to be involved as it is now in in uh I mean you can have to get a pastor, you can get a justice of the peace but somebody's got to officiate that started as a Catholic doctrine because the um uh Catholics in uh the Middle Ages and the and the uh um medieval period wanted to uh wanted to control who was marrying who so they could tax them and tithe them and the different things and control who the uh you know what was going on so they made this rule that you couldn't have any privileges unless you were married by the church. And that that was when At a time when the church was uh uh the maybe the greatest political power Right. Right. Right. In the West. And basically th they were they were doing that as a as a form of, you know, control of the populace. And I I think it's a shame that the Protestant world kept that Catholic tradition of pastors being required to be involved and quote unquote officiating weddings. I think it's it's it's a travesty. Um I don't have a problem. Like I mean there was a pastor that that read some vows for me when I got married, but uh see In my culture, uh got in in Middle Eastern culture it's it's not very common to do it the way we most people do it in America. So in in my case The pastor signed the marriage document to get us legally married and like we didn't actually move in together or officially be married until a few months later when we had our actual ser uh you know, wedding and invited all the family and friends and and and so on um to s to see. So that's more of a biblical and then Pastor if if if if you want to invite your pastor to kind of witness as a witness, like hey, I s I s I see these two people made a commitment, they're betrothed to each other. I think both the fathers are believers. I think this is a good idea. Like that's the extent the pastor is involved And then the families take it from there and they have the celebration and and all of that. Um but I'm I'm against uh uh officiating uh being a requirement uh or or even pastors being as involved as they normally are Um I'm um by the way, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Uh the voice you heard right before mine was Daniel Rasby, and the voice you're probably going to be hearing next is David Forcy. you're listening to us on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. I'm wondering if you know the if what happened, possibly trying to think about the cultural import, 'cause that's really what it comes down to, right? The these women it's their dream to have the big special day and the big special ceremony and all that sort of stuff. Has become a uh there's a lot of weight packed into the ceremony. And I'm wondering if that possibly happens culturally because if you look at the Y you still see it in the in the uh the Near East and the Middle East. Uh but in the Bible you see these long celebrations, days long. Sometimes a couple of weeks long would be a a wedding feast. They have a they turn it into a big feast. Mm-hmm. And so of course the bride's gonna feel special because maybe it's been two weeks. No, but see see that the you you're getting it backwards. In the Western culture it's all about the bride. In the eastern culture it's all about the groom. The groom is taking him a wife. Yeah, the bride gets all dressed up and adorned and and is is is all special and stuff, but you don't give that that reverence and worship to the bride. Well hopefully you're not reverencing the groom either. No but not you don't give you d but it's it's not the same. I mean the it's the families is who you're celebrating Not really so much the groom or the the bride necessarily, but if if either one more than the other it'd be the groom, but really it's the whole family that is celebrating and the father is marrying uh uh you know, the the their their children off. That is the the way they look at it in the eastern culture. So the m the Western uh process uh practice of oh this is the biggest day of her life and it's all about her and she's gotta have the prettiest dress and this and that and and and everything's gotta be perfect and accurate and all that that is taking the focus away from marriage where the husband's the head and in uh and making the focus on the woman, the the wife, which is completely backwards. And I think when Jesus uh uh proclaims the gospel, that is a picture of a Middle Eastern wedding ceremony. Because what does Jesus do? He becomes betrothed to us on Calvary. We are saved now. We are legally married. anything to separate us from God if it were even possible would be a divorce, right? And then he but we're not we haven't consummated this wedding until he comes down to get his bride with much fanfare and excitement and enjoyment for the second coming of Christ, which we all look forward to in different ways. I'm told by based on the last uh few months of this program. But the point is he is coming again to get his bride. That's when we consummate our marriage with him. And it's the same thing that that happens in in there. I mean look at Joseph and Mary. Joseph was going to divorce her, but they hadn't slept together. How are they married? They but they were legally married because they were betrothed. The fathers had agreed they're married now. To separate would be a divorce, and s and the angel said, Don't do that. He didn't and we all know that story in the Chr the Christian story. But Then he went back to his father's house, built rooms up to his father's house to take his bride, and he went to get his bride at a later date. That's the The marriage is when the husband goes and takes his wife. And yes, you have a big celebration and feasting and it's a family environment, not necessarily to uh reverence or give awe to a specific person and certainly not Just the wife. So I don't know. I I'm a kind of on my soapbox here. I could talk about this for three hours. By the way it might it'd be irrelevant now, but the point I was going to be making was that there used to be this long celebration for a wedding, a big feast that lasted days if not weeks. And now it's all squeezed into like an afternoon or an evening or something like that. And so might be some cultural pressure like, well we're not doing ten days of celebration. We're only doing three hours of celebration, so we gotta add more pomp and circumstance into that to give it more weight because the time isn't there, so let's maybe it's like with parenting, right? I don't spend a lot of quantity time with my children, so I'm gonna make sure I spend a lot of quality time with my children. But having been to a number of Eastern and Western weddings, I can tell you that even two or three hours of one of the days of a Middle Eastern wedding is so much much more joy and fanfare and to do than it and than the whole the whole thing of uh of a Western White again in most cases. It's just a lot more celebration. Uh in a lot more festivity and joy and a and and stuff. I'm not trying to say that if you if you have a Western wedding or you're looking forward to a celebration Walking down the aisle in a white dress and having your pastor marry you and all that. I'm not saying that's ungodly or something that you shouldn't be hoping for or looking for. But I think the focus is kind of backwards and I I really think the the pastor being involved is not one of the most or even the top five most important parts of the wedding. Well and a lot of people in our culture today would agree with you because they don't include their pastors in all the I would include justice of the peace So anybody that's officiating. They're thinking about it. Right. But but even doing an officiating of it, I think is not a good not a really good thing to be looking forward to as this is the highlight of the wedding. No the highlight of the wedding. is when you go and consummate the marriage. Like that's the it's all built around that. Yeah, but the consummating of the marriage, there's no public witness to that. Oh. Um not in America anyway, not usually. But in Middle East normally the family's gonna follow them up to their room and then wait outside the door for the evidences of virginity. Like that's that's what they do normally. They first of all prepare the room and make it all nice and and decorated and pretty and stuff and then everybody's kind of waiting uh out the outside uh to to make sure it does get consummated. So they they do kind of put place a lot of emphasis on that. Um now that won't be part of the like the main celebration. They're gonna have to feast and stuff first and and then he takes home his his bride, but the family is still going to be kind of involved in that. No, no, they're not in the room and i I I get that. At that part's not public, but um but but it is it is a very, very different experience having attended and been in a number of both types of weddings. Uh I d I definitely feel like the Eastern wedding style is significantly more biblically based. Anything in reaction that you want to say? Well there's more I there's more I'm tempted to want to say but Uh David's here for a reason. Because as you learned last week he's chuck full of fun. Chuck full of fun. So he should know which of these celebrations is more fun. Yeah, well I I haven't uh been to to many maybe Any any Eastern weddings. Um so I I I mean I To some extent I I agree I agree with Daniel that um you know uh again it's not officiating weddings is not listed as a particular role of the elders biblically. Like we it's it's not there. Um all we see there is is you know, is the two families coming together. Um so I think it's uh I think in the sense of like right, like it's it is wise to seek uh to seek wise counsel. Right. Things like premarital counseling and so on would be very good things for pastors to be doing. Like in in that sense, like pastors should be very involved by the families. Like the families should want to involve the pastors and in their in anything that goes on in their lives in in general, really, right? You know. Not not to have them tell them exactly what to do in every situation, but uh again to to seek wisdom ad advice and to you know help in in pursuing righteousness. Um So so yeah, I I uh the my basic answer would be no, I don't think that pastors, you know, must be the officiant over a wedding. Yeah, and I don't think that they must be either. I feel like Daniel's pushing I mean a little bit beyond that saying that well they can if they have to The pastor shouldn't be an integral part of the wedding, is what I would say. The pastor shouldn't should not be a necessary or or even a main part of the wedding. Yeah, and I would I would almost agree if I could qualify it in a way that you would not be satisfied with, I I would say that the pastor shouldn't be required to be in the part of the wedding. But if the family is in the Bride and the groom would want their pastor to have an integral role in what's going on. I wouldn't see any problem with that And one of the things that I'm going to do is I don't think it's a sin to ha to ask your passenger to fish you're winning. That's not what I'm saying. I just think that beyond even that not being a sin, uh at minimum it's not a I would say it's not a sin. But I think it there could be some really good things that come from the pastor to be involved. But the teaching role, the pastor could be the one who really draws attention to the fact of what's being pictured by the marriage between the the bride and the groom. Right, how it helps to picture uh Christ's relationship with his church and uh and can highlight the things you think are out of balance. The pastor could say, now everybody likes in our culture likes to make it all about the the bride and her day But you know, biblically speaking, it's more about this. I'm not sure I fully agree, by the way, with how far you go. I feel like the pendulum maybe overcorrected just a hair. Sure. Certainly it's about Christ. Christmas. But Christ in turn then makes it all about his bride and gives all that he has to the bride. Sure. And so I think it's it's a both and. And so but I do think it's been out of balance. I do think that the groom sometimes is like dragged along for the ride and it's like Oh, you're here too? Hey, congratulations on the wedding, you know. I I I do think there's a lot of truth to that and the w and the woman ends up getting all that she wants. The man, you know, oftentimes gets nothing that he wants. And so I I do think there's a lack of balance. But now it is So we do have in in America d it it still is usually the the the practice of the bride's family to be the one organizing w the wedding and I think that is still a uh that that it has a lot of biblical basis for that 'cause the father of the bride is giving her away, basically. I think that um Yeah, I uh I I I think that the uh m amount that uh the pastors are typically involved in weddings is to some degree an example of an unhealthy um outsourcing that uh that families uh uh an uh an unhealthy outsourcing of spiritual things that uh that families That's a real that's a helpful insight. It's it's you know the way we do wedding ceremonies is the way we do, you know, youth group. Right. The family should be taking responsibility for things and they outsource it to the church. keeping keeping that sort of thing in mind. Like yes, they're it if the if the if the fathers involved are spiritually inept are not spiritual leaders are not spiritual guides, then then probably the pastor it would be good if the pastor is involved a lot with the bride and the groom and uh and uh you know and helping to give them guidance in in those things. But if the fathers are are doing their job of being the spiritual leaders and the and the you know, and discipling their children and teaching their children and instructing their children in righteousness, then then that that is their place. Well, we're not going to have time to dive into what I thought would end up being the dominant portion of the topic selection for today, which is uh can Only married men serve as pastors. Yes. So we're done with that now. Yeah. We'll start off next week's show on that and then we might pivot into something that got brought up in last week's show anyway about whether women can be quote unquote pastors um and uh in either function or title. There's been a debate about that recently. Well they're they're not really the pastor. Uh, they only have the title. They don't do the things past or the vice the the opposite of the trying to play fast and loose with defining their terms. So we'll do that next week. Um the one who I think kinda got the last salient point on this week's show, even though he didn't have very m much opportunity to share with David Forsley. The one who had the most to say this week, and maybe next week too, Daniel Razby, we'll see. And uh Me with the the the the voice of reason, right, the ring of truth, I'm Troy Skinner. Take what I say to the bank and cash it. That's pretty much the players. Without without a scorecard. Anyway, thanks so much for listening. Uh follow us online at WFMD dot com or me and uh the this show and the church uses that we're involved with more specifically at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from Check Your Watches. Yep, right about now. God bless.