Broadcasting for the West. Outside a big brother city in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. Happily Make You Smile. As always, I encourage you to visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. We're also on Facebook where you can on our our blog page and on Facebook you can watch videos now. Jonathan Schweitzer is shooting videos, he's practicing up And we're gonna nominate some of these videos for um what are those what do they call those awards? The uh the Oscars. The Oscars. Who invited an Oscar? He's Jonathan Schweitzer, though, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Froy Skinner. We're joined this week by the same folks who are here last week, and they they did a transformation on John's moral character last week. I'm hoping that continues this week Uh they are the founders of Conquered by Love Ministries, Tammy and Imran Raz Razvi. And we were talking Uh more specific we started kind of broadly, but we ended up talking about uh general parenting principles and kind of an attitude towards parenting to to to train our kids up, to give them some benefit of the doubt, to show them love. Uh there's no such thing as too much love. Uh I think I'm gonna want to spend a little bit of time to explain what we do mean by that 'cause we're not encouraging spoiling kids rotten. There is a need for correction and Love doesn't mean ice cream and cake and uh Well it can but it doesn't always necessarily mean that, right? So I think we w might want to unpack that. We talked about we all know if we got really through them, but there's There there are stages. I'm wondering if there's a uh a finite number of stages or there's another ex expanding list of stages and there's uh five things that parents should be doing for their kids. So I don't know if we really got into all those. No there are five emotional needs. Five emotional needs. So why don't we start well you know it looks like you have something on your mind. Before we get into the five emotional leagues, what I'd like to say is when you guys said about uh ice cream and and candy and sweets and stuff, uh that is not really um loving a child. That's satisfying the flesh. It's maybe giving them joy or or happiness, but it's not so much loving them. Loving them is why I brought it up, Troy, because I uh I I'm aware that uh that they're careful about actually about what they eat and they've noticed that that is a major uh discipline uh technique that helps their kids to not be out of control. Sugar is a is a a very, very bad uh addictive um drug and it changes the behavior uh of most people. It's a drug. It is definitely a drug. It it is it is a regulated drug that uh I think everybody's pushing on us, it's in every item. So if you pick any any box off the shelf in a grocery store, you'll have sugar in the ingredients. It's in in almost everything. And it does have a negative effect on behavior. So when we So you do have sweets sometimes though? On birthdays, we do have sweets. How are you how are you defining drug out of curiosity? Something that changes your behavior involuntarily Involuntarily. Involuntarily. Meaning like the Mountain Dew that I just had. Yes. Actually though I was voluntary about that. You're voluntarily about intentional. But the effect that it has on your body and and and the physical reactions to things is something that is out of your control now. Same thing with alcohol, same thing with cocaine or or uh nicotine. It changes physic physical physiologically in your body to have you do things. Ne um you know When we have caffeine, it's gonna help you stay awake longer than your body should be. So sugar, same thing is gonna make you more active. Yeah. So I'm not sure if I'm going to adopt it myself. I mean if I eat a lot of carbs, I know I'm storing up a lot of energy for later, and I'm storing up that energy for later involuntarily 'Cause that's what carbs do, right? And proteins are going to give me strength and build muscle involuntarily. Yeah, how are you different from Michelle Obama along these lines? I'll leave that to the the fellowship. But anyway, I think I think it's uh it's a it's It's an interesting wordplay that helps to remind us how valuable it is to eat right and not to give sway to And the fact that it does affect your kids. Yeah, without a doubt. As a parent I've noticed that when my kids are eating right, they uh they are less out of control. Right. They're more disruptive to your training. Yeah. And so s so in that sense, like I don't know if I've if if I would use the term drug, but I would definitely say that the wise parent is not feeding their kids sugar all the time but is careful to make sure that they're getting what their body needs so that they're not going through these severe swings up up and down. If you want your children to be receptive to what you have to teach them They have to have an open mind. They have to be ready, willing, and able to listen to what you're saying, and if they have a lack of sleep, they were falling asleep when you talk to me. Right. If they've got too much sugar, then they're bouncing off the walls and not hearing you. Yeah. If they've got other things that are in their in their lives that are dis that are pulling them away from what you're talking about, you cannot give them the instruction that you would like to ha give them and then you're gonna get frustrated You're trying to teach them and you're not getting across to them. to recognize what is the healthiest, best environment for your child, make sure that all those things are there and then Make sure that the training is there as well. Meaning that all these other things can uh bolster and make whatever training you're doing easier, more well received. It pulls the attention of the children to different things. So one of the things that most Christians um believe in is spanking, right? Right. There's nothing wrong with that. But the rear of the rod, spoil the child. But the reason for the spanking or the the the uh that correction is to get their attention. It's not for punishment so much as it's to get their attention. And if you already have their attention, you don't need that So what we talk about is let's get their attention uh different different ways and then we don't have to actually use the physical force. That's actually really good theology as well. You know, I just taught this Old Testament survey class last semester in it in all of the prophets again and again uh noted that when God was bringing some kind of judgment, the purpose of it was to get their attention, to to to get them to to turn back to him, not to just you know, bring some kind of a punishment that fits the crime, but it was to get their attention so that they would see that what he has for them is better than what they're choosing. kind of a thing. And that that's very interesting 'cause I've often thought that as a parent I'm supposed to be letting the punishment fit the crime, you know, and so so I'm more oriented towards kind of a punitive approach as opposed to a training. Grab their attention and then make sure that they're seeing why that's wrong so that they can, you know, handle it better next time. Right. But what ultimately we're after is preparing our children's hearts Well to be able to speak to be able to speak um things into our children's lives that are gonna bring them on to the path where they would be headed in a healthy, positive, um, God loving direction. Uh we need that relationship with them. And so, yes, to let help them notice when they're off the path we need some training. Sometimes there's a place for chastisement. We have to be checking to see whether we've done our job first. And so often parents come in and just come down with that chastisement when they forgot to lay the foundation that their children need or forgot to check where where where have I missed what my job is? You guys actually like outline like a a process of things that that you recommend as a parent that you think, okay, is it this, is it this, is it this? The last of which is whether or not the child is being sinful or, you know, kind of rebellious or that kind of thing. So what is that all about? First we need to make sure that w did we train this behavior. If we have not trained it, we're going to be able to do that. So the first question is the is the training question. Does it know how to walk through a door? Basically you're owning the problem. Yes. If a child misbehaves at the way we would describe misbehavior, where our first instinct is to say, Oh you've misbehaved, get over here and let me swatch your fanny. And you're saying our first reaction was like, Okay, where have I failed in training up this child? Because they might not know that that's wrong or the right way to do it. Yes, so Troy and I, when we asked that question, we're very quick to say, no, it can't be my fault. So we go on to the second one. Most parents do that. And Pastor Gary, one of his sermons, said that no matter what argument or what problem there is There's always two sides or multiple sides and the best place to start is what have I brought to this problem. So as a parent, what have I brought to this problem? Have I trained my child properly? Which is really scary because I think I mean so often I've seen that what I see in my child is mimicking me. I mean it's my attitude that I see in the child as opposed to just an attitude that sprang out of his sin nature or something. And that's a classic approach to to doing therapy with with couples that are struggling or people that are failing to see eye to eye is you know, get them to understand what they're bringing to the situation that makes it negative. So you're just applying those those counseling and mi uh strategies. uh in a s more of a psychological setting to to parenting, which is cool. By the way, according to Don Henley, there are three sides to every story. There's yours, there's mine, and then there's the cold hard truth. My dad used to always say that that uh there that there's like sixteen sides because you're inside your box, they're inside their box, and you're looking into their box from the inside of your box anyways. He used to describe all these different There's a lot of different things. Did I spend the time to train this child and I practice that behavior enough that they actually know that this is what they're supposed to do It's not just good enough to mention it. It's not good enough just to um hey, they saw me do this. They've saw seen me walk through the road other times But did I actually practice them walking through? Did they do it consistently? And so if that's done, okay. So we we know that we've practiced it, we've trained it. What's the next step? Next step, is there an emotional need? Because if there's an emotional need, then we need to handle that first. Because if we c So again, you're not at this point judging the child for a bad attitude. You're still looking for whether or not there's there's something uh a g a way to look at the child that believes the best. Maybe there's something So let me define this. If I was to correct the child when it's a training issue, I'm exasperating the child. And you'll agree with me Jonathan that uh we're called not to exasperate our children. And if I discipline the child or correct the child when there's an emotional need, then I'm placing a wedge between them and me because I am no longer protecting them. In fact I'm hurting them. Because they know that you're missing it. It's a it's amazing to me. I uh I have memories of times when you know, authorities in my life were disciplining me and I knew that they were missing it and and it bugged me and I still had to submit and I did. But these things stick with us that we're like, you know what, they're missing it, they're not paying attention to the thing. We don't want to place a wedge between the us and them. But then on the last side, if it's not those two and it's a sin issue and we don't correct them, then we're placing a wedge between them and Christ. And that's also not a good thing. Okay, so you went to the third one, but I want to ask another question about the second one. Right? When I was growing up So uh hopefully my brothers are listening, you know, to this whole scenario. My parents often place them in charge of me, you know, at different times uh because they're older and I'm younger, right? And so um for whatever reason there'd be a scenario where where I was looking to them. However, as I've thought back about that scenario, and I'm wondering how you guys handle it, you know, or large families in general, because I know that there's a natural uh teamwork that kicks in where the older is helping the younger. Um I feel like it's not natural. It is a trained Yeah, yeah, yeah. But I feel like Children or teenagers that are over children are less likely to be able to discern those kinds of things and more likely to just impose the standard, or maybe that's the point. that it needs to be trained as to how to go about it. I mean maybe that's the whole point of the thing. So you know the the the reality is Uh as parents, uh, we don't recognize it either. We have to step back and we have to keep each other accountable to you know, hey, are are we noticing what their needs are? Are we are we discerning what the underlying causes here of this behavior And our older children can learn to do that for our younger children. The more we model it for them, the more they learn to do it. We actually role play how do you handle a challenge with a younger sibling when you're the one that's in the room that's the oldest one in the room. And so we actually model that with them. Step back and think, could there be that they really don't know how to do this? So I need to give them some help in learning how to do this well It feels so training intensive, right? But even as I'm saying that, I'm remembering how many situations I've seen where I feel like as a parent I've worked hard to train and as a result I don't have the the difficulties that I see other parents struggling with, you know, where where I've seen that training on the front end can make things easier in the long run. Do you find that to be the case? That that absolutely there's less long term problems, so maybe it is intensive I mean is it intensive on the front end? By far. It's much more intensive on the front end because we're actually spending time to to give them these skills. We're spending time to hold life skills practice like we would go to piano practice or soccer practice. We're actually holding life skills training sessions in our home. And so there's a lot involved in parenting in this method. It's a lot there's a lot involved to step back and say, wait a minute, that behavior, what's underlying? Let me talk with my child. Let me find out where their emotional needs are. Let me Let me spend a lot of time approving my child today. That takes thought process and time and energy. But the reality is you're gonna put time and energy into parenting your child You're going to either put it into the end where you have to nag them and push them and can continually tell them the same thing over and over again and be frustrated with them and be punishing them and thinking up the right punishments and all of that, or you can put it in ahead of time and do all of the training. Which one is gonna be a more peaceful household? Yeah, that's what I'm wondering. And is it actually easier to do it your way in the law? By far. It takes it takes pre-planning, it takes a thought process, but once you get into the habits of doing it, it's not hard and there's a lot less work in the long run because re- in the reality, once I've given them the this this relationship-based parenting um foundation There's so few many fewer situations where they're acting in a manner that's uncomfortable because we are meeting their needs. So now yes, they've each got one or two main areas of sense struggle that they have. And we need to work on that with them. But an awful lot of the behaviors that were coming out because their emotional needs weren't being met or because they weren't being trained simply are gone. Braz, you had some thoughts. Yeah, basically think about it as a as a as an athlete or any kind of sport. Let's say say boxing. You put the biggest, strongest man in a boxing ring, even with somebody that is smaller than them, have has less Uh me versus Troy. Yes. At at that point, if you have not trained your big strong man, the the smaller man that has done a lot of training can easily win. Okay. That would never happen, Troy. So it's a matter of training ahead of time. If you spend the time ahead of time training, instead of training right while there's while you're trying to box you can't k go in there and yell at him and say, No, duck here, no move this way, no do this. You gotta train them ahead of time. You gotta train them ahead of time. If you're going 120 miles an hour on the road and you and a fork comes, you're gonna have a wreck because you don't know which way you're gonna go. So if we take the time to train our children ahead of time, they know exactly where they're gonna go so when something happens, a choice happens they don't make the wrong choice or they don't make any choice at all and and really make a problem. They go the right direction. So that happens oftentimes and many times parents will will come and talk to us and say, Wow, your children behave this way whether you're there or not Well, that's because they've been trained to behave a certain way and they tr and and we want them to behave a certain way, whether we're there with a stick or not. Because anybody can do it out of fear. We want them to do that of love. So if we if we have trained them and we have gained their love and trust, then they're gonna act a certain way, whether they're or not, not for the fear of being punished, but for the love of their parents and for love of Christ. Yeah, I was thinking you were talking about the the athlete, the small guy being able to beat up the the big guy, and I was thinking of Mr. Miyagi and Karate Kidd. Wax on, wax off. I mean the whole movie is him, you know, training and and it's and it's time consuming and it's it's emotionally challenging. The the the the Ralph Macchio character starts to push back and doesn't want to do it anymore. But in the end he's able to kick the butt or the the the the bigger guy. And what is he painting? Did you just use the word butt? Huh? Did you just use the word butt? Yeah and you use it just twice right there. So So in in in that karate kid, what is he training? He's tracing training muscle memory. So when he's in the ring at the final uh he does things w without even thinking about it his hands and and feet move without him thinking about it. And they go back to clips and what he was doing practice. Same thing with our children. We're training muscle memory and behavior memory that they will behave a certain way without thinking about it. Now isn't that the best way that is that making that choice? Tim Tim Tivo's high school football coach, I believe, uh said has a quote, something along the lines of um Hard work always beats talent that refuses to work hard. And so it doesn't matter how good you are if you're not gonna work hard. Another sports and movie analogy is in Rocky, the very first Rocky movie, Apollo Creed. you know, is clearly the superior boxer in the movie, but he refuses to train properly for the movie and of course the Italian Stallion, he's Busted his butt, there's that word again. He doesn't have as much talent, but he worked way harder getting ready for that fight and he a and he ends up you know, emotionally winning the fight. He ends up losing the fight. Okay. Emotionally winning the fight. So Tabula Rosa, right? The the big idea in the early Enlightenment is that if he just left the child to himself he'd be this noble savage that wouldn't uh have all of the bad uh societal habits built into him and that the problem with humanity is that uh is that we have all these things that that that parents are trying to train into their kids and so therefore uh these enlightenment th thinkers argued, it was Rousseau, I believe, is the guy, that if we just left the child alone, they'd be a tabula rosa, they would turn out well. because we're not teaching them all of our bad habits. Right? And so there's a major stream of uh of philosophy out there in the world that argues that drill like what you're talking about is drill and kill that you end up destroying the child's personality, you destroy his creativity and and what it is that he brings to the table. I mean you guys are really heavy on the training side. what happens to the personality of the kid? Are are is he are are th are they all just uh mimicking you and and when the time comes they're gonna rebel against it and feel like it was too uh harsh and limiting? Okay, well first of all, uh let's back up just a second and and talk about leaving a child to his own to just turn out well. I is discounting the whole area of sin in the world. And things of K. that even the idea of sin is an idea that causes the child to be less than the noble savage that he could be because we impose upon him this heavy idea about sin and brokenness that hurts and wounds his soul, right? And so we we shouldn't tell our kids what to believe even. Let them figure it out for themselves. Just tell them to read Lord of the Flies. So for the record, if anybody's new, I'm a pastor and I don't believe the things that I'm saying right now, but I'm recognizing that we live in a world that that is driven by these philosophies and ideologies And I think it's important because a lot of people listening right now are grappling with those ideologies themselves and a and saying to themselves, well, I don't know, these guys are too training heavy, I'm not sure that maybe it's too much. I mean, what's the answer to that? Well Part of the answer is that last week's show we covered a huge amount on the emotional needs of the children and you can't have you can't have one without the other. squashed when you're bringing in an ability to have self-discipline and to teach skills that you need in real world environments. Um everybody that h has it has a person move into any new environment gives them the skills. The military does. If you want to let let all the people in the military just walk in and I'll just do whatever you want, it'll be fine. Come on, we'll come on out on the battlefield. You'd have chaos, you'd have people in danger. In fact, my impression is that our tabula rosa friends that argue against imposing all these things on our kids are not against trying to meet those emotional needs. In fact, that's all they say that we need to do is just encourage the child, encourage the child, encourage the child. and never then, you know, bring the moral accountability because, you know, that'll mess 'em up and and and uh all that. So anyways, the point is that it's not really a tabula rosa. It's not really just a blank slate. They are imposing on that blank slate their encouragement. They're just not imposing their moral standards as well. Something is always imposing on that blank slate. Even if you're not there, the environment is. Something's doing that. So let's back up a little bit and you said well if you have so so having training, will that shut down their ability to be um artistic or whatever else? So let me ask you, when you drove here to the radio station Okay. Did you think about driving here or were you thinking about something else? I was thinking about something else. I was thinking about how cool the rain was because there was some really intense rain. So you were able to enjoy that and and experience everything else. Why? Because you're trained to drive and you're driving and that's now gone to your subconscious. the scenic route and be creative about how I get there. Now Troy doesn't like it 'cause that means I get here late, but sometimes I want to take the creative route. But that allows you to do that. Once you have the basics done, then you're able to add to it anytime you want. As I was saying I think last week on when I train my agents, I train them, I drill them and drill them until they can say the words, parrot the words back to me, and then eventually start adding the other things. See the thing is if you know what you're supposed to do so well, then you can pay attention to everybody else. You can pay attention to your environment. A young student driver is not trained enough and so they don't pay attention to everything else. They don't see somebody walking in front of the car. They don't see something else happening. And so the parent is very or the or the trainer is very, very uptight and and and scared because they don't see all these things. But as a as an advanced driver as you are, you don't even know that you see all those things and you react react to them without your conscious mind even taking notice of it. And because of that, your conscious mind can is open to being creative, uh, doing a lot of other uh um uh think thought patterns that you may not otherwise be able to do. If all your brain is consumed with how to survive the drive from your office to this radio station, you would never have been able to do anything else. So if we train our children well enough that they're drilled and trained that the basics of life, of living and excuse me, where they become servant hearts, serving other people and other people's needs, then they're able to perceive other people in a different light. They can see spiritually as opposed to whatever pleases their flesh. Because their flesh is under control. So this is definitely a major confrontation with what we would argue is the um the educational philosophy of a large portion of the public school system in the United States. It's it's a pretty significant difference, uh, that, you know You know, it's uh an interesting blend of ideas we've had been exposed to on today's show. On the one hand we've been talking about how we can't ignore the reality of sin. You know, our our children are going to surprise us sometimes with their sinfulness. We have to acknowledge that they that they are going to make wrong choices, they're going to be influenced by things other than ourselves, and even us as parents are going to have negative influences to uh exacerbate the sin problem. But we started out by talking about how we don't want to start with an assumption that their behavior is necessarily driven by sin. We want to give our our children grace and the benefit of the doubt as often as possible and realize, you know what, maybe I just need to train them better. So it's an interesting uh combination of ideas. And I'm reminded when I wasn't playing h baseball in high school, one of my uh friends Uh in high school you start to get to a place where you learn signs. You know, the third base coach is giving signs to the hitter what to do. Yeah, right. And this one uh young man named Tim, I'll never forget and in it's in practice, thank goodness wasn't in a game it would have been horrifying if it happened to him in a game. And the coach is giving him the take sign. Now in baseball parlance that means you do not swing. You take the pitch. He understood that the sign was Take. He knew it was a take sign. But he didn't realize what take meant. He thought it meant take a swing. And so he's getting the take sign and he's swinging every time. And finally the coach screams out, Tim, take the pitch. Take the pitch And Tim nods along, yeah, like a like a dog in the backseat of a car. You know, uh one of those little dog uh things that bottle up and down. And he next pitch he swings and misses again and strikes out. And the coach was furious He never took time to explain to him what take means. So anyway, that's gonna be the end of this show. Thanks for responding from Putm Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you Smile thanks to our guests. Jonathan, Raz, and Tammy. That's all you're gonna get right now. We're out of time Duxweek. God bless