Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, we're preaching with impact. It's like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. We're sponsored by Putman Flooding and Heating. How can we make you smile? Face Debates online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you find links to podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me, uh up to 90 blog postings a week. Eighteen per day, Monday through Friday. So even if you don't send me anything to post yourself, go visit, check it out, and see what other people are sending me. And some of it is funny. Some of it is very illuminating and insightful, some of it is controversial, some of it is political in nature, some of it is uh overtly theological and religious in nature, as you would expect, and some of it has Absolutely nothing to do with anything in particular, it's just interesting or not, depending on your perspective. On the Faith Debate today, part two of us of a message that began last week We've been having some uh logistical issues getting a panel together uh where everybody's schedule would line up and so fortunately I've got this stockpile of of audio of uh messages I've had an opportunity to preach throughout the region uh in recent months. Um running out of a stockpile though, so we better start getting some shows, regular shows looked here pretty darn soon. Um this is uh part two of a message called Filled by Emptiness. When it wraps up, we're gonna begin uh part one of another message because there's not uh you know twenty-some odd minutes left to this original message Uh and we're joining us in progress. It's talking about the uh story of the empty tomb in John's Gospel. And um we are in the third point in talking about a distinctive that John was making. I think you'll be able to figure it out as we go. Um if not, pardon this this hiccup. If you're lost for the next thirty seconds, don't worry, it'll only be about thirty seconds and you'll be right back on track and you'll be just fine. Alright? So Thanks for bearing with me. I hope you enjoy it and hope you're blessed by it. Mary Magdalene comes first to Peter who runs out with John. But John arrives first at the tomb, having overtaken Peter. But Peter enters the tomb first, as John waited before entering, but John is the first to believe after taking in the scene. So if any Christian is tempted to make an idol of any one of the apostles, pick a favorite apostle, and that's the one that I'm going to follow, John cuts him off at the pass. They're both first, in a sense. Recall that in verse 4 today, the passage we read today, that Peter and John were running to the tomb together. Now continuing with our passage, John 20, verses 8 and 9. Say, then the other disciple, John, who had reached the tomb first. also went in and he saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the scripture that he, Jesus, must rise from the dead. Then he saw and believed. At first, there had been no true belief. There was belief in idolatrous earthly things. Mary Magdalene believed in Jesus as a great healer, in her experience of Jesus casting out the demons, but trusting in merely that experience Came up empty. And Peter had watched the example of Jesus and was energized by his teaching, often getting very emotional in his devotion, but just his emotion. Wasn't enough. Came up empty. John had placed his hope in what he thought he knew regarding what he had seen, his knowledge. of what he saw failed him in up until this moment. Came up empty. Their hopes came up empty because they were trusting in merely earthly things. Idols, which are empty things. They weren't trusting in heavenly things. Jesus rising from the dead, that's a miracle. Miracles are heavenly things But John hadn't placed his hope in heavenly things at first, and Peter didn't have hope in godly things in this moment, and Mary had been spiritually delivered from seven demons, and still, at least for a short period of time, she did not have hope in spiritual things. Are you like them? They have their minds on things that are on earth. Not on things above. And this is contrary to what God tells us in Colossians 3, verse 2, set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. The disciples weren't doing this. Maybe you're not doing this right now. But the disciples, they started doing this. And you can start doing this too. Same way they did. Turning to the scriptures. Again, John chapter 20, verse 9 says, For as yet they did not understand the scripture. Earlier in John chapter 5, verses 39 to 40, Jesus tells us, You search the scriptures because you think that in them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me, and yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. Are you refusing to come to him? Are you failing to search the scriptures and find out what they say about Jesus? Your knowledge of Christ, like John had, is good. Your emotional connection to the Lord, like Peter had, It's good. Your personal experience with Jesus, like Mary Magdalene had, it's good. But hoping merely in that knowledge, that emotion, that experience. That's not good. Learn from the Bible how to understand your emotional experience and education. And that's what the disciples finally began to do. Because that's what Jesus told them to do. Now when I began about thirty minutes ago, I quoted Proverbs 1922. What a man desires is unfailing love, better to be poor than a liar. I desire unfailing love. You desire unfailing love. But we all desire it in the wrong places. Our paychecks, our reputations, our health, our friends, our families, they are all good things. But they are not God. When we treat them as we should treat God, we have set up idols. I am guilty of this. And the result is that I have set myself up to be distressed and in fear, just like the disciples were. Are you like this too? The scriptures say that what we want is unfailing love, and this is true, but I have caught myself in a lie. I have too often placed my replaced unfailing love, the love that's found only in Jesus, and replaced this unfailing love with a desire for earthly riches. But as Proverbs says, it is better to be poor than a liar. We're now in what some call advent season. There are Christmas trees all over the place. And these trees have given me a metaphor that now I'm going to give to you. My idolatrous hopes and dreams are like a big old tanabulb. Each branch is a different idol. One branch is a 401k. Another branch is my beautiful daughter. Another my wife. Your idol tree might have a branch for your grade point average, a branch for your football team, a branch for your house. Well, instead of getting rid of the idol tree at its root by going straight to Jesus, instead, I now realize looking back, When I lost my job a few years ago, I grabbed the axe of my own strength and I started chopping away at that idol that is the job branch. And when the economy tanked, I started chopping away at the retirement fund branch. And realizing that society is headed down the wrong path, I started cocking away at the feast in the goodness of man branch. And I hacked away at the time stealers like television and video games and hobbies. And I resharpened that axe of my own strength and I attacked every branch I could find One right after the other, and there was a branch, and another and another and another and furiously I went after those branches until I was exhausted But I kept going anyway. And the more branches I cleared, the more branches I found. And even if I could eliminate all of the branches, even if, what then? What would I be left with? I'd be left with a pretty ugly Christmas tree. And I'd be left with my own exhausting efforts by clearing the idolatrous branches. And my own effort will have become the idol. And as we know, idols come up empty. And so we come back to the tomb, the empty tomb. Empty. Is it just another false idol? If we come to the tomb looking for the dead body of Jesus, so that we might venerate it, so that we might weep over it, so that we might use it to remind us of all the things that Jesus taught. If this is what we're looking for in this empty tomb, then it is an idol. If we come to the tomb looking for evidence that something supernatural did not happen If we're looking for an icon or a relic, looking for only Christ's example to us, then we're failing to understand what God has said about this empty tomb in the scriptures, and so it is. An empty idol. But if we come to this empty tomb to be reminded That Jesus told us he would not be there if we come to the empty tomb believing that Jesus conquered death. At death he died for our sins so that we can join him in glory if we come to this empty tomb knowing that the tomb is now empty because Jesus is now ruling at the right hand of God the Father. And if his Holy Spirit now resides in the hearts of Christians, then it's no empty idol. In fact, we might say it's not really empty at all. The emptiness of the tomb fills the tomb With evidence that God has fulfilled His promise. The promise to save us from our sin. Let's pray. Father, we in our own limited way Hope and wish and yearn to glorify, magnify your name. You are creator of all, you are savor of those who believe. Thank you for calling us to yourself so that we will believe. As we think about the new year that's dawning, as we think about our goals and our prospects for the coming year, as we jot down our resolutions Help us in that process not to construct more branches for our idol tree. Help us to have resolutions that are about things above. And not things here on earth. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. And we have reached the halfway point of this week's faith debate program on WFMD News Radio 930 WFMD Free Talk. And check us out online at WFMD. com. That was the last half of a message called Filled by Emptiness We are now going to hear the first portion of a different message to f uh to finish out the last half of today's uh radio broadcast. This um message is titled Where's your hope? Focused on Psalm 127. I hope you uh enjoy this uh this early portion of this message, and we will uh continue with it on next week's show. Well good morning. What a good looking group. Actually I was looking at you when I said that. Bit of housekeeping. I'm getting a little ahead of myself, but I realize I neglected to ask Kyle who's handling the benediction, will that be you or me? Well either way, just let me know. We're gonna be um unpacking Psalm 127. If you're not sure how to find it, just open your Bible to pretty much right in the middle. And if you miss it by a little bit, you if you open your Bible in the middle, you're probably in Psalms. If not, you're probably in Proverbs. If you find yourself in Proverbs, just back up one book and you're in Psalms. And Psalm 127 is near the back of the Psalms. Before we uh get into while you look for that, before we get into unpacking all of it, I'm going to share with you the story about a guy that I know. A couple years ago this guy had a an addition added to his house. Big addition about fifteen hundred square feet. Really beautiful addition And because the addition was so large, they had to add a second HVAC unit because the first unit wasn't big enough to handle all the additional square footage. And so this guy hired a company run by some people he knows. Christian family owned the business And they were conscientious and they did an okay job, but the work was long in getting done. It dragged on and on, held on, held up the entire project. It caused lots of tension with the contractor. Escalated the construction costs was not good. But they worked through it. And the guy figured it was worth it. I mean, after all, he helped to support a Christian business. And the new HBC unit came with a 10-year parts and labor warranty. So he was told that he was never gonna have to put another penny into this HBAC unit except for just regularly scheduled scheduled maintenance. Well And that's a good thing because this wasn't the cheapest unit he could have chosen, it wasn't the cheap cheapest company he could have chosen. Well this past winter the HVAC unit stopped working. So the guy called the company and said, hey, you gotta come out here and fix this. And I happened to be there when the technicians showed up. And they did their work and when they were done, the guy that I know gets hit with a bill. What? He thinks. A bill? Was the warranty a lie? This company held up the entire project for two months a couple of years ago and they lied too? Are you kidding me? They got wigged out He raises his voice, but he was careful not to curse. Instead, he used odd vocabulary, like the word verclement. Seriously, the guy said he was for Clipped because he was freaking out. There were two service technicians there, he hollered at them both, and they tried to explain something about the fine print in the warranty, and he'd have none of it. Take hammering away on them, so they call the main office, they put their manager on the phone, and he lets him have it too. In fact, the manager on the phone is the guy to which the word verklemt was used. And this guy used some other words, said some other things that weren't too nice. It's a Christian guy I know that did this. You know a guy like that? Perhaps it reminds you of yourself at some horribly embarrassing moment in your past. Clearly I know a guy like that, to be sure. Some of you might have guessed, I'm that guy. Not sure why I would share that story with you. Other than the fact that it helps us to understand a lesson that we learned from Psalm 127. Let's read it and then ask God's blessing upon our exposition and understanding of it. Psalm 127 says, Unless the Lord builds the house, its builders labor in vain. Unless the Lord watches over the city, the watchmen stand guard in vain. In vain you rise early and stay up late, toiling for food to eat, for he grants sleep to those he loves. Sons are a heritage from the Lord. Children a reward from Him. Like arrows in the hands of a warrior are sons born in one's youth. Blessed is the man whose quiver is full of them. They will not be put to shame when they contend with their enemies in the gate. Let's pray. Father, we come here today with many distractions and concerns on our heart. We ask that you would help us to Put those aside to ease our minds so we can stay focused on the truth of your word, so we can understand the context in which this was written originally thousands of years ago, and understand the context in which it applies to our lives even today. Help us to understand who we are, who you've made us to be, and who we have been remade to be in Christ. And help us to understand how this passage reveals to us more clearly the person and work of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And it's his name that we pray. Amen. So at the start of verse 1 in Psalm 127, we can immediately see the connection to the opening story. Verse 1 says, starts anyway, the first half, unless the Lord builds the house, its builders Labor in vain. This half verse is loaded with imagery. Tons of imagery. And the first thing I want you to notice is the image of building a house. Can you see what the Bible is doing here? In talking about the building of a house, what it's talking about is the building of a house. I know, right? Profound, seriously, stunning. This is why I'm here to help explain these things to you. Now there's way more going on than just that, but in all seriousness, let's not totally overthink this. The psalmist is calling our attention To the building of a house. So let's do that. Why do we build a house? We build a house for protection, for shelter, for a place to keep our stuff. We build a house to have an environment in which to raise our family, to host our friends, to kick out those who annoy us. Get out of my house. We build a house with a place to go. I think I'll go home now. We build houses for all these reasons. We build houses for tax benefits as an investment. We build houses for the realization of a dream, for social status. We build houses for lots of reasons. We have a lot wrapped up in the building of our houses. But are we building in vain? This was my problem with the HV uh BAC people, wasn't it? My wife and I put a lot of Time in caring for our house, put a lot of money into repairing our house, put a lot of energy into weeding the garden, washing the floors. That's more her than me But we all really labor in this sort of stuff, don't we? But when we forget that God is the builder, we are laboring in vain. And I had forgotten that God is the builder. You might think I'm being too hard on myself, but at least for that moment, my behavior with those people Is evidence that, again, at least for that moment, I was building in vain. I wasn't trusting in God When we labor in vain, we will embarrass ourselves and forfeit our positive Christian witness to others. In part because we forfeit our positive witness to ourselves. Open up my psyche for a moment and see if you can see yourself at all. I put a ton of my personal identity, not just cash and time and energy, but my personal identity into that home edition. And so when the heater stopped working, I was aggravated. How could my house dash my hopes like this? And it was a Christian company that had done the work. These owners, they're part of the church. How could the church disappoint my hopes like this? Instead of recognizing my identity in Christ, I saw my identity in the house. And in the church, a church sort of absent of Christ. That's another part of the imagery for the word house in this passage, by the way, an allusion to the temple, to God's house, to Christ's church. Unless I realize that God is the builder of my house, then it's built in vain. And it's the same with us, with our house. If We don't realize that it's God who's the builder of his church. We are building in vain. What is a church without God, after all? It's a cult. It's an idol factory. It's a synagogue of Satan. In our personal lives and in our corporate lives, as the body of the church, let's be sure that God is at the heart and in our heart. Of what we're building, that our hope is in Him to do that. And we'll know that we're doing this when Jesus is our focus. He's the foundation. He's the church's cornerstone. He's our capstone. Jesus is the one who was rejected by the builders who were building in vain. He is the one who is forever accepted by the true builder, our Creator, God in heaven And we're gonna jump in and pause here until one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. I know, right It's a long time to wait for the last half of a message. I apologize for that. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Free Talk, News Radio 930, WFMD, online at WFMD. com You can find the faith debate page at WFMD. com by typing in uh the word faith into the keyword section of the website, or you can go to the online program lineup. uh or the uh on air program lineup and uh find the show, the Faith Debate and click on that takes you to the page uh as well. What have I been reading lately? I know you're interested. Not sports and not theology. I've been reading a lot of sports and theology stuff lately, but this is neither. This is um political commentary by Charles Krauthammer, Things That Matter And uh I thought I understood Charles Krauthammer's um politics a little bit differently than I now do. So if you think you know Charles Krauthammer Read this book and it might add a level of nuance to your understanding of his way of thinking. That's all I'll say about that for now. Anyway, thank you so much for listening to my uh Normal partner and colleague John Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Church who is not on the show this week but will be uh pretty soon on another uh roundtable discussion to come up Um we both thank you for your longtime almost 10 year support of this radio show. Until next week, God bless.