The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. I kind of like that they say that. You know what I'm saying? This is the face-to-base. Uh News Radio 930 WFMD. I want to thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us getting ready for paying homage and honor to our fathers next week. So if you got any shopping done yet, you got about 168 hours. So then run out there and get something for that. Um, last week we were talking about something that was uh controversial, the importance of questions. So this week we decided to lighten it up and talk about something that nobody ever argues about. End times prophecy. Only only a certain certain thing. All Christians hold exactly the same view on the screen. Yeah. So um it it it's it's fixed up. You've already heard our voices, we're joking, there's a little nervous energy in the room, a little shadow boxing going on, working up a sweat. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, I'm always sweaty, uh I think uh I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ dot com you I can get a better plug for the church than that. The pastor's always sweaty at Household of Faith in Christ. And um Daniel Radby is not looking that sweaty actually. Uh so I guess nothing he uh He might be sweating on the inside, but he never lets them see us sweat. Uh he's one of the pastors at the Church of Peace of Imrans on the north end of Frederick County. I'm in the center of Frederick County and on the south end of Frederick County would be David Forcey who what he does for a living causes him to sweat. That's true. And it would make me sweat an awful lot. Yeah, not not just the physical exertion of my my job, I suppose. There are some there are some nerves. We get up there a hundred feet and Yeah. No y I you literally couldn't pay me enough because I couldn't do it. I could physically Uh couldn't do it. I I I would freeze. I could not climb. There's no way I could do it. It was very it was very difficult when I first uh first started. So End times prophecy. Enough uh enough uh beating around the bush. So I'm gonna I'm gonna say that uh that there are two major camps when it comes to Only two. The end time. Yes, yes. One is people that uh care a whole lot about it and peep and then the the other one is people who don't care very much about it. Hm. That that's true, but those are those are the two major uh so I think it might be that being nice to to go Can you give a sentence about what you think are the most important things about the end? I f I wonder if uh the the thing that you hear the most about, and I wonder if it would make sense to start here. And if not, we can kind of do a round robin thing. That's fine. But uh the thing that you hear a lot about in an American church context is the rapture, right? I mean that comes up a lot There's a whole book series and movies series, left behind books and all that by uh Tim LaHay and Jerry B. Jenkins was hu they sold millions and millions and millions of copies. It was like a pop culture phenomenon back in like the nineties and early two thousands and It spawned a kid's version of the series too. I mean this was like and and little paraphernalia, you know, it probably had figurines and You know, uh they had everything. It was crazy, crazy. Kirk Cameron starred in one or two of their movies, I think. And it's a it's a big deal. And I it it's particularly big in America. We can talk about more why that is later on if we want. So I d we we've been doing this show for coming up on a year of shows now, or at least nine months worth of shows, and we've known each other for years. Um and I don't know that I really have a strong sense of where you two fellas are on these questions. So this isn't a load of question. I'm curious, do you subscribe to the idea that there's going to be a pre tribulation rapture where Jesus comes and and calls his saints to himself and removes them from the planet before things get really hairy. David, you want to go first? No, I I don't think that I do. Um Yeah, so I I I I just haven't I haven't seen a a convincing argument. Um based on scripture for that. Um I mean I guess the the passages that people most often think of when is when, you know, maybe when Jesus is talking about to telling the disciples, you know, some of the things that are to come and, you know, says, you know, one person's gonna be You know, the two people are gonna be doing something together and one person's gonna be gone and the other person's gonna still be there and there's there's a whole camp of people that believe in a reverse rapture, that the one taken is actually the that's the calling of of the wicked And the ones who left her that Christians. I don't subscribe to that either. Uh yeah. Yeah, I wouldn't call it a rever yeah, I've never heard it called a reversed rapture or anything. I I do think that the text that uh 'cause in uh Thessalonians that David's talking about, I believe, and uh I I do believe that if you read that passage in context, those that are taken away aren't taken away to safety, they're taken away to destruction. Yeah, I'm I'm talking about in uh in the gospels, yeah, and Massie in particular. Two women are grinding. Oh right, right, right, yeah. Well in Right, all right. Yeah, there's a there's a different passage in the festival jumping ahead myself. But the same thing though, right? 'Cause it's talking about in the days of Noah, I think is the context there, isn't it? They don't happen suddenly. I don't know. Yeah. So anyway, so you're on the record. You're a denier. So I I think the rapture is given a lot more weight than it really should be by most Mo uh I would say most evangelical believers in America. Um it's not nearly as big of a thing in the Bible as people make it out to be. The second coming of Christ is well talked about and and talked about a lot, but the rapture as an event is a very small, insignificant part of that, if it happens at all. And I think you can point to some things about a rapture the idea that all of the the believers are taken up to heaven at once. That that it does say we who are alive and remained will be cut up uh uh or tak taken up uh will meet him in the air. It We'll meet him in the air, I I kind of envision that as we're meeting him as he's coming back down. That's the you know, we're coming out to meet him. Like the bride is coming out to meet uh uh you know, the bridegroom, uh when when he's coming to get his bride, we're kinda meeting each other So that's where I see that and and it does talk about things like at the last trump or well what is the last trump? Probably not the beginning of the tribulation. If you believe in a seven year tribulation, I would say the last trump would be the either either the last of the seven trumpets or it would be the last feast of trumpets, which is either way is is towards the end of the seven years, if that was the case. Um if you want to use th that as a as a time marker. But I think that's that's still There there's a lot more to unpack there, right? Because there's a whole group of Christians that believe in a literal seven year period that either is coming soon or maybe has already started or you know uh maybe c is coming far from now that that's the last bit and then maybe there's a m millennium or maybe there's not after that, maybe that's literal a thousand years or not. But this that's a future thing, or like you know, maybe we're in it and we haven't noticed that we're kind of started that, but we're but but that's but that's a a literal tribulation. There's a whole nother group of Christians that think most of this stuff already happened about eighty seventy that what the are millennials or post millennials and then and then a lot of this is figurative, it's not really and we can talk about Some of those a little more speci I mean we could be here for for weeks and weeks talking about some of them. But we'll touch on some of those differences maybe specifically too, but um and I was I was busy p pulling up some of the Bible passages that uh have come up so we can maybe talk about them in context and stuff. But so you have some sort of a modified I'm trying to I wasn't tracking 100% because I was looking at up the Bible passage, but you have some sort of a modified uh rapture of you? Yeah, I mean I I would say if you want to call it a rapture, that's when we we meet him in the air as he's coming down to get his bride. So that's probably the middle towards the end of a tribulation and I I believe in a literal seven year time period. And when he comes down to get his bride, then he does he then finish the trip and come all the way back to Earth? Yes. Okay. Yeah, that's at the end. Right, right before the millennium. So are you going with so just so I can kind of get my head and somebody listening who knows something about these labels, would you then fall into the uh A post trib, premillennial? Yeah. I would I would probably uh yes, but there's there's things there's there's You you always have to define the terms, and so I I that's probably the closest I would I would fall into. Um I but see to me the rapture is not nearly the most important thing, and so I don't focus on it like a lot of people do Um I'm assuming when you said Matthew, you're talking about Matthew twenty-four, I'm assuming. Yeah, and I'm not sure which particular Saying some of the signs of Christ's return. So hey, a little Bible lesson right here, live on the show. Jesus came out from the temple was going away when his disciples came up to point out the temple buildings to him, and he said to them Do you not see all these things? Truly I say to you, not one stone here will be left upon another which will not be torn down. As he was sitting on the Mount of Olives, the disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us When will these things happen? And what will be the sign of your coming, and the end of the age? And Jesus answered and said to them, See to it that no one misleads you, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and will mis me mislead many. You will be hearing of wars and rumors of wars, see that you are not frightened, for those things must take place, but that is not yet the end. For nation will rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom, and in various places there will be famines and earthquakes, but all these things are merely the beginning of birth pangs. Then they will deliver you to tribulation and will kill you, and you will be hated by all nations because of my name. At that time many will fall away and will betray one another and hate one another Many false prophets will arise and will mislead many, because lawlessness is increased. Most people's love will grow cold, but the one who endures to the end, he will be saved This gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in the whole world as a testimony to all the nations, and then the end will come. Now that's like the first half or third, I guess, of uh ish of the chapter. So I don't know if that's That's not the passage you're talking about. But those that think that they're going to be rescued from a tribulation, it seems like in in that part of Matthew, they're being told to expect tribulation. Yeah, and I think that's the biggest danger with the general feeling we have in America, uh, if you subscribe to a pre tribulation rapture, is that We're not appointed to wrath. That's a verse that's often quoted. Oh, we're not appointed to wrath. And so that's equated with and therefore we won't ever have any really bad stuff happen to us And then you get the prosperity gospel and you get God as a vending machine and all those things that go along with that. But it's really dangerous to subscribe to the idea that God is going to save us from any bad stuff or pain or sorrow or grief or anything like that. It's never going to happen to you if you just have enough faith. That's not what's commanded. In fact it says Jesus says uh earlier in Matthew, Blessed are you who are persecuted. Right? You should expect persecution. I've I've heard pastors say before If you are not being persecuted, you're not having spiritual warfare, you're not having the devil attack you, then you're probably not a very strong Christian. You may be maybe you're saved, but you're not really a threat to the devil if he doesn't care about you enough to try to attack you and tear you down, right? So you are to be expecting to be persecuted. And I think that's the the biggest danger with the evangelical church thinking, oh well, it'll be okay, I'll be raptured before anything really bad happens and then we're not prepared for persecution. There will be a great following away. when there is persecution in in the in the church in America. And the Apostle Peter, I think is second Peter, he he not only does he promise it, but he counts he calls it a privilege to be persecuted for Christ. And people forget it around the world there are pe there are Christians being tortured and killed exactly today. So how come they didn't get raptured, huh? Seriously, that's the question you gotta ask. Right. And and I I think the non appointed arrest is a little bit Here's here's what I if if you're really hung up on that verse, because that's what's really taught, right? We're not appointed to rap, therefore we're gonna get raptured. The God works in similar ways throughout history. He he foreshadows, right? And there is near fulfillment and far fulfillment of prophecies. That's a concept that we can go into more detail at some point. But I see the end times as being very much like the Exodus. But whose wrath? We're not appointed to whose wrath? The wrath of God. Right, of course. We're saved. Exactly. Our wrath is poured out on Christ. Right. Simple. So what's that to do with the rapture? Well well let's let's let's let's unpack it. I think I think the Exodus is a really good uh analogy, right? So if you think about the Exodus, there were ten plagues in Egypt. And the first couple of the blood and the and the and the lice of the falls, they affected everybody, including the Israelites who were in Egypt, right But did Israel come out of Egypt during those plagues? No, they came out at the end, right? After all of those terrible plagues. However, the last several, God made a distinction. He protected Goshen, he protected Israel inside of Egypt, even though all of Egypt had these really bad things happening, but God did not bring Israel out until after the destruction was complete. And Pharaoh's army was drowned and everything And then Israel came out. But Israel didn't die during that. The the the Israelites were still there. They were still a nation, still a people. They had hard times. They got worked harder by the taxmasters. They had some of the original plagues that really were kind of a uh a wider spread. they applied to them with the blood and the lice and the frogs. But the the darkness and the uh you know, um the firstborn for sure, all all all those later plagues that were really the wrath of God being poured out on Egypt that did not affect Israel. So I I kind of see the church as that we're gonna be in the end times, the church is still gonna be there. The church is still gonna be persecuted as we are now. We're probably gonna be persecuted even worse, much worse during the final years of tribulation. But we aren't facing God's wrath. God's wrath is poured out and he talks about in Revelation there's you know the locusts come up out of the ground and God says, Wait, wait, wait, wait, don't touch anybody till we've marked who the Christians are, and you can kill everybody else or torture everybody else Right. So there are things that the Christians are being protected from, but that implies that Christians are still there during that time. And if you believe in the pre-tribulation rapture, you've got to justify how it is all these Christians there Oh they must have gotten saved after they saw people there because they got left behind and they got scared. Okay, well you have to invent all these doctrines. Devastation is really what's going on there. These are spiritual locusts that are coming up in uh in Revelation chapter nine. Those aren't actual physical out-of-the-ground locusts. They're depends on your interpretation, but The things that uh so actual out-of-the-ground locusts are gonna be running around stinging people for five months uh like with tails like a scorpion. I think that's probably the best way he could describe what he was seeing, but yeah, I I expect in the kind of physical things the uh demonic for sure. Exactly, right. But physical things you see. Right, because there's the uh you know the the the the angel of the abyss is given the key. Mm-hmm. The angel of the abyss. Spiritual language. Yep. And Ju Jude says these angels are reserved in chains until certain time. And I think he's Judas been talking about some of that. You can agree or disagree with some of the things that we're going to talk about on this show, maybe next week's show, and the show after that, for who knows how long we'll want to talk about the end time stuff. But you need to know if if you're truly counting on Jesus Christ as, you know Your substitution s uh substitutionary atonement, like he is your salvation. You are spiritually marked safe. You were just alluding to that, you know, hey well let's let's make sure everybody's You're in Goshen. You're in the land of Goshen. You're marked safe. Now, are you going to go through hard times? Maybe, maybe not. Now you might be on the side that says, oh no, I'm not going to go through hard times because before things get really, really bad, you know, Christ is going to come take me away. But m m m you already mentioned it, Daniel. I'm concerned. Like what about the guy who got beheaded in the Middle East because he's a Christian? Yesterday. Yeah, exactly. Let's let's let's g go back into uh Pick up with verse fifteen of Matthew twenty-four. Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation, which was spoken of through Daniel the prophet, standing in the holy place, let the reader understand, then those who are in Judea must flee to the mountains of the. Whoever is on the m housetop must not go down to get things that are in his house. Whoever is in the field must not turn back to get his cloak. But woe to those who are pregnant and to those who are nursing babies in those days, but pray that your flight will not be in the winter or on a Sabbath. For then there will be a great tribulation, such as not occurred since the beginning of the world until now nor ever will. Unless those days had been cut short, life would have uh Life would have been saved. No life would have been saved, but for the sake of the elect, those days will be cut short. Then if anyone says to you, Behold, here is the Christ, or There he is. Do not believe him, for false Christs and false prophets will arise and will show great signs and wonders so as to mislead, if possible, even the elect. Behold, I've told you in advance, so if they say to you, Behold, he is in the wilderness, do not go out, or behold, he's in the inner rooms, do not believe them. For just as the lightning comes from the east and flashes even to the west So will the coming of the Son of Man be. Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather. Yeah, it it it's not some sort of secret rapture, right? I mean it's it's plain the obvious to everybody if there is a rapture. It'll be obvious. Right. Right. Yes. Talking again there about the tribulation about being cut short. Now this is uh a a passage that Maybe we can this might be a good time to transition and talk a little bit about some of the different views of end times. We'll begin with the preterist view, because they like this passage. And they're saying that the fullness of the wrath of Christ came and he returned in his full wrath in A D seventy. And destroyed the uh b the the Jewish religion, devastated the temple, no stone left upon another kind of thing. And uh animal sacrifices end forevermore at that point. And so they're saying that's it, that's the moment, and the preterists really like to focus on that. So they're not expecting another coming of Jesus. He already came as far as they're concerned. And they would center on some of this language here to make that point. I don't think any of us agrees with that. No, I I don't agree with that. No, I would say there's variations with that. Some a lot of people uh I know many people that believe Pretty much all of it happened in AD seventy. However, either now we're in the millennium or we're gonna be in the millennium at some point and then after the thousand years are over And they that may they these people would subscribe to a non literal thousand years. But after that Jesus is coming back again 'cause he's gonna fight the final war against Satan and and all of his armies and then we'll have a new heaven and new earth. So there is still a coming that Well what I just described would be the the the preterist position or what is sometimes for clarification purposes called the full preterist position. But then there is the partial preterist position, which actually I hold to So what you uh much of what you just said would actually I would nuance things a little bit differently there and I I will as we move forward I probably, but um I would agree that something really momentous and important uh happened in eighteen seventy. Um I I think Jesus starts off that that passage by prophesying about that. Uh and that leads the disciples to ask about uh you know, about the destruction of the temple. And that leads the disciples to ask sort of more questions. And so I think part of what's going on here is that Jesus is he's answering sort of more than one question. He's talking about more than one event, more than one happening. Right. Yeah, yeah, exactly. Exactly. It's like uh in in Isaiah it says the Lord himself will give you a sign, Virgin shall conceive and bear a son. And and then there is this there is a child born like right after that and then he kinda repeats a similar prophecy But the prophecy is really about the virgin birth of Christ. It's not about whatever a kid is born later to talk to, uh, you know, with Isaiah and stuff There are things happening at the time, there's a near fulfillment and a far fulfillment of the of the prophecy. Passover's the same thing. There was a near fulfillment of Passover, the protection there, and then the actual Passover lamb, Jesus Christ, was crucified. and he rose again. That was another fulfillment of Passover. So there's there's dual fulfillments. God works in in in ways like that. in in all the prophecies, so it w why wouldn't he do that with the tribulation? I I don't know why he wouldn't you I mean, y this is not your area of s of emphasis. Certainly yeah. So you probably don't even like the question, but um Those who know the labels and what they mean, are you able to throw some of those labels out and say, this is my view? Like I would I would count myself as one of those partial preterist, all millennial uh view so I don't ex I don't believe in uh uh in some sort of rescuing rapture uh kind of idea. Um so that would be my position. Do you have Something that you you know, No, I don't I don't think so. Um you know, I I think uh Yeah, I I I you know, if somebody asks me what my what my end times views are, I say, well, uh Jesus is coming again. Um and when he does, uh he will, you know, make all things right, you know, both judgment and new creation. And uh you know, but I and and there will be there will be trials and suffering and persecution until then, until everything is is made new. Um but I uh you know and and that is sort of like a uh that that sort of like is is the okay like that that's what happens Once all that's accomplished, you know, and not sort of putting a time frame on on that, that is like th th the the beginning of uh like of the eternal age, right? That's the end of this age and the beginning of of the next. And uh you know, but I think when people say end times, they're s they're sort of saying, okay, like Yeah, how do we how do we understand where we are now, what sort of things will happen leading up to uh to that second coming. Right. Um you know, and and and and and again I I think I think we sort of have brought up a an important point of understanding Um when looking at scripture uh to try and understand it, um and maybe a couple of important points. One being um One being, alright, so you know, these these prophecies are you know, they have uh some depth to them. You know, they're not just all talking about one thing all the time. And uh you know, that's one thing. And then um Oh, I forgot what the other point was. But I'm sure it's important to do that. be honest so hopefully you'll attract with us we'll we'll clean up and be a little more on point I think and and and pointed in trying to define things and and really to be a service to you. I mean we're trying to grapple with we've already had this conversation before we're trying to get a sense of where are we coming from but ultimately you're what's important And we want to make sure you understand what the issues are, what people think, uh understand them. And so we'll we'll we'll do that next week on uh on Father's Day as it turns out. So that'll be our gift to you. Uh Daniel Rasby, uh David Forsey, I'm Troy Skinner. We thank you for listening. You can join us online at wfmd. com or household with faith in Christ. com. Till next week. God bless.