It's the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable jab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. WFMD. com, keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinities from Reform Theological. Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Last week we began the first in a three-part series of looking at End times, the last days, eschatology. And if you're s somewhat of a student of these sorts of things, but you know, not deep in the weeds on it, then this will be really helpful to you. Maybe you've heard some of the terms before but you're not exactly sure what all the different terms mean and you you always kinda wondered or you have, you know, friends who talk about things that uh you haven't heard a whole lot about before and you want to know what are they talking about? This is going to help you. So last week we talked about primarily when we started talking about post-millennialism and what that all means. And you can find that podcast at WFMD. com. You can also find it on our Facebook page, on my personal Facebook page, and other places on the internet. And we also started getting into what dispensational views are. That view has so many different facets and and can be quite complex, and so we're spending more time on that than the other views, and so we're gonna pick up where we left off on dispensationalism this week before we get into the ah millennial point of view as well. So buckle up. We're in for a good ride here on the Fate Debate on 930 WFMD. Now, what makes this even more complicated is within the dispensational premillennial view which has the the classical, progressive, traditional, grace movement and other stripes and flavors of dispensationalism. Within all of that, those little subgroups, you then have to split them even further, depending on the timing of the tribulation. So some of them are pre-tribulation, some of them are mid-tribulation, some of them are post-tribulation. And so a pre-tribulation view says that Christians are removed, that rapture we talked about are removed from the planet through the secret rapture of the church before the tribulation. So it's pre-tribulational premillennialism. Okay? And then you've got the mid-tribulation view, which has a variant, by the way, that's called the pre-wrath view. I'm not gonna spend any time on that, but just so you know, if somebody mentions pre-Wrath They're talking essentially about the mid-trib view, the mid-tribulation. By the way, that's shorthand you'll hear. Pre-trib, mid-trib, post-mill, omil pre-mill, so if you hear those, those are just shorthand for the longer words that I'm using. So a mid-tribulation, premillennial dispensational view says that Christians, they're removed from the planet through a rapture, so very similar to the Pre-tribulation guys, but it happens the mid-waypoint at the three and a half year mark of the seven-year tribulation that they're expecting And then post-tribulation, you've probably figured it out. It says that the the the the rapture of the church comes in combination with the the uh final general resurrection of of all believers and that all of this happens after the seven year tribulation. So some final comments on this section because I want to I I one, it's complicated and takes a lot of uh energy to try to understand and grapple with all these moving parts and these differentiations and stuff. So I wanted to spend some time just to deal with that, but I also want to make sure we spend some time because this is the prevailing view in the American church. Most American Christians would be well and they and most would be treat pre-trip right by the way. So most American Christians that you run across are going to, if they understand what their end times view is, not all of us as Christians have a formulated view. But if we do, we're more likely than not in America going to be pre-tribulation, premillennial dispensationalists. Why is that? Because it's a view that's actually a minority view worldwide. Most Christians around the world are not pre-trib free male dispensationalists. But in America, most of us are. Why would that be? Well, a short aside for a history lesson. I mentioned C. I. Schofield as one of the proponents and a big mouthpiece for this movement. Have you ever heard of the Schofield Reference Bible? It's a big part of why if this is a prevailing view in America. So back in the 1800s, uh you had the the the the rise of uh of modern-day uh psychology and uh uh the very, very, very early forerunners of what has now become known as postmodernist uh philosophical worldview. You had Darwinian evolutionism So at the theory of evolution in the 1800s, you started to have uh splinter groups that were I don't mean this uh in the way we typically think about cults, meaning you drink the Kool-Aid and you die. but cults in the more theologically clinically descriptive way, meaning they're claiming to be Christian, but they're a variant so far afield that it that they they They uh they disavow or completely misunderstand the fundamental core beliefs of Christianity, and because they call those Christian cults. Um Some of those groups have dithered away or reinvented themselves. Some of them are still around. We know who they are. The the Jehovah's Witnesses would be an example. The the the uh the Church Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, otherwise known as Mormons. But this all happened in the 1800s. And so those who are Bible believers, and they believe in those core tenets of the faith and the foundational fundamentals of Christian belief They wanted to react against the Darwinism, you know, the evolution and these these cultic moves and and um uh and uh what evolved into higher critical thinking. They wanted to fight back and protect the gospel and so they emphasize the fundamentals of the faith, which is where we get the phrase the fundamentalist So if somebody calls you a fundamentalist Christian, usually in today's world they're wagging their finger and it's it's a pejorative, they're accusing you of something bad. Usually they mean you're narrow-minded, small-minded, not that smart, you're argumentative, you're you're just silly, you know, you're you don't get it. your opinion doesn't matter. Like so that's what it means now. But back then they labeled themselves fund um fundamentalists because they were getting back to the fundamentals. They were proud But that understanding of what it meant got twisted over time. Anyway, so with all of this the evolution, all the other stuff, and the and the fundamentalists wanting to really Press into what does the Bible say? What does the Bible mean? They were reading their Bible, but they they they wanted some help and how to understand it And the best-selling, most popular Bible in America during that period of time was the Schofield Reference Bible. And Schofield was a pre-tribulationist, premillennialist, dispensationalist. And so all of his notes in that, his commentary on the scriptures, all of the notes that help you understand what you're reading explain the dispensations. So here you have the the dispensational law and here you have the parenthetical church age and so we had generations of Christians in America cut their teeth on and grow up on that sort of a teaching. And so it was and this was the best selling Bible in America, not worldwide. So while the rest of the world was pretty much either post-millennial or historic premillennial or our millennial, America over time became predominantly pre-thread pre-mill dispensationalist. Now, in a practical sense, this has had a great influence on our nation as a whole. It has affected um Our politics, who gets elected for president, how we interact on the international stage, how we handle the Middle East. Because remember The dispensationalists place a huge emphasis on ethnic Israel, the nation-state, the Jewish state. That's a huge deal for them And then they've got gathered momentum for their movement when in 1948 Israel, which hadn't existed for forever, all of a sudden is a state again, a nation state again, and all the dispensationalists went, aha Schofield was right. See, it's happening. The last days are happening. We needed there to be uh an an Israel again, and Jerusalem to be the capital city again, so the temple could be rebuilt again, so they could offer sacrifices again uh so that they could receive their Messiah, who they rejected before. And so all of this plays out in very practical ways as you watch the news And most Americans are very pro-Israel, and I would argue rightfully so, uh even if only for geopolitical national security reasons. It's the only democratic state in the Middle East They've been the most loyal ally of America for the last sixty, seventy, eight however long they've been around now? Uh seventy-two years. Um And so for a lot of reasons and then the strategic location of where they are and the impact with with relation to Syria and Iraq and Iran and uh and back in the seventies, Egypt and Jordan So it's had a it's it's prime real estate, it's an important issue, and so Americans I would argue should be pro Israel in a general sense Anyway, but then you add the theological weight that the dispensationalists bring to the table and it's a no-brainer. You have to support Israel or you're not a Christian, according to this view And I'm not saying they're wrong, I'm not saying they're right. I will tell you, I'm not a dispensationalist. So what am I? I am a non-millennialist. So what is non-millennialism? So going back to the words, uh Mila, Latin means one thousand, so that's what we get the Mile millennialism, millennial, thousand-year period of time, and ah, what is the a? What is the letter A before millennial mean? Well in Latin it's a prefix, it's a negation prefix. Um like in uh in America we have prefixes like un and non You know, um I I so you can say it's non-millennial, unmillennial, not millennial. Uh no millennial sometimes is how people mistakenly understand this view. They say, oh, our millennialists don't think there's a millennial They say there's no millennium. Well that's crazy. The Bible clearly teaches there's millennium, there's a says so right in Revelation, you guys are heretics. Uh anybody who claims there's no millennium would be on that issue a heretic, there's no doubt, but that's not the omillennial position. Um there is a reign of Christ and and there is a co-reign with Christ of his righteous righteous saints on earth. There is a millennium. But how do you understand the millennium? Well people holding this view, the all millennial view, They interpret the uh the thousand-year period of time, the thousand years of the millennium, to be symbolic, uh, rather than a literal three hundred and sixty-five thousand days. So Christ does return physically to reign. That's going to happen. But he has already begun to reign. He is king right now over his millennial kingdom, ruling from heaven. And again, he's going to come again, but he's ruling now and he's going to continue to reign forever in a new heaven and earth. And so therefore it's not an exact thousand years. It's just a representative number for a very long period of time. Uh one of the reasons, I'll get into some of the more uh scriptural reasons for this, but one of the reasons why these theologians, people like me, feel can get away with this, is understanding the ancient languages the Bible is written in. And uh the Jewish language, at least the ancient Jewish language, I'm not sure about present-day contemporary Jewish language, but the the now dead language that was what how Judaism uh how jew how Jewish language uh was spoken and written thousands of years ago. The biggest number they had a word for was a thousand. They didn't have a word like we have the word a million, a billion, a trillion, a zillion. They didn't have those words. So to them, if I wanted to you know remember Carl Sagan, he had those uh those PDF specials back in the 70s, we talk about the cosmos, and it was billions and billions of years. You know, to him, billions, big years. Now we talk about the national debt, trillions. He uses big words Well how how big is our tax product? Trillions! I don't even know what that means. I mean think about it. A million is a is uh uh or a billion is a thousand billions. And a trillion is a thousand billions. I mean you can't even comprehend these these numbers. So we've got names for these numbers, not that we comprehend what the numbers mean. But anyway For for the ancient culture, a thousand was like the biggest number they could fathom trying to count up to. So there were just many, many, many thousands. And I'll swing back to that um in in just a second. So Uh Amollennialism teaches that the church, which is comprised of those who believe and their children, the children of the believers. uh the the offspring the ongoing work being fruitful and multiplying the church is multiplying so anybody who comes to belief um is the church and I'm millennialist they're expecting um That we've got this church, a faithful remnant, fighting the good fight within the church, but there is there's still this cycle of recurring and perhaps even increasing lawlessness in the world Uh and so there is an apostasy uh from the truth in the broader culture, but also an apostasy from the truth within the uh What I would argue are the merely professing churches, the unfaithful churches, those that aren't truly churches, but have all the accoutrements that they they seem to be the churches, but they're they're not really Uh Almalios would believe that the the establishment of the kingdom of uh of Antichrist over the entire world is coming and in some senses maybe is already come in different uh incarnations and periods in time. There is great tribulation, and this great tribulation uh will impact all, including those who fear God Almondials believe that there's a sense in which we're living through tribulation even now and that the church has been living through periods of heightened tribulation and martyrdom and those sorts of things throughout its history. And so the world is in sin, there's cycles of sin. Most Almonds believe that there's this steady ramping up and a more full development of sin uh over time, even though Christ is reigning now and hasn't yet returned in in absolute fullness of his glory, but that day is coming. So uh I mentioned that some people misunderstand what all millennialists believe because of the term all millennialism. Uh and so some people with the Amil or A Mil view prefer now millennialism or uh realized millennialism. I mentioned these in case you see a blog post or a book that talks about now millennialism or realized millennialism. That's the all-millennial view. Uh unwritten form, it'd be nice if realized millennialism could become the accepted term, but I think that boat has sailed. This is going to forever be known as on millennialism, for better or for worse. So our millennialists, in distinction really from the other views, emphasize that Christ's kingdom is not of this world Uh it's in this world, but it's not of this world. And and Amalonialists would cite passages such as Matthew chapter 12, uh verse 28, where Jesus he's he drives out demons And this is evidence that the kingdom of God has come. So the kingdom is there then. Luke chapter 17, verses 20 and 21. Jesus warns of the coming of the kingdom of God and says that it cannot be observed. There's a spiritual element of the kingdom that we in in the world right now cannot see and grasp. And Jesus says in that Luke passage, in fact, that the that the kingdom is already then and there as he's talking, among the people. The kingdom is there, present among them. Romans chapter 14, verse 17 Uh Paul there speaks of the kingdom of God in terms of the actions of Christians. Christians are doing the work of the kingdom in the kingdom for the advance of the kingdom in service to their king of the kingdom. So those are the reasons why the Omillenalists feel confident and comfortable in their view, even though they're a minority uh view within the the broader church. Now what about the thousand years? Because somebody said a thousand years, and if the Bible is literally true, then it must literally be a thousand years. Well, the thousand years, the millennium, that word, it shows up in Revelation, which is famous for its uh poetic uh um broad brushstroke symbolic language. And so it's it should be read the whole book of Revelation, given the kind of literature that it is, should be read with that in mind. And so I don't know anybody that takes every image and symbol in Revelation and makes it literal. Like you've probably heard about the dispensations they talk about, you know, the there's me these these locusts And they say, oh, that's going to be the helicopters. Well wait a minute, if you're a literalist and a firm literalist, then you're going to have to say, no, no Locusts don't mean helicopters, locusts mean locusts. If you're going to tell me millennium must mean a thousand years, then locusts must mean locusts. So nobody is purely a woodenly literalist. I'm a literalist, but here's how literalists literalism classically is defined how I understand and use the word. Everything in the Bible is literally true. The Bible is a literary work. So how do we understand literature? So if we understand the literature to say something is literally true, we need to interact with it given the genre of writing and type of literature that it is. We don't read poetry and history and news reports and prophecy and legal code and the yellow pages the same way. We come at them with different expectations. We identify, oh This is the yellow pages. This is not going to have anything that rhymes. It's not going to tell a story. I should interpret it as a list of data and facts You read poetry, you know, oh okay, this is probably a lot of metaphor and allusions and things like that, so I'm not going to read it as though it's narrative, as though it's a a story that's being told. it's maybe a song to be sung or a a poem to be meditated upon. You're you're going to think about the literature differently. Well Revelation is a is a a a a very uh almost esoteric type of writing and language and so The thousand years can be literally true, so there is literally a millennium without it needing necessarily to mean it's going to be 365,000 days. So, Al-Monilus regard the thousand years as a figurative duration of time during Christ's reign That period of time has already begun. In fact, it has been around for at least two thousand years now, or about two thousand years now, and who knows how long before the second coming, and then it continues beyond because he never stops being king. So it's just r meant to represent from the time of Christ establishing himself as king over his kingdom forever. It's kind of how El Mollinus would look at it. Uh and now is there any other precedents other than the arguing that Revelation is a distinctly unique book in the Bible, it should be understood and read a particular way. Is there any other place in the Bible you can point to to think in these terms? Well Are you familiar with Psalm 50, where in verse 10 it talks about the thousand hills? God owns the cattle on a thousand hills. So, are there exactly a thousand hills on the planet? I think there are more. If you could find a one thousandth and first hill on the planet. You find hill number one thousand and one. Does God not own the cattle on that hill? Obviously the psalmist there is telling us by saying that God owns the cattle on a thousand hills, again thousands of the biggest of The only word they have for the biggest number in their language, that's a poetic way of saying God owns all the cattle on all the hills In 1 Chronicles chapter 16, verse 15, it talks about the thousand generations to whom God is going to be faithful. Is God only going to be faithful to a thousand generations and then he's going to stop being faithful? God is faithful forever. So this is a way of saying that he is faithful to all generations to come until maybe there's never any more generations. As many generations as there are So this is this is a biblical, what's called a hermeneutic, a an interpretive grid, a way of approaching the scripture. It's a biblical approach. And I'm not trying to necessarily persuade you that I must be right. I am hopefully trying to persuade you that it's possible I could be right, and so I don't want to be labeled a heretic Um Bradley and Good Camp 2 and I'll mention some of those names uh as well. So uh some of the finer points that I've mentioned is for the other views, what do all millennialists believe? All millennialists uh teach that there is a finding of Satan. There's a binding of Satan that is uh described uh or at least referenced in the book of Revelation. And the AL folks, they would say that this has already occurred in a sense uh which is what has allowed the gospel to uh progress and for the good news to be proclaimed and for all the nations, being all the different various people groups to not be completely other utterly deceived Um if Satan was allowed to run roughshod, um he might be able to blind everybody, theoretically, from believing anything, but God makes sure that he calls those to himself who are his, and in doing so, with those individuals he's calling to himself, Satan has been bound. Now there's an ultimate binding to come Uh and that's a recurring theme in all millennialism. Uh some of the other views too, but particularly in all millennialism, where you might hear the phrase already not yet I don't know if you ever heard that, or now not yet. Christ is already king, but not yet in the way that he will be. And we're going to pause there so that's a little teaser because we're going to finish up our look at the uh millennial view that we just now are starting this week. We'll finish that up next week. So uh come back next week, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from right now. Find us online at WFMD. com You can find all the um podcasts for the faith debate on the WFMD Facebook page. You can find them on my personal Facebook page. You can find me, Troy Skinner, on Facebook, on Mi Wee, on uh Gab. on Parlor and also at householdoffaith in Christ dot com. You can find links to all sorts of stuff there that I'm involved with uh in the show, outside the show, that sort of thing. Household of FaithinChrist dot com. Of course the station's website, W UFMD. com keyword faith takes your way to the faith to faith page. So next week, thanks so much for listening, Douglas.