This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The Faith Debate. on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. Thank you, Mr. Announcer Man, and thank you for listening to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. We're online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith, or you find the drop-down menu for the lineup of shows on the radio station you'll find the one that says Faith Debate. Click on there takes you to the Faith Debate page. There you'll find easy links to the podcasts of this show in case you missed one and you wanted to catch it from the beginning or wanted to listen to something again. Or we have a tendency to record shows in a series. We sometimes do three, four, five five shows on the same topic in a row. So if you want to listen to the entire uh podcast as a pod of tasks, then you can do that pretty easily. You can also get a sneak peek of what's coming up uh on the show in upcoming uh days and weeks as we post previews. It's kind of a uh listener's guide. if you will. Brian Solo today and w actually worked out pretty well. We had an opportunity uh to to do a series of shows um with Uh Morgan Kuchenhauer and Jon Jonathan Schweitzer, uh four weeks of shows that interrupted a a cycle of shows where we were sharing uh I was sharing with you a message that I had the opportunity to share in the region not too long ago uh about the book The Shack And so we kind of were rudely interrupted. Well, I think it worked out just fine. Hopefully being able to follow along. But here we are now with a chance to pick back up where we left off I wasn't thinking that we would. I thought we were going to have a studio panel uh for this show, and we don't, so happy accident. So here we are. This is a s uh uh the heart of a message called Shack attack, uh based loosely on the epistles of John, using that uh as a jumping-off point for as and then using the shack book as an extended illustration for some issues that are facing the church today. And so here we are Uh not really in mid-thought. I think this is good we had a good breaking point last time, and so I think you're gonna pick right up where we left off uh with this one. This is again uh a sermon message called Shack Attack. Focusing on the book, the Shack, and the epistles of John found in the New Testament. Hope you enjoy. Are we free to make a mental image of the Father? And to make him in our own image. This Papa in the shack is, to use words taken straight from the book, Papa is Joyful, folksy, casual, affectionate, and playful Constantly thinking things hilarious, roaring, belly laughing, chuckling, smiling, grinning, giggling, grunting, snorting, smirking, humming, beaming, winking, mocking, muttering, snickering, and super silly Delighting with spasms of mirth and amusement, yelling things like, Time for some fun. Is this the portrait That we see in the Bible, or is this the portrait of a kind of slap happy God? At one point Mac asks, Am I supposed to believe that God is a big black woman with a questionable sense of humor? Excellent question. What we have in the shack is a very domesticated, laissez-faire, whimsical God. Always quite pleased, perpetually satisfied. Shoulder shakes and hip shakes and shoulder shimmies and About to cook it in the kitchen, listening to West Coast Juice, which is described in the book as uh Eurasian uh funkin blues. And this is surprising to Mac because he said he thought that God would be listening to the Mormon Tabernacle Choir. Mormon. Mac is supposed to be a seminary-trained Christian in the book. Mormon music, really? Now again, let me say something positive about the shack. In the end of the story, the pain that Mack was experiencing vanishes, leaving Mac happy. And this is good, of course. But I'm concerned that through that process At least to my reading, I just don't see that God is glorified. God is basically explained away. Human decisions are in control, not God nor his word. The God of the shack doesn't inspire much in the way of worship or awe. In fact, Mac is downright irreverent early on, and then he is astoundingly sarcastic and informal later on, constantly blaming and doubting God. I mean, how does this stack up with how people in the Bible reacted and responded when they came into the presence of God? In the shack, there is no sense of awe when Mac uses the Lord's name in vain. When Mac curses in God's presence, and then later curses in God's presence again. Mac is rude, he repeatedly cuts God off, he interrupts God, and the shacks God is totally fine with Mac constant, irreverent interrupting with sarcasm and irritation in his voice. God is routinely doubted as a liar. See page 102, for example. God is made to cry by Mac. What we have in the Shack is the presentation of a tender God. I'm for that. But also a weak God. A God who says, quote, I have no magic wand to wave. What God can do? No miracles. Now Paul Young does once use the phrase awestruck wonder in the shack. Pardon me wonders if it was put there to make some readers like me happy. I don't know. A prayer before meals is uh disrespected on page 105. It is disrespected again on page 120. Mac is said to be amused by God on pages 115 and 117. Right before this, on page 114, Mac says, I hope you're right. To Jesus. Seriously. I hope you're right. This is supposed to be Jesus. There is no sense pretty much ever in the shack of the throne of God. Instead, we see Jesus skipping stones. You see him depicted as rather childish chasing after a fish that he just cannot catch. I mean this is Jesus who the one who proved to be a pretty darn good fisherman if you Want to check that out? Ask St. Peter what he thinks. And yet he couldn't catch just one fish. Now near the end of the story, Max says, saying goodbye to God seemed a little silly And when I read that, the first thing that came to my mind was, gee, Mac, this whole real this whole relationship you have with God in this story seems a little bit silly for the most part There is a threat of antinomianism that runs throughout the Shack. This means that there's an anti-law view that is put forward. On page 88, Mac is told by God, you can do whatever you want. On page 89, you are not supposed to do anything. You're free to do whatever you like. And then, now Jesus was serious. Don't go because you feel obligated. That won't get you any points around here. Go because it's what you want to do. Part of me wants to ask, are you kidding me? Page 126, Papa says, Our relationship is not about performance or you having to please me. I'm not some self-centered, demanding little deity insisting on my own way. God being righteous is him being a petulant bully? Mac is thoroughly confused. He says to Papa that he is not anything like the God I have known. Me neither. Max adds on page one hundred seventy-nine, I find the way you are to be so different from all the well-intentioned religious stuff I'm familiar with. From the Bible? The Church Fathers? If so, this is a problem. Page 187, Papa tells Mac, who says of himself that he hides inside lies. Mac says he hides inside lies. And Papa says, there's no shame in that. No shame? From hiding inside lies? Papa also says, it's not about feeling guilty. Guilt will never help you find freedom in me. Well, there's an element maybe of truth in that, but why do we have a conscience? In the shack, God is kind of like a cosmic salesperson. When if people refuse to listen to him, well, he just decides I'm not going to be frustrated or disappointed. I'm going to look down the corridors of time and I'm going to realize that with just 46 more attempts, I'll be successful. As I was taught in sales, every no brings you that much closer to a yes. The chaff does seem to indicate that there is a yes awaiting each individual. Does this mean that there's universal salvation? Perhaps, according to Paul Young. Page 149, Jesus says, the Jesus character in the book says, if you want to do your thing, have at it. Time is on our side. In the end, love wins, to borrow the title of Rob Bell's controversial book. Now the Shack does place this antinomianism at the foot of the cross, at least. On page 203, it says, Jesus laid the demand of the law to rest. It no longer has any power to accuse or command. But is this exactly right? Does the law have no power to command? We're all people's condemnation nailed to the cross If you want to study out that question with greater detail, I'd invite you to turn to John chapter 16, verse 8, 2 Corinthians 7, verse 10. On page 223 of the Shak, Papa says, I don't do humiliation or guilt or condemnation. But is this right? There's no judgment? Is it fair to say that Jesus humiliated the Pharisees when they were trying to trick him? Don't all people stand guilty before God, saved only by the blood of Christ? Is there or is there not a judgment day coming, according to the Bible? Papa also says, You never disappoint me. Now maybe I'm mincing words here, maybe I'm mincing words a lot. But was God disappointed in Moses? Was he disappointed in Israel while they wandered in the wilderness? Was he disappointed in the seven churches of Revelation? Was he disappointed in the whole world at the flood? Again, for your own home study, look at Mark chapter 3, verse 5, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 30, 1 John 2, verse 28. And Sarayu digs this hole even deeper, saying, the trouble with living by priorities is that it sees everything as a hierarchy. So have no priorities? Be anti-authority? Are humans on an equal footing with God? If there's no hierarchy, that would be an implication, it seems to me. Now Jesus tries to clarify on page 207 that he doesn't want to be at the top of the pyramid because he wants to be at the center of everything. Well, that is a straw man kind of an argument built upon wordplay that leaves no one in charge, no authority, or law. No rules. With no rules, there can be no sin. And so Missy's killer in the story isn't said to be a sinner, but is instead called a victim of pain. Papa says he is a quote broken child that has been twisted by his pain. The same is true of Mac, I guess. Mac calls himself a mess and a screw-up Instead of a sinner. And Papa does this too, saying, when you mess up again, ask for forgiveness again. And Stereo calls sins mistakes. Now the trouble with this language is that not all mess ups are sins If I bump into the bottle of milk on the counter and it knocks over and spills all over the floor, that's a mistake. But that's not a sin. That's why we don't cry over spilt milk. So if God isn't an authority figure, what is God? Well, in the shack, Papa says, I am the always present observer. An observer who describes sin as your soul's sickness. Who sees Max's soul as a complex garden. But where is the sin in that garden? The God of the Shack asks postmodern questions like, What is freedom really? And then answers that freedom is an incremental process. Freedom is a verb? Smear movement never gained Words have meaning. We we need to be mindful of the definitions. Take, for example, the meaning of Papa's name in the shack. Something that could easily get lost in the reading of the Shack is the importance of Papa's real name. Papa is the familiar name that is used throughout the book for the father character. But the official name for Papa in the Shack is Elusha Theologians might find this interesting. Elusha means God of all being. And later in the book, Tapla is said to be the ground of all being. Why do I bring this up? Because This appears to be language borrowed from existentialist philosopher and theologian from the 20th century, Paul Tillich, who taught that God isn't a being per se, but rather God is the ground for all being. And as I was reading deeper into the shack, I was thinking to myself, is Young building a system of thought based upon Abstract theology, Platonist philosophy, mixed with a systematic theology and some existentialism and penen penentheism thrown in. Do you know what panentheism is? No. Well, you're about to find out because on page 12 of the Shack the Jesus character says, God, who is the ground of all being Dwells in, around, and through all things, ultimately emerging as the real. But as is often the case in the Shack, the book is a little bit inconsistent on this point. On page 135, Sarayu says that original sin, quote, tore the universe apart, divorcing the spiritual from the physical. Now that's not exactly a biblical view, but it's not exactly a shacklical view either. How can God be in everything when the spiritual and the physical have been divorced, torn apart? Now, if you're a little confused at this point, that's okay, because some might argue so is William Paul Young. Now, since I've taken a moment to talk about Papa's name, let's take a few minutes to talk about the three main characters that represent God in the shack one at a time, starting with Papa, who is intended to represent God the Father. Again represented in the book as a woman. Papa says repeatedly that she is especially fond of people. And Mack asks her, Well, is there anyone whom you're not especially fond of? And Papa's answer, after running through the catalogue of all beings who ever existed, I guess, all the false prophets who deceived God's people, uh all the Antichrists, all the demons, the devil himself Papa answers, Nope. I haven't been able to find any. Guess that's just the way I is. To this, Mac actually asks, Well, what about your wrath? And Papa answers, I don't need to punish people for sin. Sin is its own punishment. It's not my purpose to punish it. This is totally unbiblical, of course. Isaiah 59 2, to run off of the list, you want to check them out later? Romans 6 3, Deuteronomy 28 63, Proverbs 16, 4, Psalm 11:5, Romans 2 5, Revelation 6 16, Revelation 17, the list goes on and on and on. If God doesn't punish for sin with death Then why did Jesus die? Isn't this what Christians believe? That Jesus had to die for our sin? Well in the shock, Papa says, quote, I'm not asking you to believe anything. Why not? Because, Papa says, I am now fully reconciled to the world. No matter what they believe. Mac asks, the whole world? Papa replies, the whole world. This facts of universal salvation. When Max says that he doesn't understand, Papa says, quote, Men, such idiots sometimes. So if you disagree with Young on this point, then you are an idiot, especially if you're a man. And I suppose I'd have to be if Papa, God the Father, is the one calling me an idiot in the shack. Now almost as bad as being called an idiot by a fictional God is being called an idiot by a fictional wuss god. As I alluded to before, the God of the Shack is kind of a wuss. We see this weakness on display, for example, page 224. Papa says Mac, for you to forgive this man is for you to release him to me and allow me to redeem him. Allow God needs Max permission? Later, Papa says, When you forgive someone, you certainly release them from judgment. Whose judgment? God's? Apparently. And so it doesn't matter what God declares in the shack, it seems to me, it matters what humans declare. And this helps to explain why Papa would say, just say it out loud, there is power in what my children declare. Do we have a word of faith theology creeping into the book here? Papa tells Mac, give him over to me so that my love will burn from his life every vestige of corruption. Again, hinting at universal atonement. But Only if Mac representing us humans says it's okay. Now let's shift our gaze At this point to Jesus, not the biblical Jesus, but the shackle Jesus. Jesus in the shack is a Middle Eastern man and not particularly handsome. So far so good. It seems William Paul Young is keeping Isaiah chapter 53, verse 2 in mind here. Oddly though, Mac didn't know to expect this. Despite having been seminary trained, Mac also doesn't know that Jesus is the pearl. Oh well. Now on the plus side there is, and I mean this with all sincerity, there is a profound quote by Jesus on page 142 of the Shack where he says, Do you realize That your imagination of the future, which is almost always dictated by fear of some kind, rarely, if ever, pictures me there with you. That's good. Give credit where credit is due. Do you tend to think of your future? With Jesus in it or with Jesus not in it? Paul Young gives us a splendid thought starter with this quote. And we're gonna pause there and continue with the last half of the message on next week's show. Thanks for your patience as we still don't have enough time. We have to petition the station to give us more time so we can finish these messages. That that would solve the problem, don't you think? Anyway, uh we'll be back next week, 167 and a half hours from now. Again, visit us online at WFMD. com keywordface. Until next time, may God be with you. God bless you, and may you be of service to him. I can do I can be preachy after I've just chair part of a sermon, right? I can deal with that. Thanks for listening. God bless.