Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Frederick Faith Debate is brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. They sell security. Frederick Faith Debate, as you've heard me tell you, week in and week out, is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. My hope for the show is that it will be viewed as a safe haven to be brutally honest with one another, even if we disagree. We'll see how well that goes today. Uh Thomas Jefferson said the class of ideas is the sound of freedom. So if you hear any clashing today, you'll know that that is freedom ringing. We'll try to keep it brutal. We hope that through our wrestling on the show that uh you'll come to a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. This week we're going to continue a discussion we started last week. Um We started as a as a leaping off point, the Left Behind series by uh um Tim LaHaye and Jerry Jenkins, which is uh a series of books, novels Uh which has turned into a children series as well and a couple of movies came out to talk about the end times and and what we might anticipate. Uh the end of the world uh to look like all the events leading up to Armageddon. Uh here to talk about uh that again this week are Jonathan Sweitzer, the pastor of Prossroads Valley Chapel here in Frederick And uh Bill Wilson, who is the editor and publisher of the Daily Jot, uh you can uh check out his work at uh dailyjot. com. For twenty-seven years he's uh been involved in broadcast journalism and uh in political consulting He co-founded Word of Life Ministry with his wife and uh some other dear friends, I would imagine. Uh he's also co-founder of a ministry to the handicapped in uh Ghana, West Africa, and is author of uh of a couple of books, including uh Christian Parents Guide to Making the Internet Family Friendly, and Warshod, Living Victoriously in the End Times. And he also uh does newscasts for Sky Angel Radio Network. And we interrupted him from his fifteen minutes of sleep. Uh that's all he gets a week, I'm sure, to come and be a part of the show. That's right. That's right. That's about right. He's got kids whether you can believe it or not. Man. Troy, can I ask you a quick question? Ask you to do something. In V in lieu of what the show has often been in terms of having um people who are not Christians and and others on Could you kind of set this show in that context? I mean clearly clearly we're in a Christian context here and we're grappling with issues that are that are clearly in in the evangelical Christian world, those that that believe the Bible to be the Word of God. Is there anything left for me to say? I was wondering. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What he said. I actually left some there for you, ready? You did? Well I will I will say this. I guess I'll I'll try to clean that up a little bit. I was hoping you would. This show is an open forum for anybody of all religious persuasions of views to be on. And we've had uh um Muslims and Jews. And uh universalists, you know, Unitarians, um uh we'd like to get some Buddhists, some atheists. Charismatics of you know fundamental right wing, you know, um Calvinists, um uh you name it we've we've we've either had them on, invited them on, hope to have them on. You know what my dream for the show is that we're gonna have a show that's gonna have uh an atheist and a pagan Yeah. And a Hindu and a Buddhist. Yeah. And seriously, have everybody share what their view of the truth is. In the end, those who who listen to the show will figure out what the truth really is. Yeah. You know, I don't f fall I I try not to fall prey to this will be lie some uh some bias on my part. Uh I I try not to fall prey to the lie that uh everyone has their own truth. Right. I think that everyone can have their own idea of what they think the truth is. But if John has one idea, I have another idea and they're very different, they can't both be right in my opinion, in all likelihood. Either John's right I mean uh either John's wrong or I'm wrong or we're both wrong. Odds are probably often that we're both right. Anyway, but this is an environment now where we have three Christians in the room. Yeah. We might disagree on some things, but We all, I think, uh believe that Jesus Christ is our Savior died uh a horrible brutal death on the cross. was raised three days later in a literal bodily resurrection. Yep. And he now sits at the right hand of God the Father in heaven in power, in uh acting as an intercessor for those that believe in him. And uh we'll send his spirit to live our hearts has given us the Bible as his Now, but we don't all necessarily agree on the specific subject matter of of today's show. And I don't want to get bogged down in all of all of that exactly because I don't want to uh I think a theological discussion on that Would be a good show. Yeah. But I don't know that this is the show I w I I want that to be. Basically we want, Bill, for you to give us some more of these scenarios that you've identified that tie in to the end times prophecy. That's kind of where we're hoping to go and kind of grapple with that today. that uh there are a series of events that need to happen to fulfill prophecy before Jesus Christ can come uh in his uh in his glorious period, in his second coming Uh and in the first show, if you missed last week's show, shame on you, uh we pointed to nineteen forty-eight as a watershed year with uh with the re-establishment of Israel as a nation, and that was a key moment in biblical prophecy Uh I disagreed a little bit with that, but I'm just just for the record putting that out there. Not that I don't want to get into all that. So now that that's all out there, I do want to talk about what are some of the other things that need to to to happen or has everything now been fulfilled and we're just kinda waiting for these to fin kind of tidy themselves up? Or are there some major moments that still have to happen? We know that the Bible talks about wars and rumors of wars and earthquakes and famine and pestilence and deaths and things turning into blood stars falling from the sky and all these things that are in Revelation which are a big part of the left behind series and I imagine might be a big part of the the Soon to come out or recently come out TV show Revelations, which I think is somewhat I related on to end times prophecy. I'm not really familiar with that show. But anyway, so all of that, I'm now gonna give Bill The rest of the show to talk. Oh wow. At least until we interrupt you. Well, uh you know, you had mentioned that that I have been for twenty plus years either a broadcast journalist or involved in politics. And so from a journalist perspective, yeah, I'm seeking the facts. And trying to take uh the facts and look at them in perspective and and put them and align them up with what is said in the Bible. And that's what I do every day. So let me ask you this. Have you tried to line something up and come back later on and be like, ah, I probably didn't line that up very well. Well sometimes I think that it's not as clear as it ought to be and as you'd like it to be. Yeah, and as uh I I try not to take liberty on any of those things. For example, when I was writing the book, Warshod The uh the one thing about earthquakes, you said there's wars and rumors of wars and pestilences and earthquakes. Yeah. And and those things are going to be uh and more for frequency. Many scientists would argue that we just did not have the ability to measure how many earthquakes there were in the world in uh you know eighteen hundred nineteen hundred. So there could have been lots of 'em. So what I did was I took the earthquakes in a fourteen year period from nineteen ninety until two thousand four. Yeah. Which is I was where I could get my statistics. I'm gonna say, well, the um the technology was about the same you know during that time period. And what I found was that earthquakes w r increased about eighty eight percent in the frequency of large mega earthquakes increased about the same number during that time frame. In fact, even atheistic scientists would claim the same thing that climate change is rapidly advancing and uh obviously they would put a different slant on why that's happening. But basically that's what you're saying is that yeah, that's happening. Wars and rumors of wars, for example. Uh it took till about the mid eighteen hundreds. I can't remember the exact date, for the world population to have reached uh in number of a billion people. And you know, to just total a billion people from the beginning of of time in best estimates. But in the nineteen hundreds Almost a billion people were killed as a result of war and the famine and pestilence. Resulted in that. Okay. Yeah. So we see a huge uh a huge break there. And what happened in you know, in the nineteen hundreds, uh later, nineteen forty eight, mid nineteen hundreds, it was the establishment of Israel and I know that I said before that that's a watershed event and I and I believe that it is. So we see at that point some more acceleration of some of this stuff that's going on. And we talked a little bit last week about you know, some of the alliances that I think need to be in place for some of the prophecy to be fulfilled. Uh before alliances between nations, you know, against Israel. Yes. Iraq, Iran. Exactly. Uh and so I looked at this from the perspective of what has happened factually. Yeah. What did Jesus say? What did Ezekiel say? What did Daniel say? John the Revelator. You know, all these guys. And try to map it against that. Now, I did not come here and to say that this is exactly the way it's going to be. We don't know. Nobody knows. I mean, even among the three of us there is uh you know, disagreement on the timing and things like that. And we can kind of laugh about it and and say, okay, well this is what we think. Yeah. But what I try to do is just stick to the facts and and map it against prophecy. Okay, let me ask a couple of you know pardon the play on words here. I know I need to come up with a different phrase, but let me play the role of devil's advocate. Okay. Uh looking at earthquakes over a fourteen year span, because uh uh for logical reasons the the uh the information gathering technology on measuring earthquakes is pretty similar over that period of time. However, fourteen years For those that believe that the earth is millions of years old and even those that believe the earth is six thousand years old, uh fourteen years is a blink of an eye. So how yeah, is it a large enough sample size in number of years to really mean anything or is it possible that there are cycles where you might have a ten, twenty year cycle where earthquake activity exponentially increases and then backs off. Like a cycle and then a hundred years later there's a cycle that and then it back I mean we don't know that Right. That would be an argument somebody might use against? Surely that's possible at some level. I tried to look also at other barometers like when were other earthquakes recorded you know, like in the eighteen hundreds, the seventeen hundreds, and so on. And I I felt that there was a less of frequency and I couldn't detect necessarily a cycle and up and down in that. So yeah, you could say, well, fourteen years is a speck of dust in time, and it is, but uh what we did see in that fourteen year span is a steady increase, not an up and down increase. Each year it increased steadily. So uh you know, Lucifer, I can't answer your question on the terms of uh beginning to the horns growing time, yeah. But I can say that Now for the record I will have everyone note that he that he referred to me by the name of the prefall angel. When he was still in his glorious state as one of God's preferred angels Lucifer before he fell and became Satan. For the record Troy apparently he is still an angel of light, so you better beware. Perfectly designed to speak to anyway. On the on the a another, you know, uh again uh is there another phrase for devil's advocate question? Is there another phrase in in the English vocabulary? Well the point is let's Another challenging question. Okay, Troy. A billion people died in wars in the last century. Huge huge number. But as a percentage of the the the uh bodies available to kill, was it very much different than in the past? I don't know the answer to that. But you know, it's uh it's uh it's i I think that's the important thing. They have a hundred people and ten percent of them die. It's only ten people and you compare that with ten percent of a million people and say Wow, so many more people are dying, but it's the same percentage. Is that Is that true or not? I uh I think that the percentage has also increased uh with the mechanization of uh war that we saw like during the US Civil War in World War One, uh, the percentage of people uh in cr uh of deaths in war. uh also increased. It's um it's hard to say because back when you had to do hand to hand combat with swords, you know, how much of the percentage of the population actually went to war. But a large number of men uh usually did go to war and a large number died. So I think the percentage has also increased as well. Now the population of the world is what, uh somewhere around six billion or a little over six billion right now uh it has exponentially increased. Uh so we're we're looking at that as well. But I think that if you looked at the number of people that went to war and the percentage that died you would you would see an increase in that as well. Hm. Now you you talked in the last show and you talked again a little bit about in this show about the uh um these alliances that are forming with you know with Russia and surrounding nations, Gog and and Magog and whatever, all that stuff. Right. Um those alliances I guess are still forming and that's why you're looking at these indicators in the news saying, oh now this alliance is getting stronger so that's what I'm saying. What other ones do I see? I think that that as we look at where things were mapped in the Bible and what is is currently happening, you see basically The United States and Israel are the only strong supporters of Israel. It's true, isn't it? Yes. And the Muslim world the whole European Union Union pro-Palestinian against Israel. They believe that there's a uh uh uh uh a type of uh of thought, of group think here, that the European Union, most of the European nations, including Britain, would say that the only reason why we don't have peace in the Middle East is because these nasty Israelis won't give the land back to the Palestinians. Right, okay. And so if we establish a Palestinian state there's going to be peace. Right. But if you look at Islam and you see how they have operated in the Middle East, that isn't necessarily the case. And if you go to The uh certainly Arafat's whole stated purpose, Palestine from the beginning, was to destroy and drive the infidels back into the sea. Can't we? Exactly. And and that same doctrine is on Hamas's website, Islamic Jihad. uh the uh Hezbollah and uh inserted their power in Iran and and so forth. So you have these nations that are bloodthirsty against Israel and you have nations who are supporting them financially and with military weapons and trying to coerce them, I guess, into giving up oil for weapons and also help them in their their quest against Israel. So That I see as something that that couldn't have happened really before nineteen forty eight. You know, I mean we had Hitler who tried to eliminate Jews from the face of the earth. But a as a country, you know, when when Israel was established, it had to go to war to fight off these uh these Arabs that were allowed. Yes. And the uh family the Arab League said that they were going to flood the desert with Israeli blood, with Jewish blood. and exterminate them from the face of the earth. I mean I'm I'm not misquoting them. In the Six Day War they all came together against Israel. I mean that was definitely a concerted effort. Yes. And that was also uh largely financed and uh supported militarily with through equipment and so forth from the Soviet Union. So then the tie into prophecy here is that these guys are setting themselves up against Jerusalem uh here in and the the greater the more that they do that Mm-hmm. You're saying uh the closer we're getting to Armageddon basically. Yeah, I believe so. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The Bible says that Jerusalem will become a uh a heavy burden of stone to the nations and all who cast it away will be cut into pieces. You're listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Uh the guests this week are Bill Wilson who uh is Author of Warshod, a book about the end times, also authors a uh daily jot called Daily Jot. You can find it on the internet at dailyjot. com. Also uh again back this week is Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, here in Frederick. And we're talking about uh end times prophecies and and what to make of it and how much we should be reading into the news events uh and be paying attention to that sort of thing. Um with the idea of the the alliances that are being formed and all these things that are playing themselves out, it sounds like there's still some unfinished work. Is it does does that lead us to believe that you know Jesus isn't gonna come in the next five minutes? Some things still have to happen. Yes. Well what do you think about that? Well like I said before, I think he could come in 95 minutes, he could have come a hundred years ago. He could have come uh Hey, let me say something real quick about that. If they knew back then what we know now, clearly they wouldn't have thought that there was the chance that he could come right away. And say he tarries for another thousand years. There will be a significant number of events that happen between now and then that will more fulfill prophecy as we've seen it than ever before. that would would cause us at that point to say, oh well it couldn't have come back then because all those things hadn't been fulfilled. Nevertheless, the point is is we only see through a glass darkly and and in fact that's the purpose of the prophecy is to put a little fiber into our backbone as believers to say, don't give up. This stuff has gotta happen. Stay strong. Watch, you know, and and and don't be discouraged. Well I would say that quite clearly not everything that needs to happen before Christ comes back has happened, otherwise God would have you know, Jesus would have come back already. So obviously things took it, last time you spoke with him. are told to look for the the bare minimum of what has to happen. Yeah. I guess is what what I'm saying. The bare minimum that has to happen before the second coming has already happened. From my view. Okay. But again, I want to turn this into such a good thing. The only reason we got there is because of you, John. I did, I know. I've now I take Carl credit for that. You know, we've uh we've done now one and a half shows on the end times and we haven't talked about the thing that everybody wants to talk about. So here we go. Bill, who is the Antichrist and what is the mark of the beast? I don't know. I don't know who the Antichrist is. Uh the Antichrist, uh the Bible uh doesn't clearly state who he is going to be. Um the mark of the beast though will be, in my opinion, a um a mark that you will know that you are taking. to either buy or sell or to be able to conduct your life in this world or not. And you will know that when you take it or when you don't take it, that you are either saying, I will follow you, Antichrist, or I will follow Jesus. I don't think it's something that they can slip in your T. Uh you know, and and you not know about. There's gonna be a decision that you have to make. Are you with Jesus or are you with the Antichrist? And and at that point the mark will be there. But you know something? The technology has never really been available until now to administer a m such a mark. to masses of people in the billions. And now we have technology that we can readily do that with smart chips and and uh uh other things that uh would be enabling you to have a cashless society and buy and sell. So uh that's another uh I guess prophecy that has uh been fulfilled. Interesting. Well now uh you wouldn't give me a name. Darn it, I really wanted a name. But uh what are some of the things that uh people should be looking for in someone that would fit the Antichrist profile? Hm. Well we know that the Antichrist is going to come in and negotiate peace and uh and world peace will uh be agreed to for a seven year period which which marks the beginning of the tribulation. And at the three and a half year mark he's going to uh to break that treaty. And so this has got to be a person who has charisma, who is old enough to have credibility, young enough to be daring and bold and see this through. uh he may not like Detroit. Yeah. He may need to have some You may be past that age actually by the He may have some uh some ideas uh or I mean some some uh underpinnings of what Christ would have had. Maybe uh, uh a Jewish heritage of some sort, I don't know. Uh you know, these are little things that people talk about. But I think the attributes are that he's gotta be well connected He's got to be able to broker peace, he has to have the credibility and a force and a political wherewithal to be able to do that. Two minutes left in the show, enough time for me to ask like one last question that I kind of wanted to get to. Unfortunately, you won't have as much time to flesh it out your answers as you might like. Sure. In your view, what is the purpose for all the tribulation that the Bible says that we're to experience? Why all the disease and war and pestilence and earthquakes and horrors what's the purpose? Uh, I'm gonna go first and and I'll try to go quick. The clear purpose of all of those things is simply that Satan would be exposed as trying to destroy the purposes of God. God's intention is not that we would be sinful and not that we would have all that suffering, but rather that we would be glorified and that we would walk with Him for eternity. Satan on the other hand is the reason why those things have happened and the tribulation is simply uh what must happen until God, Christ returns and makes everything right. Satan is a fallen angel, has power and authority over this world. We are here to be soldiern the occupiers as Christians. that the uh uh tribulation is part of the redemption and salvation plan of God. So I agree pretty much uh with what you say, John. Okay. I'm gonna we have um time for thirty seconds, a final shot. You can take it at me, or you can take it at a more worthy opponent. Uh And uh that depends if you're really Satan or not. So John, your final thought, thirty seconds. My final thought is simply this, that if scripture is true, I believe it is. And Christ is coming again. Um, and there's gonna be the tribulation and the difficulty that Scripture tells us that we're gonna have. then for us to pay close attention to what Scripture says about these things is extremely valuable and will end up with us being encouraged as a result. And if you want to learn more about that, go to my website at www. daily. com and look at Warshot, but also know that you And d you can live victoriously victoriously in this and that you have uh uh an opportunity to know Jesus And have eternal life. Thirty seconds to say whatever he wants, and he gives you something interesting to listen to. And if you go to somebody who spent twenty-seven years in media related things, and he gives you a thirty-second commercial for his book and his website. Crossroads Valley Chapel. If nothing else you've learned that this morning. Thank you, Bill Wilson, for uh being on the show. Jonathan Sweissick, thank you for being on the show again. And thank you for listening. to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. They sell security shredding today for growth tomorrow. 1872 Shred 1-877-The No. 2 S-H-R-E-D-D. If you're a local faith community leader or no one who would like to participate in a future round table, please contact me, Troy Skinner, at the offices of WFMD. Also, if you have a topic you'd like to hear discussed, please share that. as well. My email address is troyskinner at clearchannel. com. That's Troy Skinnerall OneWord at ClearChannel All One Word dot com. Thanks again for listening and God bless.