This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all four. Faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than thirty minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. How convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get her ready! To rumble let's get ready to rumble. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith-to-faith master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, Mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. Now I'm just getting along. Friend of mine recently remarked that what he calls quote unquote white Christians have lots of posts about riot. Unrest and damage, but almost none about George Floyd's death or the many victims who preceded him without receiving justice. He said, these posts, this is me quoting him, these posts tell me pretty clearly what's more important to them. It's incredibly disappointing to see a discernible group of people who think his death was not worth posting about or commenting on. Is that fair? Well fair or not? That's what he thinks and we're to talk about these various perspectives on matters of white and black relations, so particularly as they relate to the Christian Church. On the panel again to discuss this issue with uh me and John Sweitzer is Darren Gerald, pastor of Strong Tower Christian Church. Now this is our second time together as a panel talking about this issue, so if you missed last week's show, kind of provide the preamble and the introductory remarks and very important. uh remarks there. Yeah, and I think that that provides a helpful context and we can't relitigate last week's show all over again, so I just encourage you to find us online as your schedule allows and listen to that podcast. so you can get a sense of the heart of the people that are in this room and the thoughtfulness and care that we're trying to handle this issue with Because now we're going to get into some stuff that's going to feel a little bit more contentious because we're going to start getting into the terms that are being used and the divisiveness that goes along with those terms because they've become loaded. They become loaded terms politically, they become loaded terms culturally, and they become loaded terms even within theological circles in ev in even within the evangelical world. We were talking before the start of the show, the three of us were. Uh we've tackled hot topics on the faith debate before, but uh it's no secret now. We used to try to pretend that you know it was a secret, but it's no secret. We we put together a panel to talk about um meaty subjects and have an elongated conversation about it. So we'll record multiple shows in one session sitting together. And by the time that the last of those shows airs, in the closest proximity, the last show we would record is going to air about a month after we recorded it. And sometimes we record a have a couple of recording sessions two, three weeks in a row. And so there's times when we've recorded and the the uh the shows that we record don't air for two, three, four months from the time they were recorded. And so oftentimes we have ourselves in a situation where we're talking about hot topics kind of on the back end of the heat. The the water came to a boil, so they turned the turn the flame down and just when the bubbles go away in that bubbling water, the faith debate enters the fray. This feels a little bit different. It feels like the water has come It's not at simmer, it's still at a boil, and here we are talking about it. And I think that's good. But what feels so different about this, there's been a dramatic shift from my perspective within the evangelical world. There was a big debate on these issues Almost nobody outside of the Southern Baptist Convention was paying much attention to it. And I'm not part of the Southern Baptist Convention, but I you know, because I do this faith debate should I pay attention to these things. There was a big fight over this sort of issue, exactly this sort of issue, last year at their national conference. And it was divisive and it was and it caught my attention because we've seen what's happened with United Methodists over the uh the homosexual question. And it's created a bit of a civil war and a huge divide for that denomination. And I felt like we were beginning to see the precursors of a potential split in the Southern Baptist Convention. If they don't figure this out, in two, three years there's going to be a split if they don't come to a an agreement on this. So I was paying attention now here this year, everybody's talking about it because it came to a head for a variety uh of reasons. And we need to talk about the terms. So we talked about uh the phrase Black Lives Matter that came up last week. We talked about um What were some of the the the words that we use? Systemic racism. White privilege. I'll put I might not get much of a chance to talk after this uh opening monologues because you guys are gonna I'm gonna allow you guys to go back and forth on stuff. I might interject, but uh so you know where I'm coming from I'm concerned that the language we use as Christians, as Bible-believing Christians, we're playing on the turf of the enemy because we're not careful enough. As I understand Scripture, and we alluded to this on a show not too long ago, Jonathan will remember this. As I understand Scripture, you could make an argument that Scripture teaches that there are two races. Biologically, in the natural, there's one race rooted in atom because race is about progenitorship and the genome and and DNA and that sort of thing, bloodline And so all of us have a bloodline, if you're a bi Bible believer, and I am, a bloodline that goes all the way back to Adam. Even Eve springs from Adam. So we all are related to Adam. And so we're all in the race of Adam, the one human race. Now, in the New Testament, Peter talks about, you know, the the the chosen race, the holy nation, the royal priesthood. And so I you can make an argument I I think it's an interesting uh idea to think about and play around with in your mind is there's a spiritual race as well, uh that is also rooted in a bloodline. the blood of Jesus Christ. And it's interesting that we're born into the race of Adam in the in the natural, and we're born again into the race of Christ, if you will, in the in the spiritual. But those are the only ways that race is talked about scripturally. And so you start to wonder, why do we talk about there's a black race, a white race, a red race, a yellow race, a brown race, where did that come from? And it comes from the early 1800s. when people were trying to defend Shadow slavery. So why are we using language that's not biblical That creates this idea that there is something different about a black man from a white man when No there's not. Yeah, they're no nuns different And there are some other indicators that are a little bit uh different about, you know, through inheritance features uh o along ethnic and geographical lines. But it's one human race and I feel like we seed way too much ground whenever we use the word race that way. So I don't like systemic racism because I'm using their language. I don't like that there's a racial divide or we need to have a unity of the races. Because we're seed I feel like we're we're seeding the argument before we've had it. So anyway, that's the one I'm coming from. Now I'm not gonna say you guys can't use those words, but just You guys can know and anybody listening to the show can know that every time you do, I'll be having a little thing-off in my head. Anyway. Cool. Maybe I'll do it more. Yeah. That'd be so unlike you to purposely annoy me. Yeah. I live in that world. Not often that I get that upper hand with you And the other thing, I guess I'll say this too, and we'll maybe start to define the terms. So we talk about ra racism if uh I like to use the word prejudice. To have a a a a prejudice, a negative bias against somebody merely because of their background, because of the way they look, because of something you think might be true about them, that's rooted in sin. That's a sinful attitude. People are sinners. All of us are sinners. It's a moral condition. It's a moral problem. It's an individual moral problem. Systems don't commit sin. The people who operate those systems, who set up those systems, they do commit sin every day. So I don't even like the idea of systemic sin. Because how do you the system can't repent. The individuals that set up the system, the issue the individuals that control and operate that system They can repent. Well but the system itself can't. Let me ask you this question. So would you say that would you say that those systems are still in effect? Even though th let's say current people have not set up those systems, those systems are still in effect. They haven't been undone? We live in a we live in a broken, fallen world, and that has always been the case, and so there's always going to be inadequacies and sinful things and structures that take place. We don't put our faith even in the church, we put our faith in Jesus Christ because the church is run by fallen, frail individuals who sin all the time. You know, we have three pastors in the room and all three of us sin. And so we can't put our faith in our in ourselves. And so yeah, there's there's instituti there are institutional problems caused by individual human sin. Um but the solution from my from As I understand, again I keep framing it that way, okay, because I think it's important for me to try to say it's not I'm willing to be persuaded that my personal view should be changed on this, but it's going to have to be a scriptural biblical reason that will get me to think about it differently because I as I understand scripture, we are called to independ uh individual uh repentance. There there's there's n you you can't you can't have um the radio station WFMD repent, but you can have the individuals that make up the the staff and the culture of WFMD individually can be a very important thing to do. Okay, so can I respond to that? Um our culture arguably is strongly individualistic. uh my impression as a missionary as somebody that that studied some missiology in college is that um that our culture is is one of I don't know seventy you know if we can just go back to uh Noah's offspring, you know, the the seventy nations of Noah's offspring, right? There there are expressions of culture that are different. You know, some are more time oriented, some are less time oriented. And those kinds of issues, uh, you know, some are uh are are more vulnerable and and and people tend to to be more vulnerable with uh one another others are more um less vulnerable and and more private. Those kinds of issues play into how we interact with and how we view scripture uh in ways that pull out nuances of scripture. And so uh I've been grappling with this whole individualistic thing because some of the pastors that that I hang with are recognizing that that that the individualism of the United States um uh leaves some blind spots in places where we should be thinking corporately. And certainly in the Old Testament Uh when the call was to repent, the call was for the whole nation to repent together, oftentimes led by the guy at the top uh that resulted in changes that that were systemic all the way down through Jehoshaphat. Hezekiah but the point was these guys would change their whole system. They would send out the Levites to teach the law Right, in and and they do a w away with all the false idols, this kind of thing. But that was a call to each individual within that nation. Um Right. That's that's what they're each individual's cultural. Yeah, so this wasn't cultural at all. I think is cultural because the Western mindset is about the individual. It's it's it's ingrained. You talk we We use terms like a personal relationship with Christ, which is absolutely true. But I think we overemphasize the individual aspect of it and dephas de emphasize the community aspect of it. Because we're called in we're not only called to believe uh individual we're called to belong, bear one another's burdens. All the one another's are scripture. Uh so I think that I think you you c it's it's both And I think I'm agreeing with that, by the way. I'm not arguing I'm not arguing for individu being individualistic. I'm saying a call to repentance is an individual heart thing. I can't repent for you, and you can't repent for me I can only repent for me. But it is the case that groups of people at the same time can choose to repent together. That is the case. And I've I've I've seen situations like this. You know, missionaries uh describe scenarios like this. When I was in Panama, uh whole villages would you would would say, okay, we're gonna give our lives to Christ. You know, when uh uh you talk about uh the baptism, you know, pay-do baptism, uh baptizing infants where, you know, the whole household of the Philippine jailer gave their lives to Christ. Right? Well so that was a movement of a group all together at the same time. And so the Bible clearly refers to whole groups making decisions as a group. you know, to respond to the things of God. Yes, but individuals could step out of the group. That's my point. So I can't I can't repent for the whole group and and everybody is then repented. Well well boy I think originally you were you were tying you were talking about individual repentance as as compared to institutionalized racism. So that Right an institution can't repent Right. So I would disagree. Uh in this sense, right? Clearly the Jim Crow laws were in institutionalized racism. The key there is that the laws were bad laws, right? And so our nation together said those laws gotta go. Right. That was a national repentance, right? When when uh when uh But clearly it wasn't we having this discussion. There are s huge swaths of the nation that hasn't repented from that. Sure. Yeah, no, absolutely. Individuals with with influence and power and authority changed the laws. So then let's face it, we as the church needs to be speaking to the individual hearts of people. That's how we win the culture war. So yeah, so so that's the whole culture war is is part of the issue. But the reality is that is that there's not just laws, but there's something else that is very real. uh when I get together with my mom and dad and we we uh at Christmas time with my brothers, right, we talk about things that happened when they were young and they tell us the stories. In the African American community Right? Right now, Darren's mom and dad, people that that are, you know, all of us are are in our uh early fifties, right, the generation ahead of us, those guys lived Darren's family uh lived on the back of the bus drinking from other water fountains, not allowed to go to certain restaurants, you know, segregation, right? And they lived in a season where there was clear systemic um wrong, right? It was built into the system. Right? And so so that being the case, they live with those wounds and there are people that alive now that fought for the Jim Crow laws to not change, right? That we're fighting uh uh you politically and they're still alive and they're still with their families and who knows what they say, who knows how much they've changed But the reality is that the the r the racial struggle, the prejudice, right, if we're using a biblical term, the dehumanization of of a of a whole race through the use of laws, uh w is baked into Instill fresh wounds in a in our culture and I would s and I would say so you mean that as systemic Right, that's part of what systemic means. But but it's also the case, Brian Stevenson, r uh uh redlining laws, some of those laws are are freshly changing. You know, like only recently, which means that the systems, the laws the institutions were still reflecting on righteousness. You know, there were unrighteous laws Yeah, so I I I see both sides of that. Uh because I do believe that it's an individual thing. Uh and matter of fact, I'm in our churches we're preaching and and discussing this issue, it's about us individually recognizing recognizing our portion in that. Because a lot of it within the church I believe is unintentional to per un unintentionally per perpetuate some things. I think that's because of silence. I think it's because of not knowing you know, there's a lot of factors I think not knowing what to say. Uh some of these definitions uh there's there's just disagreement over these definitions. And that's an interesting concept that you bring up about uh seeding the uh the argument before it even starts. Yes. I I I think we did that with abortion for for for years. Sure. So so that's something I will definitely think about. Uh and I agree. There's only w I w I would say one race, but I can see that you know if any man is in Christ any the new creatures, a new creation, right new new race, as it were, people. Um So yes, I would agree with that. Would wouldn't it would it w could that happen in our lifetime though? Where because we we we refer to white church and black church and And and I I'm uh I want to reset really quick because we went uh I I went long at the opening, I apologize. But this is the faith debate. I'm Troy Skiner, the guy who went long. Uh the voice you heard right before mine is is that of Darren Geralty, the pastor of Strong Tower Christian Church in Jonathan So maybe we can have a softer close here and talk about that question. Maybe it's not going to be a softject thing. We do have um Yeah. What's the old cliche, the most uh segregated uh moment of the hour of the week is Sunday morning at nine o'clock or whatever because the black church is gathering is the black church and the white church. Is that necessarily problematic or not? I don't know. I mean you you're the pastor of a multi-ethnic, uh, very diverse looking church, and I don't know if that happened by accident or if it's by design. I have no idea. Um by design. But you know, is Jonathan was when you had crossroads uh valley church up and running, y you might had a couple of people that were, you know, not white there, but the overwhelming percentage of people in your church were white. And I I'd say there there was something maybe lost in that because I think it's cool to to kind of provide a picture to the world of what uh what Christ has won for us, the unity that we all have to fight for. But if somebody is drawn to Jonathan's style of preaching and his faithful commitment to preaching the scriptures accurately and uh and and pastoring and ministering to people and the people that happen to be drawn to that all happen to be white. I I don't know that I was ever feeling that I should be critical of Jonathan for having a ninety eight percent white church. But should I have been? Like should Jonathan have been more proactive if uh I th those things those things are reflective of relationships, I believe. So so l our church was intentionally planted that way. But they they were reflective of the the per interpersonal relationship that Angie and I had. And so it became a part of our church. Um, you know, so I think it's it's about the relationships that that exist. Because you know i it is it's not as segregated now as it was, thank God for that. Uh there are more I would say there are probably more people of color. I hate and that's another term, people of color have a little bit more melatonin. Uh but there are more uh maybe black people that go to uh under or a white pastor than they are vice versa. Uh that's not the case with with Strong Tower obviously being a black pastor and having uh white congregants who very much see me as, you know, not the color of his skin but the content of his character. They see that the ethnicity and they acknowledge that, but you know, we have moved uh significantly that way and uh we we see the value of that because we get the We get the best of both worlds, I I I would say. And I know that it's you know, it it's become contentious. I've heard people get offended by it when some people Well uh a white person usually is the one that will say is say, you know, I don't even I don't see color or that, you know, I'm colorblind and be and people who are are um Yeah, categorized as black or offended. What, you don't see now I'm invisible? You can't see that my big, bold, beautiful blackness is right here in front of you, you don't see it? And I can understand how they'd take offense, but In fairness to those, the people that I know that have the attitude of colorblindness and not seeing color, what they mean by that is when they interact and meet somebody Th the first thing they're thinking about isn't the color of their skin or the quality of their clothing or the nature of the car that they drive. that you would explain that. There because I I very much agree, but when we use Black Lives Matter and then we try to explain it and it's like, oh wait, wait a minute. And and we should talk and we'll talk we'll we we tease that we're gonna talk about that at the end of last week's show and then I went on my little diatrap at the beginning. The beginning of next week's show, let's start talking specifically about Black Lives Matter the the moniker, Black Lives Matter the movement, Black Lives Matter the organization, because they're all intertwined, and I think that we need to hash that out and maybe the between the three of us we can solve the world's ills right here on the faith to faith. So um yeah I got like two minutes. I don't know. You look like you might have you have a thirty second thought? A thirty second. So um the point is is is that there's there's a question here. There's two questions that came up on this show that I think are really important questions for the church. Number one, um are there different cultures that God intends to be reflections of his character where, you know, our Korean church is gonna have certain um uh you know uh facets of his character that that we'll see only when we're with them, that that we should celebrate that is unique their their culture brings out, that Messianic Jewish people bring out, that African Americans bring out, that different parts of you know, 'cause th African Americans aren't monolithic either, you know, that that Russian or or Middle Eastern, you know, that that are beautiful in the sight of God and that God has has redeemed them and made them beautiful. So so Sometimes culture distinctions uh should be a place where we're celebrating something that that God is revealing to us. And then the second uh question that keeps coming up here is how much Should we use language of the world because we are in the world and we're trying to win the world? And so we have to be able to communicate with them versus how much should we uh stop using their language and use our own language uh to use spiritual ter terms to define spiritual things and possibly lose the that that edge of, you know, being able to communicate in a way that the world really understands what we're saying. And so I feel like there's a tension there on both of those questions that are deeper theological questions. you know, what language do we use and what cultures, you know, can best represent Christ. So it sounds like Jonathan has set us up next week. We're gonna go to seminary, baby. We're gonna learn all these theological terms and their definitions. I'm excited about it I live in that world. You do. You love it. Jonathan Sweitzer, Darren Gerald, Pastor of Strong Tower Christian Church, I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate. We're online at W F M D. com. Keyword Facebook right to the Faith Debate page. You can find us and follow us on the WFMB Facebook page as well. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right about right now. God bless