Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com KeywordFaith. On our panel again this week, Jonathan Schweitzer, of course, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church Axel Gartner, the pastor of the Free Evangelical Church of Elric, Germany, and I am uh just some knucklehead Troy Skinner who shows up and asks I don't know what the liter are you allowed to say what a literal translation is in English? Is it an heath? Cop is heath. Head. Head. Okay. And dumb is idiot. Idiot. Okay, so like a you're an i like a dumb you're you're like a dumbhead, an idiot head. Yeah. See that? Yeah, so I have to use that. I know. Am I allowed to call my kids a dumb? It'd be like in i in American parlance, it'd be meathead. Dumkoff and Meathead. Probably the same thing. Yeah. Anyway. So we've uh this is the third show we're doing together. The first show was kind of focusing on some of the cultural differences as it relates to Christian experience in Germany versus here, which was Eye opening for me. And last week we spent a little more time talking specifically about your situation at your church, although we didn't dive into as much depth of that as I thought we might have, but that was kind of the gist. But then, since last week, I just gotta start with this because I want to transition into some big global kinds of things a little bit if we can. Yeah. Our guest, until Jonathan and I began to try to educate him, didn't know who Rush Limbaugh is. Or Glenn Beck or Sean Handy. Or Mark Levit. No, I just they didn't came over to do And I'm not saying that like, oh you're a dumb call for not knowing that. I I'm meaning that to say that's a wake up call, like a cold b glass of water in the face of us Americans who think that the whole world revolves around our conversations and our talking heads and the rest of the world doesn't even know who these people are. Crazy. Probably it's only me. you know, how different Germany is in in uh its approach to religion, how they teach Christianity in the schools and you know, and and just different aspects of what you've talked about. Like it feels to me Like there's less of of a conflict. Like here in the United States, uh all of these things are like uh major Divides. Public divides and the whole society is up in arms and and arguing back and forth all the time. And uh and so I f I I feel like every time that we go on the air and we're dealing with these things, like like in my mind I'm I'm paying attention to all of the culture clash that is going on here in the United States about these issues and the hot topics and and and trying to pay attention to to navigate those because I know that most of our listeners are on one side or the other and that they're pretty adamant. Is there a pretty significant culture clash between Christianity and atheism and and these different worldviews in Germany? I think uh we have right now the biggest problems um uh um Concerning ethical uh topics. Like immigration. Um no, like uh gay marriage, for example. Yeah. Um and um this can be within a church So I know a politician in in Germany, he is member of the church. He uh actually is um in charge uh state church treatment. Um he's the one who is is um is he himself is gay and he um uh pushes very strongly for gay marriage and um He is really very aggressive against uh evangelical Christians who are um skeptical. And so does that show up like on radio programs or on newscasts like in television discussion rounds in in radio. So that is then very Similar. Just different diff different talking heads, but the same issues being talked about in the same kind of device probably. Now I've heard that interesting what's considered, you know, what's called the Conservative Party is not what Americans would typically align with as conservative. The Conservative Party over there is way more um liberal, um radical and uh and oh right. I mean is that true Oh I probably not the right one to answer that question. Uh I'm more the only reason I'm not for you. So I wanted to use the right language to make sure you're understanding the questions, because I do want to shift a little bit to what is how is the church and how is the culture that's being hopefully influenced at some level by the church in Germany. dealing with the issue that Jonathan brought up when it comes to immigration. We have, you know, swarms of uh what appear to me, at least what I've been able to see, and again I I you gotta be careful what you s what you see and think that that's all that there is. But what I've seen is droves of twenty-something males coming across the borders into Europe. You know, the um twenty, twenty-five, thirty-year-old men and I w I was just commenting watching uh some of this uh on the television with my wife just last night. And I was like, honey, look at that. Where are the women Where are the elderly? Where are the children? I mean there's a few interspersed, but it's almost all and you hate to think this way, but you know you start to get suspicious, all fighting age men almost appearing to invade Europe. That's how it feels from what we can see, what I can see here. Is that kinda how it feels there too and is it a debate and is there consternation and concern about how many are coming in? Oh yeah there's uh there's big concern right now uh in Germany and it's a big discussion. Um Uh but we have to say there is also the concern uh for the immigrants and the refugees. Um most of them really suffered uh uh a civil war and and uh penetration from ISIL in in Syria So they have really a bad they have a had a bad journey and uh they left a uh awful situation. They left their families Um they say most of them would say they they are going in front of the family. So they they're checking the terror. Uh does it work? Do we have a place? And um then they tried to to get their family. Yeah. But my concern on your behalf is that this could be it smelled a little bit to me like a modern day, or a postmodern day, if you will, a contemporary day Trojan horse. that we're welc welcoming in this this thing that seems good to us. It seems good to bring in people that have struggled and had to battle the civil war, who who need a new home to settle in and be safe. It seems good to do that. But then once the horse is in and we close the gates behind them, all of a sudden stuff that was hiding inside that horse comes out. Is that A concern that they've been talked about? Yes, definitely. see uh these um many individual um um um Yeah. Broken families and broken families and and what they had to say, okay. What they had to go through. So um good question response, right? Give them a bit of doubt. He told me um he left his wife and two children over there. They they couldn't come with him, uh but um his concern and his his uh will was To know them safe. It's it's been very hurting for him not to know them safe. They are still in that very Dangerous suggestions are real. See now it occurs to me and and this comes back to this whole uh news media thing Like like in the United States, because of the rise of of what we call the conservative news media and these talk show hosts that we were describing, uh that that there's uh a broadening of perspective and whereas one side would present th that it's just these guys are refugees that are just hurting and they're just fleeing from uh from the crisis. The the people on the other side, on the conservative side, would argue that uh that these are guys that um some of them are fleeing but that many of them are just looking for better economic circumstances, meaning meaning they are they are coming from failed states, but that many of them are not specifically coming from from states that are that are uh war torn, but they're just coming from states that are failed states And so they're economic refugees as opposed to war refugees. Is there some discussion about that? Well uh in Germany. Um and the the tech of every individual is very important. And and they do it. Uh they try to do it as well. That's the question I was wondering, how do you check somebody whether they're an economic refugee or war refugee? Do you ask 'em Because if you ask them I'm a refugee, I'm thinking to myself, if I say I'm a war refugee, they're going to take me. And how do you check them to even know they are who they say they are? How do you confirm that? Right? There's no there's no database anywhere that They're in probably, right? Well, um an eye opener for me has been to see how many refugees um go directly over the the frontier to um countries that are very close to Syria. Bulgaria. Like Turkey Turkey uh Bulgaria, yeah uh Jordania uh and other states that are around There are millions. Yeah. There are ten cities over there. Like the those who come to Europe are really the the min m uh the minority. Um most of them are staying in a local region around Syria. So I'm so so many. So what I'm hearing what I'm hearing in you is that is that your heart is that the right thing to do is to care for these people and to embrace them as as people that are just really needing help. And to not um to not to not turn it into a political football, but but to find ways to be Christ for those guys. No, absolutely. We as Germans uh we um um had the chance to immigrate. Some of our uh folks had the chance to immigrate somewhere uh during the Second World War. So our perspective is um there there could be Such an awful situation that you have to flee your country even though you don't want it, you don't like it, you have to. So many Jews flew from Germany and So then the other big question then is the class of civilizations. Right, and so we hear all the time on the conservative media here in the United States that Muslim groups in Germany uh have tended to stay with themselves and to create these zones in cities that are that are kind of no go zones for German police or other people because because they're they're Muslim and that they're not really becoming German, but they're staying Muslim in and looking to impose Sharia law, you know, in in their uh um communities. That's a very difficult situation. And so that is something that is keenly aware of the noted. Yeah, th that is really a difficult um problem we we face right now. Yeah. Um and they they try everything to to um really make them um um accept the democratic um frame they they live in and if not they have to leave the country. Um they require 'em to leave? Uh well, or they go um into jail at least. And like where where are the places where you can tell that they're rejecting it and then you say, okay, since you're rejecting democracy, we're going to put you in jail? Like what would be the situation where a Muslim has rejected the democracy and you say, Okay, we're gonna send you out of the country or you know, put you in jail Well it only works with uh not uh German citizens. Uh so we have so it's not a citizen. We have German citizens that are proclaiming the Sharia. Yeah. So they can't be thrown out of the country because they are Germans. Right. So um but if uh somebody comes in Uh and and for example gives messages in in a mosque uh that are totally against our laws and uh our um democratic um rules, then Uh that's would be the well the way And so what they keep saying over here is that Germans and French and all the rest of the Europeans aren't having very many babies. And so as a result, their population is shrinking, but the Muslims are having a lot of babies and they're coming over in that in a short period of time, like uh Mammar Qaddafi had said, that we don't need to attack Europe. We're just gonna keep making babies and eventually we're gonna immigrate north and we're gonna take over. And so the fact that they've even said those kinds of things And now it's happening and that they don't adapt to democracy like it appears at this point that that even moderate Islam in liberal d democratic countries will tend to stay with Sharia law uh which doesn't allow for freedom of religion and such and so so the sense is that there's really a takeover In process. Yeah, I I think we have really to be more differentially in this issue. Okay. Because there are so many kinds of Islam uh Islamic Muslims. In Germany there's a whole variety. There's only one part that is very extreme. Many of them are adopting very well and they're accepting the democratic rules uh that are in our country. Interesting. And many of them um in second or third generation um tend to be like every other Western uh risen uh human being. So for example for example they have to children because it's more they have less children. So this um I had to I had to smile a little. This is um normal development. Uh in third or third uh to uh second or third generation, being in a economical um Better situation. Yeah. That's Alex Gartner, the uh uh uh Axel, Alex. That's an em that that would probably be the American equivalent to Axel. Uh Axel Gertner is the pastor of the Free Ev evangelical church. I've been struggling to say that every show you've been on. The Free Evangelical Church in Germany. Not sure what it is. Evangelical Free comes out easy, but Free Evangelical is hard. Interesting. Anyway, and that's Jonathan Sweitzer helping me to Pronounce things correctly. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Frost Ginner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So it sounds like there's a bit of a differ uh enough of a of a difference to be important of to what's going on with the Muslim community in Germany compared to what's going on in in France and uh and Great Britain where it seems like maybe there are a higher percentage of those who are resistant to becoming part of the culture that surrounds them. It seems like in Germany maybe their har your harder line, say, look, you're gonna become democratic in your view or you can get out and so there's a firmness there that maybe is missing in France and Germany, because I know from what I've seen they're having some real issues in France and Germany with this. So Wait, he's Germany. I mean France and uh Great Britain. Yeah. France and Great Britain. Uh that it doesn't sound like you're maybe having in Germany, so that's i it's interesting to me. Well we have them, but um We tried for example not to have that many ghettos. Uh the uh thirty, forty years ago uh they they were more in in ghettos, living in ghettos than that. Like in Norwich for example, right now uh all the Syrian Immigrants, refugees, we have one thousand uh that came in uh this year. Uh we tried not to have them in in in a ghetto. They they try to to put them everywhere. And that really helps to uh Okay, so so let me make it real practical. Then that means these Muslim children are going to German public schools. That's right. And so they're being taught that that the the German nation is a Christian nation. Like we were talking about a couple shows ago. That's right. And so they're being taught that that that Germany is a Christian nation and this is what we believe in terms of being a Christian nation. And so the Muslims in those situations they don't react against that or they don't fight against that? They they accept that as being they they try. And um normally um a German um position in this would be to say well Everybody is free in choosing their religion. So w if a Muslim uh says I d I can't go to a Christian religion course, we as um state have to accept it Okay. So they either don't go or they have their own religious class. That's an important distinction. Yeah, it is. 'Cause it means they're still being raised up with a different identity as a German. Yeah, sure. And the question is if could there reach a point where there's enough Muslims in the nation that they start, you know, like changing things to be less liberal democratic and more to being Sharia law and orientation and and and would that be something that that you would be concerned that that not happened? I can't see that this could happen. Really? Because the Sharia is um totally against uh German law. So you're confident that the liberal democracy as it is as they go a couple generations down will win the day in Germany. Isn't that interesting how strong his uh confidence is in that? Now now here's something that's related to that. I if I remember correctly, there are three state churches in Germany today. There's a Roman Catholic Uh, reformers and reform Lutheran, right? Those are the three. Yes. Could you foresee a day five years, ten years, twenty years from now, where there's a fourth state church and it's Islam? No. I don't think so. No? Okay. What would what would have to happen for that to take place, do you think? Yeah. Um That's a great question. I feel like it brings it down to home. Um I think w we would need uh a big ma majority of um Muslim believing um people in our country. I I don't think that uh this is going uh to be w one day uh such a big group in our society. So but what if a lot of non-religious people joined together with the Muslims and said that well hey we got Catholic, Lutheran and Reformed. So a lot of non-religious people say, Yeah, well if we have that then we should allow Muslim as well. I mean it wouldn't just have to be the Mus like again I'm reading onto Germany what is the very American thing. And what's happening in America right now is that the non religious people are pushing this lifting up of Islam so that Islam is is considered at least equal to Christianity and maybe even better, meaning that they don't want any uh talk of Christianity in the schools or in politics whatsoever, but if you're talking positive about Islam, then you're kind of a um uh cutting edge progressive. Okay. You know, nice person. And so so here in the United States we're really concerned about atheist secularists that join together with Islam to be against Christianity, to try to break the uh strength of Christianity in the United States and it's it's pretty extensive here in the States. And so my impression is that maybe or at some level that that would be happening in Europe as well, but maybe it's not in Germany. We will see. Yeah. Well I'm not a prophet in in in this. He's not charismatic, John. He's not going to give you prophecy right here. perspective into Germany and Europe in general because I really have a tendency to read onto European politics all of the categories that we are grappling with here in the States and clearly that's Uh not as as uh uh sharp. The concerns are uh there in our uh society. But it's far enough away that it's not a big concern for you. Um But I personally do think differently um on these issues. I I d I'm I'm not afraid of being um uh overwhelmed uh through all the is Islam uh m uh through all the uh the Muslims coming into the the country because they are They are only a uh small percentage right now. Now I uh this thought just occurred to me and shame on me that it didn't occur to me earlier, but um What's it like? Um what's the nature of things like right now in Germany, uh, with relation to Jewish people? Um it is um nature of reason. That's such a loaded question for are there Jews in Germany or they fall scattered? No, no, they are Jews. Yeah, we imagine. And are they assimilated comfortably or are they suspicious uh of the of things still and nervous that it could happen again or they they really um listen very carefully what what happens in in the uh country. Um there are some Nazis still in Germany. Still. Um I thought it was outlawed. Yes it is. And um they they get judged uh very strongly. But uh it is a very small minority. Um but they are very loud and the the actions um uh are even louder and and um uh very bad for for the Jewish um uh citizen in our land uh in our country. So um and so so how do you define somebody that is like a Nazi today? Is it somebody that is against the Jews or is it somebody that is racist or is it somebody that that nationalist is is nationalist racist and against Jews And the racism is that Germans are better than everybody else. It is against immigrants. Uh 'cause this is this is the reason I asked that question, because I wonder if Russ Limbaugh and Glenbeck these conservative heroes over in the United States would be considered Nazi in in uh uh o Axel's uh orientation. No, I don't think they're the same. Well they're nationalistic and they are Anti-immigration. Very strong have anti-illegal immigration, to be fair. True. Right. Is that distinction change it? um opinions but uh the Nazis are aggressive. They go on the street, they offend uh directly They they um they really try to hurt uh immigrants. They they do all good. So there's moderate Nazis and there's ex radical Nazis? Maybe we can try to pick that up in next week's show. We gotta go. Jonathan Sweigzer, he's a moderate Nazi over there. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinerworth joined this week by Axel Gartner, the pastor of the Free Evangelical Church in Elvric, Germany. Uh our sponsor is Putmith Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading lately? Uh you mentioned Max Lakato and I think that uh Randy Frazi is an associate of Max Lakato's. I think they might pastor at the same church. But anyway, Randy Frazee is believe. Believe. Yeah. It's kind of a Christianity. Yeah, it's a c it's a Christianity one oh one devotional, uh uh uh primer. If you don't. Finally, know it. Till next week, Douglas.