We are involved in a war, whether we want to realize it or not. Daily battle is one of truth versus lies. People don't usually buy into false doctrine purposely, but because they lack discernment. Discernment results from a carefully disciplined mind. It's not a matter of feelings or some mystical gift. Discernment is linked with a seasoned, developed, biblically informed mind. The skills required for discernment are careful thought, keen insert uh inter easy for me to say, keen interest Thorough analysis, close observation, together with alertness, attentiveness, thoughtfulness, and above all, a love of truth. All truth. Big and small. The fact that certain serious errors may appear slight Or insignificant at first glance does not diminish our duty to be discerning, cautious, and critical in our evaluations. We're here today in response to that call of duty, hoping to both encourage you and equip you to fight with us Within your spheres of influence. And there, with the help of words from John MacArthur, we have the foundation that is the Protestant Debate brought to us by Deer Valley Heartscape Masonry And landscape and also public and heating, how we make you smile. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, my partner in the Truth War for all these many years. Clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. That's why I like to use him because it's it's people that are his descendants that are no longer willing to have genuine discussions. There we go. And David Hughes, founder and president of David Hughes Ministries, specializing in in uh equipping Christians to deal with the Muslim question. Uh and also up until just uh recently, a couple months ago, pastor at Adams Town Community Church. So this week on the show, I want to talk about I want to have a dialogue about dialogue. Alright. That sounds like something your wife would say. Uh-oh. So I I I'm wondering if we'll we'll we'll run the risk uh fighting on two fronts. Alright. On the one hand I want us to dialogue about how Christians All this war language. Should dialogue, yeah really. Hater language. Haters. Uh but how do we dialogue about uh Uh, uh, the the differences in our faith traditions, if uh if not in the what the faiths are specifically. But how do you how does a Christian how should a Christian dialogue with Somebody who's Muslim. And also, Jonathan, y last week you did a stellar job playing the the what we would label the and what most people with label liberal Christianity, uh although I guess some liberals are now not liking the label liberal. But liberal scholarship uh it that's what it's called is liberal scholarship. And liberal scholars embrace that title for themselves. I'm not sure why. Anyway, how does a conservative and a liberal how how do we dialogue as Christians? Let's go back to that level where are they Christians? The the thing is is that some of these congregations don't want to be viewed as a liberal because they want conservatives to come and to be influenced by their open mindedness. And so if you identify them as a liberal congregation, then they lose the opportunity to to bring in uh those that are not of that orientation. And so they they they argue that they're not liberal and that that that they're non political and that, you know, they're just open minded and that they're having open minded discussions. And so Anyways, that's now I want our word of the week from this week because we're going to be talking about this quite a bit in today's show. We talk about it on and off, but it's really a focus today. So let's I want our word of the week to be liberal. As it as it relates to theology. Because if somebody's a liberal Christian, if we would label someone a liberal, that doesn't mean they voted for John Kerry in two thousand four necessarily. It doesn't mean that they voted for Al Gore in two thousand necessarily. Right? There's a difference between a liberal uh person politically and a liberal person theologically, correct? Though there's a lot of there's some overlap on cross pollination for sure, but they're not the exact same thing. From my experience the one the the liberal theologi theology leans strongly in the direction of liberal politics. I I would agree with you, but it's not exactly one of the same. So so when we're talking about liberals or a liberal theology, how is it that we want the the person listening to this show right now to understand our use of that word. That's I guess what I'm getting at. Um well I'm gonna use our use of that word in the context of their use of the word. Their use of the word is generous. Right? And and that that God is a generous God, that we should be generous people, that God is a big God and that He's giving. And so the orientation So that means if you're not a liberal Christian, that you're stingy and you have a small God That's exactly right. That is the implication that that they would argue. And so in their sense, uh generous means that you're not uh you're not always picking you know, fine hair fine hairs and splitting fine hairs. You're not always, you know, trying to tell people that they're sinners. You're not judgmental. You're generous. You're forgiving. You're accepting. You know, those kinds of things, all of which then leans in the direction our concern with that orientation is that they don't draw any lines. And so then they accept into their midst, well like for example, if you've got cancer in your body, you don't accept the cancer. You go and you fight it and you you cast it, you know, cast it out. that demonic thing. You know, you you you you get it cut out, you know, or um uh you know, using what's the other word, uh to get chemotherapy. You do whatever you can to destroy it. Uh in our sense there's certain things that need to be destroyed and that cannot be allowed. And so as a result, they consider us to be uh stingy and judgmental. Uh whereas we would argue that that we're just being wise and um and honest about you know what's unhealthy spiritually. So when we say liberal It's somebody who defines what is unhealthy in a broader way. They won't call unhealthy what you and I call unhealthy. For example, homosexuality is not an unhealthy. uh spiritual uh problem, it's a healthy thing. Uh uh you know, abortion is not an unhealthy spiritual thing, it's a healthy thing. Uh uh worshiping other gods is not unhealthy to them, it's healthy, and so they're generous in that sense uh with believing that that God is a big God and that that there's not as many things that are evil as we call evil And so that's what we mean by it and it's what they mean by it. So you know And the crux of the matter really t historically it comes down to your approach to scripture. Absolutely. An evangelical or conservative or whatever is going to say that the scripture is authoritative and that it it it is to be trusted and it's without error and things like that. And then the the liberal scholarship is going to say, well We're not really sure Jesus said that, so we're gonna s we we're gonna strike that part out. And this these miracles they don't really square up with what we know about science, so we're gonna kinda tell you. Interestingly, I find it hard to get liberals to admit all that Really? I do. But again, they would they would paint the way that they approach Scripture in a much more positive light. And they're they're uncomfortable saying that that they don't trust certain parts of Scripture. They would say they would say, no, you have to uh you know, if you approach scripture from a from a stingy viewpoint, as it were, from a small-minded viewpoint, then it's going to come across you that way. If you approach it from a broad-minded viewpoint, then then you'll see way more in there than you thought was in there. Which again is sounds to me like they're just um painting something that is not right into being right. And ironically I would say the again I'm gonna say this because it's my point of view, right? But if you read the Bible from a what is now labeled an evangelical perspective, that when you read it that way you find that there's so much more in there than you would have thought was in there. I think that the again, I don't we have to use a label. So if you don't like the label, I apologize. But we got for the sake of argument and sake of conversation, we have to know what we're talking about. So a liberal's gonna uh read a passage and uh evangelical's gonna read a passage and I say the liberal takes away from that passage much less, not more, much less than the evangelical takes. Away from it. Yeah, and and if if you're liberal, then you're gonna say that that no, I'm not taking away less. In fact, I'm taking away more because I see how that That passage can fit with what Buddha said, and that passage can fit with what Muhammad said, whereas the way that you read it, you know, you read it where all those guys get cut out. So who's got the less and who's got the more? That's what they would argue, but uh I of course would be in agreement with you that they end up with less. So let me I don't know if I'll if you would agree with me or not, and I'm not sure if I'll get in trouble even posing the question here. But it it seems to me like a good question to ask, but it seems to me that it's possible that that the evangelical community, yeah let's say, yeah the Christian community, but the evangelical particularly community has gotten so distracted by the geopolitical concern that the church faces with regards to Islam, that we've lost sight of maybe the more serious enemy Which is liberal Christianity. Do you think that first of all you think that would be a fair characterization? And if so, do you think that there's truth Uh I think it's the wrong question. Uh I w I I think I think at the end of the day we can be enemy centered. Uh in in enemy-centered Christianity is is the wrong way to go where we're motivated by seeing the enemy in in and seeking to expose and bring them down. as opposed to being God centered. Um and if you're enemy centered then you then you can focus on Islam or you can focus on liberal Christianity you know, in either one. If you're God centered, then you're focused on on what God has said and what he has done in history and in um helping to bring everybody back to who you know, to him and to to to the revelation uh of God in the Bible. And so um I I think you're right that that that we could get distracted by one or the other, but the answer is not to focus on the bigger enemy of liberalism, but to focus on on God as He's been revealed in Jesus Christ. And if we do that then whatever enemy we face Well, what does he tell us to do with our enemies? To love them, to pray for those who persecute us, to do good to those who harm us, you know, to uh to to give them food to drink and And water doesn't have to be a good thing. Who's your who's claiming to be Christ, but is is is infecting the church with a lie, right? You're supposed to excommunicate them, have nothing to do with them. There's a different thing that goes on inside the church. But none of what I said said eat with them. Well I said you bless 'em, you pray for them, and you do good to them. And I think I think you're supposed to do that to your enemies. Even those that claim to be Christian, but according to Orthodox Christianity, have become Heretics. Right. Okay. I think you should still love them, you should still pray for them, as long as you're adequately fully clear that you're not sitting the problem with sitting down and eating with them is that you give the impression that uh to those that are watching that that they're okay, that they're not a problem. And that's the point, isn't it? Because the that's not the loving thing to do. Yeah. Somebody's drowning in in falsehood shouldn't be given the illusion that they're not drowning. And this gets to your question. What what kind of dialogue should we have? It seems to me there's two ways to have dialogue. One way is where you where you where you say, look, let's just figure out where we agree and just focus on those things. To which I say uh I say that you have just muddied the waters because in a in the attempt to to just find where we disagree, we have missed the important first step that clarifies What you even mean by what you say, and so I get together with somebody who is a liberal Christian and they say, Yeah, I believe Jesus Christ is the Son of God And I'm like, oh well I guess we agree about that. But because I didn't start by saying, Okay, well how do you define that? Because I didn't start by saying, Okay, is it possible that that we mean something different by that because I'm afraid to disagree because we're so intent on being in unity, then I end up going down the road thinking that we're on the same page when in fact we're not and so we're gonna end up having a big crash. because because um, you know, he's English and I'm American and we're driving on the wrong size of the side of the road and we're gonna end up hitting each other, but we don't realize it 'cause it's 'Cause we think that we're saying the same thing. Right. In that one sentence, I mean, first of all, who is Jesus? Let's define that. Yeah. Right? What does it mean to be the Son? Let's define that. And what God? Exactly. So you got three things, very important things to clarify in that one very easy throwaway. Oh yeah, I can agree with that sentence, right? And so so that kind of unity at the end of the day, I feel like says let's turn down the lights until everybody looks the same. You know, and then we'll say, see we're in unity, lowest common denominator. I say the best kind of unity says turn on the lights so that we can see how severely different from one another we are. And in that context, then we can see clearly if there's areas where we agree with one another. First John chapter two. Homework assignment. Read that. Yeah. All right, David, you've been kinda quiet here so far. I'm going to shift gears here a little bit. Not that you can't comment on what we've already talked about, but I'd like to get your perspective Uh since the it's the specialty of your ministry is to talk about the the Islam question. So when somebody comes to you at one of your conferences that you have, one of your presentations, seminars, whatever you call them uh and says afterwards maybe or even I don't know if you do a QA but they might say, Dave, you know, I I got neighbors uh that are Muslims and I've already you know uh loaded up on ammunition from an AK forty seven And I got the gasoline tanks and the uh the Mala Tel cocktails ready to go. But other than that, uh what should I do in interacting with these uh Muslim neighbors of mine? What do you tell 'em? Uh one of the things that that um during my studies that hopefully the first thing you do is tell them to unload the rifle and uh get rid of the mother cocktails, right? Well yeah, actually in in my in my studies, that's the first thing in his previous life as a policeman, he would have uh very carefully taken care of those things. Uh but but you know, uh first thing I I advocate no violence against anyone here. No viol I I came out of a violent past. Like I said, I wasn't saved until I was twenty eight. I was a soldier, I was a uh a police officer and I've seen enough violence to last a lifetime and violence never solved. Were you in any wars I was in Vietnam. Oh. Eight months. He's in a spiritual war right now. What are you talking about? Yeah. Yeah. By the way, I know you set the tone for the for the last couple of weeks with that warfare language of By the way, this is the Fred Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. He's Jonathan Schweitzer being ever critical of me as usual. Judging haters And uh the the voice of reason on today's panel, David Hughes. Your hair looks okay today too, by the way. Does it? You like my hair? I'm Troy Skinner. Whoa! And uh by the way, David is uh president and founder of David Hughes Ministries, uh focusing specifically on the Christian Islam question. So continue. Carry on. So I would I would advocate no violence, but What I have found during my studies is this, that that um again, as we were talking about in a couple of shows back, that that every Muslim does has the opportunity and he has the calling or she has the calling to advance Islam, whether it be in a violent way or whether it be in a uh quiet way or whether it be uh but they they will not assimilate into society. And I found that God has worked in special ways to to bring Muslims into into a um i in into in into his house, uh so to speak, uh uh conversion. But when I dialogue or would would want someone to dialogue with me, uh especially when I'm talking to a Muslim, is that I always have in my mind the first thing is that Muhammad was a deceiver and they are going to agree with me out of maybe politeness or out of a religious or a uh belief system. I don't like to call it too much of a religion, but as a religious uh mandate to deceive me unto the point of then they would uh uh then they would have their own own own way. But it is ve uh I hope I'm trying to make sense here. What my analogy is this. When I was in Vietnam there are there were the enemy came over and they were called Kit Carson Scouts. And uh what they did, they propagated or they said to us that now we're on your side, we're we're okay, and we're gonna lead you to certain areas that that uh you need to be led to. But you always kept them in front of you And so when I I a dialogue with a Muslim, it is not that they're evil or that that they're mean or that they're they have a potential for harm, but I always remember and uh to the point is that they are mandated by their religion to deceive me. And until I see a and they are mandated by their religion that my religion will not stand with theirs if they gain the power. over us. So I t what I tell uh uh and this may be a little bit off the subject, but I would never vote for a Muslim. I tell my people don't don't vote for a Muslim because Muslims vote for Muslims and then you get Sharia law in and we have that problem in Oklahoma right now and so on and so forth. For the record, Muslims will say that never in the history of Islam has Islam been extended by the sword. What they do is they don't extend Islam by the sword. They s they extend the rule of God by the sword, the Sharia law. Uh in and so they don't force people to to convert or die. But what they do is they require you to come under Sharia Law. And uh it's a little bit of a deception, but when they say that, it's kinda like uh it's kinda like Bill Clinton saying, Well, you know, yeah. He was honest though. See? He qualified it. Not one time. I love this show. Many more than one time. I've never listened. I always I always wondered about this because it seems so obvious. It says It says a false witness pours out lies, but an honest witness can be trusted. I'm like, duh. You know, but the point is is that when you see somebody that lies once and they're willing to do so and they're good at it in any way whatsoever, it's because they lie all the time. A liar is not somebody that just lies once or twice. A liar is somebody that lies all the they pour out their lies. And this is this is the thing. Exactly in poker, they call it a tells. Their eyes don't change, their biolinguish doesn't change, their facial color doesn't change. None of those tells because their conscience isn't isn't conscience is not pricked So they don't feel anything bad about the deception. Yeah. So there's no tell getting it. A liar has made peace with lying. Yeah. Which is the very point. I wonder if they feel the same way about Christians. That we lie? Yeah, I mean how would they why should they why would From their perspective, why would they trust us? We're just we're deceptive too. Yeah, yeah. Well the reason why that's the case is because politics in Christianity have also been tied together. And so every time that we go r into the Middle East and we say this is what we're gonna do, we end up not doing that. We end up uh acting in our own interest and not in their you know in their best interest. And so unfortunately it comes across that we also can't be trusted. That's why maybe it's not a good idea to have us identified as a Christian nation, right? 'Cause their nation doesn't behave very Christian a lot of people. Did you hear Superman? in uh the latest D C comic book has renounced his citizenship. I heard about that. Because he's afraid that when he goes overseas to rescue somebody and help to uh save the day, that his Actions will be construed as an extension of US government policy. And so he has renounced his citizenship. And uh and of course that means we're all gonna go out and buy the book so that we can be angry at it. Now that's DC comics, right? That's DC comics. Yeah, see Marvel comics are different than DC comics, and I think Marvel comics are a little more uh I did not I did not know that I was not positive, but I think that's true. Well apparently Superman has died a couple times in the past. Exactly. And and so then they brought him back to life. And so it's a way to sell things, you know. renounce the citizenship and then get it back and so then you have to see what happens. So anyways. But what I find in my studies, and this is where it gets to be very um with my black and white type situation here at evidence and action. I look at the evidence and then I look at the action. And if the evidence does not support your action, then then like you say, I am nonviolent, but yet I see planes going into the World Trade Center. There's something wrong here with that with that theology. There's something wrong with that train of thought And that's why I focused on that one during my studies, that's why I focused on that one phrase. It is commendable from Allah for you to deceive your enemies. So you can say what you want and you would be in a moral situation where the God that you believed in will bless you for that. And so as long as the the result is that I that I further what Allah had commanded me to further. You understand? I'm I'm not trying to talk double talk here. See see there's only one way For this to play out at the end of the day. Exactly. If Muslims begin to give us their word uh about their commitment to being citizens of the United States and in in freedom of religion and they give us their word and they give us their word and they give us their word and we decide that that they finally earned our trust that everything's gonna be okay. And then we get down the road and we have chosen to trust and it turns out that we're wrong What, we lose our country? France, according to a book called Prophecy, written by Dr. Jerem David Jeremiah. France will be a Muslim country in the next thirty years under Sharia law. Mammar Gaddafi said that we don't that that uh Muslims didn't need to attack Europe because of that very reason that the demographics were sufficient to mean that Europe was going to g uh become more And a lot of that is just population control issues, right? The the Immigration. Right. Immigration the population in Europe is is growing slightly But it's growing slightly. No, no, no, no. Not because the the native, the the the Anglos or the or the people who are who because the Muslims are moving in. And they're having babies. And they're having Huge families. Yeah. Yeah. So while you have the white families, the European families that are have you know, that may have one kid and then a Muslim family moves in and they have ten kids, doesn't take very many generations before all of a sudden there's a huge shift. And so what I'm saying is what I've been saying is that I don't see anywhere around the world that fundamentalist Islam has made its peace with liberal democracy, meaning freedom of religion. Nowhere in the world have I ever seen fundamentalists, but fundamentalist Christianity made its peace with liberal democracy two hundred years ago in seventeen seventy-six when we helped to found the nation. Even if we weren't founded as a Christian nation, no one can argue that there were not fundamentalist Christians that were participating and helping to start Uh the nation as a whole. Two hundred and thirty-five years ago, by the way. Thank you. But yeah if you read in the paper today, uh France is now fighting for its life. trying to get I don't believe it. Trying to France never fought for anything. Oh would disagree with you. You Frenchy Frenchman. They fought with us in the American Revolution. Rascally rabbit. Ever since Napoleon I think they've woken up now and they're trying to they're trying to uh to to get Islam or the Muslims to assimilate into their society by banning the the Burqa, by banning the the uh uh uh religious Merkel, Sarkozy and Cameron have all said that multiculturalism in Europe is a failure because fundamentalist Christian groups have refused to assimilate into their societies and they live separate. They have no loyalty to France or Germany or England. So they're saying that now too about the Muslims. But the Muslims are are And they're all saying it. Yes. And it's a problem. Here we go. Oh, what are we gonna do? I don't know. That's the topic for another show. That'll be Jonathan Schweizer, senior pastor at Crossroads IT. You're not a hater You're too cute to be a hater. You have a nice time. Huh? David Hughes? Thank you. You're not a hater either. Huh? Lovable guy. Uh the founder and president of uh David Hughes Ministries. I'm Froy Skinner. I don't know how cute or lovable I am, but I'm the host of this darn show, Frederick Faith Debate, brought to us by Fun Plumbing and Heating, How we can make you smile, and Deer Valley Heartscape, Masonry and Landscape. Thanks for listening. Till next time. God bless.