Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. All shred face cells security. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Again, reminding you the Frederick Faith Debate Is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson once said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. In that spirit, we will seriously wrestle wrestle with the important uh with I important ideas, having a hard time speaking this morning. They might even disagree with one another during the course of the show. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. And this week we will pick up where we left off last week and talk about evangelism and here to talk about uh that subject again. Uh John Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel and Frederick and Conrad Link, the pastor of Brookhill United Methodist Church here And uh Frederick as well. You know, True I gotta say that with uh with George Bush's speech um just this last week and his emphasis on liberty Um that, you know, the the fact that we can in this nation debate these kinds of things in a healthy way, I I just feel like it is at the core of who we are as a nation. And there's just something to me, there's something Uh how do I say it? It's deep in my soul. Uh that it's it's something that that I saw in the chosen. You seen the movie The Chosen, Conrad uh Reverend Link. Um uh the in the Jewish community they love to debate and they love to have those discussions that are that are gut level, you go head to head, you disagree with each other, even red faced disagreements with one another and then get up, shake hands and and say, Man, let's do this again tomorrow you know, there's that that deep sense of of uh caring enough about the issues of life, you know, that we'll actually talk on these levels to to know one another deeply. And yet refusing to allow those things to cause us to uh to be hateful or intolerant of one one another and uh Again, with liberty and and you know, just George Bush's whole speech, I I just feel like, you know, that is what our nation's all about. Well to that I say, hooah. Welcome. Wake up everybody. It's time to get out of bed. All right. Evangelism. Uh if if you were listening last week, uh you heard as uh as we were coming towards the end of the show, we started talking about the idea of who it's appropriate to target for evangelism. and uh and uh if we should be targeting people at all. Yeah. So I'm going to uh uh maybe I'll last week I think I threw the first question to John. This week I'll throw the first question Um is it okay if I call you by first names by the way? It's kind of informal, is that all right? Sure show. Wow. There it is. I've got the anointing. Everybody will always know. Well then Conrad. Okay. Um You in the last show, I'm trying to remember if it's not a good idea in your view to for uh Protestant uh denominations to go after and evangelize Roman Catholics, for example. And you specifically seem to be uh strongly in in favor of uh of evang of evangelism efforts and trying to evangelize those who have no faith whatsoever. Is there an area in between Roman Catholicism and no faith in uh whatsoever? Is the is it appropriate for a Christian to evangelize a Muslim, uh a Jew, a Hindu, a Buddhist? Well one one of the things that that comes from Jonathan's remarks about liberty is the word respect. Yeah. And I I feel very strongly about the fact that the Christian community needs to respect itself in order for it then to respect other people. Hm. And one of the things that happens when we don't respect ourselves within the Christian community and we see ourselves as uh Roman Catholic or Baptist or Presbyterian or Fundamentalist or Charismatic or Evangelical or whatever, is that we put all these labels on ourselves and we forget the fact that we're supposed to be Christian. And I tend to want to see what we hold in common, not what we hold different. I want to emphasize the fact that if we all have been baptized and we all been call ourselves Christian, then that's where we start That's why the Hebrew community in your earlier remarks could talk about the fact that they can angu uh argue with each other and be frustrated with each other. Because they know that they're brothers. Yeah. And what we really need in the Christian community is recognize that we have these different labels. And I appreciate that because each label has a unique aspect of tradition and history and and focus and even modern contemporary. But we need to start where we are. Therefore, I would say that If I have X number of minutes to share the gospel, I want to share it with somebody who's never heard it before versus somebody who's heard it. but maybe heard it in a different tradition or celebrates it. And that's where I would that's where I would start. Now before I give John a chance to respond to that and share his his view on that question that I've asked. Um there are some uh sects that maybe uh uh o slash denominations out there that would call themselves Christians that most m mainstream Christians wouldn't recognize as Christians. Uh probably true. Are the rules a little bit rules maybe not the right word, but the point define who is and who is not I suspect the approach is different, but that you're talking about some complicated questions. How many of these questions do you want to cover at six o'clock in the morning? Yeah. is that these more relevant issues like evangelism tend to be tied to some pretty complex theological ideas that are important and valuable and I think the average person really is interested in, you know, hearing where some of those things come from. So but what's your response to uh to uh Pastor Link's response to the first question of are there is it appropriate to target specific groups and how do we begin to try to identify who those groups are? Um most uh uh I think there isn't there is a need to define uh who is and who is not a Christian. And uh Once you come up with a definition, whatever it is, and different the fact of the matter is different parts of the body of Christ will uh will define those slightly differently. But once you define who that is, what you know, who's in, if you will, and and who is still um in need of um uh the gospel, who's still in need of of hearing the truth and and coming to understand the truth. Once you define that, then at that point evangelism is basically uh doing what you said previously, finding those that are not, and reaching out to them. And I think this is why why I'm willing to go to the definition of what is a Christian and what is not, because Uh for the Southern Baptist, um if if you believe, as the Catholics believe, uh that uh well I don't even know if I if I can uh say it well, but uh Classic Southern Baptist is gonna believe that that Catholics uh are trying to earn their way to heaven. And as a result of that definition, they see Catholics as being outside of salvation. And so for them to target a community that that would believe that way, uh, they give themselves permission to based upon their definition. What do you say to that? Yeah. That's a that's a Yeah. I think I think this is a dangerous topic. I know. Very dangerous. Yeah that's a good idea. It's at the crux of what we all believe. I think our our task is to talk about evangelism, but I don't think a Southern Baptist gets to determine or define what it means to be a Christian for a Catholic. I don't think a Presbyterian needs to define the definition of a Christian for a fundamentalist. I mean, the Bible has some basic simple things as far as what Christian is. I would like to think we could find some common ground. And then go from there. But I mean uh if the issue is going to be evangelism, why would I mean for example here in Frederick, let's say there's forty thousand people in Frederick. Okay? So there's forty thousand people. And let's say that 10,000 of the people in Frederick go to church. And let's say you're coming into the community and you're going to open up and start your new church. Yeah What group are you gonna go to? Yeah. Well you know the people that are gonna be the most receptive to you inevitably will people that know your language, which is the ten thousand. Sure. So all of a sudden we have all these churches around and we're start borrowing each other's members. And meanwhile the thirty thousand that needs the message or if we have something of value, hopefully, that we would want to share with them Nobody pays attention to. Yeah. I mean evangelism me is finding you know, the find finding the person that's hungry who knows they're hungry but doesn't know how to find the place they're going to be satisfied and sharing with them the bread. Now let me ask you a question. Um would you y well you've already probably answered it. You're clearly uncomfortable defining uh or giving a definition for who biblically is uh quote unquote saved, like who biblically has has come to a place where they can be assured of their salvation. They'll be assured of heaven uh uh for eternity. And no, not necessarily. I'm just trying to stay within the topic of evangelism. And and my point is my point is is that I'm convinced that that churches in a community that uh A couple basics. Believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, is God. Uh believe that he was born of the Virgin Mary. Believe that he died to Pay the price so that our sins would be forgiven. And if we believe in him, believe in our heart and confess with our mouth that we will be saved. Um and uh there's a uh uh proof of that salvation through uh levels of transform transformation, meaning uh that it leads to a transformed life More giving, more caring, more sharing, that those churches that are of that opinion, because I think that there are some churches who um who don't necessarily believe that Christ is the only way to heaven. But I believe that those churches that do believe that should work together and even do if it were like Easter service together or do a a big Christmas thing together, find ways to work together and even to strategize about how to outreach. Uh if if I'm going to shoot straight with you, um I I believe that those guys should work together and if they would, that we would see way more effectiveness for the sake of the gospel. In fact Billy Graham says that when he finally began to work with Catholic churches in the cities where he worked, that his attendance at his rallies just went through the roof because he was able to find a definition of salvation that allowed him to work together with those guys for the sake of the gospel so that they're not stealing from one another, but they're working together. And what happens is Uh uh the the phrase that I've heard is that is that the tide rises, the spiritual tide in the community rises. Well I think that was a learning point for Billy Graham, too, because he did what you had alluded to earlier in one of your previous uh program illustrations. He went to the people into the community who represented the people of faith. Yeah. He learned. It wasn't so much that the that particular case Roman Catholics told him something that they hadn't already been told. He went and he learned and he understood their language. Your little definition right there, that's Pure solid faith. I don't have any argument with your statements. Cool, you know what? Yeah. Neither with the Roman Catholic or the Presbyterian or anybody. Those are solid pieces. Those are solid pieces of faith. We agree. Okay now those are fine. Let's say that's a good thing. By the way, before we move on to the gr I agree too, except I Unless I misheard it, and I think you accidentally left out one other key piece, and that is belief in the resurrection. Amen. Absolutely. Right, that's I think that's very that's there Yes there. Yeah. I mean that's on that list. Good definition. Sure. I just wanted to make sure. Now let me ask this question. Okay, fine, or check out you want to do it your thing, you want to sing more, you want to pray more, you want to that's okay. Okay. Um I let's take your your community that that that is considered a Catholic community. You know, maybe in that community there's some uh five to ten thousand people that live in that community. uh who are at some level um saved or not saved. Now, say you and I, you're a Methodist and I'm non-denominational, say you and I decide that we're going to do a church plan and for whatever reason we feel like You know, you're gonna do a Methodist one in that community, I'm gonna do a non-denominational one in that community. If we were to go into that community and talk with the uh priests that are Christ-centered, that are that are uh faith-oriented, sure. Uh uh that are you know believers according to you know this definition of salvation, and say, look I feel like God's called me to this community, and I just wanted to let you know that I I'm not here to work against you, but I want to I want to throw my shoulder to the plow along with you in this community. Uh in fact I preach this in my in my church all the time on Sunday mornings that you know what we are merely one of the many things that God is doing in this community And if we ever start thinking that we're the only thing, then uh we're just gonna we're gonna limit our effectiveness for the sake of the business. And so my point being is that I think it's possible that there are Methodist communities uh in the nation, or Catholic communities, or non-denominational uh communities in the in the uh nation that um are not being reached well for the gospel and and they're not passing their faith on well. And so even though they've got this reputation for being a Methodist community or a Catholic community it would still be very valuable for other communities to come in and to bear that weight with them to to uh for the sake of the gospel and So clearly you threw out a you know a specific scenario but but the question comes down to one I agree that we need to pull together And people that are committed to that need to find ways to pull together. Two, I think we need to be very clear, uh, at least from a Christian perspective, on what our definition of salvation is. Um, so that 'cause I think it's possible that you could pull into that kind of thing churches that really aren't committed to those things and that ultimately could End up leading to the right. And and there again takes us to a whole nother topic about the the issue of salvation and what that defines. And that can be explored whether it's uh mainline traditional Christian or fringe Christians or fundamentalists or new or or however you want to define that. But it would seem to me that one of the things that challenges somebody when they're gonna go and evangelize in a community is what attitude do you have towards the people that you're going up and knocking on their door, ringing their bell or meeting them? Yeah. And if you go with the attitude that Num even before I know your name, you're wrong. Is a lousy way to present the gospel. And yet you go and you you meet people where they are and hear from them. And you find somebody that's a regular tenor, they've been going to that church. Okay, maybe they don't speak the same kind of salvation language that somebody else does, but you can see in their lives and their heart that they're trying to best do the best they can. Then your word is a word of grace. Welcome you. Continue your journey of faith and God bless you. In fact I've I've pitched a couple families as I've done some door to door uh stuff in the direction of Peter Kemene, a a Presbyterian minister in town, and um in the direction of Matt Poole, uh with his uh Methodist congregation there in Um I forget where it is now. Faith Point in Urbana. Urbana, thank you. Um and I think that's what you're referring to, the point. One who's simply offering the bread and inviting people to various places to find it. Now should we should we go there? Are are we willing then to or should we and this is the other part of your question or I guess I took it this direction, should we target a Jewish community or should we target a uh Islamic community? And if so, what's going to be the best way Before we jump into that, I want to reset real quickly for those who are just joining us. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 940, WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Our panelists this week are uh Conrad Link, who is the pastor of Brook Hill United Methodist Church in Frederick, and uh Jonathan Sweitzer, who's the pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh here in Frederick as well. And we're talking about evangelism and and It it happens every time. You bring up a particular issue and it it's like a web and everything. Everything starts to get connected and you have to you struggle to get to to stay on on course. I wanted to throw out a thought that occurred to me. Um those who know me off the air know that I'm in uh in in the sales uh uh arm of this radio station. And there's a secular example of what you're talking about, really the definitive difference between sales and marketing. Okay Sales is trying to convince somebody that they need what you have. And to buy it now. And and marketing is convincing them that you have what they need. And I think that uh what uh Pastor Link is talking about is more of a marketing approach. Okay. You know, find out what their needs are and then you can offer 'em and you can say, you know what? You're really hungry and I've got this bread. Yeah. Instead of going up to them with the bread and beating them over the head and saying, You are hungry whether you realize it or not, and I'm going to keep beating you until you realize it So I think that there's there's a a lot of validity in that and I and I would agree that that's probably the more uh most people are responsive to that sort of approach than being beat over the head with something for sure. In fact I I could tell you this that all of the door to s door to door stuff that I've done in this community, my wife actually uh does a uh or did for a while a um uh welcome to the neighborhood kind of a business, you know, with advertisers. And uh then I would follow up and go to those houses and um just say, hey, I'm a pastor in the community and I would tell them Look, I don't know what you're looking for in a church, but if you'll tell me, I bet I could help you to find the right place. And hoping that there would be some as well, you know, that that would come and join us, but specifically thinking to myself that you know what the best thing to do is to encourage an atmosphere that helps people to get back into church, you know, pursuing the Lord and that and so doing. In fact I'd even say that that this radio program is along those lines too, that that the best thing to do is for people to be spiritually minded. And the way to help people to be spiritually minded and be thinking about spiritual things is to create a an atmosphere where people are saying, well, wait a second, this is what I believe about this, so that you know where where people can talk about it And I've been concerned at times that the tolerance mentality, at least in the businesses where I've worked, has created a fear of talking about anything religious. And instead of creating a respect for one another's religions, it's created a Well, um you that's what you believe and I don't know if I believe that, but you know, we probably better not talk about it because, you know, that's not good to do. And uh it's been a a big concern of mine because I think that creates an environment where people are afraid to really uh grapple with those issues and know one another spiritually as well as socially and as well as you know professionally and and if we can't know each other spiritually then you know then the whole spiritual atmosphere suffers and that's what I'm trying to get at is how can we encourage a spiritual atmosphere so that people are making this decisions to to to clutch in. You know, they're not just staying in neutral but they're s they're going into first gear or they're hitting reverse or they're you know, saying that, hey, I need to go somewhere. I'm seeking for some answers and I want answers and and uh it seems to me that an atmosphere that does that is is just a very healthy thing in a community. And and you're you're you're r I think referring to Troy's original remark when he opens the show about Thomas Jefferson quote about tolerance. And and we need to to be aware of tolerance. And one of the things that again that's another topic of conversation is that maybe one of the things you're pointing out is the fact that maybe we don't listen to each other very well and we don't tolerate and we're always looking to how we're different instead of how we're the same. What is um uh we've alluded to this but we haven't really d dived into it just yet and we have about five minutes left, so maybe we can try to talk about this and in the remaining portions of the show. What is the ultimate end goal of evangelism? Um to bring people to Jesus Christ. Yeah. To help them know the love of God for their lives. I I'd say to know the love of God and to um uh allow then God's love to transform them, that the end goal is some level of them uh uh allowing God to change them to be more like Christ. So correct me if I'm wrong because then because I would agree with that. That would be my definition and my my purpose for evangelism. I like it. I like agreement. So in in with that being the the the the goal, that's where we're trying to go, it seems appropriate that you would try to evangelize Muslims and Jews and Hindus and Buddhists. Right and maybe even and and target them not specifically necessarily but target them as part of all of those who don't know Christ because you're targeting every individual who doesn't know Christ. Well and this is part of the reason why I wouldn't really like to have somebody on the show today that is not um a Christian because um I think that that this kind of a discussion is very healthy uh especially with those are that are not Christian uh and would be opposed to evangelism you know, just outright whose religions, you know, wouldn't be a good idea. But I'll take it he was unable to make it for reasons that we're not sure. We hope that he's okay. I'll take a little bit more liberal point of view though. Maybe this is what you'd like for a moment. is that that um I don't think that the first audience that a Christian would want to go to would be our Hebrew brothers and sisters. I referred to them as our Hebrew brothers and sisters. They're part of the Hebrew text we call the Old Testament text. They're part of our history. Uh apparently we're grafted into their tree. And I don't think that our first audience needs to be the faithful Muslim community either. They are supposed to, from their own rituals and all their literature, to respect the people of the book. That's their reference, the people of the book. Christians and Jews are people of the book. If we find people who are faithful to their tradition, faithful I think we're going to find that we are brothers and sisters. They might not worship Jesus. They might not have that understanding. But I like to think that there are probably other people in the world that have no concept of God at all. And that should be our first place to start Okay, so I I think my response to that would be that um that your definition um My definition of focus focuses mostly on the love of God. On the love of God. So you're so you're not sure if you're for the love of God. I'm talking about evangelism. Right Right. Uh r definitely you're talking about evangelism. Um but again your definition of salvation like I was saying earlier, defines for you then who's appropriate to reach out to and who's not. And I I think what I hear you saying is that your definition of salvation um is less emphasizes Christ, although for you Christ is that. Yes. But it more emphasizes the love of God, which you would believe can be experienced um As a Buddhist or or has as a Hindu or as an Islam? We're not talking about that. We're talking about evangelism in a place I said we wouldn't start. would be with the Hebrew community or the Islamic community. If they are faithful to their tradition, they are going to be the love of God. And I think that we could find that in common. Yeah and I and I guess um I I would say that I disagree with that because um I guess my understanding again sh of of what the Bible teaches is that Um you know, Christ said, I'm the way, the truth and the life, that no man comes to the Father but by me. Sure. I remember the centurion who had a servant that was ill. And he goes and he sends to Jesus and Jesus comes and You know, ask for authority for the healing of his servant. And Jesus admires the faith of this pagan Roman centurion. And before the pagan Roman gets home, the servant is healed. That's because the faith the faithfulness, the respect of humanity that was seen by Jesus in that person who was not Jewish, sure. Certainly wasn't Christian was appropriate. And that person I believe was offered a gift of grace, of healing, and of salvation. And the salvation came. So anyways, my point is that I think you and I agree that that I would say that the salvation came as a as a result of his meeting Christ. I would say that I think it's very possible that that any person that's truly seeking the love of God is gonna find Christ ultimately. And so my speaking with that individual about Christ is only going to um uh it's gonna lead him where uh where I already wanted to go anyway. So Um anyways, there's probably a disagreement there in um cool on what you have. Well as usual we've solved all the world's ills. In twenty-seven minutes or less. Thank you so much for listening to this week's edition of the Frederick Faith Debate. on uh Fredericks News Radio nine thirty WFMD. We'll be back again next week. Uh subject to be determined. Yeah, we've got seven days to think about it, I guess. If again, if you're a local faith community leader or no one who would like to participate in a future round table, please contact me Troy Skinner at the offices at WFMD. Also, if you have a topic you'd like here to discuss, please share that as well. My email address is Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com And if you don't have email and you want to call, you can 301-663-4181-just ask for me, Troy Skinner. Thanks again for listening Sandwas.