Broadcasting from the police state that is Frederick City and the gridlock that is Frederick County in the socialist state of Maryland, just outside the uh capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. Well re religious freedom is just a wistful memory. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Cook and Clumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit the Fred Project Faith Debate Online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. And why would you want to do that? Because when you email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, I take what you email me and I post it on the Face Debate page because my blog is your blog. Sounds really nice and generous when I put it that way, right? It's like the laziest way ever to do a blog. Nine blog posts postings a day, Monday through Friday, 45 blog postings a week. You should check it out. Go there right now, WFMD. com keyword faith. Uh on the show this week, Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and back again from last week. We didn't scare him away. We tried our best, but he's back again. Tom Weill, who is pastor at Brunswick First Church of God Last week we were talking about evangelism. Uh uh uh when it's appropriate or how it's appropriate to to approach those we we think might be lost. Uh one of the things we talked about was finding a an area of commonality, uh seeing if maybe An innocent question is getting wearing a cross or a t-shirt or something. You can say, Hey, are you a Christian? Well this week we're going to transition a little bit from interfacing with people that we're not sure if they're Christian or not to interfacing with people we know for sure are Christian So can I share a story before we do that? Oh story time for Jonathan. Okay. Storytime. Can I sit on your knee? All right. I know a gentleman, uh he actually started um the uh messianic Jewish congregation here in Frederick and he moved to Israel. And uh personal evangelism is one of his top themes, you know, that everybody should be looking for ways to be involved. you know, evangelistically every day. And in Israel, he was riding in a taxi and he got into a discussion with an Orthodox Jew about the things of God. And the Orthodox Jews spoke up and said, said, wait a second, are you messianic Jewish? And uh and he says, Well, yes I am. What what what makes you ask like that? And the guy said, Well, because what we've noticed, we Orthodox Jews, is that nobody will talk about God. Except for the Orthodox Jews and the Messianic Jewish guys. Nobody else will even talk about God. Nobody's willing to. And uh it you know, it's just the the reality, Tom, this is what you're getting at, is that nobody seems to be willing to have the discussion about eternal things for whatever reason they're afraid of it or it's uncomfortable, you know, and so uh my my my thing is always we're we're to be salt of the w of the earth, you know, the light of the world were to be uh witnesses. It doesn't say that we're all supposed to be evangelists. In fact, some are called to be evangelists and have the gift of evangelism, but we're all called to be witnesses. Uh it says in Acts that that when when the Holy Spirit comes upon you, you will be my witnesses in the whole world. And uh and being a witness basically means that when I'm called upon to to testify about what I saw happen that that I testify accurately. Well, this is what happened. And God did this and uh and and God made that happen and this person did that and and the result was that God blessed us. You know, that's my witness to how God's involved in my life. Uh and then, you know, the other thing is that you don't you don't pour a ton of salt on things. You salt it just enough to pull out the flavor. you know, and to draw the flavor of uh of something. So I think that that it's appropriate to recognize that and and again I feel like you do this, but that we just not take it too far where we're just beating people over the head, but that we're you know, recognizing that we're the salt of the earth, you know, and the light of the world. We're not shining the light in people's faces, but we're shining it on what they're doing so that they can see better. Well, you know, you d you don't want to hit them up side the head with the Bible I mean that doesn't generally work. Uh you know, you you lead by example and others are gonna see what you're doing. And sometimes you're in a situation where A negative issue could come up. And there's nobody around you, and how you handle a given situation speaks volumes of who you really are. Yeah. And preach the gospel at all times and if necessary, use words. Right. You know, uh I had somebody come by one day and said, you know, hey, I saw you the other day. Or you didn't see me, but uh, you know, I'd seen you. I thought, oh you should have stopped over and said hi Well, that's the exact thing that I'm talking about. When you're out in the world and well let's say I would walk into a liquor store. And somebody would see me and they'd say, Well, gee whiz, I know he's a Christian and so he's going in there, he's gonna get some booze or whatever with so I guess it's okay to really drink then. That, you know, wow, that solves that one for me. Well, I don't go in the liquor stores for that exact reason. I don't drink For that exact reason. I don't want to be the one who's going to influence somebody else to fall down. Sure. Yeah, I mean that raises uh raises all kinds of other questions. You know, uh what what kind of ties all this together, even from last week I was thinking about it, is is the the point that we live our lives in public and that we recognize whether it's having to do with with letting our faith be public, whether it has to do with recognizing that that all the little things that we do you know, whether it's drinking or going to certain kinds of movies, that all that's done in public and and that there's the potential uh th th there's implications to all of that and that we're committed to uh making sure that uh that the w the witness of our lives, the the testimony of our lives is of s you know is something that's bringing glory to God. And that kind of ties it all together. It's not all just evangelism, but it's a sense that we're living our lives in view of the whole world at all times. I don't think we've ever done the drinking issue on the Faith Debate show, by the way. We should probably think about scheduling a show to tack tackle that. 'Cause I do go to the liquor store and buy a bottle of wine from a c on occasion, by the way. So that'd be an interesting that but that's not what we're here to talk about today. You know, anyways, go on. And that uh you know, preach the gospel all the time and if uh if necessary use words. I think uh St. Francis of C is credited with that, correct? And the first time I heard that quote I loved it. I thought, wow, what a powerful idea it is. And you don't like it anymore? I mean the gospel is about the word, right? First of all, there's the written word, the powerful word there, and then there's the in living incarnate word of Jesus Christ. It's all about the word. So Preaching the gospel and if necessary use words. I don't think Paul subscribed to that philosophy, for example, right? The Apostle Paul. Anyway. his background, you know, he created a monastic order, you know, the Franciscan monks and the all of the monastic uh believers were monastic because the world had become so worldly, because the church had become so worldly, which means that everybody's talking about God. But nobody's really living true righteousness. They're not really looking to let the the the Word of God transform them so that they live it out. And so in that context it's a reminder that we need to have integrity. Let's live this thing out. Faith without works is dead. You know, if we're talking a good thing, but we're not we're not going to be able to do that. And I think in that context is a rhetorical advice, it's a device. It's a great thing. Yeah, yeah. But we have to be careful. Right? We should just live lives and people will just through osmosis catch our spirit. They'll just know we're Christian and that's not right. How could you use their word? How could you do radio if you didn't talk about it? Right. You know, that silence you're hearing right now is us living out our faith without without words right now. Okay, ready, here we go. Okay, we're done. Yeah. But you know going back to one other thing we said before on this on evangelism God really convicted me of this this scripture and and I have to tell you it it it made my evangelistic outlook even more bold. I mean if that if that can be. And you know in in March. I know Tom. It's hard to imagine he could be more bold. Go ahead. Oh let me tell you. You know, w when God told me he says, If anyone is ashamed of me and my words in this adulterous and sinful generation, the Son of Man will be ashamed of him when he comes in his father's glory with the holy angels. I don't ever want that to happen, you know? I don't ever want to be in that situation. You know, I'm surprised we didn't go there last week, but you know, a couple months ago in the middle of summer was the whole chick-filet Fiasco. And the the the gist of the chick filet fiasco is what you're talking about. Are we willing in our public persona to say what the Bible says? Are we willing to to to let what what the Bible teaches and what we hold to be important, are we willing to let that be public? And here here Chitfilet, Truitt the the owner, uh the son of the owner, came out saying publicly that he believes that Dan Cathy. Truett Cathy's son, Dan Cathy. I I was forgetting Truitt's the first name then? Truett is the first name of the founder, the father. And the the father is the one that said it? No, it's the son who's now the president of the company. I think Truitt's still involved if I'm not mistaken, but Dan Cathy's now the And he came out publicly saying that he believes uh that that he was guilty as charged, that he believed that that that traditional marriage, one man and one woman, is is the right way to go and that our nation is moving away from God and in ha is is likely gonna fall into judgment. It was something al along those lines, I forget the exact terminology. Yeah. That we are shaking our fist at God as a nation if uh if we support same sex same uh marriage is being defined as allowable with same sex union. But it it raises an interesting public declaration and it created this whole thing. I'm going to speak for all Christians. I think all Christians are good relatively speaking. at that, not good at all, relatively speaking, or otherwise, at sharing the gospel. Really? I think Christians are much more comfortable talking about marriage is between a man and a woman. Uh the uh we need to take personal responsibility. We shouldn't lie, we shouldn't cheat, we shouldn't steal, we should be monogamous Uh we should raise good families. We're really good on those moral issues that are biblical. Yeah. But then transitioning from some sort of a legalist mindset into the gospel that hey, you know what, by the way, um a really nice tie you're wearing today and you know you're a sinner going to hell unless you put your sa your saving uh saving faith in Jesus Christ. We're not so good at that. Right? We don't we we're good at talking about the Bible and what it teaches, but we're not good at sharing the gospel, witnessing Christ. We're not good at that. And it Well, you know, even when Jesus talked about salvation, everything he talked about, for that matter, was done in a very loving way. So if you approach somebody and says, well, you know, if you don't believe in Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, you're going to hell, boy. That is not Where is the love? Yeah. Where is the love in that? Right. The one exception was the religious leaders. He was very hard on them. Right? Because they were false teachers and he was le they were leading the people astray. I've been I've been feeling recently just on the topic of boldness um that that when you choose humility and serving other people, finding ways to really serve other people, you know, to to understand them, you know, to appreciate them, to care about them, uh, and and doing it in a in a humble manner. Man, you can be bold in in so many situations where other people might be like, Man, I can't believe you just said that and yet you don't get the same a backlash from people because the spirit of your life is is is something that is worth being bold about. And it seems to be like like that's what I see in you, Tom, you know, when when Troy describes it and and uh you know, a a guy that's just genuinely committed to caring about people you know, in being interested in them and not promoting himself, but just, you know, saying, you know, hey, this is what it w what what I I believe to be true. I think that that kind of boldness is winsome Uh at all times when there's genuine humility, genuine servant servanthood, genuine love, that people that that are bold in that context can get away with stuff that people that aren't so servanthood uh uh you know and more arrogant then they just come across as arrogant and they get a reputation for being arrogant. If you ever receive an email from Tom, what what does it say at the bottom? All your emails have the say have a have a phrase that you always have at the bottom. Do you remember what it is? I do, I know. I don't read my own emails. They never know but They they never know how much you or they don't they don't care how much you know until they know how much you care. And it's so true. I mean it it it really is Uh but you can get caught up in all kinds of different situations. You know, scripture tells us that we're to go out into the world to make disciples of all nations. Well that sounds like an awfully big program. Yeah. But you know what? How about starting with your own street? How about starting with your own town You know, let's let these people know. We don't know what's gonna happen. Look at the the craziness that's going on with the shootings in the different schools. Uh People are dying who thought they had seventy more years to live Now we're going to take an excursus, which is basically a rabbit trail tied to the subject, to illustrate the point of and give some advice of how to go about doing that In a second. But first let me reset. Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. Tom Weill is the one who uh wants you to know that he doesn't really know all that much, but he cares a lot, or something along those lines. How does that quote go again? You don't know how much they don't care. They don't care how much you know until they know how much you care. There you go. Make sure that's out there. Um Tom is the uh uh Tom Wiles pastor of Brunswick First Church of God It occurred to me in last week's show and now in this week's show that the three of us have an advantage uh over the typical Christian. trying to evangelize the world, but it doesn't need to necessarily be so. The advantage that you guys have is your pastors. So it could come up in conversation. Some of you'll be, you know, out on the golf course or with bowling alley or at the ballgame or in line at grocery store or whatever. You strike up a conversation at a barbecue So what do you do? Oh I uh uh uh uh I'm an architect and I design all the government buildings uh in downtown D. C. Oh wow cool. What do you do? I'm a pastor. That would be your answer, right? Have I told you my story on the golf course? Yes you have. Everybody's swearing up a storm and they find it's a pastor and they start. You get to the ninth hole and this guy that'd been swearing for the first nine holes finally turns and says, So what do you do for a living I just tell you what, I did not want to tell him that I was a pastor. I said I said, Well, uh I'm a pastor. And he goes, Oh, F I've been swearing this whole time, you know. And and so Anyways, for the for the whole next, you know, nine holes he he talked about, you know, all these the uh the pastors that were in his family and and all these different kinds of things and it was it was interesting to watch how how he was trying to present himself differently now that, you know, he knew that I was a pastor is it's it's un kind of unfortunate how people will not quite be themselves. So that is a downside. There's always a flip side. But the upside is you have a natural opportunity, you know, say, oh, I'm a pastor. Oh wow, you're a pastor. Yeah, well, you know Blah blah blah. And all of a sudden before you're talking about religion. You're talking about things related to the church and the faith, and you have a chance to say, Well, do you go to church anywhere? You know, and you have an in, right, to have that dialogue that the average person doesn't have unless they go to a pastor. I have the advantage of doing the Faith Debate show and I know, you know, I'm um an advertising sales guy uh through the week, uh and a caped superhero uh through the week at night and a radio show host on weekends. And uh He's not wearing a cape right now. He's just wondering. He's not. So as I'm talking to clients or whatever. And and they're getting to know me, I'm getting to know them, you know, it's not unusual that it'll come up that I I do this radio show. Right. 'Cause we're talking about the radio stations anyway, right? And the show comes up and all the really why do you do that? Well, and all of a sudden I have a chance to share a little bit about what I think is true. You know, God is real. He's our creator. We we are sinners in need of a savior. And I have a chance a forum then to kind of suss that out with them a little bit. The reason we have advantages though isn't because we have high profile, if you want to call this show high profile, that we have some sort of uh what some might consider higher profile than the average Christian person's forum. Right The really all we have going for us is we're actively involved in trying to advance the cause of the gospel already. We're involved in the church. We're doing things as believers, right? We're active in our faith in some way. Yeah, yeah, the whole the whole issue is the going public issue. Right. Once you get out there and it's public and somehow you found a way to let it be a part of your public persona, then most people are willing to go there and to have some some level of discussion. But but you need a reason to say it's a good idea. You can't just stand on the street corner and say, hey everybody, I'm a Christian I mean that'd be one way to go you could do that. Kind of strange. That'd be a way to go public, but they have these natural conversational ends that go public, right? Yeah. So you don't have one remember that uh TV show Ellen when she uh uh her her character yeah uh comes out of the closet right and she act does it accidentally on the PA mic And this is a very embarrassing going public moment for her, right? Well, those are embarrassing and nobody then struck up a conversation with her uh in in the uh I think it was an airport setting is where the scene takes place in the show. Um but if you're involved in your church, if you're attending Bible studies or going to church every Sunday. Exactly If you're involved in your church is and you ha i how often on Monday do you get asked that question, what'd you do this weekend? Oh man, we had a great church service You know, and then I had, you know, just a relaxing sa Sunday afternoon, good game, you know, ps you know, it's uh the point is is that is do you salt your conversation enough to do that? But if you didn't go to church on Sunday, you can't say that You can't go to prayer meeting on Wednesday, you can't get saved, but you know that's a whole different right. So if you're involved, if you're doing things that uh are involved with the church then you have a chance to go public, which then strikes for the importance of being involved in church and fellowship. Two Sundays ago we had our church picnic. Yeah. And we had this this one guy that hadn't been coming to church very much, uh Christmas and Easter and every now and then on a special occasion. He was a creester Christian. Yeah. He had a daughter. He had a four year old daughter. Have you ever said that before? Huh? That's that's a good I don't know if it's original. I think I've heard of it. He's not a Christian, he's a Christian. He's a Christian. He's a Christian. He's a Christi Anyway, he has this four year old daughter that would see something on TV bad and she'd say to him, Daddy, we need to stop and pray. This worked on him. And to make a long story short, we had a picnic there uh on the Potomac. We also had a baptism. He wanted to be baptized. He went down into the water, baptized, but you know, there's all these other people around. And they stopped what they were doing. One was even cleaning a fish and just stopped right then and there and watched and looked And when he came up out of the water, they applauded. And I don't know if they were Christians or not, but we were witnessing to them with a spectacular moment in somebody's life. You know, these um all around Frederick, there's these guys that meet at these uh tables for Bible studies, you know, the Water Boys guys. And um uh I have found that those guys are very quick when when they see men to say, Hey, you know, there's a bunch of men we get together w you know once a week and and uh, you know, just have breakfast together and and uh study the Bible, you should come out sometime. You know, like they're they're very quick to invite to that kind of a scenario, you know, w we do it over Panera bread, you should come out. The fact that it's public uh s for some reason I think seems to lower the fear factor. Oh what's something you do in public? Uh sure I'll go. You know, because it because it can't be that bad if it's in public And so sure enough, you know, then then they do it and they're all there in public and and there's there's something about that particular environment that I've been uh struck by how attractive it is to other men. Obviously not to women, but uh to other men You know, just to just come be a part of it. And it's another way, again, to wear your faith publicly. Yeah, yeah, I go, you know, I get together with a bunch of men, we we open up the Bible and we talk. By the way, Going Public, great uh album by the Newsboys, an early album, so if you like kind of the the punk edge, alternative punk edge music. It's uh mid nineties, early nineties album by the newsboys going public. That was a good cultural illusion. Yeah, anyway. It broadened our whole sense of the song. The last song I heard from the News Boys was uh in Gypsy Rose Lee when uh Ethel Merman was getting her kids to uh sing and they were doing the newsboys thing. D di combat for reference. Amazing. Yeah. So why don't w maybe this is a a longer conversation than we have time for, but if there's such fruit to be gained from being involved in your church and fellowshipping together so you have something to then talk about with the rest of the world because that is a way for the the world to see that we love one another And that's how people will know that we're Christians, right? They'll know us by our love for one another. Why aren't we spending more time in fellowship? Why isn't that happening? Why don't we spend more time in fellowship? Why don't you and I spend more time in fellowship? Well right and and Tom and I or or whatever, right? I mean we see each other when it's time to do the radio show. Why don't we do that more? Yeah, well I g I get a lot of fellowship. Um though it is true that you and I have to be due for going to get a Coke together. Uh you know, and possibly with our wives, we are due for that. But you know okay, I mean I I didn't want to hyperpersonalize that, but busy schedules that everybody is doing today, their priorities and what they need to get done and and how they need to accomplish things I believe is is part of the issue. You know, if you take time to appreciate uh not only a fellow Christian, but another good guy. and get together with them and and just renew things that have happened before. It's it's worth it. I mean it gives you a different perspective from the hurriedness of your everyday job. Yeah. It's hard though because I mean you guys have leadership positions at your churches, and you're the pastor. Yeah, you start do you uh apply some pressure on that, like you need to get more involved. It's that you're invading their personal boundaries. Like you guys don't understand the pressure that I'm under, the schedule that I have to keep. You're just being this top down, heavy handed, micromanaging pastor and I don't like that. Right? So how do you What do you do? Uh I I always approach that from the direction of of where are you in your walk with the Lord? Because fellowship is not something that you just do because you're supposed to. It's something that is an outworking of your growth with the Lord. And most people that are Christian, that are not in good fellowship with other Christians will tend to find themselves struggling, you know, on various levels, and so they're missing out on two things. One, uh letting what God has put in them be something that that can edifies a good Christian word, uh edifies the word Orcanama where we build one another up uh in in in your inner being, in your spirit. You know, and so what is in me can build somebody else up because I'm sharing scriptures, I'm sharing testimony, I'm sharing things that God has done in my life. And if If I'm doing that with others and others are doing that with me, the the the fact of the matter is that it strengthens me against temptations It strengthens me in terms of of my attitude every day and the benefit of fellowship is not something uh yeah, I I think I think we really need to help people to see uh how valuable that kind of fellowship is in order for them to be able to And it ramps up your accountability factor. You know. Uh but but we're gonna have to uh end with Tom having the last word and you have to ramp up your accountability factor. What he meant by that is left to your imagination. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Tom Wilde is the pastor at uh Brunswick uh it First Church of God, is that right? I'm off memory now instead of my notes. Brunswick First Church of God, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman's Wellington Eating. How can we make you smile Again, I ask you to visit us online. Wfmd. com Keyword Faith is how you find us. Until next week. Thanks so much for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?