Oh, what a fortunate left man I am. Welcome to the Product Faith Debate on Product News Radio 930 WFMD. How often is it that you get to spend quality time talking about important issues with men you respect, admire, love, have known for years? Huh? Amen. I can imagine such a time as that. Oh, wait a minute. It's happening right now. Jonathan Schweister, senior pastor of Crossroads Oli Tapo is on the show today, and Chris Jackson, who is the Manager of the Day program at the Religious Coalition, ordained Baptist Minister, and I've known them both since I'm gonna guess somewhere around two thousand two-ish is probably when we We met. I don't know when the two of you met. I don't think it was around that same time. I think it was around the same time. It was. Really? Okay, so but I didn't meet you guys in the same context. So I tend to invite people on the show Not because I know him well, but just because I feel like, you know, we could trounce them in a good debate. So we read that, you know, real quick and go for it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh we encourage you to visit our uh web presence, wfmd. com. Keyword faith brings you the faith debate page. That's where you'll find the blog. My blog is your blog. You send me emails at troy at wfmd. com And I will post it up there as long as it's, you know, reasonably you know inoffensive. Yeah. If if if you wouldn't want your, you know ten year old reading it, I'm not gonna post it. Yeah, yeah, yeah. We can debate all that too, couldn't we? Not gonna happen. That's what we love. In my estimation. If I wouldn't want my ten year old reading it, I'm not gonna post it. Yes. Uh other than that, even if it's a recipe, I'll put it up there. I have in the past. You know? Tax tips. Whatever you send me, I put it up there. Whatever. It's like a big garbage pile most of the time. But every once in a while there's a real diamond in the rough. So you never know what you're gonna get. It's like a box of chocolates. That would be a good line for a movie, I think. Last well before we get into it, I forget to do this at the end of the show, so I'm going to start to maybe get in the habit of doing it at the beginning of the show. What have I been reading? Recently read uh Evangelism and the Sovereignty of God, J. I. Packer. Amen. Big recommend. Two thumbs up on that one. You read a lot more than I do. Yeah, probably. Yeah. I have no life. And our sponsor, I mentioned our sponsor, Putman Pullmig and Heating. How can we make you smile? I did now. Last week we were talking about whether or not Christians should pray with the expectation that God's going to answer those prayers favorably Right? I'm feeling sick. I want to get healthy. I pray to God, and because Jesus uh by his stripes I am healed, all I gotta do is claim that promise of God and I will be healed. Last week, uh Chris Jackson uh clarified uh a particular point of view from uh a long-standing point of view in traditional Christianity. that um primarily we should understand the by his streets of the stripes we are healed as a as a spiritual healing. Primarily not that it ex Excludes the physical. I don't think you were saying that. No, that excludes. But it's primarily a spiritual thing. And that sometimes God's gonna answer your prayer with a, you know what? I've got a different plan for your life. Uh and Jonathan was sort of advocating more the other side, which is no no no, in in Matthew it says this and and he seems to be alluding to that same chapter fifty-three and I Isaiah that's talking about a connection of our physical healing in today's world with by his stripes we are healed. So I think it's perfectly appropriate. In fact I think Christians should pray with expectation that they're going to be healed. Um now I'm not so sure if you went so far as just uh to want to argue that maybe even preeminently over the spiritual representation of of the idea. Would you agree with Chris that it's still primarily a spiritual thing? Or are you saying, yeah, it's a spiritual thing too, but it's primarily for us right now in a practical sense of the matter primarily a hear and know thing. I have looked up in the meantime the uh the word for disease where it says he heals all our diseases in Psalms. Oh look, there's a picture of you right next to it. Yeah, look at that. Isn't that interesting? Even I can be healed. Creation groans to see. Oh, I thought you were next to the disease. And uh the the passage where it says, By his stripes we are healed, uh in Genesis twenty, the first place where the where the where the healing comes up, the term healing, is God healing Abimelech. who has been uh been had a disease put on him because he took Sarah, Abraham's wife, into his house. Right? And so all of these uh these these places where that word healing is used in the in the Torah, I've got like all it's about twelve of them right here. Every single one of those is in the context of physical healing. So I'm just saying that that word healing that is used in by his stripes we are healed is is used when we see it in the Torah Specifically in Deuteronomy 28, it talks about that you're going to ha uh you're gonna be s uh here, that's the King James Version, because I'm doing a little study here. Uh and so you got something against the King James version? What do you like New King James also? Okay, so I use that for you. severe boils which cannot be healed from the sole of your foot to the top of your head. Now this isn't referring to to the to the state of a nation. Though it is true that when Christ came, he came to reverse the state of the nation, and when Isaiah is prophesying, he's prophesying to reverse the and heal the whole nation, meaning to heal them as a as a nation. But in all of these passages, the the word healing, that is the word that's being used uh used in Isaiah is the word for an immediate individual being healed from a disease. And so all I'm saying is that in that particular context in Isaiah 53, when we're dealing with what Isaiah is dealing with that we gotta be careful to turn it into something that Scripture doesn't turn it into. And I and Deuteronomy twenty eight in particular, I think, is is most important because Deuteronomy twenty-eight is where God clarifies that if they walk away from him then he's going to bring upon them in an active sense all of these diseases. And uh that's pretty significant. And then he's saying, but if you return to me, then I will heal are your diseases. Both the word disease, everywhere that we find uh find it in Scripture, and the word for healing refer to specific ailments that an individual has. When uh uh personally so and the New Testament they a the disciples ask uh Jesus, you know, who's responsible for this uh I think it was blindness, right? Who's responsible for this person's blindness? Is it his sin? Or his parents sin. Yeah. And Jesus says it wasn't anybody's sin. No, no, no, no. He doesn't say that it's nobody's sin. Show me the passage. Can you help me with the with the pride the sight of that? But he basically it's not anybody's sin. He's blind so that he so that God's glory could be demonstrated now as I heal him. John chapter nine. Rabbi, who sinned this man or his parents? So neither this man nor his parents sinned, but this happened so that the work of God might be displayed in his life. You're right. It does say that. I admit it. So he's not Look at that. So he doesn't have some sort of m physical malady because of Deuteronomy twenty eight? What about Ernest Ainsley? You know, I mean I don't know if that name means anything anymore, but back in the day, like twenty five years ago or whatever. Big time was one of the mo maybe the most famous faith healer in America. It's not saying though that Jesus isn't saying that He couldn't heal his own wife? Right. Well Paul couldn't heal himself either. Exactly. I'm not arguing that if we have enough faith that we'll be healed every time. I have a son with diabetes. Again. And I pray every night for the floor. I have a son with a with a genetic disorder. But my concern is that is that in some circles they're encouraged to not pray in faith and to not work to be in a place of faith. Now what circles are those? 'Cause that's that's not Chris's circles. No, no, I wouldn't agree with that either. But going further, Deuteronomy twenty eight, even looking at that, that falls under the old covenant And Isaiah is actually looking forward to the new covenant, where it says in uh Jeremiah thirty-one, but this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, says the Lord. I will put my law in their minds And write it on their hearts. I will be their God and they shall be my people. Um it's clearly referring to Christ. Did he say only? Did you say only? Are you do you mean only? Because definitely he is looking forward to the new covenant. Primarily at least. Primarily. Are you saying only though? I mean I d I wouldn't say only, but are you saying only? No, because uh Paul clearly says that Jesus Christ died to redeem sins committed under the old testament Yeah, and in fact it's clear it's clear to me that that all of the prophets prophesied based on the Mosaic Covenant And when they pointed to a new covenant, they were pointing to the new covenant precisely because not not that God had failed the old covenant, but that the people had failed the old covenant. All right, and so the reason they were going to be healed was because they failed the old covenant. And so so the old covenant is is still very much in the purview. And the eyesight of Isaiah and Jeremiah as their prophesying. That's why there needs to be a new covenant. Why? Not so that the that th there's no more law, but so that the law could be written on their hearts. Right? And so that they'll be his people and he will be the be their God. And so so to somehow argue that this this is the old covenant, new covenant thing, I think misses misses the continuity between the two. that these people had walked away from God and were were experiencing the results, which includes physical disease Very precisely when Christ came, he healed physical diseases. Okay, I don't want to speak for you, but we're you know we kind of agree, so I'm anticipating what some arguments could be, and I can't help myself but to jump in. For example, in in First John chapter two he talks about You know, I'm writing to you uh what I'm writing to you is not a new commandment. Very next breath, but what I'm writing to you is a new commandment. What's he talking about? Basically the way he's constructed that whole thing is It's kind of it's the same point with this. The old and the new are different in a dramatic way, and yet it's a continuity. So it's not completely other brand new. Okay, I'm with you. But it's brand new. Okay, sure. Right? In in some important sense, it's brand new. I think that's the point. So Isaiah in fifty-three when he's right, yeah, he's within the con heck, he's living in the context of the old covenant. So of course he's going to have that in mind, but he's projecting ahead, he's projecting forward, he's projecting to Christ and beyond. And that's Whether he even would acknowledge it himself might be a subject for debate, but certainly as the Bible presents it, you we can look back now and see that that is primarily pointing to Jesus, because our our Jewish listeners are disagreeing with us right now All three of us are disagreeing with. That's not talking about Jesus at all. But they would fall under the category of Christian, not merely Jewish. Let me put that. All our merely Jewish friends. They would argue that they're not Christian, that they're messianic, because the Jew the cr the cr the believers were called. Really they would argue they're not Christian? The cr the believers were first called Christian in where? Antioch because it was a Gentile congregation. Up until that point they were followers of the Messiah. And so uh so the it's a Greek All of our non-Jesus who abide by the old what we would call the Old Testament are are in disagreement with us. Uh maybe, maybe not. It's interesting that that Jews I can't get away from it. That Jews no well, now now I'm arguing it differently. Jews of today uh don't like to talk about Isaiah fifty three. It's very, very hard for them to deal with Isaiah fifty three because they agree that it applies to a Messiah And and so uh but they're expecting Messiah that's gonna come and set up his rule and reign on earth. So even because maybe I'm not as well versed in this, but even non uh believing non uh Christ, you know, Messiah b uh Jesus Christ of Nazareth as no Yeshua Hamasiah. These these these darn uh uh messianic Jewish guys make this impossible to have a dialogue. The the the pe those Jews who do not acknowledge Jesus of Nazareth as the Messiah. E they even, you're saying, would look at Isaiah 53 and say it's pointing to the Messiah. They're just disagreeing uh on us uh identifying the Messiah as Jesus of Nazareth. Yeah, J uh uh Jews that don't believe in in Yush. So even in that context they're reading it saying, look, it's not talking about the now, it's talking about what's to come. So even they're agreeing with us. So I retract my previous statement. Sure. Okay. Strike that from the record. So where are we in this argument anyway? But I would say just the point is whether or not Isaiah 53 refers to Where it talks about bias stripes we were here, it refers to the actual healing of individuals. Right, right. And I think it clearly does. Okay, this will get us back on track. All right. This is Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The one who told me to press a button was Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Rosario Chapel. The one chopping at the bit, waiting to share some scripture truth with us is Chris Jackson. He's the manager of the day program at the Religious Coalition, ordained Baptist Minister in here in town. And we are talking about whether or not Christians should expect to be healed today when they pray for healing. Jonathan seems to be advocating for absolutely you should expect it. And Chris is saying, Well, you can expect it, but you know, mm take that with a grain of salt. And you were gonna say. Well, regardless of what we say, um there's a higher authority. There's a higher authority. Uh the apostle Peter says in first Peter chapter two, verses twenty-four and twenty-five. Yes He says, who himself bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that we having died to sins might live for righteousness by whose stri By whose stripes you were healed, for you were like sheep going astray, but have now returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. So even Peter says that this is primarily speaking to the healing of sin. in our lives. We've died to sin, been made alive to righteousness through his stripes. Um I don't You can't disagree with this. Yeah, no I do. Um it says uh the the context where where Peter is speaking here, he's clearly dealing with with how believers need to be changed. so that they're living the way that God wants them to live. All right. So so he takes that passage and he uses it in that context, but he doesn't he doesn't come out and say, well this does not refer to individual healing, but what he's recognizing is that Jesus suffered The threats. That's the whole key to Isaiah is that Jesus suffered instead of us having to suffer. Right? So the emphasis is on his suffering. And so he he goes to that passage that's dealing with suffering. precisely because he is encouraging us to be willing to suffer along with Christ. He committed no sin, no deceit was found in his mouth. He's not trying to make an argument about healing here. He's trying to make an argument that we be willing to suffer. Well that's fine. Paul Paul Peter's allowed to use that passage. to make that point, because Isaiah 53 makes that point very well. But it doesn't mean that he's ruling out that this applies to healing. That would be taking that passage, I think, uh, out of context. Are you going so far though as this? I'm trying to figure out exactly where the nuance of of of the disagreement is. The nuance of the disagreement is really just about Isaiah 53. I mean for the most part we're in agreement. I I think I'm kind of leaning in the direction of saying that we gotta work harder to to really help people to to to think of the things in in the context of faith. And I lean in the direction of saying that people need that that faith ends up being a key element in healing for those that do end up being healed. That those that pray not in faith, I don't think, should expect any healing whatsoever. However, those that do pray in faith, I'm in agreement that many times God doesn't heal. So we're not that far off. I'm just saying that we need to really help people to pray in faith so that so that they can be healed because there is a key connection that Christ makes between faith and healing. I think that I'm agreeing with that. So maybe what I'm saying maybe what I'm disagreeing with is an overstatement of the case. Yeah, because you asked me to at the beginning of of uh the session two two times ago, so I overstated it. Well like I said this. Well as I said, this is a long held traditional view that I hold, and uh again, I believe this is what the scripture teaches, but not only me, uh Billy Graham and his book, The Holy Spirit. says here under um his chapter on the sign gifts, he says, personally I do not believe the scripture makes it clear to us that Christ's work on the cross included physical healing. The passage found in Isaiah 53, verse 5, is quoted once in the New Testament in 1 Peter 2. 24. And He Himself bore our sins in His own body on the cross, that we might die to sin and live for righteousness. For by his wounds you were healed. It seems clear from this that the healing of the Savior is primarily spiritual in nature, not physical. And this is the view that I hold. And again, it's held by not only Billy Graham, but many others. Uh it's interesting because Baptists had a hard time accepting Billy Graham for a long time. First of all, I mean I'm in disagreement with Billy Graham, obviously. Yeah, well I I mean Billy Graham's not infallible. You know, he's not in he's not an inspired writer of scriptures, so but uh I I think I think Chris is bringing that up one, so that uh there there's a s sense that you know he's not he's not alone or he and I are not these two lone wolves out in the wilderness somewhere, that there's a there's tradition even a which is what got me thinking about it in the first place more deeply But because because that passage is referred to uh in the case. What does somebody who wants to overpress the case? You know pr or doesn't want to uh maybe accidentally falls into overpressing the case. What do they end up then saying to the woman who's got a sick child who just isn't getting healed? Do they have to say, you're just not praying in faith? You need more faith. Is that what they end up saying? What's that is in your life? I think it's rude to say that. Well that's what they said. And I would never say that. Well, would it be a spiritual truth though if they did say it? Um Uh th well see this precisely the issue. I don't know the heart. Christ, I think, very likely did uh know people's hearts. I don't know how much you know, 'cause he emptied himself of his godhood, so how much did he know people's hearts or not? You know, I it's hard to say. Uh but I don't know people's hearts. But I do know that the principle is true that that it would be valuable for a person in a situation like that to find the passages that deal with healing and to meditate on those and to build their faith. To build their their confidence that that God is a God that heals. That I, you know, Jehovah Rapha, I'm the God that healeth thee. You know, and that that they that they meditate on that, they think on those things, and even, you know uh let let their uh let their um hopes go all the way to heaven, you know, and that that there will be healing for for eternity in heaven. As it's spend time in that context. As a practical pastoral matter I get I would be a little concerned concern though that if you spend too much time meditating on that, you end up becoming self-centered and self-focused in your thinking, it's like God's going to bless me, He's going to heal me, He's going to make my life comfortable, He's going to make my life better, He's going to answer my prayers. It becomes very me-focused. At some point, I think you've got to turn the corner and say, you know what? God must have a bigger plan for my life that is only going to be accomplished by him not healing this malady that I have. What is God's plan? What does He want me to do? How does God want me to respond in this situation? How do I glorify God in spite of my lack of healing? It feels like if you don't turn that corner, you can't really exercise a true faith. So I got I got two answers to that. One, I agree that we need to preach that we consider it pure joy whenever we face trials of many kinds. Because uh the the uh the testing of your faith produces perseverance, godliness, character, and hope, and hope does not disappoint us, you know, because God has poured out his love for us. That's uh uh an amalgamation of Romans uh five And uh and uh James chapter one. Uh so I'm in agreement that we need to do all that. However, Abraham's faith, and he is the father of all who have faith. was that I will make you into a great nation. You. I will bless you. I will make your name great and you will be a blessing. Right. But what was the first word in all of those sentences? Yeah, exactly. That's exactly my point. That God is going to do this in us, and so the blessing's going to come to us so that we can bless other people. And that that element of of the promise to Abraham that is now all the promises are yes and amen in Christ, these promises that come to us. You know that he will bless those who bless us, he will curse those who curse us, and in your seed shall all nations of the earth be blessed. But God uses everything, even the things we would think are wicked or evil intent, and uses them for good. So doesn't he do that? But my point is that it's not inherently self-centered. God's going to bless me, and as he blesses me, I'm going to bless somebody else. In fact, Paul says this, he says we comfort others out of the comfort that we have received. Right, but I wasn't saying it was inherently self-centered. I was saying that if you can't get Turn the corner and make it something other than merely self-centered that you're gonna get mired down in a bad place spiritually. Yeah, I would agree with you on that. But starting with the fact that God blesses us God blesses us. I don't bless myself, but God blesses us is the starting point. And then God blesses us so that we can be a blessing is the essence of the gospel. That's what Paul says, that God preached the gospel to Abraham. But then see now I get concerned that uh we're gonna be teaching all of our our Christian brothers and sisters that they're only blessed if we're gonna Well you can be concerned about that, but that's not what I teach. Regardless That's not what Paul teaches about the blessing of Abraham in Galatians chapter 3, verse 6. He says, just as Abraham believed God, and it was a counter to him for righteousness. That is the blessing of Abraham. Uh chapter three verse nine of Galatians. So then those who are of faith are blessed with believing Abraham. Speaking of the righteousness. He has blessed us. Which is the righteousness. Right? If you're a Christian, right, you're blessed. I'm comfortable with that. But the element of faith is a good idea. is not that it's already happened, but that there is there's, you know, because faith, who has hope for what he already has, Paul argues in in Romans five But if you believe for what you do not yet already have, then you wait for it patiently. Which is the redemption of our body, the glorification of our body, where we're in perfect health. And I'm saying that that it happens that that it happens this is where we we ended up last week, you know, that great cliffhanger was uh was in Job. God's normal way of handling things on the earth is that he blesses the righteous and he curses the wicked. And that is normative outside of Satan being in the picture. And when Satan comes into the picture, according to Job, everything gets turned upside down, and the wicked appear to be blessed. And the righteous appear to suffer. And why did God need to do that? Because Christ Himself was going to come and suffer on the cross for a sin. And so he had to do that with Job way back when so that we wouldn't get confused. when Christ was hanging on the cross. Because Christ was going to suffer and die. In fact I put it this way. It's righteous for the righteous to suffer. so that wickedness can be exposed to be wicked, so that all the world will see that God alone can bring salvation. And I teach that all the time. And I'm convinced that that uh that the normal way that God handles things is that the righteous are blessed and the wicked are cursed. As long as you and I