This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn and. A week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. In with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. There is a Christ-centered ministry in Frederick that provides residential recovery programs. Programs to those it's experiencing homelessness or chemical addiction, also food to the hungry, clothing and furniture to those in need, and connection within the community through relationships. They're known as the Frederick Rescue Mission. Perhaps you've heard of them. Well what do you really know about him? Today we find out. I'm Troy Skinner, and with me on the show today is the executive director of the Rescue Mission, Arnold Farlow, and along with him is the director of Faith House Terry Gray. So before we get into the nitty-gritty of what the these uh d well first let me ask you, do you consider what you guys do to be a ministry? I'm assuming the answer is yes, you do. So Before we get into the nitty-gritty of the ministry stuff, let's get a little background on you guys. I've known Arnold in passing. You know, I've seen him at some community events and You know, he he always recognizes me when I'm when I I'm about, so obviously I've got one of those memorable ugly mugs. Um but I don't really know I don't know you personally very well. And I don't know that you know me that personally that well either. And obviously Terry, I don't know you very well 'cause I think This is the first time we're meeting I think, right? It is, yeah. So what's a little bit of your story? You know, where'd you grow up? Uh you know, where'd you go to church? Did you go to church? Um you know, what kind of mom and dad did you have? Brothers, sisters? Wow. What kind of trouble did you get into? Uh is this censored? We'll put we'll put it on a seven second delay. Okay, okay, okay. Well, I'll go first and then uh Terry uh Uh, grew up in Greensboro, North Carolina and of course back then and somewhat now I guess, uh It's not on the Bob Bible Belt buckle, but it's definitely part of the Bible Belt. So back in Greensboro back in the those days, sixties and seventies and eighties, uh Uh I hope it doesn't offend anybody, but it's kinda like people up north, uh they're Catholic. Uh doesn't necessarily mean they're practicing Catholic. So down there in North Carolina it's kinda like you're Baptist or or or you should be going to Baptist. If you're not Baptist at going, you should be going. And uh But so uh uh we w I wasn't really raised in a Christian home. Uh every now and then we'd venture into a church but never um So I I um my goal in life in high school was to get a D to get out. And uh like when the school year started I'd throw my textbooks in the back of the trunk. So I know where they were when the school year year ended and I pretty much accomplished my goals. There's a life lesson in there somewhere, right? Yeah, yeah. So but um uh on Good Friday of my senior year, uh I was going down the road of one hundred and ten miles an hour in a little two forty Z, which tells you how old I am. They went around a curve and the car s started sliding and started sliding off in the ditch and that morning they put a gravel pile there for a driveway. I slid over the gravel pile went up way up in the air, hit a telephone pole and it was like paint twelve feet high on the telephone pole. Landed on the roof, slid down the roof slid down the road a little ways and my friend and I were thrown into the hatchback. And uh everything the front wheel was sitting in the front seat and so we got out. The only thing I had was a broken nose and my friend had n no injuries whatsoever. I did go into shock and the Highway patrolman asked me what happened and I said I was going about forty five and a dog ran out in front of me. Uh so I knew how to lie. So um I at that point in time I was doing drugs and pot and stuff and Uh it made me realize something bigger than me wanted me to live. I used to race motorcycles and do crazy stuff and but that one should have taken me out of here. I should have not made that one And as a result I began to go on a journey, you know why something bigger than me. So I quit hanging around people that uh did drugs and the only thing I hung around with was people who like to vandalize and drink. I thought that was a lot better. So anyway, uh this friend of mine he became a Christian and first thing I know his whole family started to become Christians and But oh my gosh, I got these druggies friends that own my mind and I got these religious nuts. Is there a place for anybody to have any sanity anywhere? But the short of it is I uh eventually gave my life to the Lord at a Bible study and um Uh I had no Christian vocabulary, had no Christian context and when you said eventually, me in pretty short order after all the accident and all that sort of thing. I um uh it was March twenty eighth, nineteen seventy five. I ran into the telephone poll back in the Lord June sixteenth, nineteen seventy five. Have you had siblings? Uh none of that claim. No uh Do they claim you? Uh no. Uh uh Uh I come from a pretty rough family and uh I do have a brother and sister but I hadn't talked to 'em in uh ten years. Okay. What did your parents and your siblings Think about this hadn't changed. Well I told my dad, you know, that I was gonna give my life to the Lord and he said, That's great So the Sheriff Department, the law enforcement and won't be calling here all the time. So he was happy that uh that there might be peace. Then my sister, I told her We went out to eat the barbecue place and I told her that I'd gave my li I'd given my life to the Lord and she laughed for twenty minutes uh without stopping. She thought it was the most ridiculous thing she'd ever heard. And I used to be the guy that buy all the pot for her friends. So her pot supply ran out. people who paid me. And so uh so uh when I gave my life to the Lord it was pretty traumatic. Um Uh one of the biggest things that happened was I went to this Methodist church. It was a big one. I had a friend that w I I didn't ha I never got involved in young life 'cause I was too wild. for that and the but the young life leader he heard about it and he took me to church and it was about a s five hundred, six hundred member Young Life is uh is a uh an organization that works alongside the church. Younger people, right? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And so uh Uh at the end of the church the uh the pastor came up to me and introduced himself and I told him I'd given my life to the Lord a few months ago. It's my first time here and And he goes, Well, welcome to the family of God. He said, I'd love to meet with you and uh for about a year I met with him once a week and he discipled me and His name was Roy Putnam, he's passed away a good number of years ago. But that was very, very key uh connection in my life and um So eventually I went to the Great University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. I had to go through some remed remedial uh stuff get there. But uh did you're uh throwing the books in the back of the car and getting D's work for you there? No. That would not work at Chapla Hill. That would not work with Chapla Hill. Uh Do you play basketball? Maybe you could work on the ball. I watched a lot of basket I watched a lot of basketball and of course I met my thrill in Chapel Hill. Uh my uh wife of thirty seven years Beth. Uh we met in Chapel Hill. Okay. Now one last question about your family and stuff, and then we'll give Terry a chance to share her her her background a little bit. Uh all these years later, do you have a sense of your transformation of God's call in your life having made a positive impact with your parents or your s it sounds like not, but I'm hoping that there's some Yeah, it's uh kind of a complicated story. Um Uh I I I believe my parents m yeah, of course I can't answer all the th you know. There are some people who you know, I guess that old thing when you get to heaven There's gonna be people, what are you doing here? And then there's gonna be other people, where are they? Yeah. I didn't ask the question like do you think that your family is saved because uh uh we can't know. And actually I'll uh if if you remind me later on I'll I have like a side story I'll share about this kind of a pastoral kind of a thing that that might be helpful to share in this context. I don't want to interrupt your story. But I m I moved to Maryland in two thousand five and my dad died in two thousand and nine I mean eleven and my mom died in two thousand and nine so both of my parents passed away while I was here and Of course I'll probably share a little bit later thing that's impacted me m most significantly. Um I lost my twenty six year old son, he was killed by a drunk driver, uh, in two thousand fourteen and I live with that every day. Uh it's um you never get over something like that. It's like like losing an arm. Uh You get over the fact that it's been cut but you never get over the fact that you don't have the arm like you used to. And um Yeah, I'm sure we'll have time to talk about that because it's gonna be directly related to what kind of work you do. So I'm gonna explore that. That's the voice of Arnold Farlow. He is the Executive Director of the Frederick Rescue Mission. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. Also on the show, we haven't heard much of her voice yet, but we're about to, is Terry Gray. She is the director of the Faith House. Now How come you're the executive director of Rescue Mission and she's only the director of Faith House? So Again, we're going to get into what the Rescue Mission does and what Faith House is all about, but you know, if you could, and you can be more or less detailed than Arnold, I want you to feel any pressure but what's your story about growing up mine is not as colorful as Arnold's that's for sure. No? You weren't selling drugs, getting D's, crashing cars? No? No. The opposite actually I was raised um up north. So as Arnold said in the north, uh the Catholics are the predominant um denomination and I definitely fall into that. My mother actually before she was married was in the convent So I was raised by an ex nun. Um so I was raised with a crucifix in every room of the house, literally, bathrooms included. It was kind of like a shrine in our house. And um did not have a personal relationship with Jesus Christ but definitely was um very religious. Um and it wasn't until I was in my early twenties when I lived on a military base And um my husband at the time, his mom came to visit us, and she was a born-again Christian And on the military base, the last, there was one chapel that was a small base in North Dakota. No one lives in North Dakota unless we're in the military, I think. Um but the very last service uh in the chapel was the inner interdenominational service. So it was just a non-denominational service, although that the pastor was Southern Baptist by his th theology and sh that's the one she wanted to go to and I was always um game to go and I was your mother in law? This was my mother in law. And I had also a guest didn't share that I went to an all girls Catholic high school. Okay. So your husband's mil was military? My husband was military, correct. Okay. Which branch? Uh Air Force. Okay. And so my mother-in-law and I went to this non-denominational service that would often last three hours. Oh. Total turnaround. Spirit led. Very spirit led. Very spirit led. And what is And I still I um my sister is is still Catholic, so I I certainly have a heart for Catholics still, although um I no longer profess that as as my denomination. Um Was or is your husband Roman Catholic at the time? He was not, no. Is okay. So it wasn't he doesn't have that baggage that you have for with your family. My my wife and I were both raised Roman Catholic and uh not my side so much, but my wife's side, you know, they love us But there's something wrong with us as far as they're concerned because we're not Catholic. Yes. Yeah. And I um so I started going to the church with her while she was visiting us and it was probably two or three weeks and I absolutely was drawn back because it was so it was so alive there. Um and I just really felt the presence of Was that a revival kind of a thing? 'Cause why would they have recurring inter uh denominational That was just set That was just a kind of ministry then it was one chapel on base. Oh so that was for the military. It was for the military Okay that makes sense So, you know, Catholics got one time slot on Sunday, someone else got an you know Pro Protestant got another time slot. And this got the last time slot because they had no ending time. They had a start time and no ending time. And but it was so spirited and you just felt the presence of the Lord and I just I kept going back. So even after she left, I kept going back. And I don't have a certain date that I can say that I actually got saved what we can call saved because I struggled having been raised in such strong Catholicism, um, having my mom be um you know, part of the the convent at one time. And then in high school we were taught in our religion classes that only Catholics go to heaven. I'm not saying that all Catholics necessarily believe that, but that's what we were taught during during our religion classes. And I really struggled against um changing that label because I had identified with that label for so long. So I don't have an actual date that I can pinpoint out a calendar that that I had given my life over to Christ, but Um I have been part of non-denominational churches ever since. So that was a long time ago. Um and and and been a part of it ever since. Did your husband then get drawn into your testimony? Is he going to church with you now and stuff? Or that's not really where he is? That is not where he is. Okay. And nor was he. Right. So um we have we have sent He's n not a part of my life any longer. Um and part of that I think was because I was going in in in that direction and and he Right. Didn't aspire for that. Exactly. Exactly. I married the Catholic girl who went to the all girls school. Right? Yes. That's the woman who goes to these uh services that uh go on all for all hours. Yes, he did not like to go for three hours at a time. Is his mother still living? Are you connected with her still? I I am not connected to her any longer, so so I'm not sure Um but she definitely was the catalyst to uh to me developing a personal relationship with Christ. And what state did you grow up in? I grew up in Toledo, Ohio. Oh, okay. Big Max Clinger fan are you? Uh yes. With uh uh with the mummified uh hot dog buns on the wall. I mean boy, there's part of me that would be tempted to go in so many different directions because what a cross section here we have. We have a we have a who was then a young man growing up in the Bible Belt who wasn't church He was into all sorts of mischief. Right. And then and then has a dramatic experience that causes him to examine his life and then he has a moment that he can you can point to Arnold. This is the moment that I knew that Jesus is my Lord and Savior and you have it marked on your calendar. Right? And then you have the kind of the classic Northeast, Midwest. Roman Catholic upbringing, a little more shelter perhaps than the typical um American girl, but still. Uh see we're churched And so you were living the life that Arnold was saying, the people around him, well, if you were either a Baptist or you should have been a Baptist going to church. And so you were you know, you you were Catholic, but maybe you weren't really Catholic, like you know, who knows what was going on. Just an interesting cross section. Uh and then here you are. Um and so I'm gonna give you my strides so I don't forget. Yeah, I got time. So, uh on the question of, you know, when were you saved, you have you have it marked on your carnal uh calendar, Arnold, uh and Terry, you don't. I don't either. And I think that um one of the great disservices that believers give other believers, they say, so when did you get saved? That's an unfair question because a very high percentage of Christians don't have that story. They don't have an Arnold story You know, and so I think a better question is so you know, tell me about your walk with Jesus. And then you could you would have an answer to that, right? So you could talk about that. Um Because there's different ways to answer that. In one sense, Christians, you know, Bible believing Christians anyway would subscribe to this idea. You know, we are saved before the foundations of the earth. You know, God knew those who were his before Yeah, we were knit together in our mother's wombs. So in a sense we were we are saved before time. You have the Emmaus Road and then you have the Damascus Road. Damascus roads is f you know. Paul, I'm sure he could give you the time, the date, the hour. Right. Right. Whereas the guys walking on the mayor throws they even recognize Jesus Then all of a sudden they realized later on their hearts were strangely warmed. It it took it took a little while, some incrementalism, if you will. Yeah. So I always liked in the Those just two ways that people come to the Lord uh And there are some people that will sadly look suspiciously at a fellow believer who doesn't have one of those stories. You know, oh, maybe you're not really saved. You know, the question is, do you do you understand yourself to be saved now? Are you living the life of a saved person? Now. Are you living a life of gratitude for what Christ has done for you now? I get saved every day. If you n yeah. Well that's the other thing, right? So before the foundation of time, the other answer could be I was saved at the cross two thousand years ago Or I was um you know, I I'm saved every day. Or in your case, I was saved back in nineteen seventy-five. Or you know, we have th there's different ways to answer uh that question. Um And speaking of this, this is what I wanted to get to before. Uh knowing who was saved. You know, I have a dear friend, a couple of uh dear friends, they lost a son. Um uh and it's never easy to lose a son. You know, it's hard enough to lose a parent. You're not it but that's the way it's supposed to go. Right. And they really wrestled with whether or not their son was saved Because there wasn't a whole lot of evidence that he was. And so I think we get ourselves in trouble as a pastoral thing when we start we try to focus on guessing who is and who isn't, who's in and who's out. The fact of the matter is, you said this, aren't we get to heaven? And then we put there, wait a minute, you're here? What? And then they're gonna look around and be like, wait a minute, like where's so and so? They should be here. Only God knows Mm-hmm. And who knows the sometimes the the work is mysterious and some people maybe get in by the skin of their teeth kind of thing and they don't have a whole lot of fruit, so they're not going to have a lot of crowns in heaven, but they're they're going to be there. So we just have to trust that God knows and whatever it is he knows it's what's best because God is love and he is righteous, he is just, he is merciful. So those who are supposed to be there will be there and those that aren't supposed to be there, aren't gonna be there, and we just have to be okay with that. Anyway, that's my take. Mm-hmm. So um this is the Faith Debate. How much time do we have? I've got uh about two or three minutes. So Um let's begin a transition to how you got into what you do professionally. You know, you had this uh this moment where you became converted and you decided to do something with your life. You went to school. And after school do you immediately get into ministry or I was um before I went to Chapel Hill, I went to the University of Colorado at Boulder. And found out that the the new age started long before the new age started. It was really it's kind of Hippyville, it was really with the real kind of And this was back in the seventies? Uh back in uh seventy eight. So this is Morgan Mendy time. Yeah, more community, yeah. I went to California to see more community at one point. So uh so uh you know uh w the way I came to know the Lord and um One of the biggest things that impressed on me was I had so much to be forgiven for and it just amazed me that No, not trying to be hyper spiritual here, but I'm just amazed that God would forgive me and give me a free ride after all that I did. And um so if he would forgive me, how much more would he forgive everybody else? And I was just so thankful to be forgiven, so everybody else needs to be forgiv Wow, this is a great offer. This is a great deal. You know, so I was very evangelistic and um but not having any religious background I thought the world was too matter of fact uh when I read the Bible fur f first book I ever read was the Bible 'cause I didn't read books. They were in the backseat of his car. I used to go to cliff notes. Uh or I take these the weakest kid in my class, I need to see your notes for the test. If you don't let me see 'em I'll beat you up. And that's how I studied through my way through high school. So anyway, uh so when I saw someone arguing about Jesus, I said that guy's a Pharisee. See, they go, Well how you know he's a Pharisee. I didn't know that at that point it was a Jewish sect. So I had this real, you know, uh uh black and white uh linear view of the world. You know, you need a Yeah, I used to think before I became a Christian there were cool people, straight which is a different term back then, straight people, people didn't do anything bad or good or straight. And then there were people like me and um I didn't fit into anything, you know, it's just uh so So when um I was in Boulder uh really I was doing a lot of running. I used to run quite a bit. And I was running a mountain, I just really th had this vision. Uh, I know everything's sound crazy and spectacular, but uh anyway it's it's the facts. That's it's the facts. But anyway, um that is vision of God calling me And I just felt it stronger and stronger in the top of Flagstaff Mountain, which is the the prominent mountain there in Boulder and uh When I got to the top, uh I just really felt the presence of God and I w and of course I had to run back home and ran back down the mountain and It kinda stayed with me and was like uh UNC decided to take Econ, history. geology and environmental science and whichever I did the best in would be the my major. Did the best in history. Yeah. So so uh But as I began to be uh involved in I was involved in a varsity a lot at Carolina and um involved evangelistically. It came to a point where I I don't want to do anything vocationally except tell people about Jesus being involved in spreading the gospel. So that became so after Chapel Hill Well, this is kinda funny too. Back in those days if you had a charismatic experience, you were written off by ninety percent of the churches And if you didn't believe in if about y your field got narrowly narrowed. Right. And I had a charismatic experience w when I ca Um some people call it baptism of the Holy Spirit, some people whatever. So uh anyway, uh people ask me about that and I say, Oh yeah. Um uh that so that kinda eliminated me. from a lot of uh possibilities. So I worked with Young Life for about a year and then got married and my wife and I moved to Gordon Connell. Went to seminary in Massachusetts. Uh with a southern accent. So But it was so it was really i in my college, Boulder and Chapel Hill I really felt a call to minister Uh I'll be everybody's work, whether you're a m auto mechanic or um you know s real estate salesperson, uh uh whatever. That can be just as much a call as a so-called pastor, minister, but I really felt like my primary vocation should be Telling people the gospel. Well next week we're going to hear a little bit more about uh the the middle the middle years for Terry that got our close to joining the rescue mission, and then we'll tie a knot on it and get how they both ended up being connected to uh Lifehouse and the uh and the and the rescue mission. Uh Terry Gray and uh Arnold Farlow on the show today with me. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Find us online at WFMD. com. Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless.