Welcome to the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFM Brought to us by Deer Valley, Hardscape, Masonry, and Landscape. Putin, plumbing, and heating how we make you smile. I'm Troy Skinner, Jonathan Sweisser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, back on the show again this week And also back on the show again this week. He's like a veteran now. He is. Uh Tom Cooper, he's principal at Bright Hill Group. They focus on leadership development, uh primarily within a business business context, but we can talk about leadership development within a church context. on this show in recent weeks. And I'm going to mix and match. We've also been talking about leadership in a political context, right? So we're going to mix No, no, we we have attention spans of math. But uh political why we have such a large listening audience. because they don't have a good attention span either. Did I just say that? You're not supposed to say negative things. No no, what's the matter with you? Yeah, yeah, but that's not negative. That's positive. That's Jonathan, I love you. I think the world of you I accept you for who you are. Yeah, anyway. Um here's the question. Donald Trump Donald Trump. He is a question. You're fired. Donald Trump is regarded by many as a leader. He is unquestionably a leader. Right. He does this show where he's leading these apprentices. I've seen it in the past. He's leading this this gaggle of of apprentices. Now they're celebrities who I guess are supposed to be leaders in their own way, I don't know. And he behaves in such a interesting way. And then He runs this this uh multi-million, maybe billion, multi-billion dollar, I don't know how much money he has, but very, very financially successful empire of the five years. And he will be glad to tell you exactly how successful he is. And and he was going to run for president, so he thinks he has the ability to be president of you know the United States, leader of the free world. You know He's a clown, right? I mean he's a he could clowns be leaders? He's a clown who has a whole lot more money than any of us. Can leaders be clowns? Well is that making a does that but does that mean he's a good leader? I mean you immediately say, Oh, he is a good leader. Is he? I didn't say he was a good leader. I said he was an effective leader. An effective leader. Yeah. You know, at the end of Proverbs, you know, I I in my always goes back to the Bible with you, doesn't it? Yeah, sorry. I apologize for that. Uh it's a weakness that I have. The uh the th at the end of of Proverbs, you know, I d uh in my own little study of Proverbs, I feel like everything boils down to the decision, right? George Bush's book was called Decision Points. And um when I when I watch The Apprentice, the times that I've watched it, it comes down to to making the decisions that are the right decisions for going the direction that you want to go. Whatever your vision is, you gotta make it everything comes down. You get knowledge You get understanding, uh you gotta you gotta uh have prudence to see what's going on, you know, in the situation around you so you can anticipate problems. You gotta understand people, you gotta understand the market, you gotta understand, you know, your environment, and you bring all that together and it comes down to what you do and the decision that you make at the end of the day. And it seems to me that That's where Trump has made decisions that are geared towards making money. And he has focused his attention when I watch him, the way that he listens to to the other people. He even listens to the apprentices, you know, and what's going on. He's reading them as people, and he's reading the situations, and he's reading what will Get the most done, you know, raise the most money for the for whatever charity, whatever that they're doing, and and and he makes a decision based on that. And I'd say he's a good decision maker. Well I I think leaders have a penchant toward action. Um and so he's effective in that he he wants to act. He wants let's not talk about it, let's do. Um but I think he also has a a perspective inherent cynicism I went to a conference where I heard him speak and and he was I'm I guess I'm dropping names again on it, that's right. Um but where he was saying, you know, essentially his philosophy is the other guy is gonna screw you, so screw him first. Yeah. And and you know I have to say biblical. Excuse me? Yeah. No, let me walk you through this. In Proverbs, you've heard me say this time and again, is the exact same word that is used for a wicked man that is trying to manipulate his way in Right? I. e. the devil was more cra the the serpent in the in the garden was more crafty than any other animals. A crafty man, we're told by Proverbs, will be hated. But a prudent man sees danger coming and avoids it. Well, Christ put the two together and he said, Be as shrewd as a serpent. That's gentle stuff. And as gentle as a dove. And that's what that's what he's saying. Be prudent. Look ahead. There's a pitfall. Well he's doing it in a crafty way. But but I think because he's saying that it's just barely across the line from prudence. And that Christians fall into the same thing. This is why leaders, this is why CJ Mahaney got in trouble. Because in trying to be prudent, he ended up being crafty. But they're the exact same thing. The question is whether or not you're harmless as a dove when you do it Well, I I think that in his worldview and and I would say that there's some val valid uh validity to that idea, because the heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. So Pretty much. Mine is at least. The other well, I I I certainly can say mine is. I think that the the and without without Christ I would be done. But I I think it's a matter of understanding what is it that if you believe that people are basically going to get you And I don't think most people are out to get you. I think most people are out for themselves and that's entirely different, right? I'm entirely focused on me as opposed to uh out to get you. Um so I think his interpretation of of the way people behave is they're gonna get me as they're trying to please themselves. Like when I study David's life Um in Samuel, it's clear to me that uh and it says it on several occasions that Saul was afraid of David because David kept interacting with his enemies in a wise manner and he kept defeating them. Right? And so there is clearly a place. Even even Christ dying on the cross I mean the reason why why it was so brilliant was because he defeated his enemy. Right, and the enemy th thought he had a tremendous victory. Right. And so again, I'm not saying that Trump is saintly And I'm not saying he's anywhere close to godly, but I'm saying his leadership skill of prudently anticipating what his uh corporate opponent is going to do his ac his his uh capitalistic opponent is going to do and then beating him to it he's really good at it. Well I I think he's really effective at self promotion and marketing wins. At the end of the day marketing wins in the in the marketplace place. And so he's brilliant at self-promotion and marketing. He's also got a penchant for action. But I would not work for him. You know, people are are you know passionately trying to win the show the apprentice so they can be the apprentice who works for him. I don't want to be like him. Sure. In fact, uh a few years ago I had a job. I quit the job uh because in order to move up in the organization I was gonna have to adopt bad leadership practices. And I said my personal leadership is more important to me than becoming effective or becoming rewarded in this organization. So I'm going to leave that organization in order to be in the right way. They were still leading and they were pretty effective at at going the direction, but their vision was greed, and this is the problem with capitalism. Capitalism at the end of the day seems to have more of a greed orientation, a free market orientation. No no no no. Yeah. I'm not going there. What's far better is a free market orientation. Because a free market orientation is oriented towards hard work and and prospering in the context of hard work. Necessary but not sufficient, because you have to you have to have the the concept of of justice and the rule of law behind that because at the end of the day, I mean if you look at the early nineteen hundreds, you had the Robert Barons and you've agree with you. So you've got to have that concept of restraint. That comes is that our founding fathers did not have an emphasis on greed with the free market that they set up in the in in in the laissez-faire approach to to uh to uh business, but they had an or they didn't have an orientation towards capitalism and and and just just make all the money that you can. They had an orientation towards towards hard work and uh and letting those that work hard receive their benefits. And so it's all in the context of law and order, but my point is is that is that where capitalism goes wrong is when it chooses greed instead of hard work. Well I I agree with that, but I I think it's it's also I feel like that's where Trump Well often it sounds like that's where you you left that whatever that company was because it was all about the bottom line and greed and you said that's not what I want. I just want to work hard and be be uh get get Wan I wanted to grow my leadership capability and I could see the people who were the most successful in an organization were not good leaders. They were successful according to the style that was fit for that organization, but that didn't embody good leadership. But I think I think that ultimately you if you want to look at at the uh phenomenal success of capitalism is when you have a balanced view to say to your suppliers, hey, how can we both win? You know, I I heard Dave Ramsey not that long ago talking about this concept where he says to his suppliers, Is this a good deal for you? Which is counterintuitive. But if you think about it in terms of abundance and and prosperity, and I don't think it's a prosperity doctrine, but to say that, you know, if if I b if I'm going to do a business deal with you and you feel like you got a good deal and I feel like I got a good deal See I think the Trump model says I gotta get the good deal and you get screwed. Right. And would you agree that that greed is greed versus um not greed is the issue there? Greed versus servanthood. Like if if if if I'm gonna do a deal with you, yep, and I'm thinking, okay, I just wanna get my the best that I can out of this uh and I'm driven by greed, then I then I don't stop and say, Okay, I want to make sure that you get the best out of this too but I say, Okay, I just want to get the best I can out of this and then, you know, if I step on you You know, it turns out down the road that's fine because I'll just keep on doing my thing. Well, is it transactional or related? If I serve you, then I say, you know what, I gotta make sure that that this this guy gets blessed too. Which means that my desire for prosperity is not in that situation driven by greed, but it's driven by hard work. Well, I think it's driven and at at a certain level, it's enlightened self-interest, but it's relationship. Right, relationship. If I'm gonna do one deal with you ever, then I can I can rip you off. You know. But if I'm gonna say I'm gonna have a relationship with you over a long period of time then we need to have a a r a a business uh exchange where you benefit and I benefit. Right. So I think good leadership from a business perspective is not necessarily making the most profit you can possibly make on any given deal, but to say that y that we should both benefit. Now, I believe very strongly that that in order to serve and give generously, we have to make a profit. So I'm not anti-profit. I'm certainly not, you know, pro-socialism. I I think it's a matter of that there needs to be appropriate restraint. You can be effective in getting things done but then say, I'm effective and I screw you in the deal. Or you can say I want to have long-term relationships and I want to I want to give you the benefit. I want to ha I want you to win in this deal also. So I've got a I've got to win and you've got to win. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Right, and I think I think Trump's model is do unto others before they can do unto you. Yeah. And I think that's it's true that Trump works with a lot of people. And inside of his company he works with a lot of people and I'm sure that in those situations that he's got trust relationships that are built. I don't know. I I I think probably at some level, but I think there's a fundamental distrust that happens. And and and I I gotta tell ya It seems to me that there's a strong likelihood that okay so if he's focused on how many hinges are on the door because that's that's a you know a cost area that that the the guy who's doing the building for him is gonna be pumping it up someplace else 'cause he's all right So Trump is shafting me when it comes to the you know, the door construction, but I'm gonna get him on the foundation. You know. I I think if you have a fundamental attitude about leadership that that people are are gonna get you and you better defend yourself and you better be pro self protective then that's gonna be it's gonna lead to them doing the same thing to you. And so okay, he's gonna screw me over here, I'm gonna screw him over there and at the end it washes up. So it is true that you gotta protect yourself. How does that play out for you? Because clearly clearly clearly you're careful about who you do business with and you watch very carefully about those that are not going to treat you that way. That's true. That's true. But I I think it's a matter of of thinking about the relationship long term. What what kind of relationship do you intend to have with somebody as you're going down that path? And so would you refuse to do business then with somebody that at the end of the day uh is not willing to to be that way with you? Um, I think yes, I think I would. I mean I I I have to say I've given some thought to who would I who do I want to do business with in my business. And, you know, leadership is leadership regardless of whether it's in line with my values or out of line with my values. And I have to say, I'm not going to be able to do business with you if you don't have values that I value. Right. So there's a there's a if fundamentally you're opposed to a value that I hold dear, I can't do business with you. Right. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh Tom Cooper, who is Principal at uh Bright Hill Group. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Um I brought up Trump for a reason because he's he's held out as an example of a successful leader. But there's right, I mean he's successful, got lots of money, he's got a TV show, he's you know, uh got everything that the world would consider to be a success. And yet you called him a clown. And I and I think he's a clown. So Don't hold back. What do you really think? So there are other uh ex but people would aspire to that. There are people who want to be little miniature Donald Trump. So we got little miniature clowns running around. S you see the same phenomenon with uh a lot of youth coaches, sports coaches, right? They they see Bobby Knight throw chairs and get in a player's face or they see uh Woody Hayes. You date yourself there. Yeah. Well, no, I I I date my wife now, but uh anyway. Uh but we we see you know, these yelling, screaming uh aggressive coaches and so these wannabe professional coaches aspire to be like that instead of maybe looking at John Wooden. Instead of looking at John Wooden, you date yourself Or uh or Tony Dungey or Lovey Smith or guys like that that are calm demeanor guys and you know, so What are some truisms that pop culture and particularly in in in America, they say that's what a leader is about. It's it's about being greedy, it's about sticking to the other guy before he sticks with you. It's about being aggressive and and manly and macho and getting in somebody's face if you have to. Well it's the Lone Ranger, right? I mean we we talk about the Lone Ranger, but even the Lone Ranger at Tonto. I mean it it there's a y nobody nothing of significance is done by one person and yet there's this idea that the lone guy is gonna do it, whether it's uh you know John Wayne, that that's really dating myself, or uh or Rambo, again dating myself. But I mean you're looking at these concepts in pop culture about it. Dirty Harry? Dirty Harry. Boy, that's an old one too Um, you know, looking at that that model to say the the the individual is the one that's leading, but they're really not leading in that in that way. Yeah, you know, um the the biblical term is the term king, and it seems to me we have kingdoms. Right. You got the Trump Kingdom, you got the the Buffett Kingdom, you got the um y you know, all these the Soros Kingdom, the Gates Gates Kingdom, uh Dogs got dethrone, you know, you got all these kingdoms and it seems to me that for that matter, the big idea that was the United States was that we'll let everybody, you know, w we'll have a basic structure of law and order, but inside of that We're not going to r force people to be biblical or, you know, or or to be Christian. We're going to let people choose their approach to to handling things and let people decide for themselves. And so it seems to me that that's that's where we're at in all this. We're saying, okay, Trump did his thing. Yes, he's successful in terms of being prosperous and uh and being powerful and influential. All that is very true. But at the end of the day, the guy on the street can look at him and say, Do I want to be like that or not? You know, they get to make their decision because we have all these different kingdoms, you got the Bobby Knights, you got the um You know, the Tony Dungeys, the the different examples, the Joe Gibbs of of what kind of kingdom do you want to build and that's precisely I guess where we live that we choose to build a kingdom that is, you know, what did they say, the book Good to Great, I'm sure you read that. Right. And the the the whole point behind the book Good to Great is that those companies that go from just being good to being great companies consistently, every single one of them have a top have a bottom-up approach where where the top leadership exists to serve the people and to serve uh those in the organization as opposed to the people existing to serve the guy at the top. Well and and you can see that exemplified both at uh uh Marriott and at Southwest Airlines, both organizations which have you know pretty different uh social views about how you know things work. They both say we want to take care of our employees. Because we believe serving our employees is fundamentally important. That's the that's the difference between Wegmans and Walmart. That's a big Frederick thing right now. Wegmans came into town and and uh they take care of their employees is the big thing. And uh they serve people, you know, with good food instead of you know, just whatever Walmart and and it seems like they've taken a significant market share here locally by choosing a top down you know, to serve their employees. And Costco has that reputation and right there's lots of but there are examples of of in the retail market of of places you would say, oh, they're very successful. I don't think that they're necessarily about serving their people and they're they're Walmart's very successful. Right, so you're saying there's great companies out there that aren't necessarily top down. Yeah, I mean right? Aren't there exceptions? Well I'm sure I would say it's a great company. I mean I think that you know the question is how do you define success? Right. And so if success is about how much what's your bottom line, then Sure, you look for who's who's got the most profit and at the end of the day. That's agreed success definition. I agree with you there. But I think it's uh He agrees with me a lot more than he thinks he does. He's going to go home tonight and say, ah I guess I did agree with him on that. Is that what I'm going to be thinking about this later? Great. Sorry, that I'm not it won't be a happy thing for you, but it'll be a thing. But how do you define success? And I think at the end uh you know, we think about legacy. I mean that's one of things on my mind this this week. I'm talking about that with some folks this week. Uh I think tomorrow Troy and I are going to be talking about that. And I think it's a matter of what is your legacy? You know, and and I think that that the Walmart that existed under Sam Walton's leadership, it was very different from the Walmart that exists today. And they took something that had been built and was successful in terms of legacy, you know, supporting the American workers, supporting the American producers And they've they've changed it to low prices every day. And so went from value to low price and and you know, I think we we could spend a whole lot of time kinda talking about that model. That's a huge difference. Oh, absolutely. Oh, without question, I think. I think under Sam Walton's leadership it was a different company. And the people who took on took it on afterwards said, why aren't we making more money? I mean, look at True Cathy, the founder of Chick-fil-A. He's gotten huge pressure to be open on Sundays. And he says philosophically, I believe people should have a day of rest. I want to give my my people a chance to be with their families and not have to be at work. We've got to make as much profit in six days as everybody else does in seven. Right? So He's been he's held to that. Now what's gonna happen when the mantle passes on from from him to Son Dan and then on beyond, hard to say. You know, I think that that's a hardcore value for the for the Kathy family. And I think you see What's powerful about that organization, I and I admire that organization tremendously, they say we're changing the culture one teenager at a time. You know, we're in the people business and we happen to serve chicken. That's their philosophical bent. They're not saying we sell chicken and we make a lot of money doing it. They say we serve people and it happens to be chicken that we give 'em. So, you know, I I we start talking about business. I love that business because they are passionate about making a difference in the culture and they're passionate about doing it in a way where else do you have teenagers, for heaven's sakes? Teenagers that will say to you, my pleasure, when you say thank you Yeah, I feel like I'm served when I go in there in a way that is uncommon. I agree. But see that is a that is a leadership issue. Right. Right, totally. That's what I'm saying. It's a leadership issue because they've star it starts at the top and they say we're going to serve our people and we're going to serve other people. And we're going to do it in a way that makes a difference for a long time. Even the product placement, they don't do product placement in their kids' meals. Their kids' meals have educational material that is powerful and and substantive and age appropriate. They have different I mean, they really have been thoughtful about having an impact on the culture. about the way they serve and they don't say, let me get the latest Wizbang Gizmo and get kids to want to come in for the gizmo. They say we're going to add value to these families, we're going to add value to these children, we're going to serve them. And that I think is greatness in in terms of company. And I wish more companies had that kind of philosophy. And your question is a good when Truitt retires, dies, whatever, and you know somebody else is going to take over. How many times at the local level? I mean, I people who might not you know this. I don't know if I think Tom, you know this. My real job, I don't This isn't my real job, this show. My real job is I deal with local businesses to help them with their marketing and advertising. Totally. And I've seen time and time again where you know, mom and it's mom and pop kind of a thing. And mom and pop were great. Yep. And then son and daughter take over and the business just nosedives. But see that's a leadership issue because you have to develop see people say, well I'm naturally good at this, whatever this is And so I can't necessarily teach you how to do it. Um, you know, the idea of Ted Williams who was, you know, great, couldn't couldn't coach at all, right? Because he was just naturally good at at hitting and he'd said, Well, just look at the ball, just keep your eye on the ball. Well it doesn't work because You know, you can't do that successfully because you i he when you innately have skill at something, it's very difficult to describe to somebody else how to do it And so you know, it so people founders are failure at something and you finally learn how to do it, you're gonna be a good teacher if you're because you failed a lot a lot. Failure is a failure is key to long-term success. Failure is a a uh it's on your journey, it's going to go with you on your journey because failure is going to take you to success. But what did he always say about your experience being a great teacher? Oh experience is not the best teacher evaluated experience is the best teacher because evaluated experience brings wisdom. And so you get the opportunity to look back on that and say, oh, this is different. I I I I screwed this up. Now I can now I can fix it. So getting back to your mom and pop example, you have to teach your kids everything. You have to teach them about why do we serve? Why are we doing the things that we do? What is our ultimate purpose in the in the in the business that we have? And then how does everything we do line up with our why? And if you can do that, that'll lead you to success. And you you can see a multi-generational and and frank frankly on the the uh Kathy family, uh Dan Kathy has stepped in, as truett Cathy has stepped away, and you see a consistency in execution there again. that transition, see legacy and and in leadership is really that transition capability is and exemplifies when somebody's been successful. So it's not not enough to say Steve Jobs, brilliant guy, right? Brilliant innovator, led Apple to phenomenal success, briefly the most valuable company in the world from market capitalization perspective. Now as he's stepping as he's as he's stepping away and Tim Cook is stepping in to run the company Are they going to be able to maintain? I don't know. You know, I don't know. I I love the Apple product line. I think they've done a great job with making innovative and powerful products. But is it all about the cult of jobs or did jobs infect the organization with a higher purpose, you know, because 'cause what they said to to Scully originally was you want to sell sugar water, who was Pepsi? Do you want to sell sugar water the rest of your life or you want to change the world? We're here to change the world. That's our why. So, you know, does does Tim Cook own the why, the change the world model that jobs had, or is he just another corporate guy? I don't know, time will tell. With five years down the road we'll see where they are. But that's a question of how good a leader jobs is as opposed to how effective he is in performing tasks. It's fascinating. We don't have time to get into this, but I'm wondering uh if churches should consider whether when a pastor leaves, if the next pastor should be somebody that was groomed from underneath the pastor who has the vision to explain the why. so that they don't skip a beat instead of bringing somebody from outside who might not share the the cultural. I got on a soapbox about that because I think that you've got a a a s series of relationships and you get a s a situation where you've got somebody who's not the senior pastor. Who says, I've got to leave the church in order to get the next best job, my my promotion, if you will. I've got to leave the church, I've got to break relationship with all these people So that I can go have my opportunity someplace else. I think that's just fundamentally broken. And I I I d I don't know. It's it's a problem that I see within the church. um success and wisdom is meaningless because who knows when you uh comes time to hand over your all of your hard work and everything that you've built to somebody else. whether or not the guy that comes up after you is going to be a fool or wise or not. You just don't know. And so you could work hard and you could do a great thing and uh and really serve people now, but there's just no guarantee that the people coming after you are gonna make any difference whatsoever like that. This has been a fascinating series of shows. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossless Valley Chapel, Tom Cooper, principal of Bright Hill Group, Troy Skinner. Deer Valley Heartscape Landscape and Masonry for sponsoring the show and thank you for listening. Till next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs But we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?