The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Why can't we just get along and be in unity on this? You know, why does the staff and management have to start a message like that and signal that we're not in unity? We're in unity. Well maybe we're not in unity. Maybe we maybe we should learn how to be in better unity. Oh good thing. We're actually talking about family unity today. What a what a coincidence. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to us uh on this I'm I'm gonna guess it's a beautiful Sunday morning on News Radio 930 WFMB because we do the show in advance because we're all pastors and we're busy on Sunday mornings, many of us. So we can't do this show live on Sunday mornings very easily to have this uh in this exact group together necessarily. Although uh two of the churches represented here actually have their meetings on Saturday rather than Sunday. I guess they could do the show live, but Uh anyway. We choose we choose not to. It makes more sense for us to do the way that we do it. Uh if you'd like to connect with us, uh any of us, Imran, Daniel, David, me, I'm Troy. uh easiest way to connect is probably to do it through me. Uh go to household of faith in Christ dot com. That's that's my church's website. And if it my contact information, if you want to reach any of these guys, uh I will be be more than happy and glad to to to connect you. uh help you find the church. We can pray for you, give you some thoughts and advice about parenting and family matters since you've been hearing us talk about it in recent weeks. This one's uh I think This one's going to be needed it'll be helpful for those who don't even have kids to hear some of the things we're talking about today. So We're focusing on some books that Conquered by Love Ministries has out there, and you can go to their website at conqueredbylove. org. That's a entity and organization and ministry that's founded by the RasVies. Uh again, their website is conqueredbylove. org. And they've got a couple of books, uh it looks like four of them by my account that I've categorized in the family unity section of the bookstore. Family Unity is one of the titles of the book books. Children can sit in church. Family Worship and Authority, Respect, Honor, a Family Leadership Structure Uh if you don't mind, I want to start with the second one I mentioned. Children can sit in church. That's the one I think that even people who don't have families would benefit from hearing because there are some pe And I know who you are, listener. You're one of those old biddies or one of those old guys is shouting at the kids to get off your lawn. And kids shouldn't be in church making a commotion. We don't want the kids in the church Well, I can understand because a lot of the kids don't behave well in church. So I can understand that. But children really, I would argue, should be in church. And even if you disagree with that, children can sit in church and I would like us to to talk about that. So when I was growing up we had a lot of kids and even at one, two, three years old They were all sitting through a three-hour church service in the morning, an hour and a half church service in the evening without making a sound, sitting still the entire time, happily. And so it is possible. And I because I also know other people that had the same thing. So how did you accomplish that, Imran? By accident. It just sort of happened. Right. Those those socks just fell into their mouths. I don't know how it happened. Yes. We we've had We've had lots of uh people say, h uh your kids are different. I mean my kids will never be able to do that. You were just you're just lucky to have these good kids. I I think it's because you adopted these kids, they just came that way. Yeah, they they they were already this way. It's it's it's crazy. It's all training. It's all a matter of understanding what the ki the children need to understand what's going on and be need to be told ahead of time and need to practice it. So we practice sitting still at home. We do family worship excuse me every evening and they sit. Sometimes it's it's not nearly as long as church service, but they understand that when it's time to sit, they sit. And we we don't bring in a whole bunch of covering papers and cars and like a lot of families do that to keep their children busy We want them sitting and listening. Even if they fall asleep, it's okay. They're sitting still and they're learning because the whole idea is to train them to listen to the pastor. Why? Because we want to train them to listen to God. Right? If they don't have the training to listen to God, then how will they ever hear if God speaks to them? And the only way to do that is have the time to spend in in God's Word. And the beginning of that is learning how to sit still To be still enough to listen to a preacher, to a father, to a mother, and have that. It's just training. It's just a matter of training. It's not punishment It's more of praise, it's more of meeting all their other needs, making sure they've all gone to the bathroom, making sure they've all had some food, making sure all those different things have met beforehand, and then they know what to expect. But in case anybody's wondering, why is this in the family unity section? Because I think that families should worship together. I think there's an incredible blessing when the children see their parents, particularly their father in my estimation, see their father engaged in worship. Um especially to say that's the most important thing that the family can do and the father can do. So doing that in unity is uh is an important part of the family unity question. But uh is there going back focusing on that a little bit more before we go on to some of these these other areas, although family worship is also one here, so it all does tie together I guess. Um Is there an age difference? Like you I mean I I mean you might surprise that you do sometimes. Um is it appropriate to expect a three month old to sit quietly for an hour long church service When a three month old maybe it you know might not normally stay quiet for an hour in in a predictable manner. Yes. It is absolutely um essential if you expect it, it's more likely to happen. If we don't expect it to happen, then it's less likely to happen. And we've had many times we've had to get up and walk out with a baby to keep them quiet to not disturb everybody else. But they don't get a chance to go do something else. See if they have an option to do something else, they'll always take that option. If they have an option to play with cars or to color or to run up and down and scream at the top of their lungs, they're gonna take that option. If they don't have that option, then they don't have that option. They're not going to try for it. They may try a couple times, but it's all about training and being consistent. The problem is if they ever win, they will always win. And I'm not trying saying that you have to beat the children or win against the children. It's it's about training. That means if you want them to behave a certain way, then they should never be outside of that parameter. If they're never outside that parameter And y and the and the hardest part is when you're correcting a child, and we talked about this before, is it's that it's much more important to train them ahead of time than to correct them when the behavior is happening. But we even when the behavior is happening, if you're late for something and they're acting up, if you forget about all your your appointment or what you're going to be late for and actually spend the time to be with that child at that time Then you're gonna correct the behavior long term as opposed to oh you're gonna hear it when we get home or you know you're lucky you were late otherwise I would've beat some sense into you or whatever. No. You stop what you're doing, pay attention to the child and say and talk about it and explain and and listen to what their i uh needs are and meet those needs and do the training wherever it is, even if it makes you late. And and uh part of the problem that a lot of people have is They try to sit still at the church service. And how often do you go to church? Most people once a week. Maybe twice a week if you only dedicate. No, no. Most people don't go to church at all. Well we're talking about I mean talking about even even professing Christians go once, twice a year if we're lucky. But we're talking about dedicated Christians. Right. You know, if you're a a a real believer you're saved then And you have a church that you're plugged into, you're probably going once a week. Maybe two times a week if you're really dedicated, maybe you go on Wednesdays. But it's not like an everyday thing And so there's not a lot of chances for the children to practice. I mean fifty-two times by the time the ch child turns one. It's not a lot of times, especially if you miss a few 'cause you're sick or whatever. And so you need more chances to practice in order to instill behavior. And so with Fan that leads into family worship and there's a whole lot of other reasons why doing family worship is really important and we'll get to those I'm sure, but if you do a family worship every day and you make the children sit still for that That's also a lot easier to control. Because you know what? If they start screaming in the middle of your living room, uh you're not disrupting anybody else listening to the pastor preaching Right. You can handle that as the family here. You're s you can still continue to read the Bible and pray and do what other things you're doing in the family devotions. But that gives them a chance to practice sitting still for a you know, for a family worship which is a mini version of the church the service that they're gonna go to. And uh so but that kind of leads into family worship and I I think that's probably the most important thing that any uh father uh does for his children is daily instruction in the word. And the way it works for my family is uh I'll we'll take um In the Bible, we'll pray briefly to open, then we'll read a chapter or two chapters or three chapters, and we just read through the Bible, Genesis to Revelation, we don't skip any parts. Uh some people try to skip sensitive parts for little kids. It's all God's word. We read through it and as they are old enough to understand certain things they'll ask certain questions and you explain it to them. But we read through Genesis and Revelation and then um we sing one or two hymns out of the hymnal and then we pray. And then it's soundic it might take five minutes, it might take half an hour, but it's not usually that long. Um and we do that every day. It's more important than eating. So we skip dinner but we'll never skip f family worship. Uh and you have to have that level of priority because the word of God is that much that uh uh that more important than anything else And that really provides a good foundation for spiritual things for the children if there's a daily instruction in the Word. And um I've seen your children, David, sit quietly during a worship service and You know, listen to what everybody's has to say and not be disruptive and stuff. Is is that because of similar strategies where you did daily devotionals or uh as a family and they learn to be quiet in those situations? How did Uh if you did it differently, how did you do it with a lot? Yeah, I think uh uh it it has been different for for our family. I I think the absolutely it's it's training. Um but it's it's training from the very beginning in uh in self-control, um in in contentment, uh regardless of of the circumstances. And uh and then also uh you know, part of that too is, you know, like just the very practical um you know that that that Raz mentioned earlier. Uh you know making sure their their needs are met. And uh you know, and so if you have a if you have a an orderly home where uh where the children know that their their needs are needs are going to be met. Um you know, they know that they will will get rest when they need rest. They know that they and uh you know that they will um that they will that their their dietary needs will you know, will be met as well. So um and and that I mean that goes that with us that starts very early because we um You know, we strongly recommend uh from the time that a a child is born you know, helping it to the child to establish a uh a a schedule, you know, in which they uh they eat and they sleep in order to, you know, establish uh you know uh a a a good consistent um you know physical rhythms, you know, if you will, of uh for sleeping and eating. I think that um and I'm not trying to you know kiss anybody on their end here. Sorry, I I just I just say that to say like you you can uh there are yeah children you know, the vast majority, you know, there there may be an exception here and there, who have, you know, very extreme sort of uh difficulties or situations or or something, you know, uh physically. uh you know that are issues. But uh yes, children should be able to to sit for long periods of time to pay attention to what's going on around them. And and a lot of that has to do with, I think, also um setting them up physically, mentally, uh with the the tools to be able to do that. And your families, uh again I've starting to say before I'm not trying to, you know, kiss anybody's rear end here, but they're kind of exemplary models, not the typical Christian family situation. Um and some th well it's because they're pastors. But you know, before you were pastoring, you were just Christian men trying to raise Christian families and put a lot of these things into place before you ever became a pastor. So that's That's not a get out of jail free card for anybody who might hear our voice on this. But what about the situation that, you know, you guys have Solid marriages and the husbands and wives. This is tying into the authority, respect, honor, a family leadership structure, I think is going to go into that thing. You guys have some good structures in place. The husband and wife are on the same page and you're trying to be a biblical husband. Your wife's trying to be a biblical wife. Therefore you're raising uh biblically god you know biblically or uh ordered godly children. But what about somebody that's not there? Like maybe they're new to Christianity or they're new to realizing that their Christianity is important and they need to mature in it. And their marriage is a mess. And their kids are a disaster. And and their their personal life maybe is in ar in disarray as well. Where do you start? How do you start to fix the mess? Um the first part is your relationship with God. If you work on your relationship with God and then you work on your relationship with your spouse, those two if those are in place, your children will automatically start seeing a difference in your life. and start reaping the benefits of your relationship with God and your spouse that they will start behaving differently. And if they see discord with you and God spiritually and with you and your spouse spiritually or and uh emotionally, then uh their uh security is is gone. They have no security. Yeah. And and people I mean kids do notice is uh th this this is not a not really a um child story, but uh there's a missionary story called the Pineapple Story. I don't know if you've read it or heard of it. You can Google the Pineapple Story. It's it's a really great uh um missionary uh story about a guy growing pineapples and in he's been preaching to these villagers and he wanted to grow a pineapple farm in his wherever he's in Southeast Asia I think. And it takes years. Three years to grow the pineapples and he keeps getting frustrated. All the villagers keep stealing his pineapples before they're ready to eat and and all that. And it's a long story. But but the point is At a certain point he just gives it up and says, you know what, God, they're your pineapples. I'm I'll let you know I'm I'm gonna I'm not gonna worry about it. So he's he's acting in a more um you know uh godly manner. And the villagers all s all of a sudden talk to him and say, Hey, you become a Christian And 'cause they know all this time he's been talking to them about what it means to be a Christian and they just notice, oh now he started to act like a Christian. Oh that must be what it means and so now they're all interested in in God. So It it's it's really uh interesting. He had to get his house, his his mind and soul in order first in order for it to really be it hit home for the villagers he was trying to teach. It's the same thing with kids. You gotta have your uh um you know spirit in one with with Christ and be uh one with your wife and be one according. That's uh a lot of what family unity is about, is being all in The same direction, the same vision, the same purpose for the family. So if you're driving to church right now and you're feeling okay, that speaks to me, I'm gonna be I'm gonna w work on my relationship with God, I'm gonna be in the Word, I'm gonna be praying, I'm gonna uh make sure I'm in fellowship and not neglecting the gathering of believers, gonna do all the things that that Christians are supposed to do. That's good for me, and that will have some positive impact on my kids and my family. However The one I'm married to isn't in the car with me right now driving to church. And they don't believe any of this stuff that you knucklehead pastors are saying. So What what do we do then? Well I would say that it it is impossible for you to change someone else. Only the Holy Spirit can change somebody. What you can do is work on yourself. And even you can't work you can't change yourself, but you can pursue God and God allowing it will change your heart. And when you change, your spouse will see the change. You can't hide it. It's like a a light. You c you don't put it under a bushel, as as God says, right? It's it's out there for people to see. Your light will shine brightly and your spouse will will see that. uh mother in law, father in law. My mother in law um was going to church taking the three little girls to church and um m m my father in law didn't want to go. I'm just tired. I'm tired. Sunday is my day of rest. I'm gonna rest. I don't need to go to church. I'm fine. And he was nominally Christian. He could claim that he was a Christian, but he didn't really do any of the Christ-like things So one day her pastor said, All these I see a lot of women in here without their husbands. All you women in here that are here without your husbands, don't come to church next Sunday. collective you know, gasp. And he said, What I'd rather you see you do is go home and love your husband. Take care of them. Love on them as if they're the most important uh person in your life. and take care of them. Make them breakfast in bed and just love on them, care for them. And so he said, Okay, fine, I'll do that. So the next Sunday she got up, instead of going to church she uh m you know, cleaning up, made made breakfast, did a fancy thing and all that stuff and her husband said, Wha are you not going to church? She goes, No. So why don't you go to church? My pastor said not to come. So what? Your pastor's not to come to church? Why? He said, Well he said it's more important to take care of you. And then he said, I gotta go see this pastor. And then he went to church and his life got changed. So you can change yourself by practicing and behaving and pursuing God. You cannot change your spouse. God can't. So you need to spend time in prayer, you need to spend time on yourself and being close to God. The closer you are to God, the more likely the people around you will sense a change and will also want to change. Because if the current is moving, things move with the current. If you're not moving, you're standing still, you can't get other things to move with you, can you? So if you're moving with the current, you're creating the current with God, then uh those people that are around you that are in your current will will kind of be sucked into that current and start moving in that same direction. And that's leadership. And eventually if it's if your husband is not do doing leadership, this current will start forcing him to uh to fill in the role that God made him for and he will take over leadership. You gotta allow it too as a wife. And if your husband and your wife are not doing it, she will start following when she s when you start leading. But you have to leave. Hm. So We start with our relationship with God and then the p the the two the married couple they're they need to uh uh make sure they've got those ducks i i in a row. Uh as far as the structure goes, is there a pecking order uh among the children that's an important part of family unity? Like do the elder children have uh a a a different role in the authority structure than the younger children? Most importantly. Most most definitely. Um the It depends on you know w wh whenever somebody's in the room, w uh so when the parents are not in the room, there's children in the room, you need to have somebody that's in charge. Otherwise there's always going to be a conflict. And so whoever is the oldest one, at least in our in our family, uh and this I think is has biblical basis, whoever is the oldest one in the room, they're responsible. And so that means anything they say, you have to do, just as if it was mommy or daddy that says it. However, you're also responsible. If anything goes wrong in the room, the buck stops with you. It's your fault if any of the other kids act out. So you have the responsibility and the authority and uh and they go hand in hand. Um and so there's no ever question, oh you're not the boss of me Who put you in charge? Well no, it's it's always clear. And age order is a really easy way to do that because everybody knows what order their ages are. And kids always know that. That's one of the first things they figure out and they they they milk that for all it's worth, right? And so If you have multiple children, it doesn't matter what combination of the children are in the room, everybody always knows who's the oldest. So that's the one that's in charge. Even if even if twins stay older. Even if the twins older. And s one one is order and so that's that's uh who God put in in the order of the family and he had it for a reason There are actually just different personality traits with different orders, uh birth orders. We can go into that. That's a long uh uh you know, psychology type of course, but we But it do it does matter and you have that responsibility. So take take it and be and children will ask, Well why? You know, why so and so in charge of me? They're Yeah, I don't think they make good decisions, they're not smart, they're not this, whatever, they can always find fault. And my the answer is God put them on the earth first. So take it up in your prayer time and talk to God. It's not my fault, it's not your fault, but they're in charge. Now they can give up that responsibility by so like giving up your birthright, like giving it away for a bowl of soup. Right? You can give up your birthright by not behaving properly, by not doing the right things, and then you don't then the trust is gone, you can build it back up, but uh so long as it's there, that's how God put in place. Come on David, you have to fight at something. You were gonna say something. And it's generally generally the way we've approached it in our house hold is that uh uh uh you know, in a in a room everyone is both responsible for themselves and responsible for the good of of those around them. Nothing happens with some but I mean you're in charge, you're the father. If you're not there, somebody else has stepped in that role of being the leader and what we found is age is the easiest one because you blame it on God and say, Hey, God put me here first. God put your brother or your sister here first. So they're in charge. Now if they are not handling that the responsibility properly, then there's additional training needed and if they are gonna sin and not follow that training because it's just for order. You know you've heard of the pecking order, right? The chickens will keep pecking and somebody's gonna be at the bottom pecking order. Instead of trying to fight and and and claw your way to the top, we just settle it and say God puts the the order in place already. Now you can get yourself out of that place by giving up your right, giving up your birthright, by doing th things that are improper. But otherwise you are there. There may be a temporary time somebody's abused authority and you need to handle that and and you know you can get back to a a proper way eventually, but really it it it is important. People will get the cultural reference, some will and some won't. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. The other voices you heard today, Imron Razley, Daniel Razi, David Forcey, we're all pastors of churches in Frederick County. You can connect with us through Household of FaithInChrist dot com. That's my church's website. It has all my contact information. If you want to reach these other gentlemen, I can put you in touch with them. That's probably the easiest way. You might also be the reach I guess through um conqueredbylove. org. uh the website that has the books with the materials we've been talking about in recent weeks. Next week we're going to uh have more of the same but a a different slant on it. So if you're enjoying this, great. If not, ah suck it up, buttercup. See you next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.