This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more. More about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh Troy Skinner. This is again a special edition. of the faith debate because we've got lots of restrictions that make recording the show it's in in its normal way uh difficult. So we're repurposing some things that were from social media that uh are from earlier in the year, much earlier. What you're gonna hear today was recorded right around uh just before uh Resurrection Sunday. Um so what is that, like nine months ago, something like that. By the way, hey, Merry Christmas. So this last week we heard the first half of this message. We're kind of doing a tour de force through the book of Genesis and searching for Shalom in the pages of Scripture. and seeing how to apply in our life even in the here and in the now. And I got to a point where I was talking about, you know, everybody dies. But for the Christian we can still have should still have hope because for the Christian we realize that a believer when they die uh they don't cease to exist, they merely change locations. And I was using as an analogy the example of my daughter who when she got married she moved away out of state. She's now, you know her and her husband building their own life and there's an ache and a sadness that misses them, but it's it's it's not a um you know it it's not the kind of a sadness that destroys one's life. because you realize that she's gone on to do wonderful, great things with her uh independent adult life. And so that's the context about what we're about to uh pick up with here, right here on the Faith Debate here on 930 WFMD So I'm thrilled in that regard that she's changed location. It's like that with us when we die. Yes, we miss the one who has died, but we rejoice knowing where they've gone to be. And they're experiencing, absent their body, they'll get their bodies back eventually, but even without their bodies, they're experiencing that shalom I was talking about. They're experiencing God in a in a pure, uncluttered kind of a way than we're able to right now. We have those moments now, but we live in what I I and others, I learned it from them, talked about as the overlap of the ages, the already not yet tension. You know, we're already One with God. He's already our King. He's already in charge of our lives. His kingdom is here on earth in His church. We're citizens of the kingdom now But we're also citizens in the world now. We're still stuck in this broken down, disease-filled uh prone to die physical bodies and so there's both of those things are true but once we actually pass from this realm into the next both of those things aren't true in that way anymore. And so we shouldn't be afraid to die. Now I'm going to jump into Exodus. Chapter four. So if you want to flip your book, your pages of your Bible forward a little bit. Exodus chapter four. So this is when we get a chance to really identify With the characters in the Bible. These aren't just stories about people that lived long ago in faraway places. These these are stories about us. This story about Moses is a story about us just as much as it's a story about Moses. So God's people You know, Abraham was promised a great nation would would come from him and they do, and that great nation ends up uh in Egypt and they're flourishing at first, but then they're put in bondage, they're slaves And so now they're going to be rescued. God's going to rescue them from their bondage and slavery in it in Egypt. And Moses is going to be the one to help lead that charge. He's going to be the instrument that God uses to help uh get his people free to have the people let go. And so God says, all right, here's what you're gonna do, Moses. I'm gonna be with you and I'm gonna use you to do a wonderful work. And Moses, well in chapter 4, verse 1, says, well, golly gee, wiz, God. I'm really happy about that. When do I start? Actually, what he says is, what if they don't believe me or listen to me and say the Lord did not appear to you? He's not trusting God. So God says, all right, let me bolster your faith a little bit. Let me show you some tools I'm going to give you to use. And so I'm going to show you that. When I'm with you, you're gonna be able to turn a ru a staff into a serpent and back again. You're gonna be able to show people a hand that becomes instantly lepros And then instantly the leprosy leaves. And I'm going to do that to show that I'm with you. And I'm going to do that to show you that I'm with you. And I'm showing you these signs now so you under And my capabilities and this is just um a a blip on the radar screen of what I'm capable of. So you understand? I'm with you. I'm God. I got this. I'm just choosing to give you the honor and the blessing of being used by me in this way And so then Moses says, well golly she wiz, when do we start? Unfortunately, no. In verse 10, Moses said to the Lord, O Lord, I have never been eloquent, neither in the past nor since you have spoken to your servant. I am slow of speech and tongue. Now you've probably heard this taught and preached on a lot for a little a number of times, and it's almost always put in the context of Well Moses, he you know, he might have been a scutterer, um a speech impediment of some sort, um, and maybe that's true I feel like at least part of what's going on here is Moses is making an excuse It's like the teacher in an English class is assigned a speech to every student to stand up and do a five or ten minute speech And one of the students says, is there any way I can get out of this assignment? I'm not really comfortable speaking in front of people. I get all nervous and my mouth gets dry and then I kind of stumble over my words and I feel like a fool and is there any way I could do something else to get a grade other than have to make the speech because I'm afraid. I think at least partly that's what Moses is doing here. And so then God says to him, who made your mouth, man? And as far as those looking at you and trusting you, and who gave them eyes to see? I got this. Don't you get it? I'm in control. And Moses in chapter 13 says, Oh Lord, please send someone else to do it. He stops making excuses and beating around the bush. He just comes out flatly and says, please, Lord, send someone else. I'm afraid. How does this apply to us, other than in the obvious ways? One of the ways this applies to us is to think about our relationship with God. Moses believes in God. He's talking to him for crying out loud. He believes in him. He knows he exists. He understands that he is God. He gets it. But despite believing in God, he doesn't believe God. There is a difference between believing in God and believing God. God has given us a promise. The promise that we read in Genesis chapter 15, that He is our shield. He is our great reward. Do we believe it? We believe in God. We say that we trust in God, but we trust God. There's a difference. And I feel like our faith has grown flabby. The American Church, the Western Church, perhaps the entire universal church. Our faith has grown flabby. So we can say with confidence We believe in God. We trust in Christ. But we don't actually Live our lives in a way that demonstrates that we actually believe what he says. We don't believe he's going to do what he told us. He assured us that he is doing and would do. So where do we stand? Do we believe God? The Pharaoh of Egypt, he didn't believe God. He didn't really believe in God either. And so really bad things happened there in plagues, right? Plagues are nothing new. This coronavirus thing, it's not new. Pestilence disease, it's been around pretty much for all human history. Just about all human history. And the Israelites, for a moment, they believe God. They don't just believe in God, but at a crucial moment, they actually believe God. And so they kill the lamb and they put the blood on the doorpost. And so when the firstborn of the Egyptians are killed, the the Israelites are spared. During the Passover. God said he would pass over them if they believed him. And so they did. And so God did. There's a lesson in that for us. But then, of course, just like us, the Israelites They fell back into just believing in God and not believing him. And so they quarreled with Moses. They quarreled with God. And in Exodus chapter 17, they actually put God on trial. Challenging what he was saying he would do for them. Yeah, we believe in you, God, because we couldn't put you on trial otherwise. We have to believe in someone to put that person on trial, but we don't believe what you say. We don't trust you. And that's that's what that's where we are too often. And then they don't trust God when he tells them, please, I've got this wonderful thing called the promised land. A picture of heaven? A picture of Eden? It's kind of a midway stopping point between Eden and Heaven that's representative of both? Flowing with milk and honey? And I'm going to have you enter into that place so that you can experience my blessings, you can experience shalom, and you can experience life without fear by trusting me, believing me. walking with me as I walk with you. And so as a tactical move to Make sure what they were up against, they send some scouts in famously. If you're familiar with Sunday school lessons and reading your Bible over the years, you know this story. They send twelve scouts in to see what it's like in the Promised Land across that river. And they come back, and ten of them Say, you know, yeah, it isn't fun with milk and honey. It's a spectacular place. How wonderful it would be to live there But we're afraid. We're so afraid. There's like big macho dudes there. They're there are warriors. And we're afraid. And there were two who said, We're not afraid. We're believing God. We can beat Him. Well where are we? Are we the two or are we the ten? Are we believing God and saying, no enemy can defeat us? The victory is already in one, in Christ. Or are we cowering in fear, refusing, refusing to enter into God's shalom, his promised land for us? The ten won the day back then, and so the people of God wandered the wilderness aimless for 40 years that they didn't have to. And then when they finally did enter the promised land, they had kings that were more afraid of their nearby opponents than they were of what God instructed them to do and so they made ungodly alliances. They put their faith in the military. They put their faith in strategy. They they put their faith in their own wisdom or the counsel of others who weren't God. They weren't believing God We need to believe God and not be so afraid. One of the kings who's representative of Christ pretty famously is King David. And King David He arrives on the scene in the estimation of the ancient Israelites when there's battle lines drawn. And the Israelite army was a fr was was at a stalemate, at a standoff, and was kind of in a state of fear in that stalemate and standoff with the uh Philistine army And Goliath goes out as the great warrior and says, You send out your best warrior, and if I can beat him, war's over, we win. And if he can beat me, war's over, you win. And nobody would step out in faith. Everyone cowered and hid themselves in fear. And so David, as a representative of Christ, a precursor, if you will, a type of Christ. He goes out and he defeats the enemy for the people. David wins the battle for ancient Israel, just as Christ wins the battle for his church. That's the God that we serve. We failed every turn, it seems, and God rescues us anyway. He loves us. He protects us. He provides for us. And he offers himself. He offers himself as our great reward. Are we trusting and believing God when He tells us that that's true? If we trust and believe God, when He tells us that that's true, then we will not be afraid to die. We will follow after what God said in Genesis chapter 15. And we'll follow after the example that we read about in Genesis chapter 46. We should be ready to die. Tomorrow was promised to no one. I quoted some stats before. I I don't want to make this like a worldly thing, but I don't I want us to understand We are at risk of dying through a multitude of ways. And we have to calculate those risks. We don't want to be reckless. We're not called to test God. We are called to exercise wisdom and good judgment, but we do that with calculated risks every day of our life. When I was younger, I used to ride a mini-bike without a helmet. I don't do that anymore. Because when I was younger, I didn't really think it was all that much of a risk. But now I think it's too much of a risk to take. And I have too much responsibility and too many people that are depending on me to take that kind of a risk. Some people won't get in a plane because they're afraid the plane's going to crash. They don't want to take that risk. We've probably heard a family said there's more risk on the roads than there is in the air. And I don't think I understood exactly how true that was until I looked up the statistics. A hundred thousand people a month die in traffic accidents around the world. A hundred thousand a month die in traffic accidents. But we're not paralyzed by that reality. And I don't know about you, but have you ever s have you ever been in a really, really serious accident? I have. Several. Have you ever been in a uh been involved in or or uh passed by a a freshly occurred accident where somebody died I have. So these aren't made-up statistics, and we have our own anecdotal stories to share. There's a risk going in a hot air balloon. There's a risk jumping out of an airplane. There's a risk bungee jumping. But people do it Some people don't. The people that do have calculated the risk and they say, you know what, the experience of living life to the fullest is worth the risk. Are they testing God? If in their heart they're thinking of it as a test of God, well then they shouldn't be doing the bungee jump or the parachute dive. But if they don't feel like they're testing God, they feel like it's just a way to experience God's creation and the wonder of it all that much more amazingly, well Okay. We need to capture that attitude. Because I'm concerned, not only are churches like ours not meeting in close proximity with one another at all. I think we're too readily shuttering ourselves indoors and not serving the poor, figuring out a way to reach out and be of service to the shut-ins. to be of uh of assistance at a sh soup kitchen or we're not doing the things God calls us people to do out of fear Now if you're in a situation where you're in a really high-risk category with this COVID-19 virus, and you feel like, well, if I were to go do any of those things I feel like I would be testing God in that. And I I I don't okay, then don't do it. But if you're not feeling like you're testing God, and you're really feeling like You're afraid to die? We as God's people need to check our hearts on that and we can do better. I hope that we can do better. And I mentioned in Genesis chapter 32 that Jacob, when he was afraid of facing his brother Esau, that he turned to God in prayer. Well, that's a precursor too from the Old Testament to the New Bees does the same thing. Jesus was afraid. Being afraid is not a sin. Being ruled by our fear, allowing the spirit of fear to dominate our lives. That's missing the mark. That's not God's best for us. That's an attitude that I dare say is simple. Christ doesn't go there. Christ never sins, and yet he was fearful. So what's his example? How does he deal with fear? He prays. On the night he was betrayed, he was afraid. He was as afraid as anyone who has ever lived has been afraid. And he didn't choose to stare down that fear by himself. He chose to stare down that fear with the Father. By the power of the Spirit. He went to pray when he was afraid. And when he was done, he was filled with courage and boldness and confidence, and he did what God called him to do, even though he knew It would result in his death. We might only speculate that we could die. Jesus knew that he would die. No doubt about it. We need to follow after the example of Christ. We need to truly live and allow for others around us to truly live. We need to be of service to our neighbors so that they can begin to hear the gospel, see the gospel, lived out, see our light on a hill. The world does not benefit by seeing Christians just as afraid as everyone else. And again, don't misunderstand me. We should be wise and judicious. But we should be bold. How can you be bold? Where can you be bold? With whom can you be bold? In what contest can you be bold? Go to God in prayer and ask Him to reveal to you directly through the Spirit or by pointing you passages of Scripture that will open your eyes to how God intends to use you, what gifts and talents He has given you What context within which he has placed you to serve others so that they can have a taste of shalom, a taste of hope. We've got to do that. It's our call. It's our charge. And I believe many of us are, and many more of us will, in the spirit. Well I think that's gonna be the the the wrap I think at uh by the way this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Spinner, you're listening to the show on 930 WFMD. We're uh these are the lockdown tapes round two, hard to do the show the way we normally would do it, and so we're uh repurposing some stuff that have been shared via social media. uh earlier in the year, by the way, so I don't forget to say it. I said at the beginning when I say it again, Merry Christmas. You can follow us online, wfmd. com Keyword faith get you there or just go to the online lineup, find the Faith Debate Show. There you can link to uh podcast of the show. You can see what's coming up in the coming weeks. I can tell you right now there's going to be a few more lockdown tapes coming up. Hopefully they're an encouragement to you. Hopefully there's some some real uh fruitfulness uh to these special uh shows. uh that we're doing for you. And um you know we'll be back to our regular panel discussions hopefully soon enough. Anyway, I cut that off. I don't think you missed anything. I think I was about to enter into the closing prayer. So not that prayer isn't good, but Uh I would encourage you to enter into your own time of prayer uh right now. How about that? There's an idea for you. Anyway, thanks so much for listening. Thank you for listening all these years. We're now in our you know seventeenth year of doing the Faith Debate Show, if you can believe it. And yet I'm only like 18 years old. I started when I was like, you know, just a an infant. Oh my goodness. Anyway, uh we'll be back next week in the new year It will be a new year. We we will have survived 2020. Can we survive 2021? I guess we'll find out together. Anyway, I really do appreciate your support all these many years Uh me and John Sweitz will be together doing these shows again soon, hopefully as well. Uh follow me online, I'm on Parlor, on Mi We're on Facebook too if you want to go there. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless