Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your day with us, whether you're listening live on the radio or later on podcast. Certainly do appreciate it. If you want to connect with the podcast, you can do that at WFMD. com, or you can also go to Household of FaithInCrist. com. I know it's a mouthful, but that's the name of the church I pastor. Household of Faith in Christ. dot com and from there you can link to all my social media accounts I've got like I know eight or ten of them um you can link to all the faith debate stuff I can do some other uh uh podcast oriented ministry stuff. One of them's called Decorating Date Night, you can check that out. If you want to check out Daniel Razby, he's one of the panelists this week, you can wanna check out one of the ministries that he and his family or he didn't, his family founded and he's involved with, uh you can do that. Uh you can link there. It's uh conquered by love. org. Uh and I don't have anything that links to um to our other guest on this week's show, Elijah Dirksen. But I'll tell you what, if you want to get in touch with him Go to household of faith in Christ dot com. You'll find my email, my phone number and everything is there too. Text me, email me, whatever, and uh I can I can pass along a message, I can get you in touch. You know, if you're a fan, Darn that's that's like two times in the last three weeks I forgot to turn your mic on. What was it? So if you're spinning ceaselessly in circles Then you are allowed to message me about Elijah. Good to know. If you've bought into the woke agenda, the green agenda, you're you're all about you think you're gonna solve the world with windmills, uh then you can text me or email me on and So anyway. Alright, so let me see if I can find it. Here it is. There's a uh passage in the Bible 28, no. So the setup here is that uh Saul is a king And uh not to be confused with the Saul who became Paul in the New Testament, or became known as Paul in the New Testament. I don't think he really changed his name. One's a Hebrew name and one's a Greek name. It's the same name basically in the New Testament. But anyway, there's a king in the Old Testament named Saul Uh and he did some bad things. And so God says, Yeah, you know what, I got nothing more to do with you. Thank you very much. And Saul doesn't like that answer, so he says, Huh. Maybe I could go to like some witch I know there's one in Endor, and maybe she can conjure me up somebody that can get me back in God's good graces. So he tries to do an end run And so he goes to this witch in Endor and uh sa and and she says, What do you want from me, dude? 'Cause he disguises himself so she doesn't know that he's he's King Saul, so she calls him dude. She says, So what do you want from me, dude? Are you reading from the message tour? Yes, I would like you to conjure up for me the now deceased Prophet Samuel. And she does still doesn't know he's a king at this point. Right. But she says, why would you want me to do that? Because the king has made conjuring up spirits and do all this necromancy stuff illegal. You want me to be killed? Why she's worried about that, she could just conjure herself up, it seems to me. But anyway, that's an aside. And so he says, No, no, trust me, it's okay. What do you what what do you want me to do? And so the uh sh and so here's where I'm gonna pick up. This is verse eleven of first Samuel chapter twenty eight. I'm reading I I think this is the NET translation. I just picked a random translation. Actually the NET is an okay translation. It's not one of the bad ones. It's a pretty decent one. And they have X Excellent footnotes. They have some of the best footnotes of any Bible out there. I will say that. Anyway, so this woman replied, Who is it that I should bring up for you, dude? You sure about that translation? And the woman's then it says here, when the woman saw Samuel, she cried out loudly. So she's really surprised that she actually conjured him up. What kind of witch is this? She's not a very self-confident witch. And she says to uh Saul, Why have you deceived me? You are Saul! Now how she goes from not knowing it's all to knowing it's all is left to the imagination here. So the king oh okay what's your theory? Well let's get to the rest of the thing I'll talk about. So the king said if you're enjoying story time. So the the king then says to that drag drag queen story time, so I'm all I'm all for this story time. It's um so n it's uh the king now, so he's not dude anymore. So the king said to her, Don't be afraid, but what have you seen? And the woman replied to Saul, I have seen a divine being coming up from the ground. Oh, should I get a better translation? I don't know. What let me try. You know, let me go to one that's gonna be a little more word for word. Um NASB. That was verse what, eleven, twelve, thirteen, where was I? It's Elohimis, the word for God. Let me see what it says here. Let me see what the footnote says, because it says the NAB says divine being or God is the footnote. So the word there is Elohim? Yeah, the word is Elohim. I just did a word search on that on that word. It is it is Elohim in the Masoretic text. Okay, but clearly it's not meant to be God God. Elohim is a generic word spirit. is a generic word or name for it. So lowercase the angels are Elohim. Yeah, lowercase G in this case. That's why I think some of these translations went with divine being to avoid the confusion because they put the word God there. I think boy we'd all Do you think we fight and say Samuel? Talk about a dude moment. Dude! So anyway, uh so now I'm in the uh NASB 95 Uh mixing and matching translations. An old man is coming up and he is wrapped with a robe, and Saul knew it was Samuel, and he bowed with his face to the ground and did homage. Let me go back to another translation. What does that you have the King James up? It says he bowed himself. Does it say that he knew it was or what how does it say that part? It's all perceived that it was Samuel. Ah yeah, okay. I think that's a better translation probably actually. He didn't know anything for sure. How could he know? I I I I I'd have to look at the the uh the Hebrew there and and look at the Septuagint as well and see what the author knows. Well the author knows. But this is narrative describing So I I I don't know. He's realizing or making a d a a c really good guess or whatever. Anyway, so it goes on from there and uh and and and the the entity That we're led to believe is Samuel. It says and Samuel said to me, Samuel said to Saul. Why have you disturbed me by bringing me up? And Saul answered, I'm greatly distressed, blah blah blah. And then Samuel says, Yeah, but God told you to get out of town, so get out of town. his end round around God's will doesn't work. So he tries to conjure up Saul. So do you think this is actually Saul? Do you think it's actually the Spirit of God? I'm sorry, Samuel Now do you think it's actually Samuel? Do you think it is? Maybe Elohim is God, and it's God taking on the appearance of Samuel to say, I already told you once, I'm not telling you again I'm done with you. Or is it a demonic spirit? Because this is this is the black arts, right? This is a witch. This is this is the occult. This is Until someone presents other evidence, I I I can't really see it as anyone other than Samuel. Okay, and you're you're in agreement So I I think the Bible calls him Samuel. It doesn't just say he looked like Samuel. It says and Samuel said and the Bible is inspired. So it says and Samuel said, not and the being said or and the spirit said that they all thought was Samuel. It says and Samuel said So I think it's pretty clear that Samuel actually was there. Whether he was there in body, in spirit, somehow, whatever, but it does say Samuel was saying this Said he was a uh an Elohim, so it wasn't his body. It was him and spirit. But he yeah, so he looked like a person though, sort of. Mm-hmm. He could tell it was Samuel. Right. So now the other question though that comes up is first of all How is that possible? Did she bring him up? Did God just send him to use this as an exam as a as a uh excuse to talk to Saul again or whatever? Because and then if if she didn't do it, she well she's shocked to find out that she cries out. I mean uh I I I think a uh a really good translation seriously would be like she screamed Like, she is like she was unglued. But but qu but what made her scream though? See, I think that it worked. Yeah, that's right. But see, you know, I don't I don't think so. What do you think it is? I think what made her scream was she realized now because she's she was in the spirit world. She was she wasn't actively in the spirit world when he first came to her, so she didn't know he was the king. She was shocked to find out he was a king. She knew because she o got her self opened up spiritually and and and got some kind of notice that this is Saul. She wouldn't how else would she know that this is Saul? She's like, oh you're Saul, you deceived me. I don't think necromancers commune with the dead. I would say that they commune with the demonic Which is either she was a a huckster at a fraud or she was communicating with demons. And that would be one of the things that she was regularly communicating with the dead. Why are we commanded not to commune with the dead if it's not possible? No no no and no I'm not saying it's not possible. I'm saying there wouldn't be a command not to communion with the dead if it wasn't if it was possi it wasn't possible. Right. So it's possible to commune with the dead. Correct. As evidenced in this passage. Well so then w w why do you say necromancers can't or don't ever? Well now wait a minute. Is it a clear to talk to the dead or is it a or is it a or is it a sin to try to talk to the dead? Necromancy W is necromancy actually successfully conjuring the dead or is necromancy the the dark art of attempting to It would be the second option. So it doesn't have to be successful. So I'm not sure that That we know that I'm a hundred percent sure that it's so the Bible would say that it's possible. So my opinion would be even if it isn't possible to talk to the dead Which I think you could talk to the dead as evidenced by this passage, but normally when you call upon the dead you're calling upon demonic forces. Whatever ends up talking to you, if something really ends up talking to you and it's not a trick or an illusion, then it would be a demon. Most likely. Um and in fact that demon may be able to show you things or proofs or evidences that he is whoever you're trying to talk to. Potentially because he was there at the time and knew or inhabited that person also he's a powerful demon who has knowledge. Yeah. So if it is Samuel And by the way, I'm somewhat ambivalent, by the way, just for the re I'm I'm not saying it's that it's definitely Samuel, and I'm not saying it's definitely not Samuel. I'm open to the possibility that it's not Samuel because of these other difficulties that I have a hard time screwing my head. It's it's it's a sin to to uh to engage in necromancy. And here we have a supposed successful necromancy empowered by a godly person. Yeah, and that is uh sanctioned by God because this apparition Actually gives a message from God. But I would say if if if you want to take the position that it wasn't actually Samuel, it was some demon, it may not have been a message particularly from God either then. They can say whatever you want. Just like all those false prophets in in um for Ahab uh said, Well you're gonna die today or or or you're not gonna die today or whatever. They can give messages that are purporting to be from God and not really from God. God as as his Lord. Over and over again though. Yeah, but he's but I mean the Lord, the Lord. Yeah, but but that's also those prophets of of Ahab were saying that too. The Lord God would would this Uh I don't know Yahweh I uh uh you know um uh i i is so is gonna is gonna deliver him into your hand. They're saying that, ahab so they're speaking as if they're from Uh from uh talking about God. I think if she had the power to bring anybody up, it wouldn't be somebody from heaven, it'd be somebody from hell. Uh most likely it wouldn't even be a real person to be a demon. So I think I agree with you that that would be one reason why she was surprised. I think when that whatever happened, happened, she gained some additional knowledge because she now knows this is Saul. And she's confident this is Saul. Why would she know this is Saul based on seeing Samuel because Samuel comes up? That doesn't tell him it's Saul just tells him, well, okay, God's involved now. There's something really weird going on. But that doesn't tell her who Saul is So the only way is that she got some kind of revelation by a demon or by God uh you know, telling her that this is Saul. So that's why she was surprised. Or somehow Saul that's not explaining the narrative, gave himself away Maybe he gasped in a way that she recognized his voice. The Bible, particularly in the Old Testament narratives, there's a lot of biblical shorthand You know, there's a story that uh describes an hours long scene in this two verses and it's like, okay, we gotta figure an awful lot of stuff out of those two verses. So a lot of stuff is a biblical shorthand, so I'm not a hundred percent sure that we're gonna be able to do it. I don't think you can say that that's a sin or even uh necromancy at all. Because isn't God gonna raise all of us? Aren't we gonna all be speaking to the dead at some point? This is before that. And he says to her, why have you disquieted me by bringing me up? As if she's the one doing it. Yeah he talks he talks to Saul, which would be consistent with And if the idea is that, you know, Samuel or this entity that we're led to believe is probably or maybe Samuel, uh if he's coming to um warn Saul off of his bad ways or to bring a message from God and say it it seems to be hard to a hundred percent make that jive with um Luke Um Jesus says that the the dead aren't going to come back and warn right. I think it's even stronger than that. Like the dead they can't come back and warn the living. So this would seem to go against that, so you have to harmonize that somehow. Now I will say the the strongest argument in favor of it is Samuel is the text says Samuel said Saul saw Samuel. Like it says his name, and that's in the narrative parts, and it seems like, okay. the the narrator and if this is God's word then God's a narrator. There's a human author too, I get that, but um but is it I I I I I'm not in light of all the other and I've only mentioned a couple, there's more, uh the other issues that come up, is it possible that this is some sort of a n uh literary device in the narrative and it's not we're not we're supposed to understand that it's not actually Samuel because it couldn't actually be Samuel for all these reasons and so it's a literary device. Is that possible? I don't know. It would take a lot of extra context for me to say, well, it's not actually Samuel 'cause a at that point uh isn't it lying to you if it says it's Samuel saying these things? Isn't it publishing false information? If Zen Samuel said this when it meant to say It's demonic entity posing a sandwich. And I'm not saying it is. I'm just I'm I'm uh there's so many this is a very The passage isn't complex, but the implications of the passage are incredibly complex. And so trying to make all of that fit the biblical, broader biblical teachings is challenging. So it the um A solution to it not being a lie would be the perspective from which the story is being told. So if it's again that's the literary device if it's a literary device and it's giving us as those who are in the room were seeing and reacting, it's it's helping us bringing us into the moment. That's possible. I'm not saying that's what's going on, but I'm I'm open to that possibility. He he's He's coming up instead of down. And people will say, well, he's not coming from heaven, so he must it must be some kind of demonic spirit which But he doesn't have his body in heaven anyway. Correct. And it's just a spirit. It's it's not it's not Samuel's body, it's same as well. likely that doesn't necessarily have a lot of bearing physically to directions here on earth. And also there's a whole theology and doctrine about whether the dead were actually in heaven or whether they were in Hades until Christ. Correct. And and I would be one of those who would who would say that there was a a location of paradise within the heart of the earth in like a separate compartment in in Hades. And that that was actually a physical place in the center of the earth. In fact, not a physical place but a spiritual place where spirits go. In fact, I I think there's there's a interesting uh uh comment about the bottomless pit. When it talks about a bottomless pit, where is a good place to have a bottomless pit? The center of the earth because there is no bottom. It's only a top. 'Cause every every direction is up. And so if you're in the center of the earth that would technically be a bottomless pit. And there's psalms that talk about people going into the deepest part of the earth when they die. Like there's different compartments of this paradise area. And so This would go off into eschatology, so I maybe not expound on this too much, but the Samuel passage though. disobeyed God for the third or fourth or tenth time or whatever it was. Samuel said uh you know he kills Agag and then he says then Samuel went to Ramah and Saul went up to his house And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul, and the Lord repented that he had made Saul king over Israel. That's a whole nother topic. Why is the Lord repenting of things? Uh you know, if if God doesn't change and God doesn't change his mind, you know, why is God changing his mind here? Changed his mind for killing Isaiah and and all this it's repentant meaning he made hand over the Yeah, Hezekiah, sorry. In the book of Isaiah, Hezekiah. Right. That's actu that might be one to talk about. Yeah. Well why does God make mistakes? Yeah But uh God repents maybe would be a good phrase to in t include in that note, just so remember what specifically. Um that verse is interesting. Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Well whose death Um because Well probably Saul's though, right? This was the day of Saul's death when he saw him again. So that's Or maybe it just means until for the rest of his life he never saw him again. So is that what it means And I think that the the the the the the gist of the narrative here in this broader story is that, you know, God's ha done with Saul. I have nothing more to do with you. I'm not You can you can use the the uh uh you can cast lots if you want. You can use the Urman uh Urm uh Umman and Thurman of thumb uh boy, they can't talk a marble black. Thank you. Is that the actress or something? Yes you can try to use an actress? Elijah was saying this is might may actually be an actress, somebody who pretends to commune with the dead and doesn't actually commune with the dead. So but anyway the point is I have I'm gonna have nothing to do with you. And then all of a sudden he's gonna have something to Well God says also in uh in in an example in a passage about prayer. Uh he says that you should keep praying because of the woman that kept asking the judge, even if the judge was unrighteous, eventually he listened to her because she kept asking him. And it is just a message that said, hey, you messed up all that time ago Now the narrator is telling us that you know They saw Samuel, Samuel said whatever, but the words that come out of the mouth of the characters in the story, they never actually say that they saw Samuel. Well, Saul perceived Samuel. Well, you're right, the narrator. Yeah. He's 'cause he said well you get the you're given the impression that Saul doesn't see him at all. Because he has to ask the old lady. So old lady he does commune with this And then the lady says it's an old dude wearing a robe. She doesn't say it's Samuel. No, but the narrator says it was Samuel, because it says then Samuel said. Right. So if saying same thing says And that was a point before that is the by f by far the the strongest argument is the the narrator is saying that, but then there's all these ancillary issues that are like really complex like holy cow, how do we make sense of all that? So I'm I'm I'm open to the possibil. I haven't I don't think I've ever taught sp officially or preached on this passage. Uh but boy, this would take a lot of study time to get ready for to make sure I handled it, you know, well But just the doctrine of Hades, where is this spirit of Samuel coming from is that would take a a long time to to discuss 'cause that That would be my opinion of what the first resurrection is, is the the Old Testament saints being released from this area of paradise in the heart of the earth up into heaven. In fact though, what happened when the curtain was torn was people came out of the graves and walked around on the earth too. It wasn't it wasn't like that they just went to heaven then. So how do you deal with that too? And how many of them it says many bodies of the saints but only the saved ones then I I I would say it's a different resurrection at that point. I would say that the the resurrect the exact as he died, but then when he got resurrected, then that's what Christ is the first fruits of that that particular resurrection harvest. Okay. We've got just a few minutes left. So let me see if this is a decent synopsis and you can react to the synopsis quickly if I uh miss something or get something way wrong. I think the overwhelming consensus among uh Christians, uh teachers, you know, scholars, what have you, is that it is Samuel, but there is a I don't know if it's significant minority, but there is a noteworthy minority that would say no it's not Samuel. Um and I think that both opinions from my perspective, I think they both can be respected. Uh even if you say, yeah, it probably is Samuel, I'm not gonna call the person who thinks it wasn't Samuel a heretic. I don't think I would go that far. I think we can say that I think we can all agree necromancy bad. Absolutely. So we're we're saying that. And um no matter how we're seeing whether it is Samuel, isn't Samuel. Paul, I was being playful before, but seriously, Paul um Paul. Saul is trying to do an end round. He's trying to get his own way after God said, no, it's not going to happen. And here you see you can't end round God. If God says that's it, that's it. You can try everything you got you can try all the dark magic you want, it's not gonna work. So those are some things that are true regardless of whether it's actually Samuel or not. And the other questions are related to it, I think are really cool, interesting, fun, deep dive kinds of questions. If anything, we've talked about um this hodgepodge kind of a mess of a show because there's so many things going on. Pick one and study it, examine it, and see if you can learn and and and uh learn other things about the Bible in the process. So that's the things I think are takeaways from this episode. But Absolutely Any any strong disagreement? You got only thirty seconds if you want to make a strong disagreement. No. I think about covered it. All right. Well then we're gonna call it we're gonna call it a day. And look at that, we got plenty of time for exit music and everything. Last couple of weeks I think we didn't really have any exit music. I was so late on time. Elijah Dirksen, thank you so much for taking time from your Seminary studies to join us. Uh Daniel Razby, thank you. Thank you for listening to the Us on the Faith Debate here on News Radio 930 WFMD. You can find us at WFMD. com. and household of faith in Christ. com. We'll be back to continue our dialogue on some other matter next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. Till then, God bless.