Welcome to the Frederick's Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Flooming and Heating, how can we make you smile? This is a special edition of the Faith Debate Show. It's part two of a message that began last week. Remember the overcomer based on 1 John chapter 5 Verses one through twelve. Last week was kind of the preamble and the setup and everything else. We're just getting into the message and we're starting to expound with verse one of chapter five, and that's what we're going to pick up on this week's show. Uh thank you for listening, and I'll talk to you on the back end of this message. You are a child of God because you believe in the one that the Father has told you to believe in. His only begotten Son. And by loving His Son, you show your love for the Father as well, and in showing your love for the Father and the Son. You will want to show love to the other believers, the other children, your brothers and sisters in Christ. Verse 2 says, This is how we know that we love the children of God. By loving God and carrying out his commands. This is clear? It's not easy, but it's simple. You can know. The eyes of a watching world can know that you love God and that you love people. By your obedience to God's word. Christ has loosed your chains from the law, so that now you are free. Free to obey it. You are free to obey God's commands No longer a slave to the law, but thankfully and willingly a slave to Christ. An obedient slave to Christ. This is what it means to be a Christian. You've heard this before, probably. And now you're going to hear it again in verse 3. In fact, this is love for God to keep his commands, and his commands are not burdensome. Keeping God's commands is how you love. Love is a verb. It's one of my favorite phrases. Love is an action. Love is something that we do. But what, oh what, do we do? What is love? One of the most popular philosophical questions of all time. What is love? Does anybody really know what love is? I mean, does anybody really know? For sure. Yes. God does. And John tells us. Love is obeying God. It's difficult for us to do It's not hard in and of itself. It's difficult because of our sin, but there's good news. Our sin has been conquered by Jesus. Our sin is being conquered by Jesus. Our sin will be conquered by Jesus. So it's not a burden for us to carry. It's a burden already carried by Christ. For those who believe in him. For those who are born again. As it says in verse 4: For everyone born of God overcomes the world. This is the victory that has overcome the world, even our faith. You know the word overcome shows up a couple of times here in this verse. Remember I said how love is a verb is one of my favorite phrases. I say it all the time, ask my wife. Overcome is a favorite word for John. He uses it twenty-one times in the five books of the New Testament that are attributed to him. Twenty-one times. Give you some perspective. The word overcome shows up in the entire New Testament 24 times. All but three of these are from John. And one of these twenty plus times that John uses the word overcome is a quote from our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. And this is an The Gospel of John chapter 16. At the very beginning of our worship service today, I asked you to put stick a thumb in. So you might want to turn there now. Chapter 16 of John. Okay, if you didn't turn there before, it's the fourth book of the New Testament. New Testament is the last half of the of the Bible. Chapter 16, verse 33. And if you're one who's not afraid to write in your Bible, if you had your own personal Bible with you and you're not afraid, get your pen or marker or pencil or whatever you use. If you haven't already marked your Bible here, you're going to want to. Right now. John 16, verse 33, Jesus talking. I have told you these things so that in me you may have peace. In this world, you will have trouble. But take heart. I have overcome the world. Jesus has overcome the world. Underline that. In this world we have trouble, Jesus has overcome the world. Take heart. We're co-heirs with Christ, the Bible tells us, if we're believers. We share what Christ has accomplished for us. Jesus is victorious. That's what the word overcome means. Right? It doesn't mean muddle through or get by or make do or merely survive. To overcome is to conquer, to have victory. It carries with it the idea of superiority over one's foe, right? I win, you lose. I conquer, you fall I am the conqueror. You are the vanquished. Right? This is what it means. And Jesus had overcome the world that has Satan as its prince. And as Christ's co-heirs. As his ambassadors, as God's redeemed image-bearers, we too have conquered the world. Does it feel like you've conquered? Most of the time probably not. You feel dragged down, beaten up, busted upside the head. We're disillusioned, depressed, defeated. What has happened to our hope? What has happened to our prayer life? What has happened to our faith We're lost. We are losers. We are lonely in our feelings of aloneness But we're not alone. We're not losers. We are not lost. As believers in Christ, we once were lost, but now we're found. But why don't we feel like this? Why? If I'm a winner, why do I feel so miserable? Why are we so downcast? Why are you sitting there right now thinking in your heart, yeah, Mr. Preacher, man? Why do I feel this way? You seem to know exactly how I feel, but do you know why? Do you? I do. Because John has told us. Over and over again. And God has told us and shown us over and over again But we forget. In this world we will have trouble and we forget That's why you're ready to give up on everything sometimes. Feeling like it just doesn't matter. That your whole life is a fraud, it's worthless, absent of any meaning or purpose. When you're driven right up to this edge, It's because Satan has infected your navigational unit, your spiritual navigational unit. And he has tricked you and he's gotten inside your spiritual GPS. And he's saying to you, recalculating. He's saying, you are now entering an uncharted area. Verify your course. Proceed with caution. In other words, he's saying God's plan doesn't quite cover this situation. Are you sure about the course God has you on? Be careful because God isn't your guide anymore. You are on your own. But these are lies from the accuser We know their lives because in verse 5 God reminds us, who is it that overcomes the world? Only the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God. If you believe that Jesus is the Son of God, then you have overcome the world. I don't care what Satan says. I don't care what the world throws at us. But I do care. I'm saved, being sanctified, but I'm not yet glorified as I will be when Christ returns, and so in spite of myself. I care. I'm distracted by the weight of the world. I'm tempted to just give in to that temptation that the devil dangles before me. Does this happen to you two? I'm sure it does. Of course it does. Because we forget. And John reminds us, we know we have overcome the world because we know Jesus is overcome. And we know this is true because God Himself says so. 1 John chapter 5, verses 6 through 8. This is the one who came by water and blood, Jesus Christ. He did not come by water only, but by water and blood, and it is the Spirit who testifies, because the Spirit is the truth. For there are three that testify the spirit, the water, and the blood, and the three are in agreement. The three that testify: the spirit, the water, the truth. You know, these verses call to mind so many images for me. I'm reminded of Jesus' birth when his mother's water broke. And the blood when the umbilical cord was cut. And his baptism in water and the Lord's Supper. Pointing to his bloody death by crucifixion. I recall the Roman soldier driving the spear up through our Lord's side, and John chapter 19, verse 35, telling us that water and blood flowed out of the wound. The image of the water can symbolize uh baptism, uh blessing, purity, life, wisdom, fulfillment. The blood can symbolize suffering and death, sin, punishment, sacrifice, satisfaction of the curse. What we have here is good and evil. There's the experience of good and evil. In biblical terms, to experience something is often referred to as knowing something. There's knowledge of these things. We have knowledge of good and evil. All God ever really wanted for us was the good, but we insist on the evil too. And so Jesus had to come. He's the perfect fulfillment of the good. The perfect prophet, priest, and king, and he's the perfect satisfaction for the penalty. Taking upon himself our curse and experiencing the worst of all possible evils I be feel John here reminding us that God's only begotten Son condescended to live an obedient life for us. Even being baptized with water in the baptism of repentance, when he had nothing for which to repent. And if the God man Jesus died for us, paying the bloody penalty for sin. When he was not guilty. Here I see the Spirit illuminating the preached word, active in baptism, present in the supper, and I can recognize the spirits that Dwelling in our hearts and in the sacraments and in the written word. The Spirit witnesses directly as God and also indirectly through individual believers, through the church. God's Holy Spirit testifies of Christ from before even the incarnation, and continue to do so through our Savior's first century ministry. Does so even now, continuing today and into eternity. The Father The Word, the Holy Spirit, they all testify in heaven about what the Son has accomplished here on earth. Human witnesses are okay, but not always reliable. That's why the Old Testament requires multiple witnesses give testimony, but even multiple witnesses can get it wrong. I mean I remind you of the false witnesses who falsely accused Jesus right before his death sentence. Well, significantly we have a more sure witness than this, God Himself. Verse 9, we accept human testimony, but God's testimony is greater. Because it is the testimony of God, which he has given about his son. With God giving the testimony, there can be no doubt it is true. If you believe it, you honor God and His Son. If you disbelieve it, then you dishonor God. And his son. Verse 10. Whoever believes in the Son of God accepts this testimony. Whoever does not believe God has made him out to be a liar, because they have not believed the testimony God has given about his son. We know what this testimony is, right? But we tend to forget, so we need reminding. John writes in verses 11 and 12. And this is a testimony. God has given us eternal life, and this life is in His Son. Whoever has the Son has life. Whoever does not have the Son of God does not have life. Jesus is the one way to life. The only way to life. Jesus is life. How many friends do you have that say they believe in God? And how many of these same friends are not Christian? Or how many of them might even claim to be Christian? But they don't really believe that Jesus is life. If they do not have the Son of God, they must think the Father is a liar. There is no life in that point of view. They think that God is a liar who is lying about his son of all things. So we must lovingly warn these friends of ours of their danger. Remember the story I told you, the beginning of today's message. It's a story, by the way, that's broadly inspired by the life of a of a real Vietnam veteran named Mike Warnkey. But it's more than Mike's story, and not only because I greatly embellished it, it's more than Mike's story because it's our story We are soldiers doing battle in a tremendous spiritual war. We know that we will win because Jesus has already won and we share in his victory and blessing. And never has there been a captain like Jesus. He will see us through the trials and the temptations that we face. He is right now seeing us through the trials and temptations that we face. And more than this, we know that he already has seen us through the trials and temptations that we face. By facing those same trials and temptations himself. All the way to the cross. He carries our burden for us while at the same time asking us to bear it ourselves and follow him. It's tantalizing what the world will dangle before you. Shiny new cars and SUVs, right? Big houses, sexy clothes. Important degrees of higher education, lifelong family businesses, careers Plans of early retirement, the allure of youth, of making a name for ourselves Well, viewed as good and soothing, the worldly oasis that we see, whatever its form, it is dangerous if it keeps us from marching to where the captain is leading. Obediently following his lead is daunting, but doable. It is excruciating, but exciting. It's impossible. But it's already done. When tempted to rest where God has not told you to rest, remember that danger lingers there. Consider the regrets of unfulfilled worldly dreams, and then consider that there are no regrets in the dreams that God has for you. His dreams don't go unfulfilled. It's a sure thing winner The path you're on right now might seem brutal to you. In fact, I'm sure that it is. As the world throws its heat and humidity at you As the world throws a weight on you that digs deep into your flesh, and the world dive-bombs you with mosquitoes, disease-criddled mosquitoes. Remember what John has told us so many times, what God has shown us so many times, Christ overcame the world. And these attacks from the world are reminders of exactly what it is Christ has overcome. Reminders that we have the privilege of sharing in his sufferings. Reminders that we have life, that we are alive in Christ. Yes, these attacks meant to defeat us are used by God as blessings to us. If you believe in him and what he has done, then you too have overcome the world and you are alive. That's why you're able to take that next step. That step of faith. That next step of faith. And then the next. One step of faith at a time, and then one more. Always the same, one step. Step in faith. And then again. And then again. And then one more. One step. One step. One step. This one step brings you to eternity with Christ. Brings you to eternity, to safety and security and assurance with the perfect captain. Don't be jealous of those around you who are wallowing in the muddy cool stream down below with their blisters being cooled. They're heavy packs floating downstream. They're not to be envied. They're to be warned. They're in peril and don't even know it. But we know it. Because we believe God. We know we believe God because we've loved God. We know that we've loved God because we obey God. We know that we obey God because we love others. We know that we love others because we warn them of the dangerous river that leads to hell. And introduce them to our mighty captain, who, if they will follow, leads them to heaven And we also cheer on our fellow Christians as they take those steps of faith, encouraging them each step of the way, every day. Jesus has overcome. The worldly slings and arrows are no match for our warrior God The worldly slings and arrows are less than even mosquito bites by comparison. All who are united to Christ have overcome the world. And squash those mosquitoes. Even the pesky pests that swirl about us are Well, if we'll only have eyes to see and ears to hear, we'll know that these two have been smashed. splattered, smeared. Nothing but a reminder of what used to be an antagonizing adversary. Now conquered by Christ at the cross. Let's pray. God our Father, I ask that you would help us to remember. Remember Your promise and remember that you are faithful to keep it. To remember that Jesus at the cross said it is finished Oh, that you had planned for us from eternity, from before the foundation of the earth finished in that one particular moment in history. And yet we still have to walk things out. We're already saved, but not yet with you in heaven. And so it's hard. So help us to take that one step and to maintain our faith and keep taking that one step when we get Bad news about cancer, when we struggle with tumors, when we struggle with stomach issues, when we battle unemployment, when we yearn to pull our family back together when we pine for uh a wayward brother or sister in Christ to return to the fold, when we are Bedazzled by the temptations that Satan would throw our way, we ask that you help us to remember. Remember Jesus. Remember our Savior. Remember the Christ, the Messiah, the perfect one. It's in his name that we pray. Amen. And thus concludes the message. Thank you so much for listening again this week to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio at 930 WFMD. Again I encourage you, visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. And again I thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile Next week back to the uh regul regular rigors of the show, Jonathan Schweitzer and uh an esteemed guest will be on the show duking it out over some finer point of theology or religious belief. So I'm looking forward to it Uh by the way, a little bit a couple days early, but Merry Christmas to you and an early happy new year as well. Thank you so much for your support of this show over the last eight years, if you can believe it. A little over eight years now. Wow Anyway, again, thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service Because we believe you deserve it. Pulmin plumbing, how can we make you smile