From the police state that is Frederick City, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? You can find us online, wfmd. com Keyword Faith, where you'll find all sorts of great links, including links to podcasts of this very show. Well don't try to go there right now for this very show. Give it a couple of days. But previous shows and if you wait a couple of days, this very show You'll also find the Faith Debate blog on the right hand side of the webpage. My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Whatever you send me, I put on the website. No questions asked within reason. Doesn't have to be religious, although I do prefer the religious stuff, but you know if you got a political axe to grind and you can somehow loosely connect it to religious worldview questions I'll post it. You got a good uh Bunt Cake uh recipe. And you can well that's a religious thing. People uh adore and idolize their bunt cake recipes, maybe I don't know. And I'll put it up there Alright, so and actually a lot of the stuff I'm joking of. A lot of the stuff is is good. It's contemporary news stuff or it's opinion stuff. You can react to it if you don't like what somebody sends me that I post there. You can comment on it, that sort of thing, so it's all good. If you've been listening the last few weeks, then you know what I'm about to say Jonathan Sweisser's not here. He got called away as we are getting ready to uh do the taping for this uh this week's show and um He had an emergency with his church he had to take care of and so uh we we've scrapped what was planned and we're moving it on to another week. So but we still have deadlines to meet and all that sort of stuff. Shows have to hit air, otherwise we listen to silence right now, which I know some might prefer So what we've done the last few weeks and we'll wrap up this week is uh four weeks in a row of me sharing messages at churches. Um The first two weeks of this four week Odyssey was uh who is this Jesus? We shared a very personal, intimate story uh about uh healing in our family, my son Tyler in particular. And then last week was part one of a message titled Living in light with love based on uh first John chapters one and chapters two. So we heard the first half of that message last week. We're about to now hear the the last half of that message this week. I hope you enjoy it and find it at least somewhat interesting and helpful. If your hope is in Jesus Christ, then you are saved from the spiritual death penalty that is due to you for your sin. That penalty has been paid by Jesus the Christ, God's justice and grace. Blended together perfectly, beautifully, light and love together Are you walking in that love? To answer that question, you have to answer the other question. Are you walking in that light? Are you progressing in your sanctification? Are you working out your faith? Are you demonstrating your faith by what you do and grabbing hold of Jesus and persevering, refusing to let go? Are you wrestling with him to know him better? To trust him more? To love him back, acknowledging that he first loved you. Are you? Would your Christian neighbors be able to honestly agree with you? Have your Christian friends felt you love them? Love is a verb. It comes with a powerful emotional charge. But love is not merely some warm and fuzzy feel good, make my heart go pit or pat sense of euphoria. Love is action. For God so loved the world. That he gave. He took action. His one and only son, so that whoever would believe in him will have eternal life. What has been your behavior toward your Christian brother and your Christian sister? Are you talking about them behind their back? Gossip is not loving. Are you mean-spirited in your rebukes of them? Gentleness is fruit of the Spirit. Are you demanding? What happened to patience? Are you unavailable to help, to give, to serve? Sounds like you're unavailable to love. The Bible tells us how we are to behave. How are to approach the lost people of this world and also how to minister to the saved people of this world. If you don't know how to do these things, or if you refuse to do these things, then you have to ask yourself. I have to put the question to you. Are you one of the lost people of the world? Or are you one of the saved people of the world? If you're one of the saved people, then let's peek inside of John's heart for you. God's heart for you. In 1 John 2, verses 12 through 14, we have a Beautiful personal moment. I am writing to you, dear children, because your sins have been forgiven on account of his name. I am writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I am writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, dear children, because you know the Father. I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the Word of God lives in you, and you have overcome the evil one. There are different ways that people might understand John's intended audience in this passage. He might be writing to physically old Christians and younger Christians and little kids who are Christian. He might be talking to spiritually mature Christians and progressively less spiritually mature Christians, but whoever he is writing to, it is clear he is writing to Christians. If you call yourself a follower of Jesus Christ, then he is writing to you. These words are for you. And for me. Are we listening? Is our attention arrested? Are we gripped? But what is said here to us about us? If you are in Christ, if you love Christ's bride, Christ's church. If you demonstrate this love for Christ by loving his chosen people, then be reminded, you are a child of God. He is your Father. As you grow in your relationship with him, you will increasingly know what you already knew from the beginning of your sanctification, from the moment of your justification. From the moment you knew you were a sinner, knew you deserved eternal punishment, experiencing only the unfavorable presence of God in hell For the moment you knew you were lost, with no hope in yourself, no hope in anything you could do, no hope in anything you could learn to do, no hope in anything but God Himself. To rescue you from the searing light of God's purity, holiness, righteousness. All requiring justice, all requiring that restitution be paid. Before you could be free from the heavy burden of the debt you owed. truth about yourself that even when you tried to do good, it was motivated by trying to look good to others, building a reputation for yourself, trying to prop up your own self-image. Trying to gain some sort of selfish advantage, some sort of selfish gain. You might not have understood it to be true before, but you knew it then. And you threw yourself at the foot of the cross, at the feet of your Lord and Savior, and you need it. You beg, please forgive me for the lies. For the cheating, for the gluttony, for the inward focus of my thoughts, for the sarcastic, fighting, cutting words, for disrespecting my parents, for dishonoring the sanctity of the marriage bed. For ignoring the truth, for working hard sometimes to spread falsehoods. Oh, the death of our depravity The height of our arrogance. Oh, the pain we caused The pain we were in, the pain, the pain. The pain, the pain of our sin We needed healing. And Jesus, our Messiah, came to heal us. He offered us a gift, and then even gave us the strength to open it. We who walk in the way, the truth, and the life, we know who we were. And we also know now who we are. We once were leches. We once were wretches. We once were blind. We once were lost. But we've been found. We've been given eyes to see. We've been redeemed. We've been forgiven. Holy cow. What a holy God. What an amazing thing. What have we been given? Do we understand? At what cost? Do we understand? It's free to us at immense price. Paid fully, completely, and forever by the blood of Jesus of Nazareth. By the blood of God Himself. And because we know all of this, and because John knows that we know all of this, but because we might tend to forget, he reminds us. We have known from the beginning of our faith that God has forgiven us on account of his own provision in the name of Jesus. All those horrible things that were true are no longer true for us. We have overcome the evil one because we are in Christ and He has defeated the evil one. The Son has won for us what we could not hope to win for ourselves. And now we know the Father. We know him, Abba Father, our Father who art in heaven. And so we are strong. We are strong because the Lord lives in us. The Holy Spirit dwells within the heart of the believer. Your body is God's temple. Are you a believer? Then you have overcome the evil one. Act like it. We can't simply say that we follow Christ. We need to actually follow Christ. If any of us does not follow the way, then we are not, in fact, following the narrow path of truth that leads to life. And if we're not in fact following, but merely saying that we are, then we are lying. We're lying to ourselves. Lying to the world. We're lying to God. Better to be poor than a liar. As from Proverbs 19, verse 22, the full verse reads What a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. What a man desires is unfailing love, love that never fails, love that is unflagging, love that goes on and on and on, as sung by George Strait. Let me tell you a secret about a father's love. You see, daddies don't just love their children every now and then. It's a love without end. Amen. It's a love without end. Amen. That's what God gives you. That's what He tells you to give, especially to your brothers and sisters in Christ. Fail to love each other, we might as well admit we're hating each other. In Matthew chapter twelve, verse thirty, Jesus says that whoever is not with me is against me, and whoever does not gather with me scatters. So, are we with him in this? We are told to love one another. We're told the world will know us by our love for one another. In John's Gospel, chapter 13, verse 35, Jesus says, By this everyone will know that you are my disciples if you love one another. What can you do to love others better? Take time to think about this. Think in specific terms, too. What can you do to love a specific individual better? Identify the individual and identify what you can do. And then commit to doing it for that person. And then consider that person again and ask, what can I do for this person again? And then commit to doing it. And then think of a second person. How can you act lovingly towards them and then repeat the commitment get it done process? And then think of a third person and then a fourth person and then repeat, rinse, repeat. Maybe the first act of love for you will be to ask for forgiveness from someone you've offended or a group of someones you've offended. Have you been rude to anybody lately? Or ever? It's time to own that sin. Do the right thing. Do the loving thing. Maybe the first act of love for you will be to grant forgiveness to someone. Whatever your first act of love might be, you must figure out what it is and do it Might want to get a pen and a pad of paper to write down all the thoughts that will flood your mind as you meditate on this. And then when you have that list, you know, you won't forget, and then as you're doing them, you can check them right off your list. And when it's done, start a new list. And while doing this though, be sure to consider the necessity of blending together the areas of need in your circle of influence, those that you're looking to love. Because I mean if for example if you spend all your time over at my house loving me, that means you're not at home loving your family So we need wisdom. We need to set priorities. And sometimes the loving thing is to say no. Or not now, maybe later. Sometimes the unloving thing to say is yes. Or absolutely no need for any further consideration. The answer yes or no, the agreement or uh refusal to do something. They can all be loving response. It all depends on the context and the circumstances surrounding the situation. So whatever your response, just look for the loving one. Ask yourself, what is the loving response? In this situation. What would God have you do? Not what would you do if you were God? Not what you'd like to think or hope that God might do, but what would the all-knowing, Alpha and Omega, dawn of creation Have you do? God is holy. His commands are righteous. His judgment is just because God is light. We are in Christ, and so we are to live lives that are holy, righteous, and just because we are in the light. We know we're in the light when we love one another. Makes sense. God dwells within the heart of the believer. He is in us and he loves us. And so we are to love as he loves. That's who we are. That's who we are now as we're being changed, transformed more and more into the likeness of Christ. After hearing all this, Are you a little unsure if this is true for you right now? You have doubt that you've been rescued by God's plan to purchase your freedom from bondage and sin? Through the obedience of Jesus applied to you by God's Holy Spirit. Little unsure. Be unsure no longer. Turn from trusting yourself and turn to trusting in God. If you've been pretending to be a Christian for years, don't worry about the embarrassment of being found out. Be embarrassing, wouldn't it, to have to admit that after years of pretending to be a Christian that you were a fraud that whole time? But God already knows the truth. Who are you kidding? And if you can finally get to a place where you'll be honest. I wasn't, but now I am. Man. What a testimony you will be able to share! Imagine the glory you can give to God. The truth will set you free. How I pray that for you. Some might say it's hateful to say that someone's a sinner, that someone might be pretending might be a fraud, might be just playing games with themselves, with the world, with God. That's hateful. Bible tells us it's a loving thing to do. How else will you know that you're still a sinner condemned, that you need a savior? How will you know? So, I hope you feel love this morning. Whether you feel it or not, God loves you. He's holding out his arms. He's waiting for you to surrender and melt into his embrace. Will you do that? Will you melt into God's embrace? If you need to recommit to melting into God's embrace, will you do it? How God loves you. Oh, how God loves you and desires for us to love one another As we get better at that, maybe be a blessing unto God as He blesses us. You pray with me. Father in heaven, I adore you. All of us who are called by your name are so thankful, so humbled. We can't begin to understand all there is to know about you and your plan for the world, but you tell us that you have a plan for us and it is a plan to prosper us and to give us hope and a future. Thank you for showing to us that that hope and future rests in Jesus Christ. Help us to trust in His finished work. Help us to love you. We ask that your Holy Spirit work through us to better love others. We want to be a blessing to you and your people. Please continue to equip us. We implore you, equip us as you dwell inside of us to better stay on mission. We are in a battle. Spiritual warfare rages. Even though the accuser has been defeated, we your people are still prone to stumbling into the darkness through unholy living. Help us to remain vigilant as warriors for your kingdom. We await the return of Jesus Christ to end the overlap of the ages and usher in the fullness of the Age of Glory. It's in his name that we pray this prayer to you. Amen. And that draws to a close the end of that message, living in light with love. Again, thank you for your indulgence. Jonathan Sweister should be back with me next week as we get back into a traditional format for the Faith Debate Show. Want again thank our sponsor, Putman Phonigan Heating. How can we make you smile? Say hello to Marlena and Patrick Putman when you See him. Um I said hello as well. You can say hello for yourself, but say hello for me, you know what I'm saying? Uh visit us online, WFMD. com keyword faith. That brings you to the Faith Debate page where there's a daily Monday through Friday blog and links to all sorts of great stuff, including the Jonathan Sweitzer's blog and a and a link to the Frederick forty eight, which uh you need to learn more about. It's uh we need to help the charitable non-for-profit organizations in Frederick County. And you can do that through Frederick 48. Learn how to do that. You can go to the Faith Debate page and link to it or go straight to Frederick48. org. Frederick48. org. By the way, whatever I've been reading lately, I've spending some time with John Calvin, Institutes of the Christian Religion. Yes, I have. Maybe you should too. I don't know. Anyway, till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now Thank you so much for listening. Enjoy your week. By the way, happy Labor Day. Stay safe. Make good choices so that we can be around and meet again together next week this time. Sunday mornings, 839, right here on WFMD. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?