Broadcasting from the police state that is Frederick City, just outside the Capitol of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? You can find the face debate on WFMD. com keywordface. That's WFMD. com. Keywordface. That takes you right to the Faith Debate page where you'll find all sorts of religious links, links to podcasts, links to Frederick 48. If you can't remember that link, make sure you visit Frederick48. org so you can help support the local charities in the area. You'll also find the Faith Debate blog on the Face Debate page, right on the right-hand side of the webpage, the entire right-hand side of the page. Um and really the Faith Debate page is not my uh that blog is not my blog Or another way to put it would be my blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Whatever you send to me within within some reason, alright, got some some standards here, but mm very minimal Whatever you send to me I copy and paste right on that webpage. A lot of what gets sent to me is religious, and so I'm glad to put that up there. Some of what I get is political on both ends or all ends of this political spectrum I get um tips of uh how to better care for your home and garden, uh how to make cookies, uh reminisc um reminiscence? Is that I don't know how to say that word right now. I'm drawing a mental blank and I'll try to figure it out Uh having a a reminiscence of uh the past, what it was like to grow up in the seventies or sixties or fifties or different part of the country. I mean I get all sorts of interesting stuff and it's an interesting tapestry that I'm glad to put up there. Anyway, I my name's Troy Skinner, by the way, and again this is the Protestant Faith Debate. What we normally do is we have a a a battle of the wits, a battle of theology Jonathan Schweitzer and and somebody who disagrees with Jonathan Schweitzer going back and forth and me just trying to keep them from each other's throats. Not usually quite as bad as that, but anyway, Jonathan Schweitzer uh a few weeks back had a issue with his church and he had to uh change schedule last minute. Now he's dealing with some issues in his family and so he's unable to be here and the show's not the same without him. Last time we at this much time without Jonathan a aboard the show, I think was when he was running for school board a number of years ago. So anyway, what we've got now is a special edition of the show. We're gonna listen to a message that a church allowed me to share called Glass Half Full or Cup Overflowing based on 1 John chapter 3. I hope that you enjoy it. We're only going to be able to have a chance to hear the first half of the message, so we'll hear the first half or approximately the first half of it today. And then next week, the same time, same bat channel, uh we'll hear the last half of the message. All right. So thank you for your indulgence as uh as we do this and uh and fill some time with what I hope is is beneficial and and helpful to you. All right. So here we go, starting in I don't know, like three, two, one or something like that. When was the last time that you felt good about yourself? Think of a time if somebody said, You are so funny. Or if someone told you that you were pretty or strong, handsome. Smart. Think of a time that you could acknowledge an accomplishment in your life that isn't all that common. The time you were salesman of the year. The time you celebrated 25 years of marriage or a 50th wedding anniversary. Think about those fifteen minutes of fame, maybe that you enjoyed, when the spotlight was on you. Allow yourself to drift into the emotional sea that churns within our heart. And remember the first time you held your spouse's hand. Remember the warm, strong, secure bear hug and the pat on the rump from your dad? Remember the light kiss and the tussle of your hair by mom as she told you that she loved you. Linger there for a while. Each of us Done some pretty cool things. Each of us has felt honestly loved by somebody else Each of us. Pretty amazing at times. I remember when my wife and I were recording, I went weeks and weeks. With just a couple hours of sleep each day. And I was not tired. In fact, I actually never felt better in my whole life. You ever felt that? This cliched floating on a cloud feeling? If you haven't, then I am so excited for you, knowing that you will have that moment one day. And if you have had it before, I hope you have it again. Odds are You're not having that feeling right now. That's a shame. Because most of us in this room should have that feeling all the time. Because most of us in this room would identify ourselves as Christian. Listen to what's written in chapter three of 1 John. See what great love The Father has lavished on us that we should be called children of God. And that is what we are. The reason the world did not know us is that it did not know him. Dear friends, now we are children of God. And what we will be has not yet been made known, but we know that when Christ appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. All who have this hope in him purify themselves just as he is pure. Everyone who sins breaks the law. In fact, sin is lawlessness. But you know that he appeared so that he might take away our sins, and in him is no sin. No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. Dear children, do not let anyone lead you astray. The one who does what is right is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who does what is sinful is of the devil Because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the devil's work. No one who is born of God will continue to sin. Because God's seed remains in them. They cannot go on sinning because they have been born of God. This is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are. Anyone who does not do what is right is not God's child Nor is anyone who does not love their brother and sister. For this is the message you heard from the beginning. We should love one another. Do not be like Cain, who belonged to the evil one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own actions were evil, and his brothers were righteous. Do not be surprised, my brothers and sisters, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death to life. Because we love each other. Anyone who does not love remains in debt. Anyone who hates a brother or sister is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life residing in him. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters. If anyone has material possessions and sees a brother or sister in need, But has no pity on them, how can the love of God be in that person? Dear children, let us not love with words or speech, but with actions and in truth. This is how we know that we belong to the truth, and how we set our hearts at rest in His presence. If our hearts condemn us, we know that God is greater than our hearts. And he knows everything. Dear friends, if our hearts do not condemn us, we have confidence before God and receive from him anything we ask. Because we keep his commands and do what pleases him. And this is his command: to believe in the name of his son, Jesus Christ. And to love one another as he commanded us. The one who keeps God's commands lives in him and he in them, and this is how we know that he lives in us. We know it by the Spirit He gave us. Father, I ask that you would help us to feel powerfully your Spirit with us this morning. I pray that you would open our minds, open our ears, open our hearts, soften our attitude so that we might receive your truth with gladness, the fullness of your truth with joy. Let those who know you, who love you, who trust in you for their salvation, rest in that and be encouraged by what they hear this morning. For those who do not know you, I pray that they would be rebuked in their spirit. That they would turn from themselves and the false idols of this world and trust in you. And for those of us who are mere pretenders, Saying that we claim Christ as Savior without making him the Lord of our lives, I pray that you would speak to us. in a powerful way so that we can have authentic relationship with you and truly be used by you to make a difference in advancing the cause of your kingdom. The kingdom of your Son, Jesus Christ, and it's in his name that we pray. Amen. In the chapter that I just read to you, there are some verses that could be taken as Real downers. And they are downers for non-followers of Christ. If you die today as a non-Christian Then you die as one who belongs to the evil one. John writes in stark contrast throughout this epistle in this chapter is no exception. But today I want to focus on what we believers in Christ have presented to us in this chapter. In this chapter, we find promises and blessings. To those who are followers of the great King, the Sovereign Lord, the merciful Savior. The living word, the righteous judge, the perfect sacrifice, the Son of God, the Prince of Peace. What wonderful names he has, this wonderful counselor. Jesus of Nazareth is someone special, wouldn't you say? Don't just nod along. I want you to feel it. Jesus is special. Do you feel it? I don't think you really do. Not yet. Have you considered that he lived a sinless human life? Have you considered that he lives now and will live forever? Have you considered that he has lived since before there was a universe? Before there was any space, before there was any time, have you considered that He by His Word spoke everything into existence? Have you considered how amazing is our God He is the creator and sustainer, the Alpha and Omega, the one and only begotten Son of God, the Spirit of truth. He is all of that and then some He is everything good and more. He is the best person we can imagine. Multiplied by infinity. Do you feel it now? How special is Jesus? Do you have a word for it? If so, then your concept of his specialness is probably too small. He is super special. He is really, really, really, really, really special. He is special d much. He is special infinity. He is, yes, he is. He truly is. And you believe it, don't you? Well, here's what he thinks of you, who believes in him. See what great love the Father has lavished on us that we should be called children of God. And that is what we are. That is who we are, followers of Christ. That is who we are. Don't merely intellectually agree with this. Please come to grips with it. What does it mean to be called children of God? Well, what does it mean to be called children of our parents? One of the things it means is that the children take on the name of their parents. We bear God's name. My son Tyler, my daughter Danny, they belong to the house of Skinner. I'm their daddy. As Christians, they belong to the house of the Lord, headed by the ultimate Macdadie. That is so cool. So utterly fantastic. It's so wow. You know Isn't it? Are you with me? Do you trust in Jesus and his sacrifice as payment for your sins? Have you turned from your sinful path to now stumble steadily up the path of righteousness? Then hear ye, hear ye, behold, your heavenly father has lavished upon you a love. Of great love. So much so that he now calls you his child. That is who you are. Really. Truly, verily, yes, you are. It's important that you know this. I'm spending so much time driving this point home because you just must know it. You must. Do you know it? Do you Good. Because you're gonna need to know this because it is hard to bear The blessing of God's name upon you. In a world that hates God's name. In a world that's embattled in spiritual warfare, and this this is real deal warfare. We're all combatants, followers of Christ, imperfect combatants. Still progressing in our sanctification, still prone to slip into sin, and surrounded by people who can't help us, who fight against us, because they do not acknowledge God. As John writes, the reason the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Dear friends, now we are children of God, and what we will be has not yet been made known. But We know that when Christ appears, we shall be like him, for we shall see him as he is. All who have this hope in him purify themselves just as he is pure. So it's hard. It's hard because the world does not understand us and purposely makes life hard sometimes for us. But it's a blessing, a privilege. In the end, we will be pure. Like Christ is pure. When he comes back, when he appears to us, we will see him unveiled. See him as he is. What a motivator for hanging on to the hope that lies within us. But it's hard. It's hard because of sin, even in our own lives. John says in verses 4 through 6: everyone who sins breaks the law. In fact, sin is lawlessness. But you know that he appeared so that he might take away our sins, and in him is no sin. No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. Now, on the one hand, it'd be easy to stay focused on the last verse that hammers the way on sin and scares us a little bit. But before tackling that, let me encourage you to gravitate first toward the thoughts in verses 4 and 5. We're reminded that breaking the law is sin. Lawlessness is bad. If we don't obey God's best plan for us, we bring guilt upon ourselves. But And it's a big but at the start of verse 5. But the eternal son entered human history as a child who grew into a man to be served up. as the only way acceptable for clearing our slate. Those who will accept this are now in his family. And God's family has no sin, by definition. So if you bear his name, then you bear no guilt. How much do you love that? Now for verse six No one who lives in him keeps on sinning. No one who continues to sin has either seen him or known him. Hmm, that's problematic. I continue to sin, don't I? How about you? You continue to sin? Not good. Is it possible that we don't know him after all? Well, let's consider what's meant by these two sentences. It's all going to come down to what's meant by continuing to sin. Christians do not keep on sinning. Christians don't get mired in their sin and stay there. Christians don't wallow in their sin, satisfied and happy in their sin, like pigs in their slop pens. Christians might get dirty, but they wash up. They repent. They work at avoiding the pitfalls that trap them so that they don't trip up and fall again into those mud puddles that pepper our world's landscape like so many landmines. Non-Christians continue in their sin. They tolerate it. They might do more even than accept it. They might celebrate it This becomes definitive for their lives. Christians continue in the faith. They persevere to overcome. To overcome the temptations of their own flesh as well as those temptations swirling about them in the world. This is what defines the life of the Christian. It's not that Christians suddenly live perfect lives. Rather, we live perseverant lives. We know this is what John has in mind here in this verse, because earlier in the same epistle, John tells us that anyone who claims to be without sin is a liar. And that concludes part one of this special edition of the Faith Debate Show again. Um Appreciate you hanging in there with us while we're dealing with some scheduling conflicts. Jonathan Schweitzer's got some things swirling about in his uh ministry life and personal life. It's made it tough for us to get together on the the regular regiment of schedule that we need to to keep this show moving along. But uh in uh in the spirit of Jonathan will pretend he's here from uh Jonathan, why don't you tell us about Frederick forty eight? I don't know, I can't I can't do a Jonathan personation, but I will tell you, you need to go to Frederick48. org. Frederick forty eight dot org and there you'll find all sorts of information about how you can support the local charities in Frederick County. They've had their funding cut the last couple of years because of uh well budgetary necessities perhaps from for Frederick County And so um really good social agencies, not for profits trying to do good work out there helping people who uh need help, uh don't have the kind of resources maybe that uh that they once had or certainly need to have It's ironic, right? They have less money at a time when there's more need. So if you are in a position to help, go to Frederick48. org and there you'll see a listing of all the organizations in Frederick County that are in need of some help And you can select one. You can find out more information about them first before making your selection. I encourage you to do that. Speaking of websites, I encourage you to visit our website. Go to wfmd. com, keyword faith There you'll find the uh Faith Debate page. You go to WFMD. com, keyword faith thinks you're right to the Faith Debate page. There you'll find all sorts of links, including links to podcasts. There's a couple of different ways to access the podcast, so look through the site And you'll see uh pointers to easy ways to download shows or just listen to shows or whatever. Um we've been doing the show for coming up on eight years and all but two years. We we lost somewhere along the line lost a hundred shows It just disappeared into vapor. But all the rest of the shows are up there for you to listen to if if if you care to. Um what have I been reading? I forgot to mention last week that I've been reading, so I'll try to make up for that And uh it's interesting what I'm gonna be mentioning that I've been reading. Preaching Christ in all of Scripture is one that I've uh just finished reading recently. Edmund P. Clowney, Preaching Christ in All of Scripture, very good, I recommend that. Uh and why Johnny Can't Preach Um if you're a pastor and you're easily angered by criticism, then don't read it. But if you want to hear some cold hard truths about the state of preaching in America uh then you need to read uh T. David Gordon's book, Why Johnny Can't Preach. Very convicting stuff. Anyway, we'll continue with part two of the special edition of the Faith Debate Show next week Want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Say hello to Marlena and Patrick for me when you give them a buzz, all right, if you would. I appreciate that. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from now. See you then. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?