Broadcasting from the Felipe State. That is Frederick City, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman, Fleming, and Heating. How can we make you smile? Find the Faith Debate online at WFMD. com, keywordfaith. There you'll find all sorts of religious links, including links to podcasts of previous faith debate shows. You'll also find the Faith Debate blog On the right hand side of the webpage, my blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com Whatever you send me, I copy and paste right onto the webpage. Whatever you send me within reason. Nine fresh blog postings are uploaded each and every weekdays, 45 a week of your stuff Actually pretty good stuff. So thank you for sending. Our show today is a special edition broadcast because you've been listening the last few weeks, then you heard me say that you need a little behind the scenes here, all right? Bring together our panel, these guys are busy, they're pastors or whatever, and getting them together to talk about the things we like to talk about takes a little bit of time. So what we usually do is we'll in one session, we will put together four or five shows That's why you hear the same panel four or five weeks in a row usually. Um so when we have a cancellation or a change in schedule it affects four or five weeks worth of shows. So for the last four weeks We've been because of a conflict that uh Jonathan Schweitzer had with his church, we had to reschedule and we did the special edition of the Faith Debate Show. Well, now Jonathan's had some conflicts uh of a personal ma uh nature, a matter with his family that he needs uh his utmost attention. And so we're behind the eight ball again And so the these special editions continue. So what you're going to hear now is a message that I was allowed uh to share with a uh Christian congregation in the mid-Marylland uh region not too long ago The title of this uh message is Beware the Antichrist, based on 1 John chapter 2 and uh 1 John chapter 4. All right, so here it is. I hope you enjoy it Hope you uh don't mind me indulging. It's better than me just twiddling my thumbs for a half hour, you know what I'm saying? So here we go without further ado Westboro Baptist Church in Kansas likes to travel the country and protest at funerals of fallen military men and women. The people at this church think that God is punishing our nation because the United States Armed Forces allow homosexuals to serve in uniform. And so these Baptist protesters hold up signs saying things like, God hates English cigarettes. Or words to that effect. Are people holding these signs and yelling out hurtful slogans, Christians? Are their leaders preaching and teaching Christ? Just up the road from here, there's a Unity Church. The spiritual leader there has publicly spoken against this sort of hate speech. In fact, she says it's hateful even to talk about sin or to use the word sin. She tells others that what they have is errors in their thinking, error thought. Steal from your employer, cheat on your spouse, murder a small child. These are examples of error thinking Are people who hold to such open-minded and non-judging attitudes Christian? Is that spiritual leader that I just described a follower of and an ambassador for Christ? I want the evangelists busy making a name for themselves by offering up healings in exchange for love gifts. How about the preachers on the radio who guide people to believe that if they just wish for something hard enough and have enough faith that they can speak their dreams and desires into existence? Into reality. What about the men of God on the bestseller lists We're right about discovering and then tapping into that spark of the divine you have within you, that we all have within us, because we're all divine, you see. As we're working through answering questions like this, we might be tempted to ask, what is wrong with the world? Things just keep getting worse and worse, don't they? Kind of makes you pine for the good old days. Well, let's read something from the New Testament that was written during these good old days. First John chapter 2, beginning with verse uh verse 18 through the end of the chapter. And then we'll jump ahead to 1 John chapter 4. Begin with verse 18. Dear children, this is the last hour. And as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming, even now Many Antichrists have come. This is how we know it is the last hour. They went out from us, but they did not really belong to us, for if they had belonged to us, they would have remained with us. But their going showed that none of them belong to us But you have an anointing from the Holy One, and all of you know the truth. I do not write to you because you do not know the truth, but because you do know it, and because no lie comes from the truth. Who is the liar? It is whoever denies that Jesus is the Christ. Such a person is Antichrist. Denying the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever acknowledges the Son has the Father also. As for you, see that what you have heard from the beginning remains in you. If it does, you also will remain in the Son and in the Father. And this is what He promised us. Eternal life. I am writing these things to you about those who are trying to lead you astray. As for you, the anointing you receive from him remains in you, and you do not need anyone to teach you. But as his anointing teaches you about all things, and as that anointing is real, not counterfeit, just as as it has taught you. Remain in him. And now, dear children, continue in him, so that when he appears, we may be confident and unashamed before him at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, you know that everyone who does what is right has been born of him. And now skipping ahead to first John chapter 4, the first six verses. Dear friends, do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. This is how you can recognize the Spirit of God. Every spirit that acknowledges that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. But every spirit that does not acknowledge Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you have heard is coming and even now is already in the world. You dear children are from God and have overcome them because the one who is in you is greater than the one who is in the world. They are from the world, and therefore speak from the viewpoint of the world, and the world listens to them. We are from God. And whoever knows God listens to us. But whoever is not from God does not listen to us. This is how we recognize the spirit of truth and the spirit of falsehood. Father, I ask that you would bless us by helping us to feel your presence that we know is here today. As we feel that presence, we ask that you would help us be a blessing unto you. That we would internalize the truth of your word, that we would equip ourselves to do battle in the world, that we would recognize the lies for what they are, the dangers that they are, and that we would cling ferociously to the truth, to you, and the salvation that you offer us through your Son. And it's in his name that we pray. Amen. Now as I was reading from 1 John chapter 2 and then 1 John chapter 4, you might have been wondering what happened to 1 John 3? Well it's still there, you can check if you want. I assure you it's there. I just didn't read it, I skipped over it for now. And if you heard my previous three sermon messages on 1 John, you might have noticed that I skipped around quite a bit as we covered the first one and a half chapters of 1 John. We covered every verse, but not necessarily in exact order. Why would I do that? Well, I'm doing my best to try to capture the chain of thoughts that were presented in this literature from John the Apostle. Or is it authored by John the Apostle? Within the body of the text, we're not told who the author is. However, the church traditionally accepts that John is the author along with the Holy Spirit. And we have pretty good confidence that this is true, as far as I'm concerned. So there's I mean there really is very little debate amongst scholars anywhere of any consequence on this. However, there is much debate and much disagreement over the structure of 1 John. In one commentary that I consulted, it suggested eight different outlines for 1 John. All eight could be right. All eight could be wrong. Now I doubt very much that John began by sitting down with a writing down a firm outline and then writing his message from there. That might be how we were taught to do it in junior and senior high school. But John didn't attend government funded American public schools, so he probably didn't know about this practice. Anyway, what we have is this beautiful, passionate, grammatically simple letter that has a few important points to make and makes them very nicely. Number wait. Is it a letter? Some say it's a written sermon. Some say it's a paper that was responding sort of academically to a series of challenges and questions facing the church. We generally refer to this, 1 John, as the first epistle. From John. An epistle means letter. So maybe we could think of this as a sermon or a paper sent along to be read like a letter. It doesn't really matter all that much for discussion today, but I felt like I should bring this sort of stuff up at some point in my series on 1 John, and now seems like as good a time as any. So back to my point. Why am I jumping around 1 John? As I walk through these first few chapters. Well, the message I'm delivering to you right now is a pretty good example, I think, for us to consider. You're free to disagree, but I think and I hope that when I'm through that most will agree that There was a coherence and a cohesion to what I say today. You will, God willing, be able to recall the main points and perhaps even be able to apply them to your life in some way. Yet I've already jumped from contemporary examples from the modern American church landscape to quoting a long passage from an ancient document. I then jumped from a prayer to thoughts about skipping around, to questions about authorship, to literary structure and literary genre. And then I jumped into the issue of jumping around and in a moment I'll be skipping to brief considerations regarding the historical and geographical setting, as well as the intended original audience. Now I won't spend a ton of time on any of these sections individually, and I will revisit some of these sections, these areas, multiple times. So may God bless your attempts to outline my message and come up with and outline anything at all like what I would have come up with. And this is exactly what's happening at 1 John. At least that's how it appears to me. John has some things he wants to say, and he's going to say them by golly, and he's going to say it persuasively and passionately and clearly, even without an easy-discern outline. for its structure. This is how people communicate a lot of the time, it seems to me. You ever find yourself maybe talking about, I don't know, evolution with somebody and then you're like, wait a minute. How do we get here? How do we end up talking about this? And then you retrace your steps, you realize, oh yeah, wait a minute. We were talking about the Kentucky Derby. Right? And then we were talking about sports betting in general. And that led to us talking about sports movies. Then we brought up the movie Secretariat. And this causes to discuss the Sports Illustrated article on Secretariat, which uh that article said the Secretariat, which was a horse, was one of the greatest athletes of all time, so this raised all sorts of uh biological and anthropological questions Which then led to us to ponder the merits of evolution. That ever happened to you? Happens to me all the time. In this example that I just gave you, we were talking basically about sports and animals, right? Took several detours along the way, but all basically on these two topics. Well, first John is held together way better than this, praise God. But the point is that because 1 John does not have a tightly woven structure, at least not that's super easy to discern, I'm grappling with the material more topically. And the last half of chapter two, along with the first part of chapter four, present us with similar topical material. And that's why we're doing what we're doing the way we're doing it. Hope we're clear. By the way, before getting fully back on track, uh I have to ask you something. A minute ago I mentioned that I wouldn't be spending a ton of time on any of these particular topics, so I'm wondering How many minutes would a person have to stuff inside a container before it would weigh 2,000 pounds? Don't try to answer it. There is no answer. Don't even think about it. I am distracting you from what's important. And this is what the false teachers do. So we swung that right back around. Now I started this message with quick-hitting examples of various types of false Christian teaching. in modern day and postmodern day America. And I did this because well you're Americans, mostly anyway, I assume. And you live at the end of the modern era and the beginning of the postmodern era. That's where we are in history right now. That is my audience today. Who was John's audience? Who was John talking to, and where were they? Let's tackle the where question first. Where was John? And where did the original readers live? We don't know. Not for sure. You're likely familiar with the story that John at the end of his life was exiled to the island of Patmos, but most agree that 1 John was written before that. There's debate, but if you want to say that John was writing from somewhere in Asia Minor, say somewhere near Phrygia, for example, I'm okay with that. And if you want to say that the original readers were residing uh in and around house churches, your Ephesus, I'm okay with that. It does seem that this particular area, uh which would become the core of the Ottoman Empire, does give us a good cultural fit for the sort of heresies that John is battling in this piece of literature. And if you prefer to refer to this land by its modern name, the nation of Turkey, well, I'm okay with that too. Now let's tackle the who question. To whom is John addressing his thoughts? Well, he's talking to Christians, we know that. He addresses his dear children, uh, who have an anointing from the Holy Spirit. And know the truth which remains in them because they have overcome the world. Why? Because the one greater than the world resides in them Well, this is true of us too, if we're Christians. As students of John's teaching, we are his children. We have the Holy Spirit. The truth is in us. So we have overcome the world through the power of Jesus, who is greater than the world, because he made the world. So when John addresses his readers as us and we, it is perfectly appropriate for us to think that we and us are his audience. That we're the ones he's talking to. But it's not really totally as simple as that, because I mean it can be helpful to understand who the readers were almost 2,000 years ago. What was going on in their lives, in their communities? For example, what do you suppose was their price for a gallon of gas? Wonder what their favorite television shows were. Think they preferred foreign or domestic cars? Ooh, you know. See, they might not have very much in common with us after all. So this letter or whatever it is might not really be relevant to us. Sorry. Might have wasted your time this morning. Oh well, that's the end of the sermon. Thanks for listening. We close in a prayer. In the name of Jesus Christ. Amen. Most of you are giggling, some of you are looking unsure, is he kidding? I'm confused. Is he really stopping now? No, I'm not really stopping now, but that is where many would have a stop. There are people that say the Bible, it's really, really old and dusty. It can't be expected to be relevant to us today. It's quaint, but it's not applicable for our time. As if the message of salvation is applicable to all people at all times. But let's just take a look at it anyway. Maybe these people lived in an era that was much more like ours than we think. So what was going on back then? Generally speaking, there were two major cultural and religious influences at the time for these first century Christians, Judaism and Hellenism. Judeo-Christian religion, if you will, in a context of a society that was heavily influenced by Greek philosophy. Gee, that's absolutely nothing like America. In America, our nation was founded on a Judeo-Christian ethic. In the global context of Western civilization, which is rooted in ancient Greek philosophy. See how the situation is totally different? No? Me neither. Judaism had by this time become a system of religious rules. Do this, don't do that. The religion is what was important. Live moral lives, get circumcised, do all the approved rituals, avoid all the disapproved behaviors. A person could tell how good they were by comparing themselves to others. Hellenism, Greek philosophy, emphasized the intellect, knowledge, and the pursuit of greater and greater insights, particularly insights about oneself was the passion of the times. Maybe not every person of the times, but for the elite, the really smart, the really special people Oh yeah. Personal discovery would make you better than the next guy who wasn't as bright as you were. This still sounds like our American culture. Okay, so maybe it is relevant to us today, after all, at least a little bit, so the sermon must continue for a stretch, I think, as though that was ever at any great risk. Let's talk about these legalists and these pre-Gnostic Docetists Those are your two big words for the week. Pre-Gnostic docetists. We'll talk about those later, but first let's talk about the legalists. There were people within the confines of the visible Christian church who clung to the law as to an idol. This works righteousness eliminated the need for a messiah in the minds of these pronomians. That's Greek for we love rules more than God. That definition might be so cutesy as to be unfair, but the pronomians did use the ceremonial law as a way to get to God. Sounds like it could be a good plan, except it's not God's plan for us. Why do we need a savior? If we can save ourselves through keeping the law. And by even adding to the law, they're becoming a law unto themselves. So in claiming to love the law, the self-made law, they were really loving themselves and rejecting God. Bad dudes, right? Glad we're not like them Glad we completely trust in the finished work of Jesus and not in our own ability to memorize scripture verses and tithe exactly ten percent to the penny and to get up early for personal devotions and to pray before each and every meal. Glad we don't trust in that. Seriously, we're not trusting in that. Are we? We're keeping the Sabbath, but we're not trusting in that. Are we? We are kind and loving and patient, or at least try to be, but we're not trusting in that, are we? We don't smoke or drink or watch our rated movies. So of course, we're going to heaven. We don't think like this. Do we? And that's the end of part one of the message. A lot of the background material and stuff I realize now listening to it back is contained in that first half, get into the heart of the of the message. in part two, which will air next week. This is the Project Face to Base Special Edition. Jonathan Sweitzer had some uh emergency things to attend to Uh his world's been turned upside down in in recent weeks, it seems. But uh we'll be back on track soon enough. So thank you for bearing with us. Hope you're enjoying this uh alternative to what we normally would do on the show. What am I reading these days? Apropos, preaching the whole Bible is Christian Scripture by Graham Goldsworthy. A hearty recommend for anyone in the clergy, anybody who thinks they might want to be a pastor, anybody who wants a better sense of what their pastor should be doing up there. Each and every week, preaching the whole Bible as Christian scripture. I encourage you to visit the Faith Debate online. Go to WFMD. com. Keyword Faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page. There you'll find links to podcasts of previous shows like this one. You'll find links to all sorts of religious information. You'll Find a blog on the right hand side. Your blog, uh really, is wh I should refer to that as opposed to my blog. It's the Faith Debate blog, and you are part of the Faith Debate. You email me Troiskinner at Clearchannel. com and if it's not completely horribly offensive and it's even loosely related to the kind of things we talk about in this show I just copy and paste and post it right up there. Nine postings every day, Monday through Friday, forty-five postings a week. Um we'll be back next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours. From now with part two of the message you were just listening to. Again, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate been brought to us by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you so much for your continued loyalty to this show. It means a lot to me and John, everybody involved with this show. Until next time, God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?