Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfied things. Find the face debate online at WFMD. com Keyword F. Faith. There you'll find the Faith Debate blog, news items, podcasts, links, all sorts of stuff. Our blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, T-R-O-Y, S-K-I-N-N-E-R, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post wherever you send me, because my blog is your vlog. Forty-five blog updates go up each week. Nine per day, each weekday, Monday through Friday. I encourage you to pop in and see what other people are saying, even if you aren't sending an email yourself. Again, that's WFMD. com keyword faith. On the Faith Debate today, a special edition, as uh we continue to keep the calendar rolling, every once in a while I get invited to uh share a message uh in the area and uh sometimes those messages are recorded and when they are Uh when I run into a scheduling conflict, we gotta you know the show must go on, you know using the audio from those messages. Hopefully they are uh an encouragement and edifying to you. By the way, I uh didn't have time to mention our sponsor at the end of the show last week, so I'm gonna mention him a second time of the name, How can we make you smile? Here's a message. Um a couple weeks ago we heard a message about First Peter chapter two. This is a message from First Peter chapter five. Enjoy. 1 Peter chapter 5 verse 1 through 4 is an appeal from the Apostle Peter to people like you. It's a direct appeal from the Word of God to you and to me. At the close of the previous section, right before we get into here and start chapter 5, Peter's talking about Christian suffering. He's talking about Christian suffering throughout the letter, of course, but he really hits it hard again in chapter four, verses twelve through nineteen, where he writes things like, Dear friends, do not be surprised at the fiery ordeal that has come to test you as though something strange Who are happening to you as you participate in the sufferings of Christ and are insulted because of the name of Christ? If you suffer as a Christian, do not be ashamed. For it is a time of judgment to begin with God's household. It's hard for the righteous to be saved. So that those who suffer according to God's will continue to do good. It's hard being obedient. It's hard being saved. And therefore Because it's so hard, so very hard for our brothers and sisters in Christ to be saved. Peter has an appeal to the elders of the church. He has an appeal to the leaders in the church, to the mature in the faith. Peter said at the start of chapter 5, to the elders among you I appeal. As a fellow elder and a witness of Christ's sufferings, who also will share and the glory be revealed, be shepherds of God's flock that is under your care, watching over them, not because you must. But because you are willing, as God wants you to be, not pursuing this honest game, but eager to serve, not lording it over those entrusted in you, but being examples to the flock. And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the crown of glory. It will never fade away. Could you pray with me? Father of heaven, we magnify your name and earnestly pray that you would send your spirit in a very special, intimate way into our hearts, into our minds. Help us not only to understand what you've written for us here through uh The pen of Peter so many years ago is still so applicable today, not just to understand with our minds, but to internalize it in our hearts and to apply it with our lives as we serve and minister to the people of your church. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. As we work our way through the first four verses of chapter five, we're going to focus on three primary points of emphasis. And then we're going to wrap up with a consideration of what it's all about. So we are going to ask and answer three questions. We're going to ask who What and why? Who are the elders? What do the elders do? And why did the elder do this? And then we are going to consider a big question that has a big answer. Is it worth it? First, who are the elders? Peter writes in verse one to the elders among you I appeal as a fellow elder, and a witness of Christ's sufferings, who also will share in the glory to be revealed. So we see here that Peter is an elder. Given the historical literary context, I should consider that it's fair to say that this isn't merely or only talking about ordained elders. Certainly Peter might have ordained elders in view, but I don't think that he's specifically talking Only about ordained elders. He's talking about those who are also mature in the faith. Leaders in the church. Perhaps even the heads of households, maybe of house churches at the time, ordained or not. You might want to split hairs with me on that? Point. We can do that later. Let's not be distracted right now for what Peter wants us to hear in this message for ourselves in this room right now. Peter identifies himself as a fellow elder. As such he's a witness of Christ's sufferings. So are we. Witnesses of Christ's sufferings. It's true that Peter saw things we haven't seen. Saw Jesus transfigured, saw Jesus walked on the water, you know Tried to go run out and meet him on the water. Saw Jesus the night that he was betrayed by Judas. Saw all these things and many other things, including the empty tomb after Christ's resurrection. We didn't see any of these things. Well, Peter's not saying that he's a witness of Christ. by sufferings in this regard, at least not primarily this regard. It's possible that Peter is talking about some aspects of his unique witness experience. What he's mostly targeting is his fellowship with the elders. He's so focused on this fellow eldership that he invents a word for it. Nowhere else in the New Testament do we find the word that Peter uses here for fellow elders. In fact, the scholars tell us that we don't find this word anywhere in antiquity. until after Peter uses it. Seems that Peter has coined the phrase because fellow eldership is that important to him. And as a fellow elder, he appeals to his fellow elders. He appeals to you. Leaders in the church mature in the faith. You also are witnesses of Christ's suffering. The Greek word for witness, of course, is martyr. Typically use this word today to talk about those who have given a testimony, a witness of Christ, and it has cost them their lives. Life for their testimony. The testimony, the witness of Christ's sufferings, and then they end up sharing in Christ's sufferings as a result of that testimony. We have witnesses in our American courtrooms who are called to testify, to give witness, often at great risk to themselves. We as Christians are called to give a testimony, to give a witness, often at great risk to ourselves. Christ's followers are called to testify, to give witness. And we know that we are called to do this, that we are witnesses not just from what Peter says here, but from what the entire Bible tells us. For example, in Acts 22, we're reading the Apostle Paul and his conversion, and he's immediately charged with being a witness to all the people. Charged with giving testimony about the people. Christ and his sufferings. Paul's instructed to be a witness. Peter here is saying, I'm a witness. Peter's here saying, you and I, we are witnesses. Believers are called to give witness to Christ's sufferings. In this we are said, are called to be like our Lord. But we don't always heed this call if we're honest. But praise God, our Savior is. As it says in Revelation chapter 1, it is Jesus Christ who is the faithful witness. How glorious a flood is that So who are the elders? First and foremost, they are witnesses of what Christ has done in his passion, in his suffering. And as witnesses, they will share in the glory that will be revealed. saw a glimpse of this glory in the transfiguration, but that's nothing compared to what will be revealed. And the elders will share in this. Because all Christians will share in this. Elders are, first and foremost, Christians. Anything about elders is because of and in Christ, just as any specialness about any Christian is because of and in Christ. But elders are somewhat distinct from younger Christians. We get that from the text. The distinction is one of all Which brings us to our second point. What is it that the elders do? In verse 2, Peter begins, these shepherds of God's flock that is under your care watching over them. So elders behave as shepherds. They care for the flock, watch over the flock that's been allotted to them. They protect the flock. It's important to note that the flock is not yours. It's God's flock. Peter tells us that this flock is God's flock, and we are to be shepherds of God's flock. Shepherding involves at least two things: caring for the flock, washing over the flock. So let's look at each of these. First, caring for the flock. When determining how to care for God's flock, We need to determine what it is the Lord has said about how to care for his flock. So we're going to flip over to John chapter 21. I encourage you to do that and uh keep a thumb there because we're going to spend some time in John chapter 10 as well. John chapter 21, we're going to flip There because there we find a famous story that directly involves what the Lord has to say. It also involves Peter and the flock. John chapter 21. There we re beginning with verse 15. When they had finished eating, Jesus said to Simon Peter, Simon, of John, you love me more than these? Yes, Bullet said, you know that I love you. Jesus said, feed my lambs. Again Jesus said, Simon, son of John, do you love me? And he answered, Yes, Lord, you know that I love you. And Jesus said, Take care of my sheep. The third time he said to him, Simon, son of John, do you love me? Peter was hurt because Jesus asked him the third time, do you love me? He said, Lord, you know all things. You know that I love you. And Jesus said, Feed my sheep. Very truly I tell you, when you were younger you dressed yourself and went where you wanted, but when you were old you will stretch out your hands, and someone else will dress you and lead you where you do not want to go. Jesus said this to indicate the time you have. of death by which Peter would glorify God. And then he said to him, Follow me. Follow me, he says. Follow me. Jesus doesn't push and shove Peter. Jesus doesn't lean from behind. Jesus doesn't drive Peter at the end of a cracking whip. Instead, he steps out front and he says, Amoni And Peter followed him to his death like Jesus. A death that would glorify God like Jesus. Peter followed because he knew Christ's voice. Flip back 11 chapters from where we just were, John's gospel account, John chapter 10. Because here we read another one of the really famous stories of Jesus talking about his sheep. It's still a longer passage. We're going to read all five paragraphs. We're going to really enjoy these five paragraphs of the Lord speaking to us. The chapter begins with Jesus speaking, Very truly I tell you, Pharisees, anyone who does not enter the sheep pen by the gate but climbs in by some other way is a thief and a robber. The one who enters by the gate Is the shepherd of the sheep. The gatekeeper opens the gate for him, and the sheep listens to his voice. He calls his own sheep by name and leads them out. When he has brought out all his own, he goes on ahead of them, and his sheep follow him because they know his voice. But they will never follow a stranger. In fact, they will run away from him because they do not recognize a stranger's voice. Jesus uses I used this figure of speech, but the Pharisees did not understand what he was telling them. Therefore Jesus said again, Very truly I tell you, I am the gate for the sheep. All who have come before me are thieves and robbers, but the sheep have not listened to them. I am the gate. Whoever enters through me will be saved. They will come in and go out and find pasture. The thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. I have come that they may have life and have it in full. I am the good shepherd. The good shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. A hired hand is not the shepherd and does not own the sheep. So when he sees the wolf coming, he abandons the sheep and runs away. And then the wolf attacks and the flock scatters. The man runs away because he has a hired hand. He cares nothing for the sheep. I am the good shepherd. I know my sheep. My sheep know me. Just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I laid down my life for the sheep. I have other sheep that are not of this sheep hen, and I must bring them also. They too will listen to my voice. And there shall be one flock and one shepherd. The reason my father loved me is I lay down my life only to take it up again. No one takes it from me, but I lay it down of my own accord. I have authority to lay it down, and authority to take it up again. This command I received from my father. The Jews who heard these words were again divided. Many of them said, He is demon possessed and raving mad. Why listen to him? But others said, These are not the sayings of a man possessed by a demon. Can a demon open the eyes open the eyes of the blind? Making the festival dedication at Jerusalem. winter and Jesus was in the temple, courts walking in South of the Colonel, the Jews who were there gathered around and saying, How long will you keep us in suspense? If you are the Messiah, tell us plainly. And Jesus answered, I did tell you, but you do not believe. The works I do in my Father's name testify about me. But you do not believe because you are not my sheep. My sheep, listen to my voice I know them and they follow me. I give them eternal life, and they shall never perish. No one will snatch them out of my hand. My father who has given it to me is greater than all, and no one can snatch them out of my Father's hand. I am the Father. are one. The Son and the Father are one. Those who follow Jesus are also one with Christ. And so we need to behave like those who are one in Christ, especially the elders, the leaders, those who are mature in the faith. The sheep know my voice Says Jesus. So we need to call out to the sheep in the voice of Jesus. We need to speak to the flock, God's word. We need to do this to lead them, not drive them. This way that we care for, watch over, protect the flock. Watching over the flock includes these responsibilities that Jesus has mentioned. The flock needs to be watched over, needs to be protected. The elders are overseers, guarding and protecting the flock. Flock Protecting from what? Guarding against what? Well the false teaching hired hands, for one. The dangerous predatory wild animals like The wolf, Jesus has said, or like the lion, Peter will say. You turn back to 1 Peter, the passage we were written just a second ago in Peter's letter. We were looking at 1 Peter chapter 5, verses 1 through 4. Jump ahead just a couple sentences, we'll find that chapter 5. Verse 8, this warning from Peter, your enemy, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, looking for someone to devour. The devil is prowling. The lies of the world anti-Christian teaching even dissension with the flock are looking to scatter For someone to devour. And like our fellow elder Peter, who was following the good shepherd Jesus, elders in the church, those mature in the faith must be willing to lay down their lives. being in a flock. Why do this? I mean besides, you know, flat obedience, and there's certainly something to be said for that. Why do something so dangerous? What's the motivation for this? Well that's point number three. of the message, why do elders do? Peter writes the last half of verse 2 and all of verse 3. That the elders do this Not because you must, but because you're willing, as God wants you to be. Not pursuing dishonest game, but eager to serve. Not hoarding it over those that trusted you of being examples to the flock. So there are three reasons that are given. Elders do this because they want to, because they're eager to serve, and because they're entrusted to be examples. So let's take a moment and examine each one of these three. Elders care for and watch over God's flock. Because they want to. Because God wants them to. But we don't always want to, do we? Sure. We might want to as a salve to help treat our fractured and fragile egos. We might want to because it gives us a sense of success and self-worth to compensate for our notions of inadequacy? I mean think about it. Picture this, someone says to you, what sort of work do you do? And you might say, oh, me? Little old me? I'm a seminary student. Seminary professor. I'm in the ministry. I'm a missionary. I'm a church planter. I'm a theologian. I'm a pastor. That all sounds good. Or someone asks you, what church? Who me? Yeah, uh I go to church, certainly I go to church, and I attend homeless. And I humbly serve the church. I host a weekly Bible study in my homes on Thursday nights and I teach Sunday school on occasion. Sometimes they ask me to read a portion of scripture and service and I humbly accept. I'll walk up and down the aisles and collect the money during the tithes and offerings. Yeah, I'm a deacon. I'm an elder. My wife and I, we serve in the mentoring program, we volunteer with the youth group, and we especially volunteer with the youth on those days when they go out to help feed the poor. It all sounds very pious, doesn't it? And too often I wonder if we serve leadership roles in God's church so that we can sound humble or look pious. Not only to other people, but even to ourselves. We're willing. No one's forcing us to do these things, but are we willing as God wants us to be? Peter writes that you care for and be God's flock because you're willing as God wants you to be. We might all need to examine our hearts. I venture to say that none of us would pass the examination. We all of us sort of maintain a consistently proper willingness. But be not discouraged. Jesus was and is perfectly willing. And as Christians in Christ, we are being sanctified. We are being conformed to his image until at the last in glorification we'll be exactly who he wants to be, where he wants us to be. Now in addition to godly willingness, Peter says that elders serve the flock in God-honoring ways because they're eager to do so. Are you eager? Or is it just a career? As in a means to make a living, make a name for yourself, perhaps? Well, there are more lucrative ways to make money. Although not always. We're all familiar with stories, church leaders who are focused on putting panties in the seats and generating cash flow. Much to the discredit of Christ's Church. To chasing after fame and fortune that can come from leading some huge church, if you're Chasing after the prestige that can come from just the right assortment of degrees, just the right assortment of institutions of higher education. If you're chasing after popularity and publicity that can come from that big book deal or television program, or radio program, or maybe you're just chasing after having your name uttering the same breath with names like Keller, Piper, Scroll, Graham, Driscoll. Stop. He needs to be like Jesus, who overturned tables of money changers, who said to give to Caesar what is Caesar, and give God what is God's, who saw the wisdom, getting away from the crowd and the publicity and popularity. sometimes, who did not hire a PR firm. In fact, instructed people on numerous occasions not to do PR for him. Be leaders in the church, not for personal gain, not for dishonest gain, being leaders like Christ Eager to serve, washing even the feet of those you need. In verse 3, Peter makes the point there's no reason for lording over your leadership over the people because there's just one Lord, and we all serve under him. We are under shepherds. We're called to emulate him, to be an example of him to others. So what is the example that Jesus gives us? Well we read in Philippians chapter 2 verse 6 He though he was in the form of God did not count equality with God, a thing to be grasped. ESV NRSB says, who though he was in the form of God did not regard equality with God as something to be exploited The MID render Philippians 2, verse 6 through 8, this way, who being in very nature God did not consider equality with God, something to be used to his own advantage. Rather, he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant. Being made in human likeness and being found in appearance of a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to death. Even death on the cross. As elders, leaders in the church, Those who are mature in the faith, we need to be like Jesus. We need to focus on serving his flock like Jesus. The godly don't exploit their position of leadership for their own advantage, they humble themselves. Serve obediently, even if it means they must die for doing so. And so we near the end of our time with the end of Peter's passage. The question we might wonder, is it worth it? Peter doesn't pose this question exactly. Instead he lays out for us just what it's what's at stake. He tells us just what it's worth and then allows us to recognize its value. Peter writes in verse 4, and when the chief shepherd appears you will receive the crown of glory that will never fade away. Crowns are a big deal today. Many pageant queens wear them, King of England has them. As big a deal as they are today, they were even bigger to them in the first century. Crowns, image, it's powerful, powerful kings and queens. Wore crowns. Great victors, such as champion athletes, would win crowns. It was the gold medal, the medal of honor, the Super Bowl trophy of the day. Christ, of course, was going to mock him crown, crown of thorns. Victor's crown would have been made of beautiful flowers. Sort of head-sized wreath, a symbol of life, vitality, beauty. Christ's crown It's a crown that had already faded. There's nothing there symbolizing anything good and powerful, at least that's what the lonely soldiers thought. But the crown of glory. The crown of afternoon. That's the chief shepherd's eternal crown. Never fades, never loses its luster, never loses its glory. Imagine when Christ appears. And in exchange for that suffering crown of forms, He gives you his crown and never fails. Because Christ's glory never fails. A moment ago I read you a portion of Philippians chapter 2. Let me read it to you again, only this time we're going to continue with the verses that follow immediately after what we read earlier. Philippians chapter two verses two through eleven, which say, who being in the very nature of God did not consider equality with God something to be used to his own advantage, rather he made himself nothing by taking the very nature of a servant, being made in human likeness. And being found in appearance as a man who humbled himself by becoming obedient to death, even death on a cross. Therefore, therefore God exalted him to the highest place and gave him the name that is above. Every name that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue acknowledge that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father Goosebumps. Is it worth it? Oh yeah. It's just so worth it. It's where everything. It's where everything. And God's flock needs to be reminded by the shepherds, by you. Because it's hard. Being saved. It is hard suffering. It is hard being stopped and pursued by predators on the prowl. So the people of God need to be cared for, encouraged, and instructed. In the chief shepherd's voice, the word of God. So I appeal to you, as Peter has appealed to us, each shepherd's God's flock. Father, we know that we We are completely inadequate to the task of shepherding your flock. And in Christ, we can do all things by the power of your Holy Spirit that resides within us. We beg of you that you help us take seriously the charge that you have given us as leaders in your church, those mature with faith, those who are preparing to be pastors, to be ministers to your people. Help us to hold the flock together and not to be the cause of its scattering. Help us to encourage and protect the flock by reminding them of who you are and always speaking to them with the good shepherds. voice. It's in that good shepherd's name, Jesus Christ, that we pray. Amen. And thus we've reached the end of that message. You are listening to the Frederick Bait Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you so much for tuning in. And my partner, John Sweitzer, who's not with us this week, so we don't have a panel discussion going on, but uh he'll be back. in a couple of weeks on the show as we get back to our regular routine and rhythm. Thanks so much. Uh may God bless you this week. We've got one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours until we come back at you. Until then, God bless.