Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement. Why? Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Our sponsor is Putman, Clumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? As always, I encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keywordface takes you to the Faith of Eight page. We're also on Facebook now. You can watch videos that Jonathan Sweitzer has been shooting the last several shows. I don't know. I I I start to say he's getting better at it and then he shoots a really bummer of a video. I don't know what the heck he's thinking sometimes, but every once in a while he surprises me and you never know which video it's gonna be. So you have to watch them all and every once in a while you have to wow, that was a good one So so I just want to know. And then if you want to find a good one by the way, like it on Facebook so others will know, oh that's a good one, I should watch that one. And I want you to pay attention to whether or not the bummer videos are videos of Troy when he's speaking and the good ones are videos of other people or not. Like it'd be good to you know, like determine which you're which, right? Yeah, would that be helpful? Now two shows ago you complimented me. I know, so I totally gotta make up for that. And now you've gone so you can hit you pretty hard to do. You know that the they they backslid in their training techniques uh w with regards to you over the last few weeks. Anyway, our our guests last two weeks and again this week are Imran Raz Razvi and Tammy Razvi. They are the founders of Conquered by Love Ministries And we've been talking about parenting in general. We're going to talk a little bit more about parenting and strategies as they relate to education, maybe in the public sphere as well. And we definitely want to spend some time talking about uh adoption at some point too. This is uh adoption month. So we so we um the Adoption Awareness Month, so we want to talk about that. And I usually you know wrap up uh uh the show with a little bit of time to talk about what I've been reading lately and promote websites and things like that. We've been so pressed for time that to make sure Uh we we get that in. If we end up doing having time to do it at the end of the show today too, so be it. That'd be good. But a couple of things I've been reading lately. God of Promise by Michael Horton. I would give that a recommend. Different like but might be related. It may be related. Might be related. I hear that Michael has a good memory and the elephants don't forget, so maybe uh maybe they are related. Uh from Paradise to the Promised Land by T. D. Alex uh Alexander, that's another uh recommend, by the way. So Basically anything by Horton and Alexander is probably going to be a recommended map. So Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I don't know if I introduced That's okay. Introduce me. Hey, by the way, your opening line about preaching with impacts like plowing pavement, did you make that up? Or is that something that you s stole from somebody somewhere and adapted it to your own I don't know who would originally get credit for the i the idea or the concept, but I remember years ago talking about it to to a pastor about pastoring in Frederick County. Yeah. And he's now pastoring in Georgia, so maybe he finally felt the weight of this. But we were talking about being a pastor and the pastorate and what it's like in Frederick County specifically. And he exclaimed that you know, being a pastor in Frederick County was like plowing pavement. And it struck with me as like what a visual and so I don't know if he stole it from somewhere else. And then where did you get the part because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. I will give credit to that. That one I can give credit to that. You're smiling. It's gotta be your wife. No, the pastor by the way, I'll give him full credit on the uh on the applying pavement. That was uh uh Jim Knight. Jim Knight Former pastor at uh what was then called Faith Reformed Presbyterian now Faith Church, I think. He really had a big influence in your life. Yes, he did. Uh one of my mentors. That's right. Uh even though he's in Georgia, still keep in touch. And uh the the uh unsatisfying things is a modified uh form of something that I first heard s stated by uh an associate pastor. uh who is now in Kentucky but at the time was working at Poolsville Baptist Church. Uh Kyle Brody. Mm. So I don't know if he stole it. It didn't come from that song I can't get no. So the way that I say it isn't exactly their quote. It has been adapted slightly for our context. Well maybe ask that question. I well, because I want to know whether or not I can steal it and use it like on Sunday mornings when I open up my church service. Trying to help me as a plagiarist, I see how you are. So I do if you can do this really quick, because I've been trying to get to it in a in a flowing way, and I don't know if we're ever going to get there, or maybe we have, and I've missed it. There are Five emotional needs that parents should be working to meet for their children. Yeah. Just in a quick list form. What are those five emotional needs? Because obviously at least two or three of them haven't been met in Jonathan's life and we need to correct that if we can. Troy personally wants to meet those in my life. Well th the five emotional needs that we all have and our children have that we're supposed to be meeting in their life are being wanted, being secure, which means being protected and cared for, being approved, being capable, and being needed. And being wanted, being secure, approved, capable, and needed. And ultimately, a parent who is meeting all of those needs in a child is exhibiting love. Love can be broken down into those five emotional needs being met in the child's life. They feel loved. they feel emotionally healthy and stable when they have all of those five emotional needs met. And you guys have tied that into what you feel was uh met for us in Jesus Christ that that when he came that he did that for all of us that that's a big part of how our Heavenly Father uh treats us. Right. First we're wanted. So it God jump in road because uh I I I can't get out of my head. There's a song from the seventies, Two Out of Three Ain't Bad. You know that song? No, I've never heard it. You know me. Was that a meatloaf song maybe? I don't remember who did that song. But uh uh I want you, I need you, but there ain't no way I'm ever gonna love you. Don't feel bad, two out of three ain't bad. But you know, so want and need are on the list, but what you're saying is It's more than just want and need. There's also this idea of security and approval and being capable. And so if he says I want you and I need but I'm never going to love you, what he's saying is look, I'm not going to value you enough to give you any sense of security I'm not going to give you approval and you aren't capable of winning my love. So it's really two out of five sucks. It does. Not two out of three ain't bad. It's a selfish song. It's a very selfish song. So we start off with Wanted Well God wanted us while yet we were sinners. Okay? We didn't do anything to deserve it. And as a baby enters into this world, they're wanted and they get that wanting you know the baby's not doing anything to deserve being wanted. It's like we didn't deserve anything to be wanted and God you know, wanted us. And then connect is became secure secure. How do we become secure? By Jesus' death on the cross, we became secure. Now we no longer had to worry about the eternal death. We now are secure in Christ. In fact, they call it eternal security. Eternal security. Yeah. So that happened. And then what happened? Now then we became accepted, right? Because now that we are And this is like the gospel pure and simple right here, baby. Keep going Then we we became approved because now we are covered by Jesus' blood and no longer by our own sin. So now we are approved and are able to stand with God and be with him. Okay? Yeah. And then we are made capable. We're only made capable through the strength of Jesus Christ, not by our own strength. What are we supposed to be prideful in? Prideful in God. And what in the Holy Spirit, not in our own self. So we're capable because God makes us capable. And He only makes us capable after He's covered our sin. And then finally, we're needed in the body of Christ. Every part of the body is needed. And uh if we don't meet all of those needs, then we become disconnected and we're missing something. And that's what happens a lot with children who are spoiled because they're never needed in that family. They might have gotten a lot of the other things But if they were never needed, they don't have a place. So did you come up with all those at one time or like how did you come up with those? I think Christ came up with those. Right, but I mean like like at what point did you like think to yourself Well, let's start with this. And then w was it like a process or was it like you just sat down one time and said, let's see if we could list these things? Actually, when we had done our first adoption, we really needed to study what is the relationship of of per perfect father with his children because we had we had a really challenging situation. I don't know if we've given our story, but our first adoption was a sibling group of five children. So we had three children by birth drove to the airport, picked up a sibling group of five that we'd never met, brought 'em home, and had chaos. Wonderful chaos by chaos And so we had gone from three to eight children overnight and these children were hurting. It's like the Big Bang. It was bigger than that. And and so I we had children who had been through an awful lot of trauma and really needed to have parents come into their lives who could who could meet their needs. What did that look like? So we sat spend an awful lot of time just studying, you know, what does God say about parenting and yet you know, you can come up with maybe fifteen, twenty verses in the Bible that talk about being parenting. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. We all know 'em really well, right? Right. Half of 'em are about spanking, the other half about not exasperating, you know, and yeah. And however, God has to do better than that. Yeah. Yeah, that shift again, I've I've said it I think every time we've done the show together for the last couple of weeks. I feel like that shift is a monumental shift. But we gotta see it from the father God's perspective, not just these few passages anyways. And and and that impacts our parenting if we can look at okay, we just need to mirror what God's done in his relationship with his children in our lives. So we have these hurting children whose behaviors are out of control. You know, things you walk in and go, I can't walk out of the room without them hurting themselves or each other badly on purpose. and tearing them down like the army does so that you can build 'em back up. That wasn't your approach? No, absolutely not. Th these children had a terrible fear of authority. There's probably some truth to that. I don't know how you would apply it, but anyways, I don't want to get us distracted. But but the reality is the reality is that we we need to recognize there has to be a foundation laid. Uh a child cannot take instruction in in a way that's positive, good in his life. He can't um, be comfortable with authority if there's a no foundation lane. Uh their behaviors are going to exhibit a lack of love. Um and they're going to be expressing that in the way they're acting. And so if a parent is able to come in and mirror what God did for us, as Imran was just sharing the exact things that he did for us before he expected anything of us. Yeah, four hundred years before the law. And then then we we're able to have a relationship where our children can have their needs met. And so yeah we we s Started mirroring what God had done for us. You know, ha that was hard some days. Real hard some days. So how long did it take for these five kids from a broken background to shift to a place of being I mean, did they shift? Are they building still acting out? Beautiful relationships today and I can share a little bit about that, but The reality is it's really about a three year process. Three years. Three years. And you think, Oh, that's really long. How hey know how how can we be that long? But I ask you, when you had a child who was born into your family and you've had that happen I how how long how long was it before that child was first grateful? You don't Well my boys uh it might not have happened yet. But my daughter, about the age of eighteen months, turned and looked at me and smiled and I felt like that was an incredible moment. Okay, so see we can begin to do it. By the way, in defense of your boys, they're grateful. Maybe they just aren't uh I do demonstrate gratefulness in the way that you're recognizing. No, no, no. You know, there's certainly levels of gratitude and our ability to express that and we get some great answers to that workshops that we do sometimes to get Well, when they become parents of their own, they they first understand how to be grateful, you know. But in reality, you know, it's somewhere in that c close to two, three years old that a child goes a Thank you, Daddy, or thank you, mommy, where they really got that you sacrificed something for them. And I think the twos is where they start saying no. Right and even comes before the real gratitude. And it's it comes at the end of that two year old, beginning to be three year old age period And so you're saying that a new adoptive family needs to expect a good two to three year process of going through what a new baby would go through in terms of developing emotionally as a part of the family and coming to the place where they can express the gratitude. Very well said. That's exactly what we're saying. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Uh the Razvis. Imran Raz he goes by and Tammy. Uh they are the founders of Concord by Love Ministries. Uh it's just conquered by Love Ministries dot com or dot org. Concord by uh love ministries dot org. This is Concordby Love dot org. Oh, just conquered by love dot org, yes. So I t totally confused you. So I'll say it one more time. Conquered by love dot org. We have a lot of resources there. Uh we have over forty five books we've written on parenting on different subjects and most All of them are without fluff. They're specific actionable things that you can do and they're very concise books because we know parents don't have time to read a lot. So they can get a nice big fat book and put it on the shelf and never look at it and feel good about having a a famous author on the shelf, but if it's not doing anything to help them, it's not doing anything for them. There's a couple of things. One, if if There's work involved in being a parent and there's going to be hard times and hard energy put you know, a lot of energy put in, whether it's on the back end or the front end, unless The parent just abdicates their responsibility completely. Tabula rosa, just let the child grow up. You know, well you know, or they disappear right last week. Dad goes off to live in Las Vegas. You know, or or whatever. And then it's not hard to be a parent because you're not being a parent, but if you're actually going to be a parent, there's going to be work. You can put that work in now and see the fruit of that labor come out or be constantly chasing your tail years later because you you haven't my dad used to always say that one minute of passing can produce a child, but it takes twenty years to produce a parent. So I wanna uh if you can, I got two things so I know I might not get a chance to ask the questions again. One, when you're dealing with it in a situation where at least one of the parents is not interested in parenting, you know, what are some things you do to help to encourage them to step up to the plate? And the other thing is are there times when you can take these when you've been able to use these principles that are primarily we're talking about in the context of parenting But I can see this working in marriage, in the workplace? I mean can you imagine if you made your boss feel wanted, secure, approved, capable and needed, how how your career might flourish underneath that boss's leadership? Managing upward by Skinner. So uh so I'm wondering One, situations where you've had to minister into people's lives where one or both of the parents really weren't all that interested in really hearing what you had to say. And uh opportunities you've had in other avenues to apply these principles outside of just parenting. Well, absolutely we've been talking a lot about children and their emotional needs, but every one of us has these same five emotional needs. What we've run into a lot of times when we're working with parents saying this is what this is what your children need, we hear them say, No, Oh wow, I'm I don't think I'm emotionally healthy. That's one of the challenges in parenting. That's why you have parents who are walking away. That's why you have parents who don't know how to handle um things that are overwhelming them with their children because they don't have that emotional foundation. And so the place to start is for them to them to be able to start to have an emotional foundation lay going to Christ and having those needs met and recognizing that He can be everything for me emotionally. And then they have the ability to parent. Uh that that works with husbands and wives too. And that's probably one of the leading causes of divorce. If those five emotional needs are not being met in Christ, you were looking at it from your spouse. You need it met in your spouse and your spouse's not meeting them and you're not getting them met in Christ And then you're looking for s for those to be met in some place else. So So isn't there a scenario where you're helping a family that is not believers in Jesus Christ, uh and if so, uh, how do you help them to get those emotional needs met? 'Cause they're not ready to accept Christ as the source of that. Well what do you do in that scenario? Okay, well the principle the principle Uh we do. Uh we encourage people to look to Christ because ultimately nothing that we have is going to be a lasting value. True. Okay. Um you can take those some of his principles and apply them because they do apply in his world. He created this world and and those principles still apply. Um we can we can learn to care for each other, to care for our spouse, to care for our children and recognizing these are the five emotional needs. Ultimately, where'd they come from and you can't really pass that on to another generation unless you understand that, that principle of where they came from. Sure. But you can but you can still apply them. uh in in the lives of your children, recognizing in your spouse, we know some of these behaviors that are that are in my spouse that are that are bothering me, maybe it's simply that there's emotional areas where I could I could minister to him or, you know, he could minister to her in in that um in that relationship and we could recognize we can be encouraging to each other in a way that will bring some healing Yeah. And allow then us to be better parents and have a better uh be better marriage relationship. You mentioned that sometimes the you know light bulb goes off and one of the parents says, Holy cow, I don't think I'm uh emotionally uh healthy. Right. Uh but we're so used to the norm we might not recognize our own unhealthy state. So what are some symptoms and signs? my emotional state a long time ago. I'm trying to move on with my life and yet to open up this whole area. Yeah, what are the symptoms? Is this or this or this or any of these things true about you? Because maybe you need this more than you think. What are some of those things? Well uh often what you see is the sleep at night is the opposite of these these emotional needs. And so what would what would it be? If if you're really struggling with approval, often you'd be putting yourself down or you f you fight in that manner. You know, you're you're picking on other people and putting them down as opposed to being um able to speak approval into their life and the other. And in that category, by the way, how many uh and it's not just women, but I have a I have a a daughter who's in college and I think about these things. How many young women feeling a need for approval but they're not getting from dad the wrong thing. And from mom even, right? And so they're looking for approval from the guy who rides the motorcycle with the leather jacket. Right. You know what I mean? And they end up sometimes throwing themselves at anybody who's even halfway interested, seeking after approval, and then fortune unfortunately they're not even approved. Okay, so that's approval. What's the next one? Okay. Well first be first the first first symptom is simply being wanted is an important thing. To say that well y well, you don't want me. Um or I'm not Interesting wanted and approval are very similar, though not quite exactly the same. that you see someone has done well. Uh you know, a godly characteristic, some gentleness or some kindness or something like that. And an affirmation. An affirmation, yes. And uh wanted can also just be exhibited in lust. And a boy has a lust towards a girl and shows that he really wants her. It's a counterfeit love, but it's a wanted and she can feel it. And it's a very palpable feeling. He really wants me. And it may just be lust. Until he doesn't. And then the next step would be approval. So sometimes the relationship just ends uh begins and ends with lust lust. And so the wanted is first and the approval. Correct. And then security, that's the next one that you were saying two out of three ain't bad in the right seventies song. Right. So you see a lot of insecurity where um where uh uh they're you know, a afraid, a lot of fears in a child on a child or um a husband and wife are always concerned about are you uh Are you cheating on me? Are you and always not sure about what's going on with that relationship? Uh the the insecurity about no, am I still safe? in this relationship. The um the being needed is our fifth emotional need, and that's a big one. A lot of parents try to get that emotional need met in their children. So, well I'm I need to be needed. Yes. And they're trying to get their their emotional need met by their children. In other words The children have to be dependent upon them. Exactly. That's the hardest one because It's counterintuitive the way most parents would think. We want the the children to recognize that they need us. But how do we help you know it? How do we help the 12-year-old to be encouraged that we need them Okay, well they they need to have a place of service in the family. A lot of parents say, okay, our child should be chores. They should make their own bed. And it's not, but that's a place to start. The parents parents are concerned, oh my child should make their own bed, take care of all of their own toys and things, all of their own things. But in reality They're not allowed a place of service then in the family. Okay. They need a place to do something that would actually benefit the family and then as a family to go out and do things that would benefit others, a place of service in the community. Um where we're doing it by recognizing a need and teach your children to say, I see a need and I go out and do it. There's a little bit of understanding of this out in the world saying, okay, we need to do service projects. Well, those are sort of like check boxes for I've got to get my college application in and so I did a certain number for service projects. What we want to do is give a child a place where they're actually have a place of service where they're seeing a call. I can make a couple of things. Instead of saying put out the garbage. It's like honey I I I need you to put out the garbage for me. I'm kinda busy. Could you do that for me? Yeah. Using using that kind of language to reinforce that the needs are. No, I just can't do it myself. Not only manipulative. But that's what I heard and you what you were just saying. Not only manipulative, but kind of creepy. How those those things are actually benefiting the family. You know, the family's functioning because you're doing this for the family and you're doing this for the family and you're doing this for the family. We're each pulling together. You know, I do feel like this generation of educators have moved in the direction of trying to identify genuine needs in the kids and to uh to to meet them through the school system. Unfortunately they seem to have done that in the context of lowering standards, you know, at the same time. And so so it ends up feeling, I think, to many of us uh like they are spoiling the kids and as a result, you know, not doing their job. But you're not saying start affirming the child and showing the love and stop disciplining, you're or or stop training. You're you're you're holding both of those up as important at the same time and that's that's the balance that I feel like uh seems to have been missed in much of the discussions about uh self-esteem in the school system. Because in a lot of ways what you're dealing with, you're not calling it self-esteem, you're calling it love Yeah. And you're calling it an emotional need, which I think the school systems are trying to get at the same thing, but they you know, so many of us feel like they've missed it and they've turned the school system into this you know, counseling session instead of continuing to train their kids. Like what's the difference in all that? Right. Well the the difference is it's false approval. Okay, so if we lower the standards enough that everybody wins and everybody gets a trophy Um, it's not approval anymore. We haven't we haven't we haven't accomplished anything. If we say, well, we're just gonna let you go on to the next thing even though you sort of didn't accomplish anything. And we don't feel capable within this thing. They're not capable of doing something. We've missed we missed that knee. And so we're approving somebody for really for really nothing that's of true value. What we need to do is to point out a characteristic that we're going to do. player on the team. You don't really need me because everybody's going to win anyway. It all starts to fall down on its face, doesn't it? This is precisely the the issue I feel like many of these education educators are addressing is that There's only a few kids that are really good at sports, but then we're forcing all these other kids to participate and they spend all their time not feeling approved, not feeling capable, and so I feel like the school system is sincerely trying to address this issue of how do we help everybody to feel approved, but the question is how do they do it You know, with all the kids all at the same time without somehow turning into some of this lowering of standards and and minimizing, you know, like it's a it's a problem. It is a problem. answer to that question is the school system can't do it. The parents have to do it. Okay? And so there can be things that the parents partner with schools to put into place that would really be help to have a good emotional foundation for children. But if a parent is not ministering to their child's emotional needs, um it's not going to happen in a school system where there's not that one on one heart relationship where you've got to have a relationship like that to build emotional needs. That's so hard for a lot of people because there's a lot of uh family situations out there that we don't want to just judge them and condemn them but they know that they're not getting it done, they feel the mist, they need the s the school and everybody to help them out and yet there's still a a genuine struggle that people are. Who are you kidding you're a Protestant pastor, you're all about judging and condemning That's Jonathan Schweitzer, the judger, the condemner. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Our guests this week, Imran Raz Razby and uh Tammy Razby, founders of Concord by Love Ministries. Uh you can check them out online at concordbylove. org. You can visit us online at wfmd. com, keyword faith. What have I been reading? Kind of ties in with this actually, The Wisdom of Proverbs, Job, and Ecclesiastes by Derek Kidner. Um next week we've I promise we're gonna talk about adoption. We're gonna talk about adoption. We did. No, not really. We touched on. We didn't talk about it. We're gonna do that next week. Thanks for our sponsor, Putman Plumbing Heating Happy Make You Smile. Thank you for listening. Till next week. God bless.