This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn. In a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. Weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Troy Skinner. We've seen it in the news. Reports of Muslims by the Thousands upon thousands screaming into Europe. Politically, this has often been framed in humanitarian terms or in terms of an invading force. Politics aside, there is the reality of life within a mix of Islam and Christianity. There are situations in Europe where Christians are the distinct minority. What does this mean for the church? What does it mean for the culture of such a location? What is the state of Christianity overseas? And in particular today. In Albania. I'm Troy Skinner here to talk about this issue. Back for round three of a four-part series, the husband-wife team of Scott and Susie Wearsma Christian missionaries to Albania. And by the way, I before I dive into the subject, I need to offer everyone and anyone an apology. Two weeks ago was Palm Sunday, I said nothing, so be late. Happy Palm Sunday. Last week was Easter. Be late Happy Easter or as I prefer to say Happy Resurrection Sunday. You know, Easter is you know Easter and I'm you know pagan and all that. Not not a big fan of that. And uh actually It's interesting that we're I'm going to be mentioning this because today is Orthodox Easter, Orthodox Resurrection Sunday. And that's particularly noteworthy given the guest and uh guests that I have on the show today because their their admissions work is in Albania, which has a pretty significant minority population of Orthodox Christians or at least professing Orthodox Christians who knows how devout they are. That's part of what we're going to find out. So without stealing too much more of your thunder, uh what would you guys You know, the statistics. I I've heard them before and I I could probably try to rattle them off, but I'd get them wrong and I'd rather hear them from you anyway. So as percentages, you know, the the population in Albania, which is, you know, in the southeastern Europe. It's a mix of mostly Islam, uh Roman Catholic, and Orthodox Christian. And then I guess there's some small pockets of Protestantism. Correct. You know? So where where would you say the percentages lie? I would say there's probably what seventy percent? I mean certainly the majority Islam belief. I mean there's mosques all over the country Uh it's approximately fifty percent Catholicism that seems to be stronger uh in the North. Fifteen percent. Fifteen, what did I say? Fifty. Excuse me. Fifteen, one five 15% Catholicism. And then in the South, uh more the Orthodox, again about fifteen uh percent down there, but obviously they're right on the border of Greece. Um spiritually it's also see It's mixed because there's also they have black magic. They certainly are superstitious. They hang their stuffed animals uh from the the rooftops of their houses or from their restaurants, bar cafes, they hang out the garlic, uh all in an effort to, can I say, ward off the evil spirits. Um so when you're ministering to these people Um that has to be taken into factor. Uh out in the villages can I say, not all of them, but in general. Um you know, they read their tea leaves from their coffee cups or etcetera. So again, that's getting into the superstitious fields and can lead into the black magic curses, et cetera. You just gave an a whole an awful lot, so let me try to pick one at a time. And so obviously the dominant religious influence in Albania is Islam, Muslims or at least professing Muslims. Correct. So how did that come to be? What's the history on that? Sure. In the thirteen hundreds the Ottoman Empire made its way through Albania. And uh and then ended up um be uh reigning over Albania from like the thirteen hundreds till the late eighteen hundreds. So the the the Turks maintained control over that part of Europe correct for a long time. Yeah almost five hundred years. And so the people there that call themselves Muslim, are they practicing Muslim or are they just culturally their heritage for for generation after generation they were Yes. Muslims. Yeah. Cul culturally their heritage. You know, I mean during the time of communism, you know, you they finally, you know, were able to push the Turks out. you know, beginning of the nineteen hundreds, then communism came, nineteen forty five, and then came ban on all religions. And so then with communism falling, you know, you could begin to practice your religion again. Um and So but I think that obviously did damage. You know, there weren't I I believe that when communism fell there were really just literally a handful of of Protestant, of born again evangelical believers in the entire country. Um but otherwise Um yeah, I mean there's the people that that practice Catholicism and orthodoxy and so on. The interesting thing is when you get into numbers Um there really is no way of knowing what the actual numbers are in Albania. Um when they do the census, I read an article recently that talked about the frustrations with the Catholics and the Orthodox uh denominations as because with the census the the people going around, you know, uh the one report said that many people weren't even asked the religion. Um sexual. Exactly. We'll take care of that for you. And so they really feel like they're not counted. So to say that it's predominantly Muslim is really difficult. Especially since e a lot of people will say that they are in name only and not in practice. But culturally it feels predominantly Muslim, because there you there's the uh five prayer calls that you hear every day. Right. Yeah And and there's a lot of big mosques. They're building building the largest mosque in the Balkans currently in the center of Albania, in Toronto. And is there is there governance uh um uh Sharia law in any way? No, not at all. It's a very secular government when it comes to that. So they're uh I forget what you said, but they're not the tip they're not the Sunnis, not the Shia. No, the Bactashi. The Bachtashi, which is not a a sect of Islam that we typically hear a whole lot about. Right. Unique to Albania or It's not unique to Albania, but in that region it's something that came from um someone within the Ottoman uh Turks. was the person who started that in like in the fifteen hundreds. Okay. So they're way more secularized Muslims. Is that fair? Yeah and yeah, I well I it's just a sect of it. You know, I don't know that they're more secularized. Um, I mean you have I don't know. I mean they still they certainly s have a lot of uh their own mosques and whatnot, temples around what you call them, the Bektashi. Is your sense that they're you know on average pretty devout or on average not any more devout than the typical quote unquote Christian in America is? Christian in America that says it by name but isn't attending services each week, isn't necessarily they they definitely drink alcohol, they definitely um do things that Otherwise within then um within Islam would not be allowed. Right, right. Okay. And sorry, and the men that I've spoken to I I say why do you choose Islam? And they basically give in general give an answer of well my grandfather was is in Islam, my dad is, and so I am. So their own personal choice of faith is more by family tradition. Okay. It appears to be Now, um, what about the Orthodox and the Roman Catholics that are there? Do you see uh pretty typical to again what we come to expect of Roman Catholics and Orthodox Christians in the United States? Or are they more devout, less devout? Can you tell? Um, it's more difficult to tell just because Um I mean we have a large Orthodox church also in the center of town. Um we have a pretty decent sized Catholic church as well. Um and so but to know how many people are Catholic or Orthodox, you wouldn't be able to tell as much. You know what I mean? How how big would the if you if you know, would the biggest Protestant church be in Albania? Is there a big Protestant church too or not less? Yeah, there's several larger churches of the Protestant churches. Um like several hundred I would say. Okay, so there's no mega churches. There's not like three thousand, ten thousand, twenty thousand. No, I think the last statistics I heard is that in there's about three million people in Albania and there's about twenty thousand uh born again believers, twenty thousand evangelical Christians. Hm. So And do you run into very many of them? Um believers of Christ? Yeah. Like randomly on the street doing evangelism? No. No. No. It's usually through uh meetings or uh other events that we're having that the churches get together and that's your true believers within I would say that's almost like finding a needle in a haystack. And is there a particular um Yeah, denominational strain that like is it like Baptist or Lutheran or you can't No, that's one thing that's kind of beautiful about Albania is um is that there is no um there's not conflict with all that. You know, e even within Like between, you know, Muslim and Christian and Jewish and and so on, there is no um strife and stuff like that between it and then even within the Christian um r uh religion there is no like older they're Catholic or they're well anyway, they're excuse me, they're Baptist and they're Protestant and they're Pentecostal and they're there's nothing like that at all there. No, more important I would say to the Albanians is their own national uh national identity. You know, if you're Albanian, I'm Albanian, fantastic. Let's get together and have coffee. Now you mentioned uh just half uh if in passing Jewish uh and I and I was assuming that there must be just a microscopic Jewish population there because it hadn't been brought up before. But there's A measurable Jewish population? I don't know if I would say measurable. There you know, but it's something that we do have rabbis and stuff like that in Albania. Um, you know, you can Google images and stuff, you know, Google and you'll see pictures of, you know, the rabbi with the Imam, with the Orthodox priest, with the Catholic priest, all together. You know, and they have done different things together and and stand in unity as the faith since a very ecumenical kind of thing going on. And the Buddhists and Hindus too? Um That I haven't seen. Okay. No, I was thinking of uh Jews, but that goes all the way back to uh what, World War Two? Sure. Where actually the country uh was protecting the Jews to keep them safe from can I say from the German army in general. Sure. They would kinda hide them and protect them. the Nazis in World War II and protected the Jewish people. So hospitality is a huge part of Albania in protecting foreigners. So And yet they don't have the best attitude towards the the the gypsies that are looked at as foreigners, correct? Right. Yeah, there's a lot of prejudice when it comes to the Roman gypsies within the country. Yeah And is when you mentioned Scott a uh few minutes ago about the you know, the uh the um what what was the word you used? The black magic. Is that what you were talking about, the superstitious, that's mostly the the Rum of gypsies or that's That can be the Roma gypsies, but it's also the Albanians, probably more in the the villages and in the mountains areas, I'm I'm guessing. And certain thinking more of the mountain v excuse me, the village areas that I have heard and ha heard the Albanians speak of. Um and certainly reading, let's say, the tea leaves in the bottom of your cup, etc. Uh certainly when you get out into village area there's more uh you know, the stuffed animals that are up on the roofs and the and the you see the garlic, etc. That's to ward off this evil spirits Correct. All right. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. Joined this week by Scott and Susie Wearsma. They are missionaries to Albania back in the States. uh for a short period of time and so we're taking advantage of that to have them on the show. Um you were I'm kind of bouncing around. I apologize, but there's little things that I've we've had conversations, you know, off the air and then and and there's things that you know I'm reminded of as you say different things. So I apologize for maybe doing things a little out of order and all that sort of stuff. But talk about uh that identity. You alluded to it a second ago. You know, the Albanians who are Uh Muslim might not primarily think of themselves as Muslim, they primarily think of themselves as Albanian Right? Like the so the na so nationalism is a big deal, there correct? Correct. Yeah. Which holds them to the air. They're very tolerant in from what I've seen and heard from other Albanian men, they're very tolerant of other other religions and they'll just ask, Are you a Christian man? Are you a Muslim man? Uh so from that aspect they're tolerant. But at the same token there is that more of national identity that they are Albania's even when you get outside the country with or traveling in Macedonia And you know, two Albanian drivers happen to go, you're Albanian lama you know, they're all they're excited because it's that national pride. Uh because there certainly can be conflict from one country to another country. Um Hopefully that answers that. So I'm wondering then, given that climate, if I'm envisioning it correctly in my mind, like it the the spirit of the age in that in that nation is one of acceptance and tolerance and people are getting along. you know, theological uh debates over uh doctrine that flow along denominational lines. Correct. Uh They ask you, are you a Christian? Are you Muslim? They don't really care what the answer is, they're just curious to know what the answer is. However, you guys go there as Bible believing, Bible preaching, gospel proclaiming Christians And if you do that, there are exclusive claims that Christ makes that you guys are going to talk about. He is the way and the truth and the life. No one gets to the Father except D is that hard for them to hear? You guys are saying, yeah, that kumbaya is stuff is all great, but that's not God honoring. That's not what God would have for you. He has something better for you than than that. Is that you get pushback and people look at you and say, wait a minute What's wrong with you? Why are you creating why are you creating division? As we talked about the hospitality um of Albanians and their need to be kind to foreigners. Um one of the things we're not gonna see is that pushback. Especially maybe an Albanian sharing with an Albanian may get more argumentative. Um but for us Th they will they do not want to bring shame to us and they will certainly listen to everything we have to say without arguing Does that make sense to you think I'm saying with that? Exactly. That's what makes it very difficult. 'Cause they'll may repeat your prayers. They might do all and they they tell you that right at the beginning when you set foot in that country, the Albanian Encouragement Project i is the umbrella organization over all missionaries kind of coming in or most missionaries. And They have pamphlets that, you know, just know from the beginning that the Albanians are gonna pray the prayers. They're gonna say everything you want them to say because they're doing that out of respect. You know, and does that mean that they have understood and accepted what you're saying? And so that's the difficulty and that's why when we look at these long term marathons versus the sprints of the short term missions is the fact that it's it takes time and time and time to continue to So when you meet with somebody and you're setting the stage for the good news, you know uh one way of doing that is to point out the bad news, which is that everybody's guilty of sin and in need of a savior. So you're sitting there talking to them and say, you know, you are in your heart of hearts, a dirty rotten scoundrel, a horrible sinner who uh i even in this moment is probably sinning in ways you don't even comprehend. Like you are horribly lost. You are depraved Right? Y if you only knew your own heart well enough you would be utterly disgusted. And they're nodding along saying, Yes, out of respect I agree with you. Yeah, I'm not sure I heard what you use that approach. No, I have not used that approach. No. Usually one approach I have And I show 'em a picture of Christ hanging on the cross to show them the bloodiness, the ugliness. of what we can be, but also then leading them directly into very positive and loving and telling them that this is the only way to eternal life. In the they understand the presence of God. Yeah. No, I mean I was obviously using purposefully uh intermediary kind of language but it's a very common approach to uh I think the uh evangelism explosion uses it where they they basically talk about the Ten Commandments Correct. And it works with the tempting hands. So have you ever taken the Lord's name in vain? Yeah, you have ever have you ever uh put something ahead of God? Well you just made it an idol. Right. Did you ever uh take uh a toy away from your brother and sister when they really when it was their you s you're a st you're a thief. Correct. And they and say go through you've broken all the commandments. Right. Correct. You're a sinner. Correct. What are you gonna do with your guilt Like that's a pretty heavy way of but well that that that that's a common way. Yeah. So I'm wondering if they would be so agreeable then. Yeah, I don't know. I've never experienced that, honestly Uh but I if I may add, uh the Lord actually gave me two separate strategies for two separate um age groups, I'll say, of the males, certainly the older generation, which still remember and came from the communist times And the Lord had revealed to me to explain it show them current news events. They understand Russia, they understand China, they understand the Middle East and the news. and then bridging that into the gospels, um be it the gospels in you know when Jesus spoke during these times and and weather of having tornadoes in different places and wars and rumors of wars in different places uh also to the old testament because they understand the major can I say people of the Old Testament, be it King David, Abraham, Moses, etc. , and then bridging that gap. But once they see the news and you connect them to what Jesus said and you go, look, this was over 2,000 years ago that Jesus said this. We see it right here on the news. They truly start to start thinking, and I've had some go, yeah, I believe what you're saying. Hmm. So that's what the approach you use of the older generation. Correct. What's the approach that you use of the younger generation? Uh the Lord showed me that the younger generation that they're just living life kind of survival mode can I say? I mean that positively, but he said, tell them they have a per I have a purpose for I being God has a purpose for their life. So when I speak to the younger generation, I'm telling them, God has a plan for you. And I encourage them to go and truly ask God because it also when God reveals himself, he's making them himself real to them and then say, ask God what your what the plan is for your life Which demographic groups seem a little bit more receptive to h to uh responding to the gospel in an authentic way? The the older people, uh the younger people, the women, the men Uh the experience that I've had is the first time. The wealthy, the poor I mean. Sorry. So the younger. The younger generation and I'll say the like the college age, which are the males that many times I would speak with Uh they certainly seem to ask many questions. They seem very inquisitive of of Jesus, of God, of life. And a purpose of life? Now that's different than what we hear about going on in the American church. You know, uh there's a real problem in for the American church right now with children that were raised in the church that hit college age and they stop going to church. Right. And the church loses them. Uh and so the church is trying to hear up. How do we reach these millennials? How do we reach the college age people? And you're saying that actually they're more reachable in Albania. They are They're more questionable. Right. And so in America they were raised with um you know, what gets labeled as Christian teaching. Sometimes I wonder if our churches are doing a good job with Christian teaching. Which is why the kids hit high sch uh hit college and have lots of questions. Right. They really weren't given the truth their whole life maybe might be the problem. But Uh so that's fascinating. And the men you mentioned specifically the men are a little easier to they're more they're more willing to ask the questions than the women are. The young women? Uh from but I s spent more of my time speaking to the males specifically. Uh but the few, can I say college age girls that I would speak to, they did have questions and they were open. Um Again, this was in the setting of come and have coffee and let's teach you some English lessons because the also the college age uh were were w they understood English a little bit more because they could speak let's say two, three different languages. How many uh languages does a typical Albanian speak? I think three. Mm-hmm. I would agree with that. And sometimes more. And is English one of them? Yes. Certainly in the capital city. Yes. So Albanian, English, what would be the the third Italian. Italian. Interesting, okay. German is starting to be a bigger language there. Correct. I'm a little bit surprised by Italian because Ital Italy's across the water Right. Like you know, there's other languages that you all you have to do is walk across the board. It oh Italian television. And so now because they're learning Italian, there's a lot of call centers that have opened up in Albania because you know your hourly pay is like a dollar fifty an hour in Albania And so there's a lot of call centers now that are opening in Albania that are for the uh for Italy. So all our call centers are in India and all right. Wow That's interesting. Yes. Well that's a cool little tidbit. I'm not sure why I find that so interesting, but that's that's a cool little tidbit. All right. Uh we've reached the the conclusion of another show. We've got one more to go, and we're gonna put this so we're gonna flip everything on its head. 'Cause I've been spending most of my time talking about uh Albania and your missions over there. But I want to have take an opportunity in next week's show to pick your guys' brains about what Europeans, particularly Albanians, uh think about America, American uh Christians perhaps, American culture, American politics, those sorts of things. And uh I I I need the ratings boost, so I'm gonna say this What they think of Donald Trump. Oh no. Alright, so listen next week. We're gonna find out what the Albanians think of Donald Trump. It's must listening. Must listening next week. Work we'll a thousand percent increase in our ratings for next week right there. Uh thank you Scott and Susie Where's the uh missionaries to Albania And dear friends of mine, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Visit us online at WFMD. com. Again, keyword faith gets you there. The drop down menu for the uh the shows uh gets you there. And you can see what's coming up next week and you can see what's been on in recent weeks and you can find link to all the podcasts. So do that if you would. Thanks so much for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.