Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Futman Plumbing and Meeting. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate Online at WFNV. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts of this show news items and all sorts of interesting things. Our blog is your blog. Email me at Roy Skinner at ClearChills. Whatever you send me. Troy Skinner at FearChannel dot com. Marvin and Callaway are facing two counts of capital murder on the case. There are eighteen blog posts and Friday nine. The first Havysburg officers killed in the line of duty in thirty years. One person killed another critically injured after a tornado touches down. I actually ten or Wow. What party did he run under? I don't know. Colony colonialists or something, you know. They were like one of the originals, you know. W within literally within ten years of when the Mayflower came over, those guys were over. So It was interesting. It just traced it out recently. And David Newman is with us uh this week as well. Let me slide this over. Uh and David has an interesting background. We're gonna take a second to have him Give us a thumbnail sketch of of how it all relates into the environment here of the Faith Debate Show. But he's responsible, partly for the establishment of uh of a very important uh uh community of faith in Frederick. And he's uh co-founder and co-owner and principal or whatever the title is. for a company called Leadership Techniques that focuses on how to help people know how to become better leaders themselves, how to manage others to make them better leaders and that sort of thing And because he was a part of getting a church established uh here in Frederick, how many years ago? Uh we started in nineteen ninety one, True. So in nineteen ninety one, that's when Saints Peter and Paul Greek Orthodox Church came to town. And if you don't know who that is, they're the ones that do the Yiddo festival, the gyro festival, every year. Did you say Yiddo? A Yiddo is the proper pronunciation. Thank you. The Greek guys understand me when I say it. I am sure I've met you there before. Interesting. So That's how you know the uh the Greek guys. They're the ones that were. Since the nineties. I had to assume that that had been there right forever. If you're Greek Orthodox, you're like, you know, thousands of years old as a denomination. So for them to be new in the air is like a little two thousand and fourteen. Ironic. Yeah. Interesting. Well, give or take, right? Right. Yeah. Mine is maybe 30-ish years or so, something like that. Right. So anyway, um so real quickly Uh we started to talk about this right before the show and I didn't want to leave it out there. So talk a little bit about without giving away trade secrets or making somebody look bad or something like that. Some of the challenges that the leaders who were involved in planting this new Greek Orthodox Church uh twenty some odd years ago, uh what would be twenty three years ago? Yeah. Um twenty four years ago, whatever, something something along those lines What were some of those challenges? Because Jonathan's church isn't that old. It's a young church. Sure. Uh there were there were quite a number of challenges. Uh to begin with, the biggest challenge didn't start in nineteen ninety one when the church actually started. It probably started about ten years before that when a lady named uh Catherine Flazanes or Flasanis, uh wrote a letter to the bishop um and the way the church is uh structured in the United States, the Greek Orthodox Church of the United States of America is its own diocese and then that's broken up into or that's an arch diocese and then there are various dioceses around the country. And so uh the Diocese of New Jersey, which is now uh called the metropolis of New Jersey. And Batman is there like all the time. Uh the Diocese of New Jersey is the jurisdiction that the uh church in Frederick falls under. So we're under the auspices of the New Jersey Diocese. And so we had to petition them in order to form our own parish. So prior to that, so I moved to Frederick in nineteen eighty nine. There was no Greek Orthodox Church in Frederick. I grew up as a Protestant, so My wife and I decided to compromise and we went to a Protestant church once a week. We went to or uh every other week I should say we went to New Life Four Square Church. Twice a month and twice a month we drove down to Bethesda to St. George. Bethesda, that's where the other one is. They always talk about St. George, yeah. And um that was working great. We got our children into Sunday school down there and everything was going fine for a couple of years. We w went to church one Sunday and Father George uh who later became a bishop, he was the the uh priest of the church in Bethesda at the time, pulled us aside and said very nicely, I understand you are coming down here from Frederick. And we said yes, and he said, Well, I'd like you to check out the fact that there's a new church in Frederick, uh a Greek Orthodox church. So of course we were very interested in that. And uh it turned out that uh they were holding uh services at that time at that time in All Saints Episcopal Church on Church Street? Yes. Yeah, it's right there. It's one of the uh clustered spires. It's one of the early ones. Very beautiful church. Very gothic, I think, is the steeple. that uh allowed us to hold our services in there but of course they were having church on Sunday morning. Right. So our services were at two PM. Sure. So when I told my wife and by the way my name as you mentioned is Newman, which is not a Greek name Oh, I missed a chance earlier in the show. Newman. I could have said Hello, Newman. That's right. But they d in fact you know it's not Greek because there's like an Italian dressing that's named after him or something, you know? Oh wait, that's Paul Newman. Yeah, so anyway Um my wife who is uh Greek, who wa she was born in Greece and and moved to this country when she was a young child. But was brought up in a very traditional Greek household said, no, we don't go to church at two o'clock in the afternoon. We go to church in the morning Bethesda has church in the morning. That's where we go. That's right. How can you have a big Greek meal at lunch? Sorry. Okay, so no question about that. So um What ended up happening was I went to the two p. m. service and it it was the second liturgy of the Greek Church of Frederick at that time. Father Stephen Vlahoos was the I'm sorry, second liturgy means that it was like their second week having service. Second week having service, yeah. I thought that was like something else. We didn't use the first liturgy, we used the second one. Next week we'll use the third one. Okay, okay. So is the second service. This was the week two of services, yes. And uh so I went in and there were a few people in there and um those uh Of those people that were there that day, I think there were maybe fifteen folks there that day. I'm still friends with most of them. Yeah, yeah, there you go. It's it's been a wonderful, wonderful journey. Nice. Um So I went to the service and it was a regular Greek Orthodox service, so I said, Okay, well this there's no games being played here. This looks, you know, legitimate, even though we're in uh an Episcopalian church and I don't really know what's going on. So I started to leave when the liturgy was over. Now when you attend liturgy, which is the equivalent of Mass. Okay. So it's the same as Mass. It's the service. It's a very traditional service and the Greek Orthodox are very proud to say that it has not changed in two thousand years. Thus the originality of the Greek Orthodox. And um at the end of liturgy, at that time, I was not Greek Orthodox. I was still Protestant by religion. I was brought up in a very traditional New England So that means you haven't been baptized or like officially embraced at that point by the Orthodox Church? Right. Prismated, they call it. Um As opposed to cremated. Yeah. That's okay. We don't allow cremation yet. But anyway, um I had not been chrismated yet, and so I was not Greek Orthodox, I was Protestant. And uh so but at the end of liturgy it's traditional to go up and take a piece of bread, which is called endiveron from the priest Kiss the priest's hand and eat the bread. And um that's a blessing. And so when I did that, the priest again his name was Father Vlahos, is his name is meme. His name is Father Borros. Yeah. He um invited me to come upstairs for coffee and I said, No, no, Father, that's okay. I really don't want to stay for coffee. I'd like to get home watch some football. Well it was springtime so but I just wanted to get home. Oh please come up and and have some coffee. So I went upstairs to the coffee hour and he said, And David, since you're here now We're gonna have a short meeting. Would you like to stay for the meeting? And I said, Well no, not really I'm not involved. I just wanted to come to church and then go home. And he said, please sit and and and enjoy the conversation. So I sat and he uh and he uh was holding the meeting and he said, so David, tell us about yourself. What do you do? And I told him I was an engineer. That's that's my background, mechanical engineering. And he said, Oh engineer, you must be very organized. And I said, No, I'm very I'm the most disorganized engineer you've ever met in your entire line, father. And he said, I see that you're very organized How would you like to head up our organizational committee? And then that that was the beginning of the tale that ended uh uh well, it hasn't ended yet. Um fortunately I've met Very many wonderful people, lifelong friends. You know, stories like that that keep people away from church. Totally, right? You know. Don't have coffee with the pastor. Don't say yes to the priest. We uh Yeah, we still have that going on. Somebody told me the other day that somebody had come to the church after not being there for a few months and uh and uh they were asked to serve on the board and we they were saying that what's Let's not hit it so so fast. Let's let 'em come to a few services. So you ended up by hook or by crook becoming part of the organizational committee or heading up the organizational committee. Um and so w where we started was the troubles or not the troubles, the effort to begin the church in Frederick began with a petition to the diocese ten years before that. In order to establish the church it required fifty signatures Of so of founding members. So there are fifty people who were willing to sign the paper and say, I'll be a founder of the church and do whatever it takes to to make a church happen. So fifty is what's necessary to start it up. Fifty is what's necessary. Have to be over the age of sixteen to be included? Yeah. You have to be an adult. But you're already meeting at the Episcopal Church at this point? Yes. So for like ten years you met at this other church? No, it wasn't no no no, they weren't meeting. But nineteen ninety one and April of ninety one was the first. service when they had the fifty six once they had the fifty signatures. Then they then the guys he sent the priest. Okay, so you when you talk about ten years earlier, meaning nineteen eighty one. Yes, that's when the effort began. But you weren't a part of it then. No. Gotcha. I became a part of it in nineteen ninety one. Once the once the uh fifty signatures were there. Gotcha. And they sent the priest. Now we had to go about establishing the church. And we're going to talk about that here a little bit because that's where we get into the nitty-gritty of what we can all learn from the experience that they all had uh twenty some odd years ago. Uh David Newman is a principal with uh leadership techniques and uh I guess one of those founding co-founders of the f original fifty of the Greek Orthodox Church. Is that right? That's correct. Is that true? That's something. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Cross Rosalie Church. I'm Troy Skinner, and this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So they got through the ten years. They got their petition approved. You guys start meeting in somebody else's building. Yes. And they're they're roping everybody into leadership whether they realize it or not. You're an example of that That's exactly correct. And so I believe I can't say for sure a hundred percent, but I believe that most of the people there uh at those first few services served on the parish council, served as leaders in the church, ran fundraisers and and did a lot of work for a lot of years. So it sounds like obviously time has proven that it's worked out, but it sounds like a recipe for dysfunction and discord. I never signed up for this to begin with, and what do you expect from me? And so why don't you talk a little bit about what the challenges were for The leaders above you, uh the priest I guess who you know cajoled you into doing this, and then you have people I guess who reported to you and you're trying to cajole them. I I would call it uh sharing his love of the church with them. Okay. Okay. Yeah, and and I joined the parish council as a leader. The I I would like to mention um that there were like I said, a lot of people and there have been a lot of people. There continue to be a lot of people, dozens, if not hundreds of people, who are very deeply involved in the church and and and do a lot of work, put a lot of effort into it. going on today. There's a lot of work going on at the Greek Church in Frederick's. I I work in uh when I'm not doing this radio show, you know, I make my living selling advertising for the radio stations and It sounds like what you've described would fit into the category of the assumptive close. You know, you just assume the answer is yes and you move forward. You're going to serve on this committee, right? Of course you are, so let's move forward. You know, you're going to come to this meeting, right? Of course you are. Let's move forward So there's a lot of assumptive closing going on. And that can work you have to be careful. And I was going to say that can work to a point, but now you have all this leadership experience and you train other people. Right. So looking back, how do you f that could have backfired on you Sure. When you got into leadership development in general, like it was going on in parallel because Because you were an engineer at the time. I was an engineer and I was moving into supervisory roles at work. So I was uh Actually the church preceded that. I started moving into management at work in the public. Three or four years later. Came first. And then leadership in the workplace. Yeah, and that's one of the things I teach people uh when we do our public seminars Uh leadership techniques does public seminars and we also work internally helping companies with specific problems. But in a lot of our seminars we teach people that if you want to become a leader One of the ways that you can do that is volunteer for organization, whether it's a church or a PTA or a school. All of these organizations that need volunteers also need leaders. And so um for many years uh I I did head up the organizational committee and and helped get things going. This is the Fox News Radio 5 Minute News Service. And this is your hourly audio and relay test at 46 pass in everyone. Relay 100 FN rejoin. Joining the first thing. One of the first things I did church Drop Network. Relay three. FN is my my mom and dad's commercial in New England. That was one of the jobs I did. Uh here at the Greek Church be we have of course the big Greek festival in the spring and the smaller one in the fall and if you've attended it recently you notice that it takes up the entire parking lot. But when we started it a quarter of the parking lot and a half. cars in the other half. So my job every spring was parking cars. Yeah, okay. Um and what happens is you volunteered, no matter what the organization is You volunteer and you just walk in and and do whatever needs to be done. Okay. Whether it's sweeping and picking up trash or taking garbage out or washing pots and pans. But what happens is eventually As you sh as you just show up and do these jobs, you start learning what needs to be done. And so people start asking you, oh, could you do this or could you do this? And you do these different things and before you know it You know how to do a lot of different things and you become the person that people are asking, what would you like me to do? So just by good old fashioned faithfulness, you end up uh knowing things and as a result you know more than the next guy coming along. Right. And they i and so you start leading those people. Exactly. And the other thing you find out is that organizations, groups of people want leaders. They want to be led. They want to know what to do. A lot of people want to show up and do work and they're not interested in leadership positions. So if you are interested in leadership positions, those organizations are waiting for you. So volunteering is not automatically a path to leadership. It's only a path to leadership for those that volunteer and have some desire for leadership. Yes. You could go and volunteer and just keep on parking cars. Right. And be satisfied for the rest of your life. Absolutely. Right. But not everybody's there. Some people want to grow as a leader and develop skills as as a leader. I think so. And then well, definitely there are people that want that and then I think that there are also people that uh tend to fall into the role naturally. People start to ask I don't think I'm actually one of them. But I've seen other people that are just natural leaders and people have an affinity to them and just sort of say, Well, what would you like me to do? Yeah. Um my role changed over the years. Uh what I was gonna mention with the many people that did a lot of work was in the early days the very beginning of the uh Greek Orthodox Church in Frederick, there was a person named Dr. Peter Zachness who unfortunately passed away a few years ago uh from cancer, well before his time. But he was the first president of the Paris Council here in Frederick and he was truly an inspirational leader. We had Father Vlahos who was our ecumenical leader and then we had Dr. Sachnes who was our spiritual leader. Oh You know if it's a good idea. across the bo across denominations of the ecumenical movement movement. So ecumenical in the Greek Orthodox environment means spiritual leader. Mm-hmm. Huh. Right. And uh so and Dr. Zaknas was our leg leader. I think the leader of the people. This organization that you're currently a part of that has to do with leadership development, how long have you been with that organization? Uh that's my company, myself and my partner Lisa Hammer. Yeah. Have been uh operating leadership techniques since two thousand nine. 2009. So you're five years into this. Five years in, but we started part-time. We both had full-time jobs when we started the company. Okay. We started teaching classes about On a monthly basis or so. Our bosses were very supportive of us, very encouraging. And uh then in the fall of twenty thirteen we decided to take the company full time. Sure, and you teach classes for companies? We teach classes for companies. We teach internal at companies. We will customize training specifically for their needs, whether that be conflict resolution or leadership, project management training. We work with the hard skills of project management, which are scheduling, budgeting, risk management, things involving math. Right. And then we also work a lot with the soft skills, people skills. of like I said, conflict resolution, um negotiation skills, team building, motivation, accountability, those sorts of people skills. And so we uh work with c companies and customize courses for them. We also teach public seminars and we also are doing a program at FCC. We are the project management curriculum at uh Frederick Community College. for the continuing education division at night. Sure. So we have several courses there that we teach. Sure. Now given your expertise that you have now and you already shared looking back twenty plus years that uh you know, one of the things you learned that was a positive was if you want to be a leader, lead. Yes. Put yourself in a situation where you have opportunity to lead and exercise those muscles and and and learn how to navigate through things and that sort of thing. Well, he didn't actually say that though, did he? He said get into a position where you can serve and you'll end up moving into leadership. Sorry to split that hair, but I feel like that's a huge I think that that's a very important beginning mentality because if you're just looking to lead but you don't go through the avenue of service. Uh there's all kinds of ego that could come into play in a way that that could hinder your leadership. I think that's a very important point and I and I think that um we espouse that theory in leadership techniques. Robert Greenleaf wrote about the theory of servitude leadership and we have very strong believers in that. We believe in leading by service. I read that book. You read that book? What's that? Thick. Robert Greenleaf. About servant leadership. It's it's that and some people are very famous for servant leadership. People like Jesus Christ was a servant leader, lead by I think I heard of him. Yeah. Have you heard of him? Yeah. His birthday's coming up. He might be considered the best ever. leader. Might be. Might be. Yeah, it might. Uh but my point in saying that was you said, you know, those who maybe want to get a chance to become a leader and they think, oh I could never get a chance to be a leader, that they could go serve in a volunteer capacity somewhere and then have opportunity to become a leader. And and you know it's it's funny because when I was I I really wanted I love mechanical engineering. I really wanted to be a mechanical engineer. And I'm pretty good at it. Mm-hmm. And as I progressed in my career as a mechanical engineer, I was asked over and over again to take leadership roles at work and I refused them because I didn't want to go into management Yeah, so my brother does that as well. The problem is that engineers are not natural people uh oriented. That's right. And so if you are an engineer with people skills, you're headed for leadership. Right? Exactly. And so my brother that happened to my brother, right? He's he uh he is an engineering background and sure enough, he got out there and they just you know kept moving him to towards leadership and He was able to go there, you know, he's happy with it. But, you know, it's i in that arena, those that have the people skills are super important. That's what happens and and so when I was first moved into a leadership position at work I asked for leadership training and I and I received it. And that got me really interested in management because that's when I started learning that management and leadership is Much more than sitting in the Ivory Tower and handing down commands and orders. It has to do with working with people and and uh and understanding and and the theory of servant leadership is that our job is to facilitate the job of other people. So our job is to allow people to do their work, to get 'em what they need, the tools, the training, the time. Um the isolation sometimes is that that sometimes is the hardest part when you're leading a group of especially in the world of high technology, software development, um IT. People are constantly being interrupted and there's nothing worse for a technical developer than to be interrupted. Sure. And so a lot of our job ends up be in uh uh or uh our job in facilitating the work getting done is in allowing the people to do the work that we're trying to get them to do. And um but uh so I got some leadership training and that's when I started getting really interested in the whole concept of learning more about leadership. And so my role in the church, uh I was uh the head of that organizational committee, but I was not the head of the parish council, that was Dr. Zaknas, the organizational committee had its own little jobs to do like starting the Sunday school, um different things that we did. Uh different little areas of the church and and Dr. Zachness was in charge of the the whole thing. Uh eventually I served on the parish council for many years. And then eventually moved into the position of treasurer and then eventually vice president and then president of the parish council. So many years on the parish council. I'm not on it now. So what is job number one? Well, we're gonna have to save the question of what is job number one for next week's show. I also want to talk about some negative lessons that looking back you realize, okay, I could have progressed more quickly or those who are above me could have handled. things di differently now that I look back. If I were leadership techniques telling them twenty years ago, so some of the things you learned uh negatively that ended up being a positive 'cause you learned from it. Uh and then also we're going to end up maybe not next week show we'll see how quickly we can progress to this, but I wanted to start talking about advice for younger churches like John's or for people that are in even younger churches than four minutes away from you. Next day, box news top of the hour news. be heading on and and I don't know if I can make this work or not. So I'm gonna have to wait until next week's show and see I wanted to do a little Seinfeld Newman thing but I don't know if I can I don't know if I could make that work or not on the fly 'cause I wasn't so I was ill prepared for that. So let me just see if I can get the music to come up actually. Here we go. Anyway, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Israelite Church. So thank you for being on the show again Uh David Newman, uh Principal with Leadership Techniques, and uh co-founder, I guess, of Saints Peter and Paul Greek Orthodox and Frederick. Our sponsor is Putman Plumpling and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks for listening. Check us out online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith Until next week, die blessed