Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Fritlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to you by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? On the show today, Bernie Beal, the founder and ministry director of Oh you can oh that's very good camera work, Jonathan Uh that's Jon uh of uh Great Commission Families, this Verney's organization. And the uh fancy camera works there, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. You can visit our show online at WFMD. com, keywordface, and if you're watching the video, you've already done that. Right? You've gone or you've you've gone to WFMD. com and you've drop gone to the drop-down menu and you've clicked on the Face of A page Because you can see these videos, you can people listening on the radio right now, what video are you talking about? Go to your computer and see what I'm talking about. And and uh if you miss this and you want to try to sync up later, that'd be a fun game to play, listen to the podcast And watch the video at the same time and see if you can make them look. That'd be fun, right? That'd be a great time. Without a doubt, we are having too much fun, so we will see you on Sunday. Uh no, we will Talk to you on Sunday. You'll see us on the Freddy whenever you want now Monday through Sunday. Huh? Huh? We're videos That was a great beginning. You know I'm a little concerned though. There was a song that came out back in what nineteen eighty. Video killed the radio star. Video. Of course we've never been radio stars. So we're safe. I know, right? Yeah. Who are those goofballs? Yeah, we got this could we we got some potential here. Yeah There's something going on. I we'll have to watch these back later and see if we're going to be able to do that. I'm wearing a shirt today that's uh uh I used to work at a radio station uh in another market and I'm wearing their shirt today. Yeah, whoops. And that's the other thing by the way if somebody watches over the course of like three, four, five weeks of watching videos be like Man, Bernie and John and Troy they they're wearing the same outfit every day It's true. is so important that we have a uniform month by month. The truth of the matter is we're in ministry we don't make that much. We got one set of clothes. That's it. That's all you can wear. That's right. So you can donate at www dot what is that fundraising site? people use it. Go fund me. Yeah, there you go. Go fund me. Roy and John. My new uniform. So yeah, we're we're so poor we can't own uh anything but one change of clothes. But apparently the Key family was wealthy enough that they could own m not just sets of clothes but They could own people. We're gonna we're gonna talk about that. We've been talking the last three weeks about Francis Scott Key and the national anthem and our our uh Maryland's religious heritage and our nation's religious heritage and that sort of thing. kind of spending the whole month of July celebrating uh Francis Scott Key and and things related to that. But, you know, we we alluded to it last week's show. You know, we should have played the song on one of the you know, one of the programs. Well we'll do that before this show is yeah. Well is that disrespectful? We can't talk over it. We have to just play it. We'll just play it. So we'll have a picture of us, you know, so try to time it out so we can end the program today with the National Antarctica. Is there a version that you're familiar with that has all four stanzas recorded? Does that exist? Oh yeah. Yeah. Just Google it. It's Google. Oh. Because first everyone knows. And the fourth is the one that's God is our trust. The story of my life. That's it, right there. I wasn't the first and I wasn't the fourth. Yeah, so yeah, you're not the baby of the family, and you're not the firstborn. Uh so you don't matter. Somebody needs to sing my song. Sorry, I just uh So now what we just oh um Early in last week's show, was it uh Francisca Key's mother or grandmother was a Christian woman of fortitude? Grandmother. Grandmother. Partly blind because of a because she went to rescue uh Servants is what some smoke damage from a fire. But in that same story sharing about her fortitude, you know, it c it was mentioned kind of in passing that she also owned a slave. And this is a big issue in the United States, even today, because uh many African American people don't feel like the Revolutionary War was for them. Though there are many that do, but there's a significant number that don't, because slavery was still so significant up until the Civil War. And so that was their revolution. That was their time of freedom. And sh and even the national anthem, some of them have a hard time. They're not as motivated about it as others might be. And so sure enough, Francis Scott Key owned slaves. Well, it's it's how he came to own slaves. In in uh eighteen twenty-one, which would have been seven years after he wrote the It's okay to own slaves if you do it the right way? No, no, no. Um How he came to own slaves. Yeah, yeah, no, I'm following you. He inherited them. What would you do? If you inherited other people. Yeah. That's you know, we we we don't live in a world like that. We don't want to live in a world like that. Um but he did. And um yeah, I'll I'll say some very positive things here by Francis Cocky, but he was a man and and so all ma we're all sinful But here's what he did in his context. Um So he inherited them but apparently he didn't keep 'em, you're saying. He didn't keep all of them and eventually he was his goal was to free all his slaves. That would be the simple thing to say. And this was a couple of generations before the Civil War. Um but he was a churchman. Um uh he wasn't Methodist. Um I I I really like the Methodist 'cause they basically had a policy, if you want to be a member of this church, you can't own slain own slaves. Early from even beginning of the uh revolution. Yeah, I'm not sure how early, but I think that was pretty much standard from the way uh the Wesley revolution. John and Charles Wesley, huh? Yeah Very nice. But here's what Francis Cocky did. Um he put each of it his slaves kinda on a plan. First of all, he viewed them the way Uh in the Bible talks about Abraham, he and his household. Yeah. But it wasn't just his wives and children and and it was also his servants and and w which what we could possibly even say slaves, but they use the term servants. Right. Um And so all of those it says of Abraham in the Bible that that they all followed him and that and God honored that. So what France got keeping it? like African Americans per se, but they were just people that he'd bought, you know, from probably many different nations nationalities. Probably I I wasn't there, but yeah, that's yeah. Yeah, yeah, the the American form that slavery took on was pretty much different than what it had been in anywhere else in the world and not good. Ugly, yeah. Yeah. Not good at all. But um Francisca Key was a was a ton of a man who read the Bible to his family, morning and evening. So as when he when his father died he inherited these people He said, You I want you to be with me, be with my family. I want you to uh learn the gospel and I want you to be educated and learn a skill. and he put each of them on a plan. Um he didn't have hundreds of slaves. Kind of like you would do with your own children. You know what? Once you have a skill. Now he he helped found and helped lead some uh Amer the American Colonization Society. There was different strands or streams in the uh abolitionist movement. And he was in, quite honestly, I think you would probably say the less less uh less extreme, the more extreme would have been stop slavery now Uh, and he was kind of a moderate in that uh we've done these people wrong. Hmm. Let's set them up back in their own. that were moderates as opposed to those that were extremists, you know, like nowadays you look back and you're like, man, they all should have been extremists. You know, what were they thinking? Oh yeah. Um but the fact is there were guys that were actually abolitionists and were serious about it But we're inclined to handle it in a uh uh a less extreme manner. Yeah, of course most people have heard of the country Liberia. Yeah. Which has the capital Monrovia. Uh what i what is the name of it? Is it Maryland City? I think. Um the capital is Monrovia, named after President James Monroe. Yeah. Uh and uh I think there's a prominent city there called Maryland City because it was so many from the American colonizations. That would come from Maryland that Francisco and others sent back. That had uh paid their way and helped them to get started in a in a in a in a world of freedom, you know, Liberia liberty. That was the big idea. Um one of the biographers, I love Liberia, I didn't know that about the word Liberia. That's a Yeah. Okay, so keep going. Yeah, one of the uh one of the things that's what I love about Bernie. Right? Every time I talk to him he he says something that is a new definition or a new little tidbit. You know, so I'm gonna go home tonight and I'm gonna have to try to remember like at least five things that I can hang on to in the long term that Bernie has shared with me tonight. Oh let's make it local. Sorry, this morning you know you know Monrovia, Maryland? Named after James Monroe, capital of Liberia. Liberia? Same name. Yeah. Or Mon Monrovia is the capital. Oh, there's a Monrovia. Yeah, that's that's the capital because it's named after James Monrovia. So they sent him from Monrovia to Monrovia? Well uh Yeah. Did they I don't know. I wonder if that was in the reasonable possibility. Um but I love g uh finding poll quotes from scholars, you know, people from primary sources and And of Francis Scott Key, it was said that he is credited with, quote, ridding his end of the county of slaves. And his end of the county, his Frederick County. There was no Carroll County yet So if you go to Cair Rubber today, you're in Carroll County. But the border of Baltimore County and Frederick County met in the middle of what is now Carroll County. So Um so is that line then Oh that line was in the middle of Carroll County. It's not somewhere in the city. 'Cause that's how fa slave families were broken up. It's just horrific on every level you can think of. And uh there were even occasions where So in that sense he was an activist. He wasn't a Yes. He wasn't a radical but he was an activist. Yes. There were there were occasions when neighbors did sell to the slave traders and he went after 'em and bought 'em back and got those families back together. Did he get the slave traders? Did he like take down the slave traders? I don't think he went that far. It's more exciting. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So another another biographer said of Francis Gott Key, because he was both a farmer and a lawyer. They said this little fun little quote, Farmer Key spent all the money that lawyer key made. And that was mostly in relation to the slaves. Wait, wait, wait. Farmer they're the same person or two different people? No, the same person. Well you know the joke about the farmer, the lawyer, and the doctor who who won the lottery? No, I haven't heard that one. And they're in the waiting room waiting to get their check and the and the doctor says, You know what I'm gonna do? I'm gonna open up an inner city health clinic. I'm gonna help people. Lawyer says, Yeah, I'm gonna do something like that too. uh a a uh a legal clinic. And so they both turn to the farmer and say, What are you gonna do? And he says, Well I'm just gonna keep farming 'til the money runs out Far farm's an expensive way to make a living. Uh the hourly wage of a farmer is, you know, probably a pittance. Yeah, totally. That's why we have the farm bill. But so yeah, he had a farm, a a plantation, what they would say in the south. We didn't say that in Maryland south. Right. Okay. Well you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm now going to be a video star whether I want to or not. I'm telling you, giving Jonathan that video camera. Anyway, uh I'm gonna have a unique experience, by the way, because normally, you know, I'm kind of paying attention to what's going on in the show, but I had to try to find a full length all four version verses uh the stanzas of the of the song of the national anthem. And I found it and I had to find one where it was Well because we've been talking about Francis Scott Key for the last uh now four shows and Jonathan finally said, Hey, we can play that song and play all four verses if we could find them. Great idea. Mark it down. Tune in on Sunday to the Frederick Faith debate. We'll see you then. What do they say about uh blind squirrel blind squirrels? Even a blind squirrel will find a nut once in a while. By the way, just to FY out when you're when you lean forward into the video Oh that's right, then they can't hear me. Yeah, your the the mic was kinda picking you up but um but not all that well. So we're we're learning. Yep, we're getting there. Bear with us. Uh but anyway, I was distracted trying to find uh a song that's it's sung by uh Lewis Schaefer. Apparently he sings it it's n it's just his voice. Yeah. You can hear all the words. Nice. I found a couple other ones that were all four, but it was like choral groups and it was kind of hard to tell what the words were. So anyway, so you have an all four. Yeah, so we're at toward the end of the show. No, it takes about six minutes. So anyway we were the show continued without me for like five minutes. I have no idea What you guys said. But uh anyway, this is the Frederick's Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD and I'm gonna have a good time listening back to the podcast and hear what the heck we talked about for five minutes. Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Cross Valley Church and Bernie Barry Beal is the uh founder and uh ministry director for Great Commission Families. And we've been celebrating the national anthem and Francis Scott Key and uh and our religious heritage in the country and in Maryland and all those sorts of things for three shows. Uh and we decided we needed to spend at least one show dealing with kind of a hard reality. That's right. And uh we're still celebrating. Mm-hmm. Um but we have to celebrate with a measure of humility and understand it's not just Francis Gotkey and his family is not just people in Maryland. I mean, there were a lot of Christians, Christians, like real Christians, I believe. I think Christians that we, you know, the three of us I think are also real deal Christians. I think the three of us will see these men and women Uh in heaven. He made the judgment. I think you're right there. So uh we we need to kinda own that and grapple with it. Now at the same time it's the quick apologetic thing to do as a Christian, to say, well yeah, but it's you know, it's the it's the Christians and the Christian sensibilities that help to drive uh the the slave trade, the African slave trade, uh into oblivion. Uh I mean amazing grace and all that actually that was led by England more than the United States. And uh at the time we were uh having a revolutionary war against England, so I don't know if we were uh uh doing uh such a good job as uh in paying attention to their leadership at that point, I wonder. tough because the you know the Bible both testaments but particularly in the Old Testament but even in the New Testament you know there's there's uh the word slave shows up and it doesn't seem to be frowned upon So what do you mean by the you know how are we defining our terms becomes a big thing is a whole discussion that we won't try to go to right now. And the reason I'm bringing up bringing some of this up now is because I think the next four shows we're gonna do after this one We're we're dealing with racism. Dr. Pam Blake. Yeah. So I'm looking forward to hearing that. Now I don't know that we'll spend a whole lot of time talking about the slave trade and that sort of thing, but that is Really, right? That's the foundation of all of the discord that's presently killing us. Yeah. Killing our our contemporary culture. Yeah. All the racial issues. Yeah. Yeah. So I want to explore a little bit though. If we have time for one little tangent before we get back to whatever you guys were talking about before I while I wasn't paying attention. But uh talking about all the things that Key was doing uh to uh uh to stand as an activist against the slave trade. But the idea that the the idea of race and racism is, you know, race is not a biblical idea. Ethnicity is, but not race. Mm-hmm. I think that's a pretty cool thing. So where in the where in the Bible can we Paul on Mars Hill is the uh um well th let me let me read a quote from Francis Gotkey And I often say when I quote things from those days, um, that reminds me of a Bible verse. Okay, good, go. You know what I guess this is actually a quote about Francis Cocky in eighteen thirty three Uh President Andrew Jackson sent uh Key to Alabama to solve a states rights issue and it was a an an ethnicity or racial issue. Indians and white people encroaching one another or m well, uh actually one to the other. Uh and Francisco I key went down there and he he did a really remarkable thing. He'd listened to all sides And then he got the uh the the stakeholders together and and offered a solution. And they all heard him and said that'll work. Um and And as as a result, the governor's wife wrote in her journal, and then scholars found this later, and the governor's wife wrote, The crowning trait of his character, Francis, I have discovered is that he is a Christian. And I put in my little flyer. Wow. A discovery long ago made in Maryland. But this the the the racial issues so called the racial issues so called does remind me of what Paul said on Mars Hill, Act 1726. It says of g Paul speaking of God. And he has made from one blood every nation of men to dwell on the face of the earth. of of one blood. And it's the answer to the question, you know, which race are you a part of? Answer. The human race. The human race. We're all in the same race. There may be different ethnicities. Um but I like to remind Christians that um you need to get ready for heaven. 'Cause there's gonna be people there from every tongue, tribe, and nation. So get to know people from every tongue, tribe, tribe, and nation. Yeah. You obviously can't do it completely, but that should be a vision. That we have for our lives. Yeah, and that's an interesting point when you think about it, right? I mean uh I don't know how often we certainly don't spend enough time pondering and imagining heaven. But when we do, I I have a feeling that we rarely think about the fact that there will be diversity, that there will continue to be different tribes and tongues and ethnicities, right? There will be differences Uh Yeah, but there's so many questions about that. But there will be a beautiful uh nothing but a beautiful part of the diversity as opposed to the division and divisiveness that goes with the diversity that we have today. But we think, oh everybody's gonna be milk toast and it's all being the same. We're all gonna be fat little cherubim. Do you think they'll have the Polish quarter and the Jewish quarter and the you know the the African quarter and the European quarter and the Jesus quarters? I mean who knows, right? I thought they'll have quarters, but I mean there will be uh Right because they're not reproducing. I mean I mean it's not we're not going to be making babies anymore. So whatever nationalities there are in heaven will be there. And there was a recent uh court case, right? Apparently there might be some chimpanzees there too, because they get they get hurt human rights now there. Well I'll bring something else up. Crazy. That relates to heaven and a story I tell at Earthworms are people too. And our capacity to understand heaven. And it's the Helen Keller statue. Um there's a picture of it right here. Uh and you can just visualize Where's the video camera when you need it? Well vi visualize a little girl out of water pump with her hand under the water. uh on the Frederick Faith debate and he is uh showing uh one of the uh Bernie Beal brochures uh specifically The capital, this uh it's a booklet. It's a Bernie booklet, not a burning vehicle. A Bernie veal booklet. A Bernie Beryville booklet. And an amazing story about Helen Keller and the ability of humans to grasp heaven, you were saying. Okay. Well here's here's the the famous picture and the statue that's in the Capitol Visitor Center of of uh Helen Keller at the water pump with her hand under the water. Why are you turning it upside down? I can't quite get into it. You've got to move it over a little bit so I can get getting close. I don't think upside down is going to help people watching. Yeah, but you know, it keeps it exciting. Jonathan's turning the camera all different ways. It's all about excitement. I think that the novelty of the camera is we the we has stolen the show from us. Well here's the deal. Ann Sullivan, her teacher, wrote in her journal on the day that Helen Keller had her hand in the water and for the first time in her life understood that language exists. Ann Sullivan wrote, Today a miracle has happened. My little pupil has under s has come to understand that language exists. Now, comprehend for a moment A world where you didn't even know language existed, and then you discovered it. That to me is what our first breath in heaven will be like. Right now, we can't comprehend So much about heaven, but in our first celestial breath we will. Hmm. And you know, and Ann Sullivan, almost nobody remembers that name But what what a hero she is. I mean the obstacles that Helen Keller overcame and the wonderful things that she went on to do in her life and some things that, you know, we might have some issues with as well, some of the things that she advocated for. But uh Ann Sullivan uh is probably the the most noteworthy forgotten person I can think of. And so I'm glad that you mentioned her by name. So we'll see you on Sunday, Frederick Faith Debate. So we have to uh now go to the national anthem. So we're gonna uh uh we'll save maybe we'll have some time for a real quick goodbye, very quick goodbye when this is over. So here's our uh Here's our national anthem sung by Louis Schaefer. It's all the whole the whole thing, the whole shebang, all four verses. By the dawn's early light, what so proudly we held at the twilight's last gleaming. Whose broad stripes and bright stars through the perilous fight O'er the ramparts we lost were so gown. silently streaming and the rock is red glare, the most bursting in air Gate proof through the night That our flag was still there Oh say does that star spangled O'er the land of the free and the home of the On the shore dim we see Through the mists of the deep, where the false haughty host in dread silence reposes. What is that? With the breeze or the towering steak as it faithfully blows Half conceals, half discloses. Now it catches the gleam of the morning's first beam In full glory reflected now shines on the stream 'Tis the star's fangled banner all may it wer the land of love. And the home of And where is that band? Uh so wantingly swore that the heavy of war and the battles. Confusion of home and the country should leave us no more. Their blood has Wash out their foul footsteps, pollution. No refuge could save the hurling and slave from From the terror of light, nor the gloom of the grave. And the store's fangled banner in Troy us doth wait O'er the land of a free. And all the bra Oh, thus be it ever when free men shall stand. Between their love forms and the Lord's relation Blessed with victory and peace, may the heaven rescue land. Praise the fire that hath made and preserved us a nation. Then conquer women. Because it is just and this be our motto in God is our trust and the stores. Tangled banner in through the land of the free. And there is the full national anthem sung by Lewis Schaeffer on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Thanks so much for listening. Thanks to Jonathan Sweites, Senior Pastor of Crosshoods Valley Church. and Bernie Beale with Great Commission Families and our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, Help Me Make You Smile. What have I been reading lately? The Lord's Supper by Robert Lutham. Four weeks in a row, I can give a hearty recommend to what I've been reading lately. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless