Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of gridlot County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hopes in unsatisfied things. This is a Frederick Faith debate. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online, WFMD. com, keyword faith, and you can find all sorts of links to different faith traditions and The podcast of this radio show and on occasion some news items and that sort of thing. We used to say that our blog is your blog, but we've gotten more stingy and greedy than that. Now our blog is our blog Go get go get your own blog. But we were forced into that. That's true, we were forced into that By people driving. Bad, bad people in the world. Apparently we were born yesterday. We didn't know that there were bad people out there. We're uh we're the guy in Green Acres being had by Mr. Feeney. Wasn't that the game, Mr. Fees to come around and sell them snake oil all the time? Mm-hmm. You want to talk about you watch the Green Age? I think we need to find the person that sent us the email and get together with them, because that poor person was used. You are our audience And you are victims along with us of some person out there that handled this wrong. If you go if you have a a a public website Don't post pictures on there without knowing for sure who owns the copyrights to them. Because if Jonathan sends me a picture and says, hey, this is a really cool picture, I'm thinking, oh, John took a really cool picture. And you post it. But John didn't take the picture. Somebody else took the picture and they decide to send you an invoice for like thirteen hundred dollars. Because they have the rights to the picture. It is totally nuts. But anyway. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Light Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We are joined again this week, just like last week, by Bernie Beal, who is the founder and lead ministry guy. I forget what you said the title, or probably Ministry Director. Ministry Director. Lead Ministry Guy. Close Yes, right. Great commission families, right? Find them on that's right. And I think it's important to note that the Beals are like, you know, uh residents long term uh residents of the Frederick uh northern Montgomery County area so much so that their their records go back. I mean, when did they move in? Uh well down by the White House there's a monument with the main beal on it because we used to own that land a couple of generations before George Washington showed up Before George Washington. So he's like rooted well in the community and he's like an a cousin or an uncle of a friend of mine that actually goes to my church. And so these beals are like all over the place. Yeah. But even even the little church I went to growing up, little country Methodist Church, wonderful church, whenever a new pastor comes, uh and it's been a while since the new one has come, but I always introduce myself when I'm back visiting. And I say it's important that you know who I am, because if I die, you have to bury me. In the same cemetery where my father is currently buried, at least his body, he's not there, his body's in up the road from him is is his father, my grandfather, up the road from him is his father my great grandfather. Up the road from him is his father, my great great grandfather. Up the road from him is my great great grandfather. Outside of Damascus it's a Damascus address, but it's um a stone's throw from the Frederick County line. Wow Yeah, you don't know. So I think that's important because he's like rooted, you know, in Maryland and he's a totally a you know a history monster. I barely know, you know, my grandparents, you know what I mean? Well it's unfortunate. Yeah, but he he knows your history like he's Exactly. That's one of my stories I think you'll you'll appreciate. I like to say, how do you know this stuff? Yeah. About your family, about history in general. I say I say, it's my mother's fault. When we were children, I just grew up with a sister And the so family of four driving down the road, and my mom would say to dad, Fred, pull over. Look at that up ahead. There's a historical marker. Then she'd look in the backseat to Joy and I, my sister and I. Say, kids, won't this be fun? We're gonna learn something. My sister and I would look at each other and say the same thing. Oh Mom, not again. And attitude is everything because you said the joy of it, don't you? But you know what I did to my kids Same thing. Same thing. You learn stuff. It's a cycle of violence in the realm of Now when you're going through all the family history stuff or actually Jonathan on your behalf was going through, did I understand correctly? Is there Some convoluted way in which you are Jonathan's uncle. in the uh early seventeen hundreds. And so uh they moved into New York and then uh the the city and then farther out to the uh Finger Lake area. And so that's I think after you guys had already moved in, is that correct? Yeah. Alright. So Bernie doesn't have the pleasure of saying it's somebody else's misfortune to to look at Jonathan and say, well, I'll be a monkey's uncle. I'll be a Schweitzer's uncle. But here I have a question for you. Who do you think is the most famous person ever from Maryland? I I've given this some thought, but I just famous ever? Yeah, the most you know who's from from Maryland? If you interview a thousand people on the street, Based by some sort of Gallup poll or something? Yeah, just who's the historically, who's the most famous person from Maryland? Historically. Well, bec I mean depending on your circles, I think. It's gotta be Francis Scott Key. I would say Francis Scott Key is in the big scope of things, but then People are so shallow today. It's probably Cal Ripkin Jr. or something. Yeah, yeah, it's probably right. Or babe Ruth is actually from Baltimore. And I don't know if Cal Ripkin Jr. is actually from Maryland. I mean he played baseball in Maryland, but what do you mean by from? Born in Mar in Maryland? Yeah, I guess so. Well the little gospel flower I made I put an alliterated title on it. I like because it's not just from Maryland, he's from Frederick. Uh Francis Gotkey, Frederick's famous favorite son. That's right. He's got to be the most favorite. Yeah. Then you saw a video for the very first time. So let me see if I can turn this darn thing on. Alright, so Bernie, you need to you need to history. This is the first video we're doing live during the show. Last week was history as the first video ever. This is an example of the kind of stuff that Bernie does. He's just a history buff and he makes these little brochures. So Bernie Beale from Great Beach Family. From Great I'm sorry, from Great Commission families is for the video. He makes these tracks that have all this amazing information about Francis Scott Key and uh his lifestyle and all the stuff that he wrote and then he ties it into something that he can use to encourage people to think about their faith and what they believe about God. Yeah the design criteria is very simple. Most people have a very short attention span. So so keep it simple, Smarty. And the the back is the Star Spangled Banner. Fifteen stars, fifteen stripes. Fifteen. So that's what it looked like way back in eighteen fourteen. Yes, and so the Flag Act of eighteen eighteen. Alright, so this is gonna this is gonna be the uh the the end of today's video. We'll put you'll see this online. So if you're listening to this, you're actually gonna be able to go online, I guess later today. At some point today. You can see this video online. How about that? Huh? Ah, we're cutting it. Technology. Technology is now lost on us. Well actually it is. But anyway. So that goodbye Well let me answer the question, how do I know what I know, and why do I come to the conclusion that Francis Kakee is probably the most famous person from from Maryland and specifically from Frederick. Um I really appreciate what scholars do. They do the real spade work to find the primary sources and to really know if we're quoting someone, how do we know that? But I'm not a scholar, but I'll read what scholars write Yeah. And people write books based on what scholars research. But I am a minister. I'm an evangelist. What I want to do is take that in interesting information and package it down to a simple um a simple bit of information that the average person on the street might find interesting. And this is one of a couple of dozen flyers that we've created Uh and the reason we created this one is uh a bunch of us went uh around the hundred or so homes that are around um Uh Terra Rubra, the home of Franciscoe, and invited him to a picnic. Right, it's just Latin for the estate. Uh red dirt. Red dirt. You know, funny names, right? Yeah. So Keysville, everybody who lives up in Keysville lives on land that used to be owned by Francis Scott Key and his family. Uh that he and I'm going to be a good thing. Do you do a Frederick City downtown tour that takes you to the cemetery site for Francis Got Kitki and all that? I haven't yet, but that's that's on on the list. I've taken the one that the Historical Society gives Because there's a lot there, right? Spired churches and some pretty interesting and then I'm not sure I'm sure there's a spiritual connection to the time when the uh assembly for Maryland uh the the state capital was for a shr was for like a month was in Frederick. Right. And I'm sure there's some spiritual story behind that that I'm not familiar with. There's probably a lot you could Bernie and I got together to create uh a whole display that is a that is a high quality display that deals with the streams of faith uh that are represented by clustered spires. And Bernie again put together Uh you could do another video if you wanted a uh fabulous brochure with all the information that we studied in in uh the context of that in Was it two years in a row that we have uh we have stood in front of that booth on uh Market Street uh during the In the Street Festival? uh as thousands of people are going by just inviting people to come and and to take a look and to kind of take a path down history history lane uh you know about the clustered spires and Frederick. Yeah, and we'll shoot another video, maybe that'll be the uh in uh a few days after the one we just talked about a second ago on the radio. Yeah. Uh and we'll do another video to show these other Bernie's brochures. Yeah, Bernie's brochures. Another brochure from Bernie Wow. He's got a bunch of 'em. He's got a couple, he's got like two more here, three more here. You can tell we have ministers here, you know, a lot of alliteration going on in the program today. Frederick's favorite son, Francis Gockey, and Bernie's brochures. And and I'll conclude the idea with brochures. Just to say the the point is not to get information out there, but to get people to think about something a topic they might have an interest in, and then transition it to the spiritual and invite them to consider where they are on their spiritual journey. Especially of course in relation to Jesus. Now it occurs to me, uh you you alluded to it uh w on last week's show and there's something you said about yourself either Uh in between shows or on the show today, I can't remember which it was, about you know, we're ministers uh uh of of the word and we're citizens not of this country primarily as Christians, right? And that becomes the preeminent thing. And I I thought we weren't gonna talk about that much we are now. You went there. Well I'm bringing it up because I haven't I I haven't uh hadn't until somewhat recently thought about this when it comes to Francis Scott Key. But I'm remembering back in two thousand six the two thousand six football season, the Indianapolis Colts played the Chicago Bears and it was a big deal in the Super Bowl. And it was a big deal that year because it was the First time the two African American coaches were coaching against each other, Tony Dungeon. That's right. Tony Dungey and Levi Smith. And they spoke about Spoke about their faith. Mm-hmm. And then Tony Dungey, famous and at least to me it was kind of a famous moment for a Christian. It was like Gimme Goose Timbles, you know. They were talking about How does it make you feel? It was right before the game. Like I think it was day of the game, right before the game. How does it make you feel, Tony, now that the moment has arrived that you and Lovey are gonna be staring across each other fifty yards apart on the same field, the first two African Americans coaching a football team uh in the Super Bowl. How does it make you feel? And he said, well, you know, we we we recognize the history of it. and all that, but really what's most important both to Lovey and myself is that we're two Christian coaches. Yeah, how amazing was that. It wasn't about the racial thing, it wasn't about the history, it wasn't about and what he was basically saying it's not about us It's about the one whom we are trying to represent here. Our citizenship is somewhere else. Our identity isn't wrapped up in our race, isn't it isn't wrapped up in our coaching. It's wrapped up in who Jesus is and that's what's most important. And it seems to me that that same sort of thing would be true of Francis Scott Key, that he's known as the the the author of our national anthem, but he didn't even publish anything. He wasn't looking at for notoriety and the kids did after he after he passed away. So what was most important to him and he was, you know Did they make money off it? 'Cause that's what everybody tries to do to have to make sure they can make money off. Well twice in his life he considered the ministry full time. You wanted to be a good lawyer, I'm sure he was a good lawyer, but he wasn't wrapped, that wasn't as identity. His identity wasn't I'm a lawyer. He wanted to be a minister And and a minister is sometimes called a gospel of peace. And even as at the end of last week's show that I read the fourth stanza of the Star Spangled Banner, all four verses and a and an accusation that's often made about the Star Spangled Banner is that it's very militaristic. Well, it's the context, they were in a war, so what are you gonna get? Sure. Um That's particularly true in the second verse, right? Is that the one that's the most Most of the computer. Yeah, come on, let's read the second one. Let's not worry about that. You don't have that computer in memory? No, not quite. Look that look that you don't have a computer? I'm dead in the water, no computer. I've got an iPad, but my iPad doesn't connect to your internet here. In the run up to the War of eighteen twelve, Francis uh Scott Key was was more on the pacifist side. You know, that's not you know, war is awful kind of a thing. Uh he didn't want uh you know there w uh there was a lot of Americans like any run up to a war and but once America was committed then he then he signed on uh and participated. Uh he he was temporarily or for a short time in a um in in a in a militia group where he was responsible to find supplies like food and and things like that. Yeah, there's been, I feel, a real effort to paint Anybody that uh is willing to go to war, to use uh force in order to accomplish uh some goal as being, you know, a hawk and a war monger uh in our day and age and especially you know the the um intense uh bitterness between the political parties that that one of them is, you know, automatically considered warmongers. And the reality is that the founding fathers uh were uh deeply committed to the idea that that there's a time when war is necessary and appropriate Like Thomas Jefferson said, every now and again the Tree of Liberty needs to be uh what is it by the bl by the blood of of uh of patriots. It's it needs to be watered by the blood of patriots. I don't think that's the exact phrase, yeah. That's close, yeah. And so, uh, it's definitely the case that when you're dealing with faith and Francis Scott Key in war, that we have to grapple with the question of just war and when is it appropriate to take up arms. I found it by the way. And I was I was off. It's really it's the it's the third uh stanza of verses uh and then spilling over into the fourth, the first part of the fourth until I think of the fourth as being the more spiritual talking about God and the second half of the fourth. But yeah, but the first half of the fourth um is a little bit uh is a little bit more militarized. So this is The third stands out versus and the first couple of lines after that. Alright? And where is that band who's so Vauntingly swore, by the way, my I need to get my eyeglasses fixed. I can hardly read this. It's the screen is like two feet from me and I can hardly read it. Anyway, and where is that band who so vauntingly swore that the havoc of war and the battle's confusion, a home and a country should leave us no more. Their blood the the battled by war imagery Their blood was uh has washed out their foul footsteps pollution. No refuge could save the hireling enslaved from the terror of flight or the gloom of the grave. and the star spangled banner in triumph doth wave or the land of the free and the home of the brave and then the very beginning part of the fourth Oh, thus be it ever when freedom shall stand, between their loved homes and the war's desolation, blessed with victory and peace, may the Heaven rescued land, praise the power that hath made and preserved us a nation. So that one and a half stanzas oferses is pretty militaristic and pretty like graphic and depressing and bloody and gory and this what I guess people don't like that part of it for that reason, is what you were saying? Yeah. Um Uh an an additional point, going beyond that a little bit, um he from some of the scholars I've read that um he'd actually some of that phraseology he had used when he was writing about the Barbary Wars uh a decade or so earlier So uh like any any author or poet, you know, if you've got uh some things that rhyme, you might use them again. Uh so um uh the the Barbary wars were were pretty brutal. You don't do that, do you, Jonathan, when you preach? You never recycle an illustration or an example or something like that, do you? A well-told story. Yes. Without a doubt. I'll probably do it right now. Tell me a story. But I want to tell you a story about Francis Scott Key and this idea of of war and who goes to war. His father, and by the way, Jonathan Sweitz is a senior pastor of Cross Hospital Chapel. Bernie Beale is the uh founder and ministry director for Great Commission Families. I'm Troy Skinner, and this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD and we're celebrating the whole month of July talking about Francis Scott Key, the national anthem, and related items of interest. So go ahead. Very good. Uh Francis I Key's father, uh Francisco Key was born in in uh seventeen seventy-nine, so the uh Revolutionary War was going on. Uh but early in the Revolutionary War, Francis Guy's father, John Ross Key, was one of the first to raise uh m uh soldiers from Maryland to join General Washington's Continental Army and his father's brother, his uncle. was a loyalist and he went back to England. Ah, after the war he came back and uh signed the Oath of Allegiance to the United States. But All loyalists lost everything. Lost their land. A lot of them some of them went to Canada, you know, after the Revolutionary War or during because they just lost everything. Sure. But when they came back when he when Philip um Barton Key came back. Um his brother, John Ross Key, Francisc Key's father, took the inheritance which they had already split. And and uh Philip had lost all his as a loyalist. John Ross took what he had left and split it again with his now uh returned brother. And that returned brother uh was the lawyer in Annapolis that Francis Gaquay is a young man, very young man, first clerked under. Uh so he grew up in a an environment where he had a father and a brother that were on the opposite sides of a war. And I I think that can affect a person. You know, war is war is a not a pretty thing. Um uh however I would say that I saw a bumper sticker once that said uh uh war is not the answer. It never solves anything except stopping fascism, communism, Nazism. That's how it went on from there. So Precisely, you know that's the it's it's an awful thing and I think someone like Francisco Key can understand that. Right. There is no peace until the Prince of Peace levels a minute. And then from the Principes part of it, yeah, it means Christians need to realize that uh whether we're for or against a militarized uh earthbound war or not, uh we're warriors as Christians, right? Following after the great warrior of of of all time, Jesus Christ, there's a spiritual warfare that is taking place. And that is a much more dangerous war uh anyway. You know, in the this book, The Civil Insta the um uh the civil institutions of no the Christian foundations of the civil institutions of the United States of America. It talks about the uh fact that um There's so many Christians that were a part of the war at the time and it notes that um those that come from a um kind of a Calvinist uh direction that really emphasi emphasizes the sovereignty of God uh were often uh some of the most likely to sign up, you know, and to be prepared to go to war uh for the sake of what's right. Uh, which is very interesting 'cause war is a very man centered, we're gonna get this thing done. Whereas you would think that uh if somebody believes that God's in control of everything, that he's gonna go ahead and take care of it, we don't need to uh say be, you know, a part of the battle, uh, but just let God do his thing. But it's actually the opposite that it seems uh and especially with our founding fathers that those that came Puritans and others that came from a very strong reformed background uh were often some of the first to sign up. Hmm. In England they they uh a term that was used about the American Revolution was the Parsons Rebellion. Or that Presbyterian rebellion, the Calvinists. That Presbyterian rebellion. Yeah. That was some of the terminology that was used over in England. Uh it was mentioned very early in today's show and I wanted to make mention of it and then I almost forgot and how it popped back into my head and I'm not sure why. It was something that Jonathan said he's looking at the Yeah, there you go. But the very first time I met Bernie, it was had to do with uh you know, Bernie's a minister of of the word and he's out there doing ministry when he's talking about all this history ministry stuff. His primary focus is doing ministry. Bring it to a spiritual. The very first time I ever met Bernie was when the Ahmadian Muslims were gonna uh try to build that conference center over in Walkersville. Okay. And there was this kind of this confab. I don't know, it must have been twenty, thirty people in the room. Yeah. And Bob Evans. I remember it being a local restaurant, I can't remember which one. And there were a lot of people. That's right, because you got connected in. No, it wasn't Bob Evans. It's something else now But it's not there anymore. It's a Wawa, it's a guess. But it was Imran Razi that connected you and me. On that at that particular moment, yeah. So there's I don't know a half a dozen uh Ahmadiyya Muslims, I think, in the room, something like that, and probably a dozen, dozen and a half Christians, most of them pastors, but of involved in ministry of some sort. And everybody's talking and it was very cordial and very good. But I gotta say, my memory of that meeting is the one person that got the most attention. Yeah. captured the attention of the of the m of the Muslim hearers was Bernie. Yeah. Really. They really want to what did he say? They were really s well, they were struck by his his manner and his his his you know reasoned approach and bringing in relevant facts and doing it in a kind of a storytelling way and And they really appreciated, you know, what was going on. So out of all these people. And I thought, man, that's a guy we've got to get on the face debate one day. He is the real deal. Well you mentioned my little did you know he was somebody's cousin. A a good portion of our ministry of Great Commission families is with international people. And that flows back to our we my wife and I we were with Campus Crusade for Christ for twenty-three years, and a good chunk of that was an international student emphasis. And uh a um we really view ourselves as missionaries. And what's what's the difference between a minister and a missionary is probably a more overt cross-cultural perspective. So I don't remember anything that I did or said there, but I'm sure anything I did or said would have had an overt cross-cultural perception with the with the context of whatever was going on How did you first meet? Was that your first meeting with Bernie as well? Was that the same day? Um I'd attended I think a few EMF evangelical minister fellowships. Yeah. So we might have met. Gary Cox is another one. Pastor Gary Cox. Imran Razvi uh was a convert from uh Shia Islam into Christianity and he goes to the same church. Imran Raz Razvi has been on this show as well. Back in the eighties. His pastor back in the eighties worked as uh math teacher at the school that my dad had started, and so he was my math teacher. And so between all that. Uh it's actually his pastor uh uh at the time. I don't know if you're still I I think you had moved on from there. Are you still going to that church? Not not, but we're in good I was I just spent a couple of hours with Gary uh a few days ago. Yeah, and uh and Gary is one of the guys that that with my dad wrote the law on the books to allow home schooling in Maryland. State of Maryland uh right now. And so th it was the two of them that made that happen. Yeah. Well, um, the website, give a quick plug and then I'm gonna wrap up the show. Okay. What's your what's your website? GC for Great Commission, families. org. Gcfamilies. org. Commission families all spelled out or if it was just GC, I couldn't remember. Bernie Beale with Great Commission families, thank you. We're looking forward to uh listening back and watching our video. Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossless Right Church, want to thank our sponsor, Putin Flumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Uh visit us visit us online. You can see that just mentioned video. You can listen to podcasts of this show and other shows just like it. Not quite as good as this one, because this was a really, really good show. They're all good shows, right? Yes, it was. But it's always the last one that's the most exactly right. And but we always want to make it not as good as it possibly could be because you want to leave wanting more. Always. So we're always holding back just a little bit. So it could be better, but we're holding back just a little bit. And what have I been reading lately? The Church by Edmund Clowney. Pretty much anything by Edmund Clowney is good as in my book. So I would say, yeah, good read. Edmund Clowney is the church. Thanks for listening. 167 and a half hours from now we'll be back. God bless.