Welcome to the Faith Debate, sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales, online at HiloAutoSales. com and Tire Pros of Frederick. Last week we heard the first part of a two-part series, so you'll hear the second part this week. It's the last half of a message titled From Genesis to Revelation. Simply We'll have a panel discussion for you hopefully next week. We've had some scheduling conflicts of late, but we'll get this squared away. But in the meantime, I hope you enjoyed the last half of what we heard the beginning of last week. Jesus is that promised Seed of the woman. It is Jesus who paid the price for our sin, the answer to the curse. If only we'll trust in what He has done for us. Then we are healed. We'll not face spiritual death. If Paki is in heaven right now He would want you to know this, so that you can join him It was about this time that I noticed my aunt wasn't looking at me anymore. And my crying cousin suddenly shot up from her seat and said loud enough for everyone to hear, I don't need to take this link. It was a bit unnerving, I will admit. I think that might be the first time that I kind of might have felt a little attacked for my faith Wasn't really angry though, it was more sad. As I considered my aunt and cousin Might be rejecting their savior. I'm sure it was tough dealing with them giving me the silent treatment the whole rest of the day and the n following day too. But it was far worse dealing with the reality of their probable spiritual condition. And my heart broke for them. But I pressed on in my message for all of those who didn't get up and storm out. I pressed on with an analogy that was once shared with me by a pastor of mine He explained how salvation works by using this illustration that I know he borrowed from somebody else, and perhaps you're a little bit familiar with it with your yourself. Imagine that you're standing over here And you are wrapped in a filthy, dirty, rotten robe, disgustingly gross, this robe. The entire robe is soiled. You cannot get it clean, no matter what you do. And you can't get this robe off. And over here we have Jesus And he is wrapped in the most beautiful, brilliant, glistening white robe ever. Never has there been a robe so clean as this And now imagine that God, He is here, and He says that what is filthy and soiled and dirty and rotten, it cannot enter heaven. Only that which is pure and clean. And the only option available to you standing over here in the dirty soil rotten robe, the only thing you can do is nothing. There is nothing you can do. There is no thing you can do. But if you'll be still Relax that grip on that robe, maybe? Not as if that's doing something though. If God turns you so that you face Christ Jesus removes your dirty robe from you. He takes that dirty, rotten robe from you, and he takes his clean and holy robe and he places it on you. He wraps you in his holiness to accept it And so then you stand before God, and what he sees is not stained anymore. What he sees is pure. And notice what happens here is Jesus, he doesn't take his clean, pure robe and drape it over your soiled, disgusting robe. He takes your robe from you. He takes your robe. He removes your sin. And what's more, he not only takes this sin from you, but he then puts it on himself. And so now over here we have Jesus putting your sin on himself. The one who was pure and holy, now becoming what is soiled and impure. And his soil and impure robe is made clean, washed white by the shedding of his blood You don't do anything of merit in this great exchange, you surrender to it. So you don't take pride in having earned it, you didn't earn it, so you're humbled by it And don't think for one moment that any one of us is, or anyone we know for that matter, is not wearing a sin-riddled robe. We're all born wearing one. We're all dirty round scoundrels, as I like to say. Every last one of us. Dirty rotten scoundrel. I mean the Bible teaches that if you have broken one commandment, then you are guilty of broken having broken the law. You've broken the law. It's as if you've broken the whole law. Do you understand? You're either guilty or you're not. Have you ever committed a sin, even one single sin in your whole life? Just one. Have you ever committed one? Then you're guilty. And if God is just Then that offense must be paid for the people. Jesus Christ has paid that penalty in full if you accept it Will you accept the gift? Why wouldn't you? Why can't you? Why won't you? Don't you believe it? The whole Bible teaches it. In simple terms, it's like having your whole life story written on the pages of this book here. And everything that you did and are doing is written on the pages of this book. All of the bad stuff that you've done. And all the good stuff that you've done. But even the good stuff is mixed in with a lot of bad stuff that motivates that good stuff like pride and selfish interest. It's like having this other book that's over here, and it contains the life story of Jesus. On it, on every page is written the life story of Jesus, all the good stuff that Jesus did. And all the bad stuff. There is no bad stuff. Only good stuff. It is a perfect record of perfect love and perfect obedience. So you have two books. One cover reads the sinful record. The other cover reads the perfect and holy record. And God swaps out the covers. Your record becomes Christ's record nailed to the cross. And as if that's not good enough. Crisis record. becomes your record. A saint in union with God. If you're a Christ follower. If Pocky was indeed a Christian, then he would have wanted you to know all of this. Are you a Christian? Do you want others to know all of this? To know that there is nothing that any of us can do, nothing at all, but just repent. Trust Jesus. That even our righteousness is as filthy rags, as it says in God's Word to us. Our righteousness is as filthy rags compared to the holiness and glory of God. All there is for any of us to do is to surrender. Do you want people to know that And for those that have surrendered, that then they, out of a humble gratitude, they follow Jesus in obedience until the day that they die When we die, if we are His, what awaits us Eternity with God. That's what awaits us. Now it's tempting to say that this eternity with God began for Pachy when he died, if he was a Christian. At the moment that he breathed his last. But the truth is that if you become a Christian today, that eternity with God begins today. It can happen, it can begin right now With his fulment, ultimate fulfillment coming obviously at the return of Christ in his second coming. Now, until the last day, we continue to live in a difficult and diseased world. And so it is not all lollipops and cherry blossoms. Not yet. But here's how the end plays out. Here's what awaits. And again I've been asked Dina to step forward and read a portion of scripture for us. This is what's described for us in the book of Revelation. Again I would ask you to Grab your Bible or the Pew Bible or borrow your neighbor's Bible if you can't get your hands on one and turn to Revelation. And just like Genesis is really easy to find, so is Revelation. Revelation is at the very end of your Bible, the very back of the Bible. And chapter twenty-one is near the End of Revelation. So if you get to the end of your Bible and go forward just a few pages, you will probably find Revelation chapter twenty-one, verses one through eight Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. And heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself Will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning nor crying nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. And he who was seated on the throne said, Behold, I am making all things new. Also he said, Write this down, for these words are trustworthy and true. And he said to me, It is done I am the Alpha and the Omega, the beginning and the end. To the thirsty I will give from the spring of the water of life without payment. The one who conquers will have this heritage, and I will be his God, and he will be my son. For as for the cowardly, the faithless, the detestable, as for the murderers, the sexually immoral, sorcerers, idolaters, and all liars Their portion will be in the lake that burns with fire and sulfur, which is the second death. The word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. So we find here in this passage The comfort that belongs to those trusting in God through Christ. Comfort in that glorious forever after that Awaits those that are wrapped in his holiness, and the comfort that knowing evil will be dealt with and eliminated. This is good news. Now Pocky talked about him a bit, but I'm going to talk about him just a little bit more so you understand he was not perfect. He was like a little kid in many ways, just refusing to grow up. He always ate more than he should. He had a um well, he didn't always have a clear commitment to telling the truth He uh to illustrate that point, the man never lost a game of solitaire. He cheated playing solitaire He did a lot of wrong things. He did some really wrong things. And he didn't talk about God a lot. He didn't go to church. But he loved the Gaither's singing gospel. And he would sing along to those old hymns, mostly out of tune and getting plenty of the words wrong. One of his favorite artists also is Johnny Cash, which I don't know if you realize this, but he's one of the great gospel singers of the last fifty years. And there was this old story about a deck of cards that taught about God. And he shared that story with me. And he taught me that Santa Claus is real insofar as he represents the good gifts of God. And he said that thunder, well, that was God bowling. Rain, well, that was the teardrops of angels. But was he a Christian? If so, then he would want you to know what God wants you to know, what the Bible teaches, what I've been trying to share with you here. this morning and if you believe it for yourself are you sharing it with others you should want them to know You should be sharing it with others because that's what Christians do. Those who have been rescued themselves can't help but tell others about this good news of the Great Exchange. If you have not been willing to do this, to share this good news with others, well You think just maybe it's possible that you might have your answer on that ultimate question. Don't you? If you don't share this truth, it's Evidence, it's maybe it's not all the evidence, but it's certainly part of the evidence. If you don't share this truth, it is evidence that maybe you don't really have this truth in your heart. You need to ask God to change your heart. And so I wrapped up my message at my grandfather's funeral for those that were gathered there. By uh saying that they weren't absolutely certain that they were going to spend eternity in the comforting arms of God when they die. I encourage them at the very last to change their answer to life's ultimate question, before they, like Pocky, would breathe their last. And so I draw to a close this morning saying the same thing to you. I encourage you to do the same. And so that you don't misunderstand some of the word choices or the the analogies and the illustrations that were used, I want you to understand There is nothing you can do. Nothing you can do. Nothing You don't choose God. God chooses you. But what I'm asking you to consider Are you feeling the call of God on your life right now? Do you feel that God looks at you, has chosen you, looks at you and says, Mine? Are you thinking you might be, as the Bible puts it, one of the elect Is God speaking to you, whispering in your ear, talking into your heart right now? Surrender to that. Don't put it off. Stop fighting. Again, you don't do anything. The point is stop doing. Stop doing And let God do. I pray that if you haven't had that moment before in your life, that you're having it now. Sounds like a trite Christian thing to say, doesn't I pray that you're having it right now? I mean that Well, let's pray. Father, we come to you in the name of your eternal Son, and we thank you. We thank you for delivering your truth to us for the teaching and example of your chosen people who have come before us We ask that you would soften our hearts. Replace our rock hard hearts with hearts of flesh. We pray that the power of your Holy Spirit would convict us of our sinful ways and sinful attitudes. Help us to know Christ, to truly know Jesus Christ and to place all of our trust in Him. And his gift to us? Forgive our stubbornness In seeking our own way, depending on ourselves, trusting in our own deeds, our own standards. We thank you for your loving promise, for your plan of salvation put into motion before the world was even created. Ye equip us of a Father to confidently and confidently proclaim to all who have ears to hear that you are the Creator, God Who rules even today and forevermore as Lord, Savior? King over the entire world. And in an intimate way. Over our individual lives Amen. And there you have the conclusion to the two part series from Genesis to Revelation, simply put. Uh the first half was last week, the second half this week. So if you missed the first half and you'd like to hear how it all started, it is available on podcast. Go to WFMD. com. Keyword faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page. Uh again, I want to thank our sponsor, Hilo Auto Sales. Online at hilo autosales. com and tire pros of Frederick. I want to thank you for listening. Until next week, 167 half hours from next. Now, God bless