Welcome to the Faith Debate, sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales online at HiloAutoSales dot com and tire pros of Frederick. Last week I mentioned we'd have a special panel discussion lined up for you this week and we did, but the guests can't take it. So here I am thinking on my feet. I had a real recent opportunity to show share a word from the pulpit of a local church, a message titled From Genesis to Revelation, simply put. And so we'll hear that message, the beginning of it anyway, here today. I hope you enjoy it. Thank you, Carl. And thanks in his absence to Jace Broadhurst and the rest of the leadership for allowing me the privilege and honor and responsibility of sharing God's gospel with you this morning. Good morning. It is always a pleasure to see your faces and to have an opportunity to meet some new ones as well. I'm not sure exactly how many times I have preached here, but it's more than a few. those who have heard most of those probably are expecting something today that you're not going to get. You're probably expecting that we're gonna dive deep into a particular passage and we're gonna go line by line and sometimes even focus on particular words and unpacked what the full meaning of the passage is. You know, an expository sermon for those who know what that mean what that means. You're not going to get that today I'm not sure exactly why, but I have felt uh an impression. Maybe it's from God, maybe it's my own mind, I don't know, but I felt this impression That there might be a need for God's people and those who uh aren't yet counted and recognized as those who are God's people to hear the gospel truth in a very simple way. And so this morning you're going to hear Genesis to Revelation put simply. What is the whole Bible about in its simplest terms? So before I dive into that I know we've already prayed, but it's habit. I like to pray when I preach. Holy Father, enthroned in heaven, we acknowledge your greatness. And praise you for who you are. We thank you for inaugurating your kingdom on earth. We place our hope and joy in the promise of the coming consummation of your kingdom. And as we wait, we thank you for sustaining us, providing for each and every one of our needs. Forgive us, Lord, for often confusing our wants with needs and becoming ungrateful and impatient. Help us to see clearly our own failings and to be humbled so as not to be guilty of self-righteous judgment of others. We ask that you help us to forgive just as you forgive us. We are weak in and of ourselves Finding strength only in Jesus Christ, who strengthens us and heals us and protects us from the evil that lurks in hope of keeping us from enjoying a right relationship with you. Please bless this message this morning, making up for the inadequacies that I bring to delivering it. Despite my frailties, we ask that you would cause the name of Jesus Christ to be glorified. It is in his name that we pray. Amen. Quite a number of years ago, my grandfather died. He was old and incredibly sick For a long time. And we got to a place where our family knew that he was going to die at any moment. And we lived in that moment for nearly a year. But he did finally breathe his last, and my mom Asked me if I thought that Pocky was in heaven. So we called my grandfather Pocky. Was Pocky in heaven? Pondered the question for a moment and of course I answered it. Didn't really know what I was talking about. Always speak too quickly. It's way too common, too typical for me So before I had a chance to really finish pondering this question, had something else to deal with, we had a family dilemma that I was asked to help solve. My aunt was the one who was in charge of orchestrating the funeral arrangements. She was in charge of all of that and she did not want a religious service Scripture reading or two, yeah, that'd be fine. But nothing too much about God. And so we did what families often do in situations like this when we face this kind of a dilemma. We decided that we would have a scripture reading or two, but it would be the kids who would read the scripture passages. That's safe, right? Feels holy, but the focus is on the kids and how cute they are. How cute they look, how cute they sound, as they read words they can barely pronounce. And it makes the adults feel kind of slug. Aren't we precious adults? Making sure our youngins read their Bibles Won't catch us reading the Bible out loud, of course, because we don't want to have our biblical illiteracy exposed as we we read words that we can barely pronounce. Right? Anyway, back to the dilemma. My aunts didn't want a religious service. Not just a service that was outside of a church building, but Also a service that would be devoid of a chaplain or a pastor or anyone like that to MC the event. Now Pocky was a decorated war veteran from World War II. The honor guard was On hand at his funeral. We could have had a chaplain from the Marines officiate the service. But my aunt didn't want a religious service. And other than me, pretty much everyone in my whole family is absolutely petrified of public speaking. And I was too once. But by that point in my life I had gained experience as a radio talk show host. And so, you know, make a fool of yourself every day for a few hours with thousands of people listening in, and there's nowhere to go but up from there. And so standing before a small gathering of people in front of a casket is not as uh intimidating as perhaps it should be So long story longer, my mom volunteered me to emcee the event. And then she asked me if I wouldn't mind emptying the event. So what was I supposed to say? Actually I I would have said the same thing even if she had asked my permission before she volunteered me Which was this. I reminded my mom that my aunt, she didn't want a religious service. And I reminded her that I'm a religious person. That was true for me even back then. Not a particularly good person, maybe, but a religious person. And so I just I couldn't imagine that my conscience would rest. If I stood before a captive audience at a funeral and didn't share the good news of the gospel A funeral? I mean, really? A time when and a place where people are contemplating deep thoughts. Thoughts like, Why is it that the Chicago Cubs hadn't won a World Series since before World War One? When will we finally see McDonald's hamburgers and french fries in the frozen food section of our local grocery store? And thoughts like, what happens to us when we die? Actually, that last question isn't what we ask at funerals either. When we're away from funerals, we might ask the question, what happens to us when we die? But when we are actually at a funeral, what we ask is, what will happen to me? When I die. And as it turns out, by some incredible quirk of God's plan and purpose for this world, I know the answer to that question. And it's a valuable answer. It is the most valuable answer. And I'm not allowed to keep it for myself. I must give it away to others for free. Because even though this answer is of unequaled value, I pay nothing for it. And so I have no right charging others for it. I must give it away. Any attempts to charge for it would be evidence that I never really had it to give or sell to begin with. And so I told my mom that I would MC, and I told her that out of respect for my aunt who did not want a religious service, that I wouldn't go out of my way. To force this answer into the ceremony. However, if This should open up a natural opportunity for sharing this answer with those who are gathered at the funeral, this answer to life's most critical question. Well then I would simply have to do so. And my mom saw no problem with that at all. I'm not sure that others, including my aunt, would have the same attitude, but I figured, eh, it'll be what it'll be, as one of the great meaningless phrases of all time puts it. It will be what it will be. And we talk about stoicism, right? But I digress. So picture, if you will, a scene with women crying uncontrollably. Not all of the women, just two. My aunt and her daughter, my cousin. And they were actually upset with others like me who weren't crying more. They actually accused us, condemned us, saying we simply didn't love Pocky as much as they did. It's quite possibly true. I don't know. I'll leave that up to God to judge the level of love in other people's hearts. But again, I sort of digress. So we have these crying women, and we have these awkward men trying desperately, desperately to not look self-conscious. And people are mostly paring off and gingerly entering into conversations with people that they kinda sorta remember and feel like they know, you know, second cousins you haven't seen in like decades Friends of the family that you're not sure aren't somehow maybe part of the family bloodline. People shaking hands and Walking up to somebody, neighbors of Pocky's that they had never in their life met before, and yet shaking their hand and nervously saying, It's good to see you again. So if you have a look like you're nodding knowingly, are you there? Aren't you my cousin? So then it was time for the hour-long uh remembrance service to begin, and I stood up and I greeted everyone and I looked at my grandmother. Who I'm not kidding, I don't think I had ever seen her smile so much in a single day. Ever It's a funny thing, shock. And I looked out over at everyone else and Made solid eye contact with my mother, who was very proud to see her son front and center. I look at my aunt who was still crying, but she was looking at me. I introduced the uniformed Marine from the Honor Guard who said some incredible things about my grandfather About his courage and his valor. I'm not kidding, until that day I had no idea the fullness of what Ponky had done for our country. All the medals that he had received, I had no idea. He was a quiet man. He was humble. Didn't share a whole lot about himself. And then the children they got up and did the Bible readings, which I talked about a second ago, and they were cute as a button. And there were a few other things to orchestrate, including the eulogy, which I must say was delivered powerfully well by my mother. I am still blown away, marvel at the job that she did, knowing how petrified of public speaking she is And after all of this, we still had quite a bit of time left to fill, and so for our hour was up, and we had to fill the hour because of a schedule that we were on with the cemetery So I was responsible for not only not going over the hour, but making sure we filled the hour, had to hit the post to use a radio term. And so I encourage anyone else who was comfortable getting up and speaking to come up and share what might be on their heart about Pocky And I think two people took me up on that offer and they both spoke for maybe a minute. And so we still had a lot of time to kill. And forgive me for the possible funeral pun there, but I really had a lot of time to kill. And so I proceeded to say what I said I would say, to share what I said I would share, only if Time allowed. I would not force it in, but neither would I run away from the opportunity. So I began by joking that since nobody else wanted to get up and talk, that they were stuck with me and my thoughts And then I let everyone in the Lord's Prayer. And then I said this. We are gathered here today to remember. my grandfather to honor the memory of Paki and to offer comfort to one another, those who loved him. And in honor of Paki's memory, and as a means of offering comfort to you, I'm going to share with you what I think Pakki might have wanted me to share with you. Not everyone knows this, but when Pocky was a young man, he wanted to attend a Lutheran seminary. And I can tell you that just a few days ago my mother asked me if I thought Paky was in heaven. And only God knows the answer to that question for sure. By the way, as an aside, it's interesting how you transport back in time how it can stir up, dredge up old memories and emotions Anyway, so I talked about how my mom asked about whether Paki was in heaven and that only God can know that for sure. I said that I wasn't going to say any more about that other than to say that for Pocky, it's now a settled issue. He's dead. And his body will be buried next hour. He's already in heaven. Or he's not. There's whatever the case, there's nothing more. There's no more time for him to do anything about it. For Pocky, this ultimate question has been answered. But what about you? What's the answer for you? Do you know that you were created in God's image? We all were. And Paki is in heaven, he would want you to know this. But do you also know that, and by the way, not just you, not just me, the person sitting next to you, everyone here has been created in God's image. We all were. But it's also true that we're all corrupted by sin We all are. Ever since the fall from grace by Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, which you can read about in Chapter 3 of the book of Genesis. I've actually invited my wife Dina to read a passage from Genesis. This did not happen at the actual funeral service. Come on up. Uh in the interest of time, I just encourage them to go find it themselves But I'm going to encourage us to read it now together. So if you would grab your Bible. If you don't have your own Bible, it can be a digital Bible, that's fine. But if you don't have your own Bible, grab one of the few Bibles And this is a new exercise for you. I don't take nothing for granted. If you're not sure where Genesis is, it's really easy. Go to the very beginning of your Bible. Genesis is the first book in the Bible. Flip ahead to chapter 3 And we are going to read together Genesis chapter 3, verses 1 through 20. Now the serpent was more crafty than any of the other wild animals the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God really say you must not eat from any tree in the garden? The woman said to the serpent, We may eat from fruit from the trees in the garden. But God did say, you must not eat fruit from the tree that is in the middle of the garden, and you must not touch it, or you will die. He will certainly not die, said the serpent to the woman, for God knows that when you eat from it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. When the woman saw that the fruit of the tree was good for food and pleasing to the eye, and also desirable for gaining wisdom, she took some and ate it She also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate it. Then the eyes of both of them were opened, and they realized they were naked, so they sewed sick leaves together and made coverings for themselves Then the man and his wife heard the sound of the Lord God as he was walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and they hid from the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord called to the man, Where are you? He answered, I heard you in the garden and I was afraid because I was naked, so I hid. And he said, Who are who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten from the tree that I commanded you not to eat from? The man said, The woman you put here with me, she gave me some fruit from the tree, and I ate it. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this you have done? The woman said, Well, the serpent deceived me and I ate So the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and all wild animals. You will crawl on your belly, and you will eat dust all the days of your life. And I will put enmity between you and the woman and between your offspring and hers, he will crush your head and you will strike his heel. To the woman he said I will make your pains in childbearing very severe. With painful labor you will give birth to children. Your desire will be for your husband, and he will rule over you. To Adam he said, Because you listened to your wife and ate fruit from the tree about which I commanded you, you must not eat from it. Cursed is the ground because of you Through painful toil you will eat food from it all the days of your life. It will produce thorns and thistles for you, and you will eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your brow brow you will eat your food until you return to the ground, since from it you were taken, for dust you are, and to dust you will return. Adam named his wife Eve because she would become the mother of all the living, the word of the Lord. Thanks be to God. Paky would want me to explain that sin brought a curse into the world. But also there is a promise. The curse is that life is hard And it ends in death, even spiritual death. But that promise is the woman's offspring, the seed of the woman. A child would one day be born as an answer to this curse. And the Bible proceeds to tell us how God He protected and provided for the family line of this chosen one from Seth and Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. To the nation of Israel led by Moses and the kings and the priests and the prophets. And Paky, he loved these stories. Absolutely love them. I remember him watching the Ten Commandments every year. You know that Chuck Heston movie? Watch it every year around Easter time. And Faki would want me to remind you of these stories. These stories that take us up to John the Baptist making way for Jesus of Nazareth. And there you have part one of a two-part series on the Faith Debate program. I am Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by High Low. Autosales online at hiloautosales. com and TirePros of Frederick. That was the first half of a message titled From Genesis to Revelation, simply put, part two. The last half of that message will air next week. Until then, 167 and a half hours from now, God bless you. Plus