Theological Roundtable Gab Fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web Wfmd. com keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate. Master of Ceremonies. Oh yeah. Astroy Skinner. Two weeks ago, I had the privilege of being a guest on another show on this radio station, 9WFMD. Uh Jennifer Charlton, who hosts Success Happens, airs every Saturday morning at nine o'clock from nine till ten. Um she's been doing that show for a while now. I think it's probably around three years or something like that. She's been doing that show and she finally got around to inviting me on What does that tell ya? She was finally desperate enough, I tell you, that's what it tells you. Anyway, it was a a great honor and a privilege to be on somebody else's show as a guest, and last week we played the first half of that show and this week we'll play the second half of that show. Why did I have to do it over two weeks? Well that's because she has an hour long show. I only have a half hour long show. Uh so anyway, here's the second half of that conversation that I had with Jennifer Charlton on her program success Success happens a couple weeks ago here on WFMD. Well as we sit here and talk, we're talking about life principles, some of which have a spiritual uh foundation. But I I was thinking before you know, when we went to break, we were talking about this idea of kind of grappling with, right? When is it uh, you know, we have to create a trusting relationship And when do we uh frankly have random acts of kindness with maybe perfect strangers like our our uh listener who shared about the uh Starbucks line and opportunities to impact a life that maybe put before us to help in some way. And I and I think that there you know, I will tell you a very dear friend of mine today is somebody I met randomly many, many years ago when I was actually with the Commission for Women and we had the big rally, I don't know if anybody remembers in front of Winchester Hall. This was golly, I don't even remember. Um many years ago. And Uh and this y'all walks by with her son, we start chit-chatting, and she is now one of my dearest friends. And um and you know, there have been many times that she's helped me and I've helped her. And and it has become a a a a trusted relationship like you were speaking to Troy. Um and you know, I think As we grow older, you know, we uh for me at least, that list has gotten shorter, more refined and defined. Who are the people I can truly trust in my life? And it just had to go. They just had to go. But but You know, I do believe that people come f in our lives for reasons or seasons, right? You know, for long term, short term, whatever the case may be. And we have to figure that out as we go along with them in our in our journey called life. Yeah, there's uh uh a book by a uh gentleman named Dan Alexander who uh the book is called To Be Told and the whole premise and the idea of his book is that our lives are stories, uh like novels. really. And these novels are being co-authored by ourselves in partnership with God. And so who's really writing the story of our life? Is it God or is it me? And the answer is yes. And so if we think of our lives that way, and our life is this novel that we're co-authoring with God, then all these other people that are coming in and out for reasons and seasons are characters in our story. So it becomes important to try to figure out what What is our story? And then what's the backstory for these other characters? That's where the investing in their lives, taking the time to get to know them. Um allowing yourself judiciously, you know, you gotta get to know somebody before you reveal too much. There can be a danger in this broken fallen world to reveal too much too soon, they can take advantage. But you know, sussing it out and figuring out when can I be a little more transparent, a little more vulnerable with them, which will then maybe encourage them to be a little more transparent and vulnerable with me and then you have true relationship uh where you can truly You know, right before the break you're talking about uh uh meeting people that describe their job uh as they were caregivers. Mm-hmm. We're all caregivers. Whatever job we have, we are uh responsible for caring for others. Like uh at at home. I'm supposed to be caring for my wife and my children and my home and and my neighbors' interests by taking care of my lawn and keeping the house painted and things like that. I should be caring for in work. I should you know my primar I host the Faith Debate Show on Sunday morning, so I need to care about that. But I don't get paid for doing that. I make a living by taking care of my clients who are advertisers on the radio station. Uh and over time some of these clients have become really dear friends where they've allowed themselves to become vulnerable with me. I've been vulnerable with them and I won't obviously say any names but here's an a classic illustration. I had a client who called me, wanted to get together, wanted to know if I had time for lunch And I was like, uh uh yeah, I can make time maybe tomorrow and he's okay great. That'd be I'm thinking, man, he must have some big marketing initiative he needs to talk about. Right. And there was you know five or ten minutes of kind of Typical at a lunch to have some small talk, but it's like an awkward kind of a small talk to kick off the lunch. And I was like, So so I cut to the chase a little quicker than I might because it's of the awkwardness. I said, So what's what's the point of the meeting? Like why are we why are we having a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit He said, Well, I haven't told anybody else yet, and I'm not sure what to do. I've been having an affair. Wow. And I don't know what to do. Well So here's a guy who's cheating on his wife and then he starts crying. Oh and he didn't know who else and I think his relationship with me was such that we were close enough that he felt comfortable making himself vulnerable, but not so close that I was within his inner inner circle. Like I wasn't in his family. So you wouldn't be judgmental. Right. that he could take a chance. And so But this comes back to you being a good guy and you have a trusted listening with this fellow. He felt he could trust you. Yeah, I'm not dunno how good a guy I always am, but uh uh Oh just take the compliment, thank you. I appreciate that. I I no and I and I am. Uh um I think that he knew that I would take the time to listen. I think I demonstrated that over our history together that he knew that that would happen and he knew that I would listen. Uh and he knew that I would be less likely than some others, perhaps that he knew, to be immediately judgmental. Now I will say this, um you talked early on about being sweet and kind. Uh I'm gonna broaden that out and say we need to demonstrate love. And sometimes love doesn't feel all that sweet and kind sometimes when it's when it's meted out. And so he's saying so what tough love Yeah, so he's saying so I don't know what to do. I said, You don't know what to do, of course you know what to do. First of all you stop what you've been doing. Right. Right. What you're doing is wrong and you need to s Stop. Now that wasn't all that sweet and kind on the surface, but it was the sweet and kind thing to do ultimately because he needs to correct a bad behavior and I told him he needed to uh Not only stop but come clean with his wife. And he wasn't real keen on that. And I said, you know, I'm a big believer that when two get married the two shall become one and you can't have a secret from yourself You know everything that you know. And if you and your wife are one, she knows everything you know. You're gonna have to work through that and it's gonna create some short term turbulence. It's gonna be Brutal. Mighty yeah, mighty brutal. Uh but in the long run it will be what's best for your relationship because she's gonna know and you're gonna know that you're not keeping secrets from each other no matter how horrible they are. Great advice, Troy. So well It it turned out that it was because they're still married. Well and and guess what? And and y and kudos to you for for being that straight in the conversation. Um you know, I think it really takes an act of courage to be that straight. Um, but this goes back to that conversation about being authentic. You were authentic to yourself and your own principles. And you were very clear on that line. There was no there was no blurry line for you. And so uh and and by the way I would have said exactly the same words and cleaning up with your wife. Yeah, and that's an interesting point. That's probably not the the general direction that you want the show to go, but just as an aside, um that's That's the problem in our society, uh, right now about is there an absolute right and wrong? You know, because we live in a society where people question even the idea, is there an absolute truth? Mm-hmm. So who are you to say that having affair is wrong? Could have been his response. And I would have said, Who am I to say? It just is. And that's why I'm saying it. I'm not making this up. I'm taking kind of this universal truth and applying it to your situation. And oh by the way, you wouldn't be sitting here crying in front of me if you felt differently. So obviously you know there's an issue here. So well, you know, back to this idea of of creating uh the opportunity to contribute to the lives of others. I wanna I wanna I wanna back up for a second and and and acknowledge that, you know, the last month or so we've focused on nonprofits in the community, ways that we can give publicly. Right? Now we're talking about ways we can give privately. And it may or may not be known to others. It doesn't even matter. Because I believe and I and I and I believe my life is a demonstration of this is that I have been blessed many, many, many times over. But I think it's because I've I've I've tried to be that person that that I've been called upon to be. You know? And um and when I can give I try to give. You know, when I can support somebody who's in need, I try to do that, whether it's with uh advice or coaching or uh you know, five bucks or whatever that looks like, right? So um You know, I was in had a episode this week and I ended up in the ER in inner city, Baltimore. Were you mugged? No. No, I actually had a medical condition and uh and I'm better now, but I wasn't sure if I was having a heart attack, so I thought So just so happens Did they joke that at least now you know you have a heart? Well, no, worse, they they scanned my brain. I said, Oh, that's what it looks like. And they found nothing, right? Well actually actually what they found he's showing me my And then I said, What is that little white spot right there behind me? I said, What is that? He says, Oh, not to worry, not to worry. classification in your brain. I'm thinking, uh that does not sound good to me. However, he's saying it's no problem. I've seen enough medical shows on TV to know the white spots on scans not good. But then he says He says, I said, Well would that be the reason why I'm not good at math? He said, Yeah, we'll go with that story. But anyway, I'm in this ER And it's and it's Wednesday night, so it's coldest night of the year so far. And every person who was h you know, homeless I mean you know, anybody who had no place to go, they were in that ER. And it they got slammed. I mean, they got slammed. And um and there were some addicts and there, so my husband's there with my six year old and I said, Stay out Right. I'm sitting next to this woman and she says starts to go into the story about how she has staff in her blood. And I said, Okay, check please. We gotta go. Because I'm not getting staff while I'm sitting in the ER. You know. But But I thought to myself, as I was sitting there, here are all these people who are probably hungry, they're sick, you know, they're not feeling well, they're in the ER, they don't have a place to go. U and if they had a place to go they probably don't have money to get there. And I thought, What can I do? You know, and and I thought of that, wonder if I could order like Papa John's and have it delivered, you know? But then I thought, Oh well genuine I so I had this whole conversation I had, you know you'll disrupt things and you know the ER won't like it. You know, I don't know these people. You know, if I was in Frederick I'd probably have done it. But but you know Um when is it the opportunity to act on these thoughts in our head to to to do for others? And you know, how can we contribute sometimes to these folks who are, you know, come into our lives? And I will tell you I sat there r before I realized and thought further of it. We were talking about v vaping and how people do this thing and I I said, Why would you put that in your body? You know, it's not good for you and this, that and the other. And think and meanwhile in comes somebody who's probably a heroin addict, you know, uh you know, and thinking, you know, the They obviously don't have those same views as I do because they put this stuff in their body, you know. Uh, but maybe those words would make a difference to somebody listening. Yeah. That's all on a sliding scale, by the way. I mean we all put a bunch of processed garbage into our food in our food and then into our bodies every day. So yeah, I'm I'm I'm not equating, you know, processed corn syrup with uh with heroin, don't get me wrong. Right, right. But we all put stuff in our bodies. We kn we know better. How many times have you been at like some sort of office function and there's a bunch of like jelly filled donuts and people are grabbing them saying, Oh, this is gonna be so bad for my arteries, but it tastes so good. Yeah. We do it all the time. Like we just think fantasy. I have to tell you, I just lost twenty pounds, I'm not putting it back on because of a jelly donut. So So um I will say this in answer to the question of how do you know when or how to how to res h how to interact with situations, my wife's better at this than uh than I am and I'm learning from her, but one of her big uh almost a mantra really is trust the leading of the Spirit. And so if in the moment she feels the you know the the urging of the Holy Spirit to uh uh to have compassion and help somebody in a particular way Even even though we have those urgings, you know, those promptings by the Holy Spirit, sometimes we still ignore them. And so her thing is, you know, I don't always feel the Spirit. When I do, I need to be obedient And so in that moment, if I feel like I'm supposed to help that person, in spite of my reservations, I need to be obedient. I need to help that person. Now there are And not dismiss it as a silly thought. Yeah, like oh or well, yeah, I don't have time or I don't it's silly or whatever. Right, right, right. Well we're gonna take a quick break. You're listening to Success Happens. I'd like to And you're also listening to a special edition of the Faith Debate Show uh where I was a guest on uh Success Happens with Jennifer Charlton. And um this is a couple of weeks ago you're hearing the second half of the hour long uh thing that I did. And right now whoops. You're hearing audio underneath me as I'm trying to uh bridge the gap here. By the way, I want to make a correction. I said a book was by Dan Alexander. It's by Dan Elender, to be told. Dan Ellender, not Alexander. step back and kind of uh as we've been talking about creating random acts of kindness and being creating a world where we're all sweet and kind and respectful to one another regardless of our points of view or our cultural, you know, uh backgrounds or whatever, right? Just we're all one humanity. So that's kind of wrap up I think some of what we've talked about today. But I do in this you know, world today w and and and back to this idea that integrity has been getting restored all over the place. One of the one of the things that's come crashing down is this um I'm gonna call it um veil that's been around sexual harassment in the workplace or um powering control, if you will. primarily over women by men in a work environment. Uh but not only that. Um sometimes uh uh less frequently it can be uh a uh uh against the man, but mostly it's against the women. And of course, you all know I'm a former Miss Maryland and in a a couple a couple years ago I started reconnecting with with former Miss Marylands and they created something called Forever Miss Maryland. And um and it's a, you know, Facebook close Facebook group of former Miss Marylands. And so We have dialogue now and then and it's nice to reconnect with women who have experienced what I've experienced because it's quite an extraordinary uh event that took place in my life. It changed my life for sure. Um But when this occurred, you know, we've been talking about Hol Hollywood, I lived in LA. I I I have had people across me. I've had people offer me stuff if I just did this or that. Believe me, been there did it experienced it. Um but when it came crashing down in the Miss America program, I thought, holy cow That veil has really dropped. Because you're talking about an organization that's about empowering women through scholarship funds, whether they win the state title or don't Women who participate are put in law school, med school, educational environments to to pursue their dreams and make a difference in the world. And these are extraordinary women. Whether they make the state h title win it or or go on to be Miss America or they are somebody who competed once. And and it's an extraordinary organization that has been suffering something we didn't even know about. Here I am, a former miss, and I didn't even know about it. Now, I knew that there were some issues. You know, they've had issues. But um that being said, I'm um I'm pleased to see that Gretchen Carlson's taking over as chair of the board of the Miss America program. She's an extraordinary woman. I think she will represent all of us well and and hopefully transform that organization back to its intended purpose But you know, when people exert power and control over another and frankly, um there is and I'm gonna say this Because it it it it's tough to hear. But it's also incumbent on us, the victim, to be somebody that says, I'm out of here. I'm not putting up with this. Now Had I stayed, would I be famous today? I don't know, maybe. Maybe that was the winning ticket. We have a show on Saturday mornings on WFMB. I'm famous. Yeah. But but the point is You know, there's this I th you grapple with this idea of power and control and I th and I think that um uh we all need to work together to make sure that we're being authentic. We're not exerting power and control. Because power and control is not authentic. It's that's a c that is very inauthentic actually, to to push on somebody else so that I feel better about myself or my reputation or I look good or whatever So, um uh uh or you know, in the case of sexual assault, you know, that's all we know that's power. That's a power thing when somebody uh assaults somebody in that way. So so as a man, and we're gonna we're coming up to the top of the show, this is kind of a tough conversation, but I want I want you to know at some point I'm gonna have Charlene Wells, Miss America nineteen eighty five, who crowned me in Miss Miss Maryland in Hegerscount and I have reconnected after thirty years. That would be a funny. And she's now a Charlene Hawkes She's a wonderful woman. I l uh and um she has agreed to be on the show. So we're gonna be talking more about this. But as a man, what is your thoughts about this? It's a very as you said, we only have a little bit of time and it's a very complicated issue and I might be a little contrarian with how some people uh have been talking about and thinking about this publicly, at least the stuff that I've been uh so I'm gonna put myself out there a little bit. Uh Uh but I first of all I try to uh abide by a pretty um uh specific and clear moral standard. And so if men and women weren't involved in all sorts of outside of marriage sexual relations, a lot of these problems would go away. So what is that clear moral standard? If people are only reserving the sexual intimacy for the marriage bed then a lot of these problems go away. You don't have that story about Matt Lauer in his office with the woman in the chair, you know, for example. That doesn't happen if he's faithful in his marriage. So a lot of that takes care of that. So that aside, that that ultra, you know, moral standard thing and how that would clean up probably ninety percent of this. Um It's still complicated by the fact that the power goes both ways. Um the men wielding power and influence because of their position and their uh at a particular level in their office or the particular level in society And they leverage it for opportunity for the woman. Right. So there's that problem. And it's serious and it's and it's bad and it shouldn't be happening. However, the women Uh oftentimes there are women who are playing the game in the reverse realizing that they can wield an awful lot of power and control through their sexuality knowing that men are attracted to their physical beauty or whatever and they'll p they'll leverage that to exert some power and control over the men. And then when the man sometimes will inappropriately respond to that inappropriate behavior from the woman The man's the one who gets in trouble and the woman that doesn't. And so I think everybody's got to own their own nonsense in that situation. It's it's very complicated. And the the um These pageants are it are an interesting case study because on the one hand they're all about uh empowering women, helping them to, you know, advance with their education through the scholarships and giving them a uh a a voice on a larger stage to talk about important things and that's all good. But at the same time, you know, these women are uh uh are puting around in high heels in the swimsuit where they're objectified and they're saying why are you objectifying me? Well why are you parading around in the swimsuit then? We're trying to have our cake and eat it too and it's it so it makes it very complex. Well and I you know uh as somebody who actually did that in front of forty thousand people, let me tell you it's awkward. But but um but This idea of physical wellness and mental wellness and the whole person, I think, is the concept behind it. And um and perhaps there is some uh modification that could occur in today's world. But I think at the end of the day, just because something looks good doesn't mean you should have it. Oh sure. You know, and that goes both ways, men and women, right? Right. And so, uh, but you know, all that being said, we're gonna talk more about this as we go along. And um, you know, I I wanna just leave people with this idea of be sweet and kind And that's a good way to leave it, isn't it? Uh thank you for listening to this special edition of the Faith Debate program, where a couple weeks ago I was a guest on Jennifer Charlton's show on WFMD, which airs on Saturday mornings at nine o'clock. It's called Success Happens. You should check it out if you're not overly familiar. Uh she's been doing that show for several years now. Um so she might have an hour long show where I have a half hour long show. However, I've been doing my show for about thirteen and a half years. So I got her beat by a decade there. So there's no envy or jealousy going on here. Anyway, thanks so much for listening. Visit us online at WFMD dot com keyboardface. Um till next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from now.