Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, we're preaching with Impact. It's like plowing pavement, you can just ask Jonathan Schweitzer. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Crooked Face Debate. Our sponsor is Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile Our shows online at WFMD. com KeywordFaith. We're also on the WFMD Facebook page from time to time, so go check us out there as well To mention Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Church in Frederick. We've been doing this show for well over eleven years now. Eleven. And we're gonna get it right. Sooner or later. And uh Axel Gartner is the pastor of the Free Evangelical Church in Elric, Germany. And He has given us quite the cultural lesson and shown us that we don't know anything at all about what's going on in the middle of the year. Because the distinction the the interplay between religion And culture in Germany is so different from some of the categories we work with in the States that uh we just have felt like it's important to uh And one other thing that occurs to me that I think would be important to say f uh as an apologist kind of uh approach um We're talking about this cultural difference just because it's interesting for us to try to understand and and and and and see how Christianity fits in all of that, but I think a lesson to be drawn from all that is Christianity fits any and all cultures Christianity is not bound by a culture. So biased. You must be a Christian. So if somebody, you know, uh wants to say, you know, we're a Christian nation and and they and and they pour into that a whole bunch of cultural baggage, they're misunderstanding what to be a Christian really is. Because you can be a Christian in any culture. That's one of the beautiful things about the Christian faith. Right. And so it's fascinating for me, and I think so in that sense there is a theological undercurrent here. It's fascinating for me to see how Christianity is thriving with you and your church, at least among the 80 believers that you have. I'm I'm assuming and hoping that it's thriving in that community despite the fact that your culture politically and uh and and historically is very different than what we're used to talking about and focusing on here. So And you asked a question uh in between our recording last week's show and our uh doing this show that is a really good question. Do you remember it just about I don't know the the right words, but uh you have in your declaration of your your nation Uh a God phrase included. That we have been endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. And I wondered if this doesn't um play a bigger role for all those who want to For example, has Christianity more represented in school or in other pl public areas? Well so so the Bill of Rights That is the fourteen amendments, is that right? That that are the first fourteen amendments. First ten. First ten amendments of uh uh w once we had signed the Constitution, the first ten amendments were the Bill of Rights. And so the Declaration of Independence says that we've been endowed by our Creator with certain inalienable rights. Right number one is that government shall make no law concerning the establishment of religion or the free exercise thereof. And so for the first hundred to a hundred and twenty, maybe a hundred and fifty years of our nation Um that did not affect anything to do with our school system. But in the late sixties, using that that first amendment. They said that if the public school system see we didn't even have uh government run public schools um until like the late eighteen hundreds and then with the rise of the public schools there was there was an increasing orientation that that that they would be a secular almost like a secular religion, the public school system here in the United States. And so um the the founder of the public school system uh Horace Mann uh was wa uh had in his writings this idea that that they wouldn't be pushing Christianity anymore, but they'd be pushing enlightenment values and and humanist values instead. And and he advocated that from the beginning And so then in the early nineteen hundreds, moving up into nineteen fifty, the public school system became more intensive coming out of World War Two. Everybody uh that was a child was required to be in the public school system previous to that that wasn't necessarily the case although you could be you know in a private school as well but you had to be in school and then In the the late sixties they said, well we're not we're not gonna any longer force prayer on students. And so they took the they took all prayer out of the schools. And in fact at that moment, which happened to be at the same m moment of the civil rights movement in the United States all of these private schools opened up. Mm-hmm. And so the Democrats argued that the reason why the private schools opened up was because the whites didn't want to be in the same schools as the blacks. And so so it was used as this uh as this um accusation that see you're all still racist because you won't let your kids be in the same school when in fact they had also taken prayer out of schools and within ten years instead of it being chewing gum and and uh passing notes, there was there was sex and there's violence and that there's drugs and all this stuff in our school system in a massive way. And so on the conservative side there's this per s there's this I would say recognition, perspective that the school system began to crash in a big way within ten years of when they took prayer out of the schools. And so trying to get prayer back in the schools It's just a non-starter. Nobody would let go of that cultural bickering back and forth has been going on for a generation and a half now. uh you you you hit right on it, the conservatives will point back to the Declaration of Independence that talks about our creator and they'll point to all the individual state constitutions. Each of the fifty states state constitutions all make some reference to God. Mm-hmm And so you say it's right in their constitutions. And then we have the you know the the free the right to a free exercise of our religion guaranteed to us in the Bill of Rights. And so we have all these things we point to, but Then there are those who disagree with that point of view who will point to a letter that was written by Thomas Jefferson in which he talks about there being a wall of separation between church and state. And so that has been used along with some other things by the Supreme Court. Well actually the right way to say that is that that has been misused because they misinterpret what uh what Thomas Jefferson meant by that. He was saying that the government shouldn't tell the church what to do. Oh, okay. Instead of religious people bringing their religious perspective with them in advocating that we make law that lines up with, you know, God's natural law. They're saying that you shouldn't bring any of that because there's a there's a dividing wall. When actually Jefferson meant it the other way w around, government shouldn't force itself on the other side. But with the rise of progressive liberalism, which is taking place in Europe and is taking place in this country uh powerful men yeah uh and now women have gotten into positions of authority at the Supreme Court. And there a lot of them uh have become progressive minded and so they'll use Or misuse, as Jonathan wants to say, those sorts of things to make Supreme Court judgments that uh I would argue reinterpret the uh the intent of the Constitution. uh those who disagree with me would say that they're properly interpreting what the founders really meant or would have meant if they knew enough about how things would evolve. In fact, for example, you know how we argue that that liberal theologians are really reinterpreting scripture uh through a lens that that me makes scripture mean something that it w wasn't supposed to mean and that that we should interpret it the way w that it was originally intended. Well, that same principle that the liberal crowd reinterprets the Bible to mean something that that it didn't mean that same principle has been applied to our Constitution of the United States. Okay. And so so they would say that it's a living constitution which means which is language that that they uh that gives them permission to make it mean whatever they want it to mean. You know, whereas we would say it's uh well, no, it's it it meant what it was supposed to mean And you guys just changing it to mean whatever you want it to mean means that we no longer have the rule of law and that we no longer have have a unifying document that ties us together that we're splintering as a nation. And the reality is that it feels in many ways like that is the case that that there's a real splintering that's happening. So we as a nation kind of uh America kind of functions. We we're we uh we're um what is it called a functioning alcoholic? We're kind of functioning uh Personality disorder. Mm-hmm. We have multiple personalities as a negative, and yet somehow we function through these multiple personalities. But The mainstream mainline uh view in America is one that dismisses religion uh at at best and at worst. uh is is very negative and pejorative about anybody that that holds to uh a strong belief in religion. In fact most solid Christian students uh that have gone to public university have several stories of of interacting with professors that are that are um uh that are v vehemently against Christianity and mock Christianity publicly at every level. And so so uh the the the senses that students as they come through and they hit college and you know, college is promoted as being important, you know, to get a good job that once they get there then their their faith comes under major attack and the majority of of them end up losing their faith. Mm And and only some of them ever come back to their faith as a result of it. And so so there's that kind of of sense of battle that is going on uh in the culture of the sweep towards uh uh a diminishing of religion and those who hold firmly to their religion's religious faith. At least that's how it feels to say that the fact what they'll say is that we are fundamentalists And because we believe the Bible as it's taught, that that we are lumped together with radical Islamics. Mm-hmm Meaning we're just as fundamentalist and just as that. Oh, does it? So they'll lump you into that Well, I'm not a fundamentalist like you are, probably. Funny. Well we we would have to find out first. Yeah, we'd have to do open open this thing. Maybe we'll do that in just a second to finish the the thoughts. But all that being said, there's still enough of this uh left over history that that affects how politics and things happen in this country that someone like Donald Trump who I'm not sure if he's been to a church in the last forty years probably. So I bet we'll see that Chris. Goes out of his way when he's campaigning to say that you know his favorite book is the Bible. And that he's a Presbyterian and of course I'm a Christian. But if you were to ask him to name a book in the Bible, he probably couldn't. And then but to then on the but he needs to politically to do that. Or Jonathan alluded to was it last week or two weeks ago about the Democratic Convention uh last time around. Right, but they felt this political pressure that they kind of needed to, and yet when they did it was booed, so it was it was a divisive issue. But yes the political realities are you need to put that in there. So it's uh we're uh we're kind of at war with our own self psych psychically, you know, psychologically our our we're scatterbrained on this. That has been my um perspective from the outside that there is a big um majority of Christians uh among the American citizens that uh could easily uh uh like like um have those who are in in in charge to Well, push them in in this direction, this Christian direction. The problem is it doesn't work that that easily. Well here's the thing though. How are we gonna s like you talked in the very first show I think about uh how do we define church Mm-hmm. You know, and the church is made up of Christians. Right. So how many people in America are truly part of the church? It's not a majority, mm, in my opinion. In fact, the numbers are Might well they're probably not quite as bad as what you described about Germany, but it's pretty close. Um when we talk about fundamentals of the faith We mean that the above the the Bible is considered the Word of God. We're transitioning, right? So let me sneak in before we transition into this theological discussion today. Uh Axel Gertner, the pastor of the Free Evangelical Church in Ulrich, Germany, and I am Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Okay. Go ahead. All right. So just a minute ago you said that you might not be as fundamentalist as we are. And it's interesting because um I I'd I'd just like to to draw that out because I think we we probably are. And this is the the part that that I was getting at earlier about, you know uh who's considered a Nazi and who's not, you know, for you guys, um in Germany. Um uh and I so I'll just let let me name kind of the fundamentals And I think what you'll say is that you're in agreement with those. Like like the fundamentals of the faith are that the Bible is authoritative and is the Word of God. Okay, Jesus is the son of God. I totally agree, like you said it, but I think um the inherency of the Bible, for example, is um very um special way to to say that God uh the Bible is god's God's word. And uh Sure. So let me ask this question. Uh d that that I think will will determine whether or not we're in we're in similar places. Would you say that um that the Israelites really had an exodus from would you say that um that there was a flood? Yeah. Yeah. Uh and so would you say that Jesus Christ really laid hands on people and healed the sick? Oh yeah, definitely. Okay. So those those kids But I would wouldn't say that uh the b the the the earth is created in in seven days. So I'm I'm open to that being held. I I would disagree with you personally, but I'm open to that still fitting the category of a fundamentalist. Okay. is the son of God, born of a virgin, who died and rose from the dead bodily. They're going through the These are write this down. Your church can have a confession by the time we do it. Well we have the apostolic uh Apostles Creed. Yeah, that's that's uh in our outlines and in almost I think it is uh denominationwide. And so um so then to make it very practical, would you argue that homosexual marriage is a violation of of biblical teaching? I would say God uh intended man and woman to be uh married and to have children and only this is uh So yes, and um I think it it's very important to uh distinguish this from the um the the question how we treat uh those who are uh living as gay or lesbian Um and it can very easily be um confused. So totally. And so that's what I believe as well. But when we first started this program, there were people in in the radio station here interacting with Troy on a daily basis that that would say that that I'm a bigoted fundamentalist, primitive, backward, you know, like like like all the terms. But he's grown and progressed so much since then. Yeah. In fact, they probably would have used terms like Nazi Uh-huh. And such for me. And so like when you said you don't think you're as fundamentalist as we are, um Well let me just ask directly, what do you what do you think are the distinctions that that would change what we are versus what you are. phrase I find in many uh church um um outlines. Yeah. Uh we believe in the Uh inherency? Inerrancy. Inerrancy? Inerrancy of the Bible. Yeah. So this for me this is not necessary. Sure. Um to to declare and and to assume. We finally have a great theological topic to discuss here. It took us four shows to get there. I I believe it's it's God's word, the Bible, and um I believe uh we can trust the Bible totally. Yeah. But it doesn't mean for me that any scientific uh aspect of the Bible has to be absolutely correct. And like give me an example. One could really argue that it uh the most important thing is um what uh what is meant to be said uh said. Sure. Are there other um verses or places in the Bible outside of Genesis 1 where you feel like like you would say, okay, it says that, but I I don't know that it's so important that we read the colour. Precisely to look at the four gospels. If you read s uh some some uh same um descriptions, um you can easily find uh little tiny differences. Yeah. And when you read it uh without any uh Christian over uh fundamentalistic thinking in your head, you would say these are Difference. Differences. And you can't easily um take them out. I hear what you're saying. You want to be intellectually honest and say, look, we need to we need to be, you know, what's plain and apparent to everybody is that this is slightly different than that Uh but I'm not sure that I'm that I'm hearing this from you and if and if I'm not, then we're still in agreement. Okay. Because I recognize there are differences. You'd have to be blind not to recognize this version is a of the story is a little bit different than that version of the story. But that doesn't mean there's an error. There can be differences, but they can still both be fully true and right. That there's a way to harmonize and to to to make sense of the differences in a way that doesn't doesn't wrestle it away from being the uh absolutely true. Would you are you comfortable with that or you feel like no no no that's you're trying too hard and we just need to be a willing to say, you know what, Matthew gets it wrong. Luke has it right. Well I don't know. You're open to that being the case. But I think uh it's it's um It's too easy to say everything is is to be harmoniz uh harmoniz harmon harmonized harmonized. Harmonized. Um I think it is not possible So there must be somehow a mistake. Okay. Well then w that would be a place where I would disagree because I think that there are some very challenging harmonizations d uh uh to be sure, but I I I haven't gotten to a place yet where I feel like I can't get cognitive rest to feel like okay I've reached a place where I can't remember uh uh of the uh crucifixion stories and the the the um the passion stories. Um I read a book recently by a guy who uh who grappled with uh how come sometimes there's t there's one woman at the uh at the tomb and another time there's three women and then you know and uh and he took the time to kind of walk it through based on um uh some uh appreciation of the geography of the city of Jerusalem and how some people probably would have spent the night at uh at John's John James and John's house and some people would have spent the night out at an at at um um uh sorry, the town just out of town where uh Lazarus was from uh Bethany. And that based on that, that there's there's reason to believe that every single one of those stories fits. Because some people would have gone to the to the tomb at one point, some at another point, and they they they would have passed each other even at different times. And uh and he he didn't stretch the imagination. He just said, look, there's there's there's a reasonable approach. So I think the place where I stand on that is that in those places where there are genuine uh uh discrepancies that we should give the benefit of the doubt that possibly We're just far enough removed from the story and how it happened that we don't know enough detail to see how uh it could harmonize. And so I I lean in the direction of saying, ah, it probably has a harmonization, I don't know what it is, and I don't feel like it ha I I have to be able to see it for me to trust scripture. Would you say that that you lean in the direction of believing that probably there is a harmonization or you lean in the direction of saying that Ah, there there probably isn't in a bunch of these and it's just errors. Oh I I I would be open to uh to to see uh harmonization that really um uh makes sense. But I saw so many um tries to do it uh with uh so much uh effort Sure. But I I thought this is the thing. Yeah. Yeah. So uh and it doesn't really bother my faith. My my uh no my my my trust in the word. Yeah, confidence, yeah. So I have totally confident confidence that I'm totally confident now. What what what would you say? I think that's right. Totally confident. I'm totally confident that um the the m really important uh subjects of um narrative or a story is uh absolutely right and uh uh if we see the gospel stories uh It is always the case. You see a vr reality. But it's not super far. Right. Yeah. I I think that I I think that it's uh a mild distinction that is not without significance. Yeah, and then let me make uh perhaps uh a little point in that. Um I once had a debate with uh a guy coming to our church and he really wanted me to to uh be uh on that point in errant all the way. Yes, yeah and I said Well, I believe in Jesus, I believe in in uh God the Father and I believe in the Holy Spirit, but I don't believe like I do in these three in the Holy Bible. In the um it's different. It's different. So you believe you would say you don't believe in the Holy Bible. As I do in in Jesus. That's right. So you know so logically, if it's inspired, breathed by God, it's God's words, and God doesn't make mistakes, God's infallible, God's inerrant, and this is his breath, his words, then logically it would flow that it must be without error And so the but that's a systematic theology construct. I will s so I think you can be a Christian, a good devout Christian, and not really embrace that I will say I understand why the guy was debating you, because I would be a little bit nervous sitting under the leadership and teaching of somebody who's not going to sit there squarely. It would always make me wonder, okay, how often is he going to fudge uh and insert his own understandings because, well, the Bible might not have this exactly right, so I'm going to teach I'm not accusing you of that, but I would always be a little bit nervous that that could happen. And if I've got somebody who's rock salad saying, no, it's the inspired word of God and That can mean like Jonathan said, you know what? I'm having a hard time harmonizing this. And I'm gonna be honest with you, congregation. I'm not sure that I fully can, but I trust that if I was smart enough or inspired by the Holy Spirit enough, then I would be able to I'd be fine with that. So I think that's where the Well I I take the Bible as God's word. Hm. Um but it is written um from human beings and um they're So as in in Hebrew thinking there's somebody who is trustworthy is somebody um to whom I c I really um I know I can trust him. Yeah. Because uh I know him and what he's uh he's doing is right and he's as a person he's he's righteous so I can trust him Um not every single aspect of uh what he he does might be absolutely correct, but Well I think Troy and I'm relationships. Do you think that I'm sorry. Well we will we will have to wait Until you have a sabbatical again seven years from now. I'm sorry to do that, but we literally on the show. Thank you for taking this time. Thank you for having me. Free Evangelical Church in Elric, Germany. Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor, right here in Frederick at Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Our sponsor is Putment plumbing and heating, how can we make you smile? I mentioned last week Randy Frazy's Believe. There's a believe study guide that goes with it. So it's meant to be a a teaching tool in a Sunday school setting, by the way. So Does that help you or no? Uh it's a nice review. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, till next week, God bless.