Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the hearts of gridlack County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Fate Debate sponsored by Putnam Cleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? We encourage you to visit us online. WFMD. com Keyword Faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page. We're also on Facebook these days, the WFMD Facebook page. Uh we don't have our little video camera tonight. We gotta figure out how to get uh John doesn't know what to do now. I'll use my phone. It'll be a selfie or this morning or whatever time of the day it is right now. I have no idea. Anyway, that's Jonathan Schweitzer. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. And Frederick, I am Troy Skinner, your uh longtime eleven years and counting host of the Fate Debate Show. Unbelievable. And we're joined In celebration of having been on the air for more than eleven years, w we brought in international superstars. Is this like actually the birthday I mean it was right around the time that the first show as we're recording the show it is actually. Yeah. As we're recording the our birthday was about a week ago. Yeah, how about that? So we got Axel Rose. I mean uh uh Axel uh Gertner Gartenner. Is that pretty close, correct? That's pretty good. Okay. He is a p he is the pastor at uh Free Evangelical. But he's at the Free Evangelical Church in Germany in uh in uh Elric. Germany. Freie evangelische Gemeinde in Always. Right. There it is, baby. You know the good thing is he's a pastor, so I know I don't have to dump any of that, right? He didn't say anything that was a dirty word in Germany. Just heard a whole bunch of German curse words, I don't know. Anyway. And do you know any German curse words, Jonathan? You know, I know like next to no German Whatsoever. Not even curse words? I mean Schweitzer. You don't get any more German than that. That's a pretty good curse word, actually, from people I've heard. Yeah, Schweitzer is a curse word. That's right. My last name, yes, depending on who you're talking to. So Axel is on sabbatical So he obviously was beat to a pulp by his congregation, needed a break, and he fled to the United States and took him in as a refugee. Nothing was right in the table. Oh great. So he's not afraid to call you out, but this will be a lot better discussion here. I'm glad. So but you've been in the States for a couple of months, close to a couple of months now, I guess. Is that right? Yeah, five five weeks altogether. Yeah. Okay. And you've known Jonathan for about five weeks altogether? It was right at the beginning probably. That's right. Yeah. At a Water Boys table. So there's there's a a table that meets every Thursday morning of pastors over at Wegmans and uh it's uh from 730 to 830 and it's what they call a Water Boys table where we just do a Bible study and everybody goes around and shares. And so Paul Foss, who is the founder of the Waterboys, has uh been doing some mission trips over to Germany every summer for several summers with a guy by the name of Mike Garst. and they do a baseball camp in Germany. Do you play baseball? I play now a little bit uh baseball. I've been going to the camp and learned it there. And what position do they do you play? Oh we play everything. Oh so uh it's it's uh underhand throwing baseball. Okay. But with uh normal size baseball but they are soft. Oh it's a soft baseball. It's not soft baseball, but it's with a soft baseball. Yeah. It's the same size as a typical baseball, not a softball. Yeah, it's it's the typical size. Oh okay. And so how many kids come to this camp, right? It's a outreach baseball Christian camp. That's right. We have um this year and last year we had one hundred twenty participants. Nice. That's uh quite basic we started with thirty. Yeah And twenty Americans that came over that year. Yeah. Eight years um before uh eight years ago. In every year twenty Americans come? No, i it changed a little. Um Like this year I think we had uh like fifteen, last year twenty. It uh depends a little bit. We have a second site now in Germany. Yeah. Some of the Americans went to the place as well. And so they break up what you do in these two camps, 120 kids, baseball camps, and do a lot of kids come to Jesus through baseball? Uh oh we can't see it so directly right now. Yeah. But uh it is at the long term, eight years now, uh we see they come very regularly. They come they like to come. They enjoy uh the the atmosphere, they enjoy enjoy being with the Americans around and stepping into the Bible as well. Yeah. But they are on a journey to God. Yeah, certainly. Yeah, I could see that. Have you ever played Bible baseball? No. No? I don't think so. It's it's it's modeled after the sport, but the idea is that there are uh four different uh pools of questions. So you as the pastor maybe would be in a position to help figure out the difficulty level of the questions. So and then y y you square off as teams and so one team goes up and the batter uh the the first person up is the first batter And he gets to select what level of question he wants to try to to tackle. And he'll say, Oh, I'd like a single or I'd like a double or a triple. And so if he asks for a triple, that's going to be a harder question than a single And if he gets it wrong then it's an out and if he could if it's a single and he gets it right then he goes and stands. So how many times have you played this? Uh I played it w at a summer camp years ago. Oh yeah And so the and then if you have like three guys in a row that uh or gals in a row that get singles, then the bases are loaded and the next guy's just like, I do want to go for a single knocking one run or I'll be like a hero And ask for a home run question, you get a grand slam. So it becomes an all or nothing kind of a gambit. And it's an interesting psychology uh sort of thing that goes on. You can watch how people think and and and how they approach life because The single questions are easier, so your odds of getting them right, you probably get those right eight or nine times out of ten. Yeah. But to get one wrong is almost humiliating. Mm-hmm. Right? Because it's falls an easy question. I should know that one. What's the first book of the Bible, for example? Oh wow, this is the dumb a dumb one? A dumb call? That's a very easy bad word. Right, yeah. It's not a cursor, but it's an insult, right? It is, yeah. Yeah, like like an idiot or something, right? Well I'm gonna have to use that with you more often sometimes. Yeah, that's how I learned it actually. I was called that many times in my life. But anyway, some people, you know, they're they're not confident that they're even gonna get the first base. the single questions right. So they ask for home runs. Yeah. They have no shot at answering the home run questions. But if they get it wrong, hey, nobody was gonna get that one. Same, hilarious. And then there's other people who, you know, are Gung ho go for it. You know, and they and they really do know their their Bible and so they'll go for the triples and home runs and show off their stuff and make everybody feel silly. And then there's other people that uh You know, they they do know their Bible and they know it really well, yeah, but they're afraid of getting anything wrong. And so they play it safe So they probably should be asking for double singles and home runs, but they only ask for I mean uh uh double singles. So what should we like all go around and like say what kind of person we are then Now like now that we've done the psychological I don't like uh to to be weak. Especially in front of a group of people. Right. So I won't uh would never go to a quiz show. We call it a quiz show? Yeah, quiz show. A quiz show. Earn a or or win a lot of money. I was asked before to to go to uh something like this, but I uh didn't do it because I I feel s I would feel so awful if Everybody would know that I hadn't the answer to this easy question, for example. I would never do it. Yeah. Well it's different when you're on the on the show. Totally. But then I promise you if you're up there with the lights shining, the camera on, the the the the audience, the live audience there, I I think your IQ is cut in half right there Yeah, I I think I would tend to on most topics not want to try to go for that just because uh the potential to be embarrassed would like really just drive me crazy, I think. So you guys got to know each other a little over a month ago. Yeah. And since then it's obviously y you've uh you, Axel, have determined in in Less time than it took me, that Jonathan doesn't have a clue what he's talking about theologically. That's right. And you said, man, I wish you said Dimkolf. Dim cough. I w I wish Jonathan, I just wish there was a local radio show where I could expose you. And you said, wow, it's uh funny you should say so because actually there is a show where I could be exposed. So what are the things you guys have been talking about that might be fodder for us to say? Well I don't know that we've talked about a whole lot of uh of issues. But I had I I did want to ask you, like, how did you come into the ministry, right? You're in Germany, you know, and are there Well my my journey is actually like um theological debate in itself. Yeah. I came from the Lutheran State Church. Right, okay. This is my or origin. I went to Bible college. I make it very short now. And um As being uh on that Bible college I figured out that I could never work again in a Lutheran state church. So let me just be clear, you were you were already gonna go into the ministry, but you were gonna do it with the Lutheran State Church. That was my starting point when I started at the Bible Christ. I I uh had in mind to to end somewhere in in the Lutheran State Church, for example in the youth ministry. Okay. That was my idea when starting. But after but after four years I uh figured out I can't go um So do the official church of Germany is the Lutheran Church? Uh actually we have three. We have the Reformed and the Lutheran Church on the Protestant side and they have the Catholic Church. Altogether they make ninety percent of um And they're all considered state churches. Yes. And what does that mean exactly? The state has some control over how they govern themselves or something? No, the state ha has no control, but uh the state is the one who collects uh taxes for the churches. Well that's from their members. So they the the congregation doesn't necessarily tie to the church, they pay taxes to the government who then gives the money to the church to operate. According to where they live, uh it goes to the to the church, the If somebody says they don't want to be a part of one of those state churches, do they pay less taxes? That's this. Really? I uh for example me I I after I had decided I I can't work in the Lutheran church, I went out. I had to pay actually to to get out Uh you gotta pay a fee to get out. Like a penalty? Yeah, no, not a penalty, but it's uh administration act. So you go to to an administer and A penalty. A minute right penalty, yeah. And then uh I I've been out and I didn't have to pay uh taxes for the church. And and how big are those taxes? Is it ten percent of your income? Oh I can't uh really say the exact mu number but it's uh No there it's it's not um um very much. Once again the question I was uh in the middle of uh doing mathematics. I I didn't get to the question. Oh, I'm sorry. So you opted out of the state church so that you could uh go serve in a different non state church. But uh but is an option available to those who aren't you know they're agnostic or atheist and they can opt can they opt out too? Or if you opt out you must then say you're going to go to another church and so forth. No, you you can just go out. Oh okay. So it's kinda voluntary. If you're willing to pay your your your fee, you can get out of it. Yeah. And so what do most people do? Do most pe that what are the what are the stats? Most people stay in the church. Really? Yeah. They they stay in the church because they say, well, somehow they do something good. They help people in in need. Um and when I marry a charity thing. When I marry I want to marry uh in the church, uh black and white, uh so I I better stay in the and I want my my child to be baptized uh and so forth. And when it comes to f funeral I'm glad to to no my church is going to cover that. Okay, so most of them stay in the church officially and they pay their one percent tithe. But how many of them actually go on a regular basis to church? On a weekly basis. Uh eight percent. So less than eight percent. Very interesting. Now are there more people showing up in mosques in Germany on a given weekend compared to the Christian churches or Oh, yeah. Percentage-wise, definitely. So what percentage of the population are are Muslims? It might be a horse race. Are you familiar with the um American denominations in Lutheranism? I'm trying to get a sense of what kind of Lutheran the state church in Germany is. Like in America, the the biggest Lutheran denomination is the ELCA, the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America. And it's considered a a mainline church. Uh it's criticized by more conservative thinkers as not being as as tied to the teachings of the Bible. They have a uh more open-ended view of what the Bible might mean and how to interpret it. And then you have somebody like the Missouri Synod, for example, which is um a minority denomination among Lutherans, but is is pointed to as a you know, a fundamentalist evangelical bible believing Lutheran. So would the state church in uh in Germany be more of that, a fundamental you know Uh Missouri Synod type or be more of the liberal-minded party LCA? at the at the church. So there are uh some very, very um evangelical churches among the Lutheran churches as well, because of the pastors. and they try to to um preach the gospel, uh be very close to the to the Bible and and so forth. But um they are the mar m minority, definitely. Yeah, yeah, I was gonna ask that. So then what was the issue Uh in your journey when you're there in college and you said, I cannot be a pastor in the in the the state church. And before you answer that, because I was going to ask that same question, but I do want we're about halfway through, so I want to just if somebody just joined the show five minutes ago, they have no idea who the voices are. So that was Jonathan Swipes, a senior pastor of Crossroads Roy Church answering the question. Dum Cough His new favorite word. Word of the week. We do a word of the week on the show. That's just the word of the week, word of the week. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faye debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD and now about to answer the question is uh actual uh I'm I'm trying hard to to to throw in that German vibe uh uh Gärtner. Oh wonderful you do wonderful he he is the pastor of the Free Mvel e Evangelical Church. See, I can never belong to your church because I can't say it. Uh the Free Evangelical Church in in uh Elric, Germany. So, okay, so you you you told the uh the Lutherans in Germany to take a hike. Why was that? Um what was the mainly mainly because uh of the organization of the Lutheran Church. Um every member is allowed to um elect an elder of the church. Every member? Every member. I mean they vote together. They vote together. If you're a member you get a vote. Yes. So everybody who pays taxes and Oh so they're not even Christians. They're probably not even Christians. But they'll pay their one percent tithe So they could go and they they go probably to to uh vote for an elder. Yeah. Uh well they s would say This guy looks good. So we should vote him. And they are able to uh to um well choose the organization and the staff and the elders and the pastors as well. So that's one part that made me think uh this can't be an organization or a church actually where I could easily minister in. So And and the reason why is because uh you don't like like what is it about just everybody voting that bothers you? Because you think they're not gonna vote a true Christian W how can how can they uh have the the right um um the insight and of the Holy Spirit to help make that decision, right? It's a big decision. That's what I wanted to say. Like uh they ca they how can they discern not being a Christian, what makes sense for a church, uh how it should look like, who should um engage and and so forth. How long ago then did the state church, these three state churches Anyways, I g I have a question about the Catholic Church. Anyways, how long ago did the did the state churches go to that approach that everybody gets to vote? Even if they're so far from the church. Like I mean, that's a pretty significant shift in the history of Germany coming out of Luther. Was it like two hundred years ago? Was it like a hundred years ago? Like when did w did the state church go the direction of being so watered down? Is that the right word? Well I think we it it it's one hundred fift fifty, one hundred um years ago that uh the church uh um um was really toughly um um threatened by uh what we call um sex secur li Secularism. Thank you. I can't do it in English. So this is prior uh w way, way, way prior to uh the reunification of the country. So what was going on during that time when East and West were separated? The East I guess didn't have a church at all. They had a church. But not a state church. Uh no no state church. That's right. So they had no state church at all, but uh but the the West still did have a state church during that time. Oh yeah. So when the wall comes down and there's reunification, then the the state church just gobbles up uh church properties on the other side or how d how did that happen? Well, not everybody is um directly member of a church in Germany. You have to be baptized and uh you have to be confirmed in the Lutheran Church to be member of the church. So those families who didn't baptize their children Uh the children's aren't in the church and the the families so they're they didn't belong to the church, most of them. Yeah. So they are now associated, but uh is there still kind of a divide where there's way more members of the state church in the west compared to the east? That's a interesting question. Wow. There's still a cultural divide then of some. Absolutely. And this issue, absolutely. Yeah, so so many questions come up. So the Catholic Church also? You get to vote even if you don't go? Yeah. By bishops and are appointed by archbishops. That's right. Oh they do. So they're called from ab uh called from above. Yeah, okay. So it's so interesting to me though that a hundred to one hundred and fifty years ago From the attack of secularism. How many times have we had that discussion on this show about the the rise of liberal Christianity and where did it come from? And there's there's some great German theologians. that were at the forefront of leading that liberalization of the church, the the secular uh move of the church. And and again, it's a hundred and fifty years and the result is that today An atheist could belong to a Lutheran church and be a voting uh factor in in who the elders are in that church. Does it lead to campaigning? Do people, you know, try to earn like a running vote for elder? No. No? No. But does it that lead to um um Well, for example the the uh leadership of a Lutheran church, they try to have a a very good balance in their church. They try to have a liberal pastor and uh probably more evangelical pastor And uh especially they need a f um female pastor. So that most of the church is somehow covered. So you have this diverse. Well, if you have three uh pastors in the church you you may do it. But it depends on the size of the the church, which depends on uh how many members are uh there are. Okay, so before you go to college You're growing up, at what point in your in your uh childhood did you say to yourself Or or did you have an experience of God where you said, God is the one I want to follow and how he's presented to me in the Bible is what I believe, as opposed to, you know, what some of these liberal In my church uh there had been a very strong evangelical YMCA um um associated. And I went to this uh YMCA with um I started with eleven years, a friend of mine um brought me to the group and I really loved it. And we started a reading Bible there. Yeah. At um the age of eleven But uh little think uh the early eighties, nineteen seven late seventies, early eighties. Sorry. You're I'm thinking you're older. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I was born in seventy. I was uh born sixty-nine, I'm older. And you are like what, like you or something like that. I was born in sixty-six. So the point is though is that that was when you uh I discovered Jesus and uh I invited him to be my savior. Wow. Yeah. I did it All on my own, in my bedroom at home. And your parents were okay with all that? My parents uh were at that time uh more indifferent Indifferent. My father is still my mother. But then you decided you want to go to college for it and were they still indifferent? Because she she at that point uh of my journey she was really um very much interested and my father was still very skeptic. Uh skeptical. Skeptical, yeah. And so but you went to college to become a Lutheran pastor and you realize you could never do it. And then so what did you have to do? Did you have to go to another college? Well, I decided to go to a Bible college, so that meant for me already I couldn't be a um Lutheran pastor. Because the Um Lutheran Passors they uh had the university um degree. Okay. So they they had to go to a university. I mean it's graduate? Yeah. Postgraduate. It means it's after your undergraduate. You gotta do undergraduate work four years and then you go to seminary? Well it's different in Germany. You can't you can't edit that easily. Uh um it doesn't work. Okay. So without going into the details of how all that works out. Right, yeah. Well we'll learn more about your p your church We've got a nice history lesson and that's cultural context, which is helpful for me. I appreciated that. But we learn more about you, your church, what's going on there, and what your Some of your strong theological uh leanings are and then we'll uh we'll bash Jonathan Schweitzer over the head with them. Sound good you? No. Okay. That's Jonathan's wife is saying Dipkop, his new favorite word. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. You'll be hearing him use that word from the pulpit, I'm sure, on with great frequency from now on. Uh Axel Gertner is the pastor of the Free Evangelical Church in Elric, Germany. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Whatever I've been reading lately, it's Appropriate given the political lean we had in this part of our conversation today. Cowards by Glenn Beck. Anyway, thanks for listening till next week. God bless.