This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Leaders wrestle over the truth. Yabba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the face debate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. was a guest on the Faith Debate for the very first time. And we did a series of shows over several weeks. We talked about uh the split that's happening in the United Methodist Church and also talked about the opioid crisis faced by our community. And these past couple of weeks now he's been back on the show with uh Jonathan Schweitzer and I, uh in you know all of us in our own little guest chairs here, looking at the foundational Christian answers uh that people who aren't uh Christians ask what are the answers to those questions and The frame of context on this has been that uh Craig is married and his wife was raised Jewish, but more of kinda more of a secular Jew probably, so not deeply rooted in it, but she's got that context of things and she's asking him questions and he's only recently, you know, renewed his commitment and his his faith or maybe he will only consider himself having recently become a Christian, I don't know. Even though he went to Catholic school as as a youth. And he's not sure how to answer all these questions. And so we spent a couple of weeks talking about that and now here's weeks number three. Um last week we kinda ended talking about the the the validity, the sufficiency, the trustworthiness of the Bible. And I would encourage you if that sparked any interest or me mentioning it now sparks an interest. Trust me, I'm not sure if you've heard of it, but there's thing call this thing now called the internet. And uh and seriously you could you could Google something about that and you can find all sorts of all the stats, all the data about, you know, the ancient manuscripts that have been found that we have on hand. I mean we're talking about thousands and thousands of fragments and manuscripts and the cross referencing with the letters and and sermons that were written by early church fathers and all of that sort of it's all out there and There are entire classes that will spend an entire uh Bible study or semester, if you will, on these kinds of questions. And this show isn't that. This isn't a seminary lecture class. This is a faith debate. So if you if you're interested in your frustrated like, man, I wish they would have said a little bit more. There's a lot more and that's why we've said what we've said. Just trying to paint in broad brush strokes, you know, what the issue is. And it's interesting you said something, uh, Craig, that y your wife has some questions about the Bible. Is it can it really be trusted? And what do I make of this? But it sounds like you do too. Well I did, and I really think Jonathan um from last week gave us a great foundation. So I I was a big Lego fan when I was a kid and um the reason I think it's important to really get a good foundation on why the Bible can be trusted is, you know, if you don't have Lego pieces three, four, and five in the right places, your everything you build off of that is going to be wrong And so I wanna make sure we understand I understand that how the Bible can be trusted and how it can it shows through history, the truth and the word of God. And I think once we all understand that it can be trusted and why it is the truth, then you start diving into what does the Bible say Which is interesting. I love the Lego analogy because uh a set of prophecies from the Old Testament about Christ that are s that is so important are the prophecies that talk about how much he's gonna be rejected. And they use the language that the co that the stone that the builders rejected has become the chief cornerstone. right in clearly everything in uh in the in Christianity, everything that uh about what it means to be a follower of Christ. All of that rests on the cornerstone about who is Jesus. Right. And whether or not he, you know, is who he said that he was, whether or not, you know, uh he died and rose from the dead. uh in in the sense that that he fulfilled the Old Testament. And so um so we are building a um an edifice as it were that especially in times like we're dealing with right now, right? These this coming through through the spring here, there's been all this uh coronavirus and and the whole you know, nations uh grappling with this uncertainty, right? The question is What is a basis for hope, uh, for faith, right? Uh people talk about a leap of faith, uh, and I'm not a believer in a leap of faith. I'm a believer in I build my faith on something that is trustworthy. Right. Right. So so I knew that you were going to show up for this conversation that we're going to have here in the studios because every time that you said that you're going to be somewhere You've been there, right? So I build my trust, my faith that you're gonna be there for that meeting based on on who you are and and and your character. Your relationship. And if you didn't show up I'd call you and I'd be like, hey man, is everything okay? Because It's not like you to not show up on that time. Troy on the other hand would be like, oh John's land again. I I get that. You know, he'll be here in a second, right? But that's the point is that he he trusts But I'm still going to be there because the pattern has been established. So this is the point about Jesus Christ, about our trust in Scripture, about our trust in what He said and how He said it is that if We can still trust it, then it it wields influence in our lives. But if we get to the point where we don't trust it anymore then we begin to we we we begin to find other things that we can trust. Well I think a lot of um my fear in my life was driven by my lack of faith in anything but me. Right. Um Now that I have found this relationship with Jesus Christ, um this Bible the more faith I have in him and the more I read in the Bible, I'm starting to develop a relationship just like you said. And the more I depend on Christ, the more I trust him, and the more this relationship kind of grows. And I think that has been really over these weeks as what has been drawing my wife in to kinda say, What what's going on over there? Like, hey, wait a minute, what's Something's changing. Something magical is happening. So can we could we keep talking about faith here for just a minute? Uh I'm a pastor's kid, right? What do you what does everybody know about pastors' kids? That they're rebellious. It's not like you have to but anyway, so the point is is that Is that why is that the case? My impression is that the reason for that is because every pastor's kid listens to his dad And his mom watches them on a Sunday morning and what they're claiming is the way that we should live our lives and what is true. And then they see them at home behind closed doors. And if there is a a difference between those two, right? This is uh the this is the question ab uh uh uh uh that faith is rooted in. If there's a difference between what is said and what is done then that child is going to begin to rebel and say, Look, I'm looking for the truth. Uh and there's a number of um of young men as I was coming through college that were total rebels from their dads, living, you know, drugs and just partying it up and want nothing to do with Jesus Christ that that were those kinds of kids. And when I looked them in the eye and I said, Look, you need to go home and you need to you need to have the courage to tell your dad that he didn't live out what he claimed was true at home. And until you do that, I don't think you're ever gonna be able to get right with God. You need to have the courage to admit that there wasn't truth at home. There wasn't integrity. Well, the same thing is true about science, right? I say this all the time. I trust science. But if a scientist that is doing the science claims to believe that there's no absolute truth, meaning that it's okay to lie then I'm not sure that I can still trust his science because he may be willing to fudge the numbers. Well and so the question is not science The question is the scientist. Right. And and and so a couple years back there was this whole hockey stick thing, you know, about global warming. You know, well, why can't you trust the science? Well, I do trust the science. But if people are willing to fudge numbers because they don't believe that they should be held to an absolute standard, then then then I think it's right for us to no longer place our faith in what they're doing because they're not even holding themselves to a standard that they should be trustworthy. they're giving themselves permission to not be that way. And so so my point is just that this personal question like what that your wife's working through, can she trust you? Can she trust believers? I think is a really big question and is part of the reason I think a lot of people don't trust Christ right now because the church has been Far from put so much worth in science when you know I uh I NetGeo and Discovery, those are my channels, man, and I love to watch Documentaries and when I find out facts like, you know, we don't know what dark matter is, and dark matter is like ninety-nine or ninety-seven percent of the entire universe and we can't even explain what it is today. you know, when things like that that science has no trouble admitting, well we can't explain it but we just accept it. But with religion, when we get to something where you can't explain it that science can't prove it, then I can't accept it. If science can't prove it, I can't accept it. We can't prove what dark matter is, but we accept it's there and we accept it's part of our universe every day Well, how come we have such trouble with religion just accepting it and believing in it versus, you know, why do we have to have proof? And this is what I think we have. I think it's right for us to want proof though. Well, and I like I I I was encouraged by my dad to ask the hard questions. Right. And I guess I didn't come back around. The reason why I think I didn't rebel It's because my dad would come home and he would admit when he's not living by the truth, right? And so so I came to trust him as somebody not that's perfect, but admits it when he's not perfect. And that's part of the reason that I trust the Bible is because there is no character in the Bible that is not presented with all of their foibles. Well that except Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is the only character that is without fault that's presented in Scripture. Well I would I would say that this is what I think is happening to the church body today in the United States is that they're wielding the hypocrisy of man as a weapon against Jesus. You know, so many failures of man as pastors and as leaders of the church, they use that hypocrisy and point to Jesus and say, see he can't be real Well and the reason why we're talking about this right this right now is to answer the question. What do we trust? Right. What is trustworthy? And what we're arguing is what is trustworthy is that which has demonstrated that it can be trusted. Right, which brings us back to Christ. Did he do what he said he was gonna do? Right? He said that he was gonna die and that he was gonna rise from the dead. He did that. And his disciples then as a result ended up being significant believers. The same thing is is true when we ask the question, does Jesus do what the Old Testament said that he was gonna do. Right. And this is where we get into, you know, some key passages about his suffering, like Psalm twenty-two. you know, that that describes uh suffering on a cross in such a deep and a thorough kind of a way. Isaiah 53 also that do the that describes suffering in such a significant significant way and it describes the kind of suffering that you would experience on a cross. It actually says in Psalm twenty two that they pierced my side, they pierced my hands. Right? The same thing uh in Isaiah fifty three it talks about uh him being rejected and despised by men, right? So this is the whole Lego piece, this is the cornerstone that was rejected by men, right? So the Messiah had to come and be be accepted Right, where he's going to rise to rule and reign, but somehow he has to do that same thing as the one that died and suffered for all of our sins. Who's going to follow somebody that suffers? I don't know, but did the but the question is did Jesus fulfill those passages in the Old Testament that said that the Messiah would have to suffer? And Jesus did fulfill those prophecies. I di I had no idea when I started looking into the Bible with um, you know, Abraham when God told him to sacrifice his son and he led his son up into the the wilderness, you know, and then suddenly, you know, God tells you know, calls him not to do it and he provides a lamb and you start to see the symbology Yeah, and you know that that happened on the same mountain that that uh that that the temple was built on years later. Meaning the sacrificial system was set up on on Mount Moriah Which is where um uh where Abraham was taken by God to sacrifice his son. Is that the first kind of symbology in the Bible where you see like a ref So the first reference to Jesus suffering in order to conquer evil is when when God responds to Adam and Eve. uh eating of the of the uh fruit in the garden. And he says that that the seed of woman would uh that that the serpent would bite the heel of woman's offspring, but that the woman's offspring would crush his head. Right? So the serpent that was the one that that would um that started us down the path of sin and brokenness would be crushed by the seed of the woman one day after his heel had been had been bitten. So there's a suffering there. He's gonna suffer. Right. Right. But ultimately he's gonna defeat Satan and uh and the purposes of Satan. And so that's the first representation that that's going to happen. And then when God tells Abraham to sacrifice your son, right, that's a pretty crazy moment, right? Because there's human sacrifice and Aztecs and Mayans You know, in and Baal worship in the Old Testament, there's human sacrifice in all those places that is really ugly Right. Right? And so Abraham willingly trusts God, like we were describing earlier, has faith in this God that has now told him to s to kill his son. Right. And Abraham says, Alright, I'll do it, because I know God And I know what he's like and I trust him. Hell yeah. Right? And so that's the point is that Abraham saw something in a God that he believed his goodness even though he was being t told to do something that would seem to violate every standard of goodness out there. So Abraham is willing to do it, he's ready to sacrifice his son, and God sees that Abraham's obedience is complete and total And God then withholds Abraham's hand. His son doesn't get killed, but it's on that same place where one day God is going to give his son as a sacrifice. Not saying that everybody has to sacrifice their son, but one time in the history of the world, the one time that the creator of the universe is going to ask for that, not like all these other gods. They they They asked for it again and again, human sacrifice, and it was bloody and it was ugly and it was it was terrifying at every level and and dark, you know, and and and just the worst that that that we could imagine, you know. who would want to live in a society like that and yet in the middle of all that, the one time that the Creator God does it is the one time that He's gonna let His Son willingly take uh take death so that we could conquer Satan. And so those are the first two places in scripture where Where the sacrifice of the Messiah is is anticipated. And the the was it was it a lamb or a goat that got caught the A Ram Ram that got caught in the uh in the thicket. In the thicket, hallelujah. Yeah, by the horns, which is important because that means that there was no damage done to the ram, so it was a blemish-free RAM that was then provided to be sacrificed. So we've got about five minutes or so uh left. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Jonathan Schweitzer and uh Craig Lancourt are on the show this week and and we're talking about kind of some of the foundational questions early on in somebody's exploration of Christianity or early on in their having become a uh you know, or they profess to be a Christian, kinds of questions that are grappled with at that, you know, that foundational level. And something I think it'd be important for uh in that context for us to keep in mind is that in John in the New Testament, in in John's Gospel account, chapter five, and in Luke's Gospel account chapter twenty four Jesus teaches that the Old Testament is about Him. All these Old Testament scriptures are about Him. So everything that we read in the Old Testament, if we're not figuring out how it's informing us about Jesus, pointing us to Jesus, demonstrating our need for Jesus. Providing a picture of Jesus, uh w we haven't properly understood the passage yet. We've got to keep pressing in Like the Psalms, a lot of people they just open their Bibles haphazardly. They don't know how to read the Bible or they've never really read it before, but they're in a time of crisis. Like I'm gonna open my Bible and I'm just gonna I'm gonna open it up. And they Just randomly find something. Well, if you open your Christian Bible up, you're probably gonna find it somewhere in the middle Well if you open somewhere in the middle you're gonna end up in the psalms. So you end up in a psalm and you read a psalm and you you take something away that can be encouraging or it seems to speak to your situation and it lets you know God is there and it has this generalized devotional aspect, this generalized spiritual connection thing. You you know it But it's more than that. All the psalms are about Jesus. All the psalms are uh are are sung by Jesus. You know, he he all the song all the songs, these are originally songs, right? All the psalms were sung to Jesus. Oh yeah. So the song to him. He's also joining in the chorus of singing them with us. And what is he and we singing about? Him. And until we get that, we haven't properly understood the Psalms. And so all the kings in uh throughout the history of uh Israel and Judah Um you know, the good kings are giving us a brief small glimpse the few that there were, uh a brief small glimpse into the kind of, you know, things we should be looking for in a good king And who's the good king? Jesus. And all the bad kings demonstrate our desperate need for the one true king. Jesus. So the whole Bible, everything that we read, once you're looking at it through the lens of Christianity, it's about Jesus. And if Christians aren't reading their Bibles that way, they're not reading their their Bibles um very helpfully. And it could be argued not just argued, but it's true, that if you're a Jewish person, then the Bible should be read through the lens of Messiah. Right? And this is precisely the point that that as you look at the Messiah and what the Messiah represents and and what the prophecies about the Messiah point to Right. The question is what is that picture that that comes that comes forth out of the scriptures? You know, what does the Messiah look like? What does the Messiah do? How does the Messiah do it? Um there's uh in Psalm one nineteen, right, it's the longest book in the Bible. It's uh King David um uh Going through a hundred and seventy some verses describing how amazing chapters which you did? It's the longest chapter in the Bible. And uh in in the middle of it he says, because I believe your testimonies I have more wisdom than all of my teachers. I have more insight than all my teachers, right? And that's a that's a really important verse for understanding the Bible. Because what it means is that the testimonies of God refers to the history. God did this, and then God did this, God did this. Because we're given the law But if we're not careful, we start applying the law in this in in this way that's not the right application. But when you see how God acts in history Right? Then then you say, Oh, the law says that, and then that's what God did. So that's what God means by the law, right? And this is the point that springs forth out of scripture. It's right in the middle of Jeremiah. When uh uh the Book of Lam I'm sorry, it's right in the book of Lamentations, Jeremiah uh is lamenting that all of Israel uh in in Judah have been destroyed and and everything has fallen apart. Right in the middle of that He comes to this conclusion. It's amazing. The steadfast love of the Lord never ceases. His mercies are new every day. They're new every morning. That springs forth, and that's really the message of the Old Testament, is not this law that God's trying to kill everybody, you know, and he's just an angry God. but that he is this patient, loving God that has been faithful from generation to generation to forgive and to extend mercy even when we as humanity has been so Rude, self-centered, proud, arrogant, you know, and uh full of bitterness. And we're gonna end there. Jonathan Sweisser, Friggoncourt, thank you for being on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you so much for listening. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Find us online at WFMD. com. Go to the Faith Debate page, you'll find a description of this show and others uh like it. You'll find links to podcasts of previous shows and this one. If it's not up immediately when the show's over, give it you know maybe uh a few hours or maybe a day or so and it will be up there. So until the next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right about right now. God bless.