This is the Fake Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all For where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy. Get a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Switzer. No, I'm just getting longed up. There are challenges over what are called race issues that our society faces every day. Recurrently, there are stories in the media that bring this issue front and center. Brianna Taylor, killed in her bed. Ahmad Aubrey killed while he was out jogging. Tamar Rice, 12-year-old, shot while playing in the park. And of course, George Floyd, pinned to the ground by several uniformed police officers and until he died. In reaction to things like this, there have Recently been widespread protests and related to this there have been violently destructive and deadly riots across the country. What's a biblical Christian to do and think Here to discuss it with John Schweitzer and me is Von Thurman, an important cog in the wheel that is Frederick. So uh and we'll learn more about Vaughn is we're gonna do a series of shows together. The intention is that we're going to do four shows together. And I don't usually go out of my way to do this, but given the context and the changing nature of things this year, I mean i i if you wanna um If you want to wait until the biggest news story of your life occurs, just wait a day and then after it happens, wait another day and then ne and the largest news story of your life will happen the very next day. It's like it's there have been more seismic monstrous news stories in twenty twenty than I think there have been in the last Twenty years combined. Yeah. I mean it's unreal. I felt like almost every day, sometimes a couple times a day, at least a couple of times a week. that for the last three months things have changed in a significant way like like a couple times a day. Yeah. Now again and again. So I don't usually do this but I'm gonna timestamp this because these shows are gonna air the show you're listening to right now is airing on the day after independence day and in so many ways it feels like the day after independence, doesn't it? Uh the day after independence day, so well be lated, uh happy and joyous Independence Day. to uh you American citizens out there. Um but we're recording this in the early the first half of June And we've just um basically experienced almost a week's worth of daily protests in downtown Frederick. Um And uh was it yesterday or the day before? The days are all blending together now in my head. But recently, as we're recording this, uh the protesters ended up having a bit of a a verbal um I don't know if I want to call it a showdown. And at that particular rally, protest, showdown, wherever you want to call it, Jonathan Schweitzer was there. Yeah. And he was the agitator out here. He you know Antifa couldn't get there fast enough, so Jonathan started throwing some uh verbal bombs into the mix. Well, I'll tell you I uh uh uh just over two weeks ago I um uh well at the time that all this happened. I I was on vacation and um and that's when the news came out that uh George Floyd had uh been killed. And it felt like the world lit on fire. And all of my pastor buddies back here in Frederick, I was on vacation down in South Carolina. all of them immediately were talking about how do we get together, what do we do in response. And and the that Tuesday there was a a Zoom call with pastors saying, what do we do here? How do we respond? Two days later, there was a there was 40 pastors on a Zoom call together saying, what is it that we do? How do we uh how do we respond to this together. That was led by Pastor Darren Gerald, who I'm hoping to have on the show uh in the next month or so uh to talk about this very issue. And he led an amazingly even-handed discussion uh with the pastors not pushing one direction or the other, just saying, look, how do we talk about this? Because we tend to have so much disagreement with one another. The next day a whole bunch of them showed up before the big five thousand person rally down in Baker Park. And they prayed together, over a hundred believers praying together before that, and they said it was some of the most intense and uh and and powerful prayer that they'd ever been at. And then they went to the uh to the rally and it was this huge rally right after that rainstorm. So I didn't get to participate in that 'cause I was still on vacation. And then I came back And sure enough, that Saturday night is when the protesters chose to go down onto the highway, and they were met by police officers in riot gear. And there was a major face off going on there. And the the two men, the the two uh young men that are leading the protests here in Frederick are are uh young men that are pretty well known uh in some of the church circles, right? They're just guys that everybody knows really well. And so uh there was the the chance that Monday for them to get together at the sheriff's office and have a discussion. And so sure enough I was invited to come and to be there to be a part of um, you know, helping there to be a a conversation together. And Just the way it played out, it didn't turn into that. I mean Were you able to hear the words in that conversation between the sheriff and the I'd say I was able to hear maybe half of 'em. I was about three rows back Because it's uh the general public hasn't had a chance as we're recording this anyway to really hear much of what was said because the recordings of it were further away and there was a lot of ambient noise and you couldn't really tell, but the body language wasn't all that uh See I don't want to mischaracterize it. It wasn't all that comfortable. It you know it looked a little uncomfortable. It wasn't like they were having a friendly conversation and figuring things out. It looked like it was a little bit more of a showdown. Well so what what What the plan had been was that they would go inside and talk with the sheriff, but once they got there, the way that it played out, it just didn't go that direction. And so they ended up having an hour long discussion with you know, two hundred some people shouting uh while the sheriff is there, you know, trying to talk with two of these pastors there helping to you know, to try to um, you know, bring some peacemaking and to, you know, mediate that conversation. And so uh it was very intense to say that To say the least. I heard that they had asked him to take a knee. And that he wasn't gonna take a knee and then that's part of what got them a little agitated with him? Um you know, take a knee ba I think probably to show solidarity with the movement and he and he was like, Yeah, no, I don't think so. That's not happening. So arguably Nobody was there that didn't come pretty pretty angry. And um did you get a sense that they were Fredericktonians, that they were from the county? Absolutely. They were count so okay, so it wasn't ratified as a lot of people. Uh not not that I could tell. Okay. And I was there in the crowd, right, and obviously I'm I'm uh inclined in the direction uh that if I'm in any kind of crowd like that then I'm there to be a moderating influence and to uh to help positive things to happen, you know, not just for angry things to happen. And so Um so, you know, that was the case uh as well. The the point is is that George Floyd was ruthlessly uh killed by an officer that clearly was was uh in the wrong not just criminally negligent but um but something beyond that right I mean it was Horrible. I don't I don't know anybody that disagrees with uh with that. Yeah, there's no debate. I mean sometimes you in in some of these kinds of stories there's mitigating circumstances. Um evidence comes out later that would show that the police officer was unfairly criticized and you say you have to reserve judgment. But in this case the video is really clear. And maybe as this airs new information will come out and will sound really dated. But as of right now, uh the cop I feel like all four of the cops that and I'm uh I know sometimes police officers only be called cops But in this case, the four that were involved don't deserve the respect of being called officers of peace. So so these four cops, they all struck me as dirty. I felt like the one who uh appeared to be maybe of Asian descent, you know, Asi Asian uh cultural descent. Right. Looked like he was standing lookout Yeah. And the other three, one of them I think was was a black cop. Uh there was obviously the infamous um uh white cop uh at the Tor upper torso and kneeling on his neck. Right. And then the one at the feet, I'm not sure if he was Hispanic or white or I'm not sure. But so it's it's multi-ethnic And I'm telling you, they had him pinned for how many minutes and he wasn't he was handcuffed and he wasn't fighting back and the look in uh how do you pronounce the the the white cop's name? Sha Shauv Shavin, Derek Shauvin. Chauvin. The look in his eyes, he knows he's being videoed. He's looking right at the camera and he doesn't care. And then after the EMTs show up, he takes his sweet old time. He still stayed on for like another minute or two I think he was on his neck minutes after he was dead. It felt like that I don't know, maybe I'm going way off of it felt like a hit. It felt like they meant to kill that guy. And I don't know why they would have meant. I mean there's there seems to be some connections that maybe the the police officers knew uh Floyd and and some but it's only two purposes. I don't think that's as far fetched as it sounds. I mean I think uh You know, it wasn't long before uh it wasn't long before this, and I I I frankly don't remember if it was Minneapolis or not, and I wish I had had time to look it up ahead of time, but Uh there was another gentleman, uh, you know, a white guy who was killed by the police because he had somebody on his back and it was the same thing. It was uh you know, a heart attack due to fluid in his lungs because he had somebody pressed on his back after he'd already been handcuffed It was fresh enough in the minds of police in general because when these kinds of things happen, well we may not catch it in the news unless it fits a certain uh a agenda to a narrative to get whipped up. Uh but they're going to hear about it, right? These are the kinds of things that that are already part of their training. And so I I almost think it's a shame that because we could see Derek Chauvin in the eyes and and see the malice that we perceive, whether whether correct or not, there's a f perceived malice there, right? Um but we're not equally holding the guy who was to his right accountable who was on the back of his chest putting pressure on his lungs You know, asphyxia from having pressure on your neck, as lots of people have demonstrated and gotten in a lot of trouble, is not necessarily as easy as it is to break pressure on the back, right? So so, you know, this is a couple of cops cooperating in something that they know is likely to increase the risk of this guy expiring during the course of this arrest. There's a relationship So uh and there's uh you know and I d I don't look I I don't want to defame uh George Floyd or anybody else, but it's clear that there were multiple complexities in the relationship. And uh you know, and I'm enough of a uh uh conspiracy theorist that any time you say there might be something more to it, h here's the thing, we've we've kind of been trained to think that if we see something And what we think we see, if if saying it will make us sound bad, then we should try to not only not say it, but not think it But sometimes the thing that's obvious that jumps out at you when you watch something, there's more truth to it than we want to admit if it's really dark and really ugly. Um if there are complexities in a relationship and George Floyd is passing a bad check somewhere or being it's being claimed that he's passing a bad check, and the cops need to show up and handcuff him and throw him on the m on on the street and four of them are collaborating with three of them getting on top of the guy who's already handcuffed and he ends up dead and and you know the um Uh oh gosh, what's what do they call the doctor who does the autopsy, the uh I put the early coroner's report says, uh, you know, we don't think it was asphyxia, we think it was drugs and heart attack and a combination of things. And even the wording was coronavirus. The wording on it was horrible. That that preliminary report ended with the coroner saying and the drugs that were likely present in his system. I noticed that and I remembered it the same way I remembered when the Connecticut governor said we have an infant who who has died from a COVID-related uh or there's been a COVID-related death of an infant And and it turned out when the facts came out the governor had yes to try to get more attention and get people to take it seriously had flatly lied The infant did not die of code. Everybody seems to recognize that we're in this postmodern world right now that we're where truth uh is defined no longer, you know, in a sense of the absolutes where where whatever something means to you it, you know, it could mean something totally different in the the political parties, the language that they use. is so different that they don't make any sense to each other, right? All of that put together in the news media, uh, handling things, you know, uh Uh fake news. Uh I don't know what you want to call it, but my point is just that that this is the reality is that is that how do we discern any longer what is the truth in these situations uh when when when it's so hard to find out what the truth is. We can't always discern what the truth is. One of the things that's deeply concerning to me is this is not the first time in our history that we have been able to whip up a tremendous amount of racial hatred based on what someone has done. If if you think about a lot of the lynchings that happened to African Americans in a dark period of our history, they typically started with somebody running into town and saying, person X, raped a white woman. And the perceived injustice and how could this thing happen? My God, our white women aren't safe. They're trying to walk by these farms and these whatever they are, they think they can just run out there and rape these women and we've got to put a stop to this. And oftentimes with no idea who they were even looking for, the first black man that would walk out and and and make the mistake of being on the same street with the crowd that was heading on their way down to get their justice would get their justice at the expense of someone who had no idea what had happened if it happened. And I'm not saying in this case that Georgia Floyd is not a it happened. I I'm saying that in many of those cases, we have no idea, based on historical records, whether anything ever happened or whether somebody was trying to foment violence. But it was so successful that that people would get tied to trees and burned to death for something they had no awareness of, weren't associated with. And I see I see business owners Small business owners in minority communities having their businesses destroyed because of a violence that's been fomented because somebody's able to uh repeat the same thing. And I think I think that's the pattern that's destroyed. Disturbing to me. Yeah, and I agree with it. By the way, I want to reset just real quickly in case you missed the beginning of the show. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. The voice you just heard before mine is Vaughn Thurman. Of course, Jonathan Schweitzer is on the show again as he uh is is a recurring featured panelists on the Faith Debate. You're listening to the show on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com and perhaps you're listening via podcast. And if you're listening in any way, one of those three ways, uh thank you. Uh yeah the I had a bit of a online social media dialogue slash debate, if you will, with somebody who actually generally agrees with my point of view on a lot of things and yet s for some reason took exception to me saying what's going on this time around, well it has a lot of connection and similarities with what happened in the past, is different. And the pushback I got was, no, every time there's one of these stories, you know, Trayvon Martin or whoever, you know, we have these outbursts. Okay, we have outbursts, but this is at a magnitude, a scale, a widespreadness that is Highly unusual. I can't recall any time and maybe I'm just dense and I have a you know I'm getting older, I'm losing my memory, maybe I can remember any time when we had multiple cities in riots with businesses being burned to the ground. I mean I think one point is a hundred and forty cities at one time. I mean that's that that's sweet that's unprecedented, right? Well, they're saying it's at least equal to what things were like in the sixties. That's what I've heard. So I don't know, I wasn't you know, none of us were alive. Yeah. I grew up in a neighborhood in in Baltimore that was not far from the leftovers of the riots that uh came through Baltimore. It was an area called Lakeon Park that was uh full of gorgeous old homes uh that had been significantly devalued because of the uh flight And it wasn't white flight, it was it was general flight. People just escaped the neighborhood because of what had happened, and there was a lot of destruction and And of course because of COVID nineteen people are leaving the cities anyways. And so I'm I think that's part of why you've placed on this right now as well, right? 'Cause 'cause I funny ha ha funny funny in the sense that That even though even though there's all kinds of ways that I that I feel like there are misrepresentations being promoted in the context of of this uh horror um through the news media, you know, and in ideas and mentalities being pushed. Even though I believe that that's the case, I'm still of the opinion that it's the right thing for me to do to really take an extra abundant amount of time to listen to my African American brothers and sisters, uh, both that are in Christ and not in Christ, into um to despite the fact that that I have a different political bent and a different cultural read on what's happening, that that the right thing for me to do is to work together with them. to try to bring some change in places where it's right for there to be change broad. And so uh so I find myself very frustrated at the way For you know, for me, I I it's no uh uh everybody on the show knows that I'm Republican, that I'm conservative. You know, um the reality is that I I tend to be pro-Trump even still. Uh and And in the midst of all that, I'm still in a place right now where where I'm approaching this differently than I have before. And I'm not sure why exactly, but I definitely am. Well well Jonathan, we're let me ask a uh challenging or probing question and not for which rate. So where do you think that change needs to happen Well so that's that's the question, right? I got off the phone okay. So let me set set the context. Um my dad for going on twenty-five years as a pa as a pastor has worked closely with a whole number of African American pastors um uh in in in long-term relationships and had discussions you know, for all those years about all the hot topics. Uh I was in meetings where where godly men and women that were African American looked at me and told me I didn't vote for Obama because I'm a racist. Right. And we had really honest conversations in that context, right? And so um so in this context, I'm having similar conversations, you know, that are really honest. And um and today got on the phone with five different pastors locally that are white. conservative, very Republican, and who who don't like the language of white privilege, uh systemic um uh racism, um black lives matters uh political uh stances on a whole bunch of things. Uh uh the defund police, uh these kinds of things. They are they have zero interest in being associated with any of those things, and yet every single one of them is of the opinion that we should in this moment look to try to help to bring some change. And so I literally later this week will be sitting with a bunch of pastors to say, okay, let's define what that looks like. And and the bottom line is everybody agrees that that police abuse, that there shouldn't be any, and that if police are being allowed to stick around, whether it's because of police unions that that limit police from actually being held accountable or whether it's just corruption in certain places. Any kind of police abuse should be purged And so if there's a need for that, let's do it. There seems to be the sense that that business, education, you know, government, different different po places that that that there's the accusation there's the there's the i in in the mind of of my African American friends that there is inequities in all those places. So so w I'm not inclined to think that any of that is systemic. I'm inclined to think that that to the extent that that shows up it's because there's bad apples that spurs out the bad apples. But I'm going to work with them and even if we go after something that ends up not being an issue, I'm going to go after it with them until we know that it's not an issue together. Right? Because I would do that with my kids. If my kids had a fear that of of something, I'd go with them. I'd say, let's go look at it. And if it ends up that they're right, I'd say, you know what, you're right Yeah. But if it ends up not being right, then then I say, Well DC, and they're like, Yeah, I guess I guess it's not an issue. We're gonna pick up and continue this conversation next week and we'll start to define some of those terms and why people will don't wanna align with certain aspects of uh the movement if that's even what you want to call it. Uh this is the Faith Debate, Jonathan Schweitzer, Von Thurman. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate at 930 WFMD. We pick back up in 167. 5 hours from right about right now