Broadcasting from the police. State that is Frederick City, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Footman Clumbing and Heating How can we make you smile? You can find the faith debate online at wfmd. com keyword faith. You'll find all sorts of links, including The section where you can get to the podcast, the previous shows, the Faith Debate. You'll also find a blog on the right hand side of the webpage. I encourage you to email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. And why do I encourage you to email me? That's because My blog is your blog. So you email me stuff and I take your stuff and I post it on the right-hand side of the Faith Debate page. It's an easy way for me to Fill up that vlog? That was an early motivation, but I gotta say I've really enjoyed it. Another motivation that's becoming a I've I've it really the primary uh ongoing motivation is This show is done in advance. We can't take phone calls, that sort of thing. There's a chance to try to make the show at least somewhat interactive so you can email me and I have a chance to filter some of that stuff before it goes on there because every once in a while I get some pretty Masty stuff that uh you know, language and stuff that you wouldn't want the children to be reading if you know what I'm saying. So anyway you can email that stuff to me. And we'll put up there. Most of the stuff that you just sent me is very good and I'm glad to put it up there. Nine blog postings a day, Monday through Friday. It's forty-nine blog postings every single week. Encourage you to check it out. Even if you don't send me stuff, go check it out and see what other people are sending me. We're in a special edition of the Faith Debate Show. This is of what's now I guess is going to turn out to be the eighth and an eight part series of special editions. As I mentioned in previous weeks, Jonathan Sweisser has had some things going on in his ministry life and personal life, his family life, he's had to attend to and it's it's kept our schedule um a a little bit hectic. But we have to keep the show moving on. You know, have to do a show one way or the other, but it's hard to do a sh a panel show with uh without a full panel. So we should be back to a regular full panel show next week and I'm looking forward to that. But in the meantime, we're listening to a special edition. I've had opportunity uh in recent uh uh months to to speak before a local congregation and uh this is the last half of a message spoken to a local congregation. The uh Subject matter is 1 John chapter 3. The title of the message is uh Is Your Glass Half Full or Is Your Cup Overflowing? So here we are with Pad D of uh of this part of the special edition. And um Appreciate you hanging in there with us during this this uh atypical formatting for the show. I really do appreciate it In the middle of Romans chapter seven, we read of Paul describing the Christians Christian experience of not always winning in our struggle against sin. Our struggle against Sin. In Galatians chapter 2, we're given the story of Peter's sin against the Gentile believers, a sin for which Paul publicly rebukes him. In Acts chapter 15, we also read of a spat between Paul and Barnabas over John Mark. Let me make sure you know that particular story. Let me read from Acts 15, beginning with verse 36. Sometime later, Paul said to Barnabas, let us go back and visit the believers and all the towns where we preach the word of the Lord and see how they're doing. Barnabas wanted to take John, also called Mark, with them. But Paul did not think it wise to take him because he had deserted them in Tenphilia and had not contended with them in the work. They had such a sharp disagreement that they parted company. Barnabas took Mark and sailed for Cyprus, but Paul chose Silas and left. Maybe this wasn't sin. I don't know their hearts. But it does not appear from the text as though things went swimmingly. This sharp disagreement brought a divide between them. Of course, God used the split to multiply the advance of his gospel message. But I believe that one of these men was wrong in this situation. Either Paul or Barnabas or Mark was sinning in this situation. Maybe all of them were sinning. But they didn't wallow in it. They repented of it. We know this because later we have evidence that Paul and Mark reconciled. Mark was with Paul in his first imprisonment at Rome. We can see this from Colossians chapter 4, verse 10. And also from Philemon chapter 1, verse 24. And I see evidence that Paul and Barnabas reconcile when reading the positive remarks that Paul has about Barnabas in 1 Corinthians 9 and Galatians 2 and Colossians 4. So the point all of this is that this side of heaven, Christians commit sins. But Christians don't tolerate these sins. They root these sins out of their lives. Christians fall in the mud, sure, but they then scramble to their feet and they move away from it. They don't unpack their bedroll and sleep in their own mess. You know what I'm saying? I hope so, because there are others saying different things. They would have you believe that sin isn't all that bad, really. It's okay, because, well There really isn't such a thing as sin. Or they've defined their behavior as okay, even though it is condemned by God's word. And they want you to agree with them over against God's word. Or they'll say, sure, it's a sin. But everybody does it. It's only natural. You are human, aren't you? Come on, it'll feel good. If it makes you happy, what's the harm? Well, here's what John tells us about this, verses 7 through 10. Dear children, do not let anyone lead you astray. The one who does what is right is righteous, just as he is righteous. The one who does what is sinful is of the devil. Because the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the devil's work. No one who is born of God will continue. to sin because God's seed remains in them. They cannot go on sinning because they have been born of God. This is how we know who the children of God are and who the children of the devil are Anyone who does not do what is right is not God's child, nor is anyone who does not love their brother and sister. So love Each other. Don't go on sinning as if it's no big deal. Do what is right and demonstrate that you are born of God Now it'd be easy to stay focused on the negative in this passage, on the D word. The devil is named four times in these four verses. That's scary stuff, the devil. He's been sinning since the beginning. So he's good at it. Got lots of practice. And he wants you to be a child of his. If you're not a child of God, then you are a child of the devil Trust me, we don't want to bear his name. Remember all those wonderful things we talked about earlier with regards to Jesus? really long but entirely incomplete list of really special things that are true about God. None of these things are true of the devil. He's bad news. Exclusively bad news. There is no good news to be found in the devil. But let's not focus on the vanquished. Let's focus on the victor. Let's not focus on that loser, the devil. Let's focus on the conqueror, the son of man, the son of God, who came 2,000 years ago to destroy the devil's work, and he did it. So now, those of us who have been born again will not continue to sin. We cannot go on sinning because God's seed remains in us. As we're taught in Hebrews 4, verse 12, for the word of God is alive and active, sharper than any double-edged sword. It penetrates Even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow, it judges the thoughts and the attitudes of the heart. The Holy Spirit dwells within our hearts. We have become temples of God. And we are given authority to continue in the faith rather than continue in sin. Are you a Christian? And your glass is not half full. Your cup overflows. We should be jumping up and down. Get excited. Show a little emotion. Dance, whoop, holler, laugh till he cries, something. The way we feel and the way we behave should be indistinguishable as love washes over and through us. We should wash over and through the world with love. For this is the message you heard from the beginning. We should love one another. Cannot be like Cain, who belonged to the evil one and murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own actions were evil, and his brothers were righteous. Do not be surprised, my brothers and sisters, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death to life because we love each other. Anyone who does not love remains in death. Anyone who hates a brother or sister is a murderer. And you know that no murderer has eternal life residing in him. With all this talk of Cain and hate and murder, don't miss a key point. The evil stuff is true of the world. It might be directed at God's people But what is ultimately true of and for God's people is that we are awash in love. With righteous actions, having passed from death to life Why do we have this eternal life? We have it because of the opposite of hatred and murder. Followers of Christ have everlasting favor with God because of the perfect life lived in love. That has been laid down for us. This is how we know what love is. Jesus Christ laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters. If anyone has material possessions and sees a brother or sister in need, but has no pity on them How can the love of God be in that person? Dear children, let us not love with words or speech, but with actions and in truth. This is hard to hear, isn't it? It's one thing to be ready, theoretically, to lay down our lives for our Lord, to be martyred for the faith. It's easy in theory because the odds of the theory becoming reality are astronomically high against. It's easy to say I'd do something if I know I'll never have to do it. If I ever come face to face with Fidel Castro, tell you what, give him a piece of my mind, take that to the bank and cash it. Really? Well, let's give each other the benefit of the doubt. And say that we really do mean it when we say that we die for Jesus That's not what this passage says. John writes that we ought to lay down our lives for our brothers and sisters. Will you do this? You might be quick to think, well I'd do that too. Heck, I serve in the military. I risk my life for others all the time. Well, I suggest to you today that John is not primarily talking about this either. Clearly in verse 16, John says we are to lay down our lives for other Christians. But then in verse 17 He defines what he means by laying down our lives. At least one aspect of what it means. It means giving up your possessions And don't just stoically, from a detached emotional distance, write a check. Throwing money at the problem isn't the solution. No. Get intimately invested. Take pity on your brothers and sisters in need. And lay down your life. Lay down your possessions. Out of love. This is not a one-time thing. This is a daily sacrifice. That's hard. As Christians, we must admit flatly that we do not live this perfect life. Oh, woe is me. I'm devastated by the sin of my life, the sinfulness of my heart. Maybe I'm not even saved. But these thoughts are attacks from Satan, the accuser. Here's what the Word of God says. This is how we know that we belong to the truth, and how we set our hearts at rest in His presence. If our hearts condemn us, We know that God is greater than our hearts. And He knows everything. Dear friends, of our hearts, do not condemn us. We have confidence before God and receive from him anything we ask because we keep his commands and do what pleases him. And this is his command. To believe in the name of His Son, Jesus Christ, and to love one another as He commanded us. The one who keeps God's commands lives in him, and He in them. And this is how we know that He lives in us. We know it by the Spirit He gave us. The perfect, complete fillment of this awaits us. We have been justified, declared righteous. We are being sanctified, set apart in holiness. We will be glorified and see Jesus as he is because we will be as he is. As it's written in Philippians chapter 3, 21, verse 21, God will transform our lowly bodies so that we will be like his glorious body. In Second Corinthians three eighteen. And we all who with unveiled faces contemplate the Lord's glory are being transformed into his image with ever increasing glory, which comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. Jesus is Savior, not only because he offered up his life on the cross, this was not his only point of sacrifice in our behalf. The son also sacrificed by even becoming human. And then for maybe twelve thousand or so days, he lives a perfect life of obedience. He didn't lay down his life merely in one day. He laid down his life for us every day. That's what we're called to do. That's what his spirit enables us to do. That's who you now can have confidence that you are if you're a Christian And so when you're in God's presence in prayer, you can have confidence before God. And you will receive what you ask because what you ask will be inside His will. due to the fact that you are living a life that pleases him by following his commands We love one another as we hope in Christ. And we know this hope is true by the Spirit He gave us. In the words of Paul the Apostle from Romans chapter five, verse five. And hope does not put us to shame because God's love has been poured out into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. And from Romans chapter 8, verses 14 through 17. For those who are led by the Spirit of God are the children of God. The spirit you received does not make you slaves so that you live in fear again. Rather, the spirit you received brought about your adoption to sonship. And by him we cry, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are God's children. Now, if we are children, then we are heirs, heirs of God, and co-heirs with Christ. If indeed we share in his sufferings, in order that we may also share in his glory What a warming message for believers. What a warning message for nonbelievers. Children of God are those who accept God's gift of the Christ. And acknowledge Jesus not only as Savior, but also as Lord. The one and only Lord, the one and only Savior. Not one of many saviors, many Lords, the one and only, not just for you, but for the entire world. You believe that? You're a child of God. Children of the devil refuse to accept the gift. And thus they attempt to save themselves or trust something other than God to save themselves. And realizing it or not, they have the devil rule over them. Which is an insult to our Creator who offers the gift. Don't you see? Dear Christians, yes, it is hard as we share in his sufferings. But that doesn't change the fact that our glass is full of overflowing. Hallelujah. You have nothing to fear. And I celebrate with you My dear skeptics, doubters, self-assured nonbelievers, your glass Your glass is bone dry empty. Be afraid to die. In your current condition. I will weep as I pray for you. All the wonderful things that 1 John has to say about the condition of Christians do not apply to you if you are not a Christian. I have mentioned a number of times how hard it is for Christians to live in a world still wrapped by sin, but heaven awaits the children of God. I haven't mentioned how hard it will be for non-Christians, for whom the unending torment of hell awaits, because they are children of the devil. But I've mentioned it now. I think I'll end with that. Not to be mean. But to have you left with your thoughts on this issue, to leave you alone with God. So that you might become aware of the tug of God's love calling you to Himself. Calling you away from the curse. And to the eternal blessing awaiting his people, calling you to a glass that is completely full, filled to overflowing with life-giving water. Oh, how sweet it is to drink of it. Let's pray. Dear Father, I know, maybe just by the odds, but I know there are people hearing me right now. Do not trust in you as Savior. Do not put their faith in you and live lives of obedience with you as Lord. I know there are many who would say that they are Christians, but they are lying even to themselves. They are pretending, but you are a God who knows everything. So I hope that you would powerfully move in their lives, remove from them their heart of stone, replace it with a heart of flesh. And for those to whom you've already given a heart of flesh, I pray that you would encourage us, that you would embolden us, that we would not shrink from the sacrifices that advancing your kingdom might demand of us, that we would go out and proclaim the gospel, come what may If we find ourselves not being persecuted, help us to examine our lives and ask, why not? What is it that we could do so that we might be persecuted and share in the sufferings of Christ? Help us to know you, to truly know you, to truly believe in you, to truly experience what it is to love you and feel your love. To not trust in this fallen, sinful, decrepit, sometimes disgusting world that you are redeeming, that you will make new, that you are making new Lord, come quickly. But no more quickly than your plan allows for the redeeming of more and more of your people. Thank you that we can come to you with boldness and pray to you in the name of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ and that you will answer our prayers. When we are in your will, that you hear us as we trust in you, that we can have confidence in your presence as we pray. It is in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. And that concludes that half of the message and our eight-part series of uh of a special faith debate show. Again, thank you for your indulgence. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading lately? It's apropos, The Relevance of Preaching by Pierre Marcel. I didn't agree with everything that uh Pierre Marcel had to say, but it was a very interesting read. It's uh not for everybody, but if you like to deep dig deep into good theological stuff then the relevance of preaching might be right up your alley. Again I encourage you to visit us online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find the Faith Debate page. Email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and I'll take which email to me and post it up on the website because my blog is your blog. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now, thank you so much for listening and God bless you. Faith and hope, words that walk hand in hand through the lives of everyone touched by breast cancer. Putman Plumbing honors the courageous battle being fought by the special women in your life by donating ten dollars from every October service call. Look for our technicians wearing pink bow ties. Putmanplumbing. com