Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. As people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things, this is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find links to podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannels. com. I post what you send me Eighteen times a day, five days a week, it's ninety a week, if my math is correct. So pop in and see what other people are Sharing even if you don't choose to email me something. On the Faith Debate today, as you know on occasion well if you listen to the show regularly, then you know on occasion I get invited uh despite other people's better judgment to uh speak from um the local pulpit on occasion. I said on occasion like twelve times there didn't I? So on occasion And there was such an such an occasion uh not too long ago where I had an opportunity to uh share um what it turned out to be part five of a far of a five part series. Uh pastor couldn't uh be there for the last part, so I was assigned the task of preaching on it on the last video in a video series that had to do with uh living generously. And so this is that message titled Greed Time Greed is good. You heard me right. Anyway, uh on the back end of this, we'll set up uh the the second half of the message for next week's show. Good morning, Mr. Phelps. We know the world has taught you some pretty strange things when it comes to your time, priorities, finances, gifts, and so many other things. Commercials inundate you with ridiculous things you think you need. You were told that being the best at sports, music, or the computer is somehow an end in itself. You have become persuaded that you don't have the time for hospitality, evangelism, loving people the way God calls us to. Your mission, should you decide to accept it, is to ignore what the world is selling and follow the path of Jesus. There is no question it will be hard. But we want you and your team to reimagine what the world could look like. We want you to live generously. As always, should you or any member of your IM Force be caught or killed, the Secretary will disavow any knowledge of your actions This tape will self-destruct in five seconds. Good luck, Jim. Creed is good. Really, despite all of the negative comments made about Gordon Geckel of the Wall Street movies, played by Michael Douglas, greed is good. I know that for the past month this congregation has viewed a series of videos designed to call us all the generous living. I am here to undo all of that with just one message. Alright, maybe not. You can call to the mission 310. I'm not gonna back down from my claims over the screen. is good because it is true and I will knock that down from the truth. As you watch part five of the five part of the five part video series this this congregation has been watching over the last month, why don't you see if you can If you don't see the evidence right away, don't worry. We have Psalm one twelve to help walk us through and fill in the blanks uh when the video is over. So in the meantime, down in front, remember the cell phones not turned off or a total bummer for your movie going neighbors And uh get the popcorn ready. It's time for seed time, or should I say, greed time. But our top story this morning is of course Wall Street, as the markets have been hammered since the opening bell. After a brief sound, things are continuing to hit South, leaving many wondering where the bottom will be. Alan, today is not the day to have trouble getting hold of you. Please give me a call back as soon as you get this. Hey, how you feeling? That's a good thing, right? I think so. Let me get something a little bit Where are you going? Well, he's asked me to go down to the soup kitchen for a little bit to help out, and then I have got to run by the office and take care of some business. You and the kids have been down there quite a bit lately, haven't you? But no one's gonna blame me if you don't want to go back. No. I think it's great. I I'm looking forward to seeing everyone again. Love you. Hey, remind me that I need to discuss some things with you when I get back, all right? Sure. Stock market chilling you today. Oh yeah, ma'am. My four one six seven K is taking a beating I know that's a good one. Hey, sorry I'm late, right? What's all this? It's a beautiful day, Mr. Darwin. Can you feel the sunlight just streaming in? You mean uh the sunlight coming through those holes in the ceiling? Well not for long. Those grants we applied for came through. This place is getting new life. Excellent news, Ray. I you guys deserve this. That's not even the best part. Those men there are from Somerset construction. I don't know if they're getting some kind of matching dollars or what, but they're looking to hire as many folks from the kitchen as possible for the labor. Even off in fleeting for certain positions. have room for a volunteer, I got a hammer. At least I think I got a hammer. Um, that market stuff that they're about to talk about, uh, how's that affecting you? Ray, I'm sorry, I gotta take this insurgent. Alan. Hey. Yeah, it's urgent. Okay, can you come by the house a little bit later? Perfect. Talk to you then. The general consensus seems to be relief that the day is over. The fear now is that the Asian markets will respond too strongly to the day sell off. Which could trigger eight. Hey. Hey. By the way, I've called Alan to come over here for a meeting. He's gonna come over a little bit later. There's some things that I want to go over with you first. Make sure we're on the same page. Okay. Your accident made a big impact on me. I remember sitting there just staring at you, waiting for you to recover. I was powerless. I remember thinking to myself, Everything that I tried to do to protect this family. Everything. And you know what? It just felt silly. Ray mentioned something the other day. We were talking about the parable of the talent. And how out of all the three servants who were asked to look over the master's money, the only one who was rebuked was the one who had buried the money and then returned it the same way he received it. The one that played it safe. I want to take risks. If God owns everything and we're willing to risk it all for him and it doesn't work out, well it's just like moving money from one of his pockets to the other. It might mean a lot of changes. And that's why I have Alan going. So what do you think? I think uh Ray's the best gardener we've ever had. So how does Al- this market stuff going on affect what you've been thinking? What market stuff? Hey, Ray. I'm Mr. Donovan. How are you doing? I just came by to uh receive a couple of patches in the yard and I want to give you a little present in case you couldn't find yours. Wow, this is a beauty. You swing that in, right? Right. You know, right after you left this morning we got a call um said that there were uh polls in the grant application and they wouldn't even review it un until we corrected it. Government. Yeah, right. Um I was just trying to figure out how um some of that construction could already be on site and haven't even reviewed the grant application. Oh no. I guess you'll have to ask them. Well that's the thing I did. No one over there seemed to know anything about any grants. Strange. Hey I I got a family meeting I gotta run to. Yeah, right. Uh one thing, um, I want to ask, um, doesn't your country own Somerset? Uh gosh, I uh uh got so much s stuff. on the plate right now and I I really don't want to talk business. Yeah, yeah, I'm saying. Thanks for the hammer, Red. You're welcome, Mr. Stone. Sorry about that, Alan. Uh you were saying? So I know how important security is to you, so I've prepared some ideas to fortify your portfolio in light of today's events. Maybe I wasn't that clear with you earlier today, Alan. We actually had some of our own ideas. As a family. Okay. Sure. Our goal is to increase liquidity across all areas. We want to start by dismantling our way. Intentionally. Defective. Granddoor trust. Grandma trust. We'd like to have that charity discussion you suggested the other day. So what do you think? Praise the Lord. Blessed are those who fear the Lord and find great delight in his commands. There are children will be mighty in the land, that the generation of the upright will be blessed. Wealth and riches are in their houses, and their righteousness endures forever. Even in darkness light dawns for the upright, for those who are gracious and compassionate and righteous. Good will come to those who are generous and lend freely to conduct their affairs with justice. Surely the righteous will never be shaken, they will be remembered forever. They will have no fear of bad news. Their hearts are steadfast, trusting in the Lord. Their hearts are secure. They will have no fear. In the end, they will look in triumph on their foes They have freely scattered their gifts to the poor. Their righteousness endures forever. Their horn will be lifted high in honor. The wicked will see and be vexed. They will gnash their teeth and waste away. The longings of the wicked will come to nothing. I have just read one of the Hallelujah Psalms, Psalm 112. This is a psalm that some have nicknamed the Proverbs 31 for men. Many of you have perhaps heard of the call for our ladies to be Proverbs 31 women. Well now we've all heard the call for our gentlemen to be pro uh Psalm 112 men And it is the call to be greedy. Before I say more, let's pray. Father, we come before you humbly, asking that you would touch our hearts in a special way today, that we would have a renewed understanding of the truth of your word, the truth of who you are, the truth of your actions in our life and in the world all made po possible by the sacrifice of your son Jesus Christ, empowered by the move of your Holy Spirit. Father, we praise you and thank you for bringing us together today in this sanctuary to share in fellowship and to worship you. In the name of your Son Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. Psalm 112 starts off with Praise the Lord, blessed to those are those who fear the Lord, who find great delight in his commands. And so right here we can see right off the bat, greed is good. This is how I understand it anyway. Greed for the glory of God. Greed for people around me to know how marvelous is the Lord we serve. Greed for the blessing of God in the lives of other people. Praise the Lord Hallelujah. Honor God. Extol the works of His hands. Lift your voices high with a swelling heart and sing praise to the Lord. The Psalms aren't just poems, they're songs. So let's lift up our voices from the diaphragm and sing praise to the Lord. Go ahead, Fang. Oh, wait. It's not easy to do, is it? We'll talk a little bit more about why that is in a little bit, but for now, even if we're not actually bellowing from our diaphragms and singing praise to the Lord, imagine that you are bellowing. In your heart, in your mind, in your will. Imagine you are singing praise about God to God What are you saying? What are the lyrics to your heart song? If you have Psalm 112 in mind, then you'll have at least a verse or two in your song about Blessing and fearing the Lord and delighting in his commands. And if you spent time recently reading any of the letters of the Apostle Paul that are recorded for us in the New Testament, And you also recognize a strong connection to 2 Corinthians, particularly chapter 9. You might want to turn there Second Corinthians chapter nine is where we read about the church in Corinth and their generous giving to poor folk in another city. And Paul shares that he has boasted about this church and their generous giving, their parti this particular church's eagerness to help, and how this has inspired others to give and do the same. And Paul In telling us all of this is teaching us that greed is good. In chapter 9, beginning with verse 6, he says, remember this. Whoever sows sparingly will reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously will reap generously. In other words, be greedy You want a gigantic harvest, don't you? Well so generously. So that you'll reap generously. Paul continues along these lines for quite a stretch. Now he does famously say that God loves a cheerful hearer. This is right before he goes on to say that God is able to bless you abundantly. He will enlarge the harvest of your righteousness, and you will be enriched in every way. Prosperity gospel, doesn't it? Be a little sarcastic. This sort of greed is all in the context of abounding in every good work. So that you can be generous on every occasion, and your generosity will result in thanksgiving to God This is the key, you see. In verse 12 of 2 Corinthians 9, this service that you perform is not only supplying the needs of the Lord's people, but is also overflowing in many expressions of thanks to God. Because of the service by which you have proved yourselves, others will praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel of Christ. Others will praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel of Christ And for your generosity in sharing with them and with everyone else, because of the surpassing grace that God has given you. Thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. Paul draws attention to this correlation between our generosity and our confession of the gospel of Christ. And believe it or not, that is exactly what's going on in Psalm 112 as well. I wish that I were clever enough to make this connection all on my own, but Paul must have known That I'd be too dense for that. And so he makes the connection for me by quoting directly from Psalm 112. Here is Paul, 2 Corinthians 9, verse 9, as it is written They have freely scattered their gifts to the poor, their righteousness endures forever. That is a direct quote from Psalm 112, verse 9. Paul is saying that greed is good. Service to others, yes, but don't make too goodism an idol. Moralism saves no one. Please hear this even if you hear nothing else this morning. I don't care. It doesn't matter how good you think you are. It doesn't matter how many good things you actually do. This will not cannot make you right with God Our service to others must be out of a greed for God's glory Greed for thankfulness directed to God. Greed for His praise and sharing the gospel of Jesus Christ, His indescribable gift. So now that we're clear on all of that, it's going to be pretty easy to navigate through Psalm 112 and see how it teaches us to be greedy for the proclamation of Jesus Christ. At the end of the message, we will conclude with a look at the concluding words of the psalm. And in the meantime, we'll take a look at the intervening verses, a couple of them at a time, in four sections. First, we're going to learn about blessings from God and how they point us to Christ. And then second, we're going to see Christ as our light in the darkness. Third, we will be encouraged to have confidence, which is possible for us, only in Christ. And fourth, we'll have the honor of being honored with Christ. For the first of these four sections, we're talking about verses two and three of Psalm 112, which say, Their children will be mighty in the land, the generation of the upright will be blessed, wealth And riches are in their houses, and their righteousness endures forever. So if you fear the Lord and delight in his commands, you will be blessed. Your kids will be blessed. You'll leave a legacy. A legacy of wealth and riches. Not just wealth. Not just riches. Wealth and riches. That's what I'm talking about. All because blessings come from our praise, our fear of God. We'll have these blessings now, and we'll have these blessings in the future. If we take into account the full biblical narrative. There's this recurring tension of the already and the not yet. We're already saved, Christians, but we're still to be saved. Christ is right now king, and yet he's returning again as the coming king. We have blessing truly, really, in the here and now, and yet. There is still a delayed gratification. The psalm is telling us about our mighty children. In doing so, it's telling us about our future generations, eternal generations, who are mighty in Christ. This is true of the wealth and riches in our houses too. There are blessings, yes, right now. There is wealth, there are wealth and riches. These are in our house right now. But even more compelling is eternal wealth. What is more valuable than our righteousness before the judgment seat of God? And this righteousness endures forever. In this world of forever, of happily ever after, of infinity and beyond, we are the children who will be mighty in the land, will be blessed. There is a renewed land coming when heaven comes to earth. There is a forever and ever amen sort of a blessing that we have in Christ. Are we greedy enough for this blessing? As was talked about in today's video, God has something for us of great value, and He's given it to you. You have it, it is your possession, it is the gospel of Jesus Christ. It has been freely given to you. This thing of immense value has been given to you for free, but paid for at just an unbelievable cost. If we think of this possession as a golden ticket, a talent, like in the parable of the talents, which by the way will be a very heavy ticket, weighing dozens of pounds. If we think about it in these ways, you think about this talent, what have you done with yours? What have you done with your talent, with your golden ticket? Have you buried? Your ticket to ride all the way to heaven? In the hopes of still having it in your possession when the master returns? Or have you used your golden ticket to attract more golden tickets so that others can join you on your ride to heaven? And when discussing the parable of the talents, we tend to talk about the talent given to us by God as gifts and or special abilities. And it makes sense to do so in a lot of ways. But let's not forget the talent is money in the parable. It's gold. Lots of it. Something around $100,000, by the way, in today's economy. That's a great blessing. A lot of value in that blessing. I don't know about you, but somebody they give me $100,000 and I feel very blessed God gives us great blessings, valuable blessings in our life, special abilities, gifts. Talents, and all of these great things point to Jesus because Jesus is the greatest, most valuable blessing of all Greatest blessing possible. Have you received him from the master? Then multiply your talents by sharing it. In the next two verses of Psalm 112, verses five and six, We read, even in darkness light dawns for the upright, for those who are gracious and compassionate and righteous. Good will come to those who are generous and lend freely, who conduct their affairs with justice. There is light that dawns in the darkness. The world is a rough place. In need of grace. It is a hard place. In need of compassion. It is a selfish place in need of generosity. And it is a place filled with injustice and grandstanding, desperately in need of justice and discretion. Even in the sanitized world of a Hollywood-style short form video, we can notice this. We'll use the video series that we've, as a congregation, you've all watched as an illustration for light dawning in the darkness. And the video We're gonna pause there and we'll get into uh talking about the video that we listened to earlier uh in next week's show and finishing up the sermon Uh greed is good. Thanks so much for listening to our show today. The Frederick Faith Debate is brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading lately? I've been spending lot of time trying to learn Hebrew so I can understand the Old Testament better, so I've been spending a lot of time with a Hebrew and English lexicon of the Old Testament. Not exactly, you know, exhilarated reading, but very helpful to spend time with by uh Francis Brown and uh um uh and Briggs and and Driver. Anyway, till next week. God bless