Broadcasting live from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of news items and the podcast for this show and links to interesting things in the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troiskinner at Clearchannel. com I post what you send me 18 times a day, Monday through Friday, as 90 a week. Encourage you to pop in and see what people are sending me, even if you choose not to email me yourself. On today's show, the second half of uh of uh special edition, I was recently invited to to uh preach uh in uh northern Montgomery County, and uh I shared a message titled Greed is Good Heard the first half of that message last week, we're gonna hear the second half of the message this week. So sorry for you doing a pickup right in the middle. If you want to hear the whole thing in in in combination then you'll have to listen to the podcast, I guess, and then listen to the second half here. So Away we go. Hope you enjoy it. In the darkness. In the videos, there are lessons of grace and compassion and generosity and justice with discretion. We see grace exemplified in the very first of the videos. The wife wants to host a party for missionaries who are returning. The husband isn't so sure that he's up for. Such a party, especially one where kids are invited. Husband's a good enough guy. He just prefers his space, his alone time, his escape from the pressures of dealing with people. The wife doesn't condemn him for this. There's no snarky bathbighting remarks. She knows this man and loves him, does not judge him. She shows him grace, and she fully expects that he will rise to the occasion. Incidentally, Frank the husband also shows grace to his wife. She didn't consult with him about the party. She makes a decision affecting him and the whole family, their house, their schedule, their finances even, without so much as talking to him about it. Didn't check with him. Frank doesn't fly off the handle. He doesn't pick a fight with her. Yeah, he pushes back a little bit and says, Hey, you know, I'd rather just write a check for those missionaries, not open up my home if I don't have to. But he doesn't make his wife look bad or feel bad. He shows her grace. In the other videos, we see a growth toward compassion, which is encouraged by the character named Ray, the gardener. Through his gentle but strong-willed prodding, he gets Frank personally involved with the soup kitchen. And Frank gives his money, his time, gets his family involved too. He ends up having humble conversations with the people who attend the soup kitchen, the patrons there. He has conversations with them where he truly listens He personally connects. He serves. He even washes the feet of another man, wiping spilled food from his shoes. We're able to learn from this a helpful lesson. Well, writing a check is better than saying, oh, somebody ought to do something about that. Getting personally involved is better than merely throwing money at a problem. And sharing Christ is even better than sharing your time. That's the best way to be godly greedy. The videos also show us something about generosity. For example, the gardener tells a young boy about giving your best Not merely unloading your unwanted stinky sheep. The boy responds by giving his most favorite toy, a model plane, to a child who has no toys. And in sacrificing his model plane, this boy becomes a model of generosity. For the Christian, there's an even deeper lesson than this. The Christian doesn't merely ask, how can I help the less fortunate? And then answer, I know, I'll give them my toy. The Christian is to be more greedy than that. We don't want to merely help people in the physical realm, we want to help them in the spiritual realm too. And so the Christian asks the question How can I share Christ? And then answers, I know, I'll give them my toy. The final video helps illustrate justice and discretion. Justice is right action. It is conformity to the law. And with Frank We see right action and conformity to God's law, which states that we are to love our neighbors. The soup kitchen's roof is Full of holes. Bureaucratic red tape is muffin up the works. And Frank puts his resources to use. He cuts through the red tape and he gets everything set right as it should be. The holy roof is getting fixed because of the life of an increasingly holy man seeking to live out God's law And he doesn't seek out attention for his gift. He tries to keep it on the down low. To have discretion is to show discernment and good judgment so as to make responsible decisions, and to do so With a quality of being discreet and circumspect. The word translated as justice in the NIV, verse 5. Could also be understood as discretion. In fact, the King James translates it that way. Conduct their affairs with judgment, conduct their affairs with discretion. Frank in the video is showing us how these two slightly different slants work together as one. And before moving on to the next two verses of Psalm 112, I want to back up a moment and make a comment about the stinky sheet. The movie tells us that we should give the best sheep, not our stinky sheep. If we think about this for a minute. Who is the best sheep? Jesus Christ is the best sheep. Jesus Christ is the one truly without blemish. And so Are you sharing this light in the darkness? Are you sharing this sheep with people? Are you greedily sharing Christ with people? And watching the light dawn in the darkness. What does it mean to share Christ? The video series has taught us that it involves giving your time, your body, your emotions, your money. What's your motivation? Why do it? We get part of the answer to that question in verses 6 and 7 of Psalm 112. Surely the righteous will never be shaken. They will be remembered forever. They will have no fear of bad news. Their hearts are steadfast, trusting in the Lord. Confidence. The righteous will not be shaken. No fear. Steadfast hearts, always trusting in the Lord, and thus remembered forever. No, how, or better ask, where are we remembered forever? And by who The world as we know it will end one day, so we won't be remembered forever in this world. Even if this weren't the case, even if the world as we know it now were eternal, we wouldn't be remembered forever here. We wouldn't. We don't remember people forever. We don't. Quick, name the 25th president of the United States of America. When did the Mongols rule China? Who invented the wheel? We forget. We don't know anymore Even noteworthy men and women, crucial periods in history, momentous technological advancements, and we forget But with God, it's different. He knows who are his and he does not forget them ever. The righteous are remembered forever in heaven by God and motivated by this, having this confidence, the Christian can give freely. We see this taught in 2 Corinthians 9 and in Psalm 112. And we can even see it taught in the movies that we watch. Some of them anyway. Like the videos. Remember in the Living Generously video series, the one we just watched today, in fact. The news of the stock market crash, it doesn't send Frank into a tailspin. He has no fear of the bad news. Now actually, the way the scene is played, the actor comes across as a bit ambivalent. I don't think the Christians are ambivalent about bad news and the struggle that goes with it. But we're not consumed by the bad news. With our hope in Christ, we have no consuming fear of ISIS Ebola virus. Concerned about international conflict? Sure, absolutely. And we should pray about this. And Christians can offer some wise opinions on solutions for that. Concerned about a deadly illness like Eboa? Sure, absolutely. We should pray about this. And Christians can offer uh wise solutions on that too. But while engaging with and in the world on such matters, we must remember to trust the Lord for triumph. We must be greedy for his way to play itself out. We must be greedy for God to act. More than we are greedy for political leaders or medical professionals to act. And this greed for God will be satisfied because guess what? God will act. In Malachi chapter 3, God not only tells us he will act, but he tells us to test him to see if indeed he doesn't prove to be true. Malachi 3. 10, quoting now Bring the whole tithe into the storehouse, that there may be food in my house. Test me in this, says the Lord Almighty, and see if I will not throw open the floodgates of heaven. and pour out so much blessing that there will not be room enough to store it. Says the Lord Almighty. Just like in the movie Flywheel, have you seen that one? Made by the same folks who made um facing the giants and fireproof and courageous. Well, Flywheel, the main character, is a down-on-of-luck, backsliding Christian, used car dealer, and then he recommits himself to Christ. Stops cheating people, he stops ignoring his son, he stops speaking angrily to his wife, but more importantly, he returns to worshiping God. And he gets greedy for God to be glorified. And so he tithes, he gives 10%, even though his business is failing. He gives more than 10%. Really, he gives his whole life. But with regard to simple mathematics, he gives 10% of his income, all the while returning the money that he had stolen from people previously through dishonest deals. And then comes a scene in which his wife, she's doing the accounting, and she works out the math, and she realizes that God has given them to the penny. Just what they needed. God passes the test that he invites us to put him to. It's interesting. In the movie, God gives exactly what is needed. Just like he does with us in real life. Gives us exactly what we need. He gives us the faith to trust him, even to test him where he tells us to. Bring into the storehouse what he instructs and watch him give more blessing than can be stored in that storehouse. Unfortunately, we fail to follow his instructions as we should. But amazingly, amazingly, he's already done this for us. In the person and work of Jesus Christ. As a representative, Jesus does what we did not, can not, will not. Jesus puts in the storehouse everything that the Father requires of us. And so now we are adopted children of God. And we share in the inheritance of the Son. It's an inheritance that throws open the floodgates of heaven. And pours out so much blessing that there isn't enough room to store it. That's how greedy God is for his people. His greedy desire is to pour out more blessing on us than we know what to do with. It is a lavish love. We are to be greedy for this love. Greedily sharing this love. Because that's how we feel even more of this love The more of this love that we give away and share with others, the more we begin to realize just how wealthy in love we really are What we've been given to give away is eternal and endless. We'll never run out. Praise God for that because we live in a world full of needy people who need that love. And we can satiate that need simply by being greedy for God's glory. It's part of what God wants of us for us to be greedy for bringing Him glory. He knows that the more greed We have for his glory, the more need we'll meet among our neighbors It is a mystical yet rock solid reality rooted in the good news of Jesus Christ, the gospel recorded for us in our Bibles. Speaking of our Bibles, three two verses from it now. Psalm 112, verses 8 and 9. Their hearts are secure, they will have no fear. In the end they will look in triumph on their foes. They have freely scattered their gifts to the poor. Their righteousness endures forever. Their horn will be lifted high in honor. You've probably already begun to connect the dots. You're seeing that our greed for God's glory is honoring not just to Him, but to us too. And it's honoring to the people around us, our neighbors. The Psalm speaks of everlasting honor. This sort of thing is God's alone to bestow. Anything everlasting would have to be. And this is the verse about us. God's chosen people. But it's only true for us because it's first true of our representative, the second Adam, Jesus Christ. Verses 8 and 9 sing to us about a secure heart, fearing no one but God Triumphing over foes, well giving to the poor, having a righteousness that endures forever, and a horn lifted high in honor. Who does that sound like to you? Well when it comes to the horn lifted high and honor part I actually had Bambi come to mind for a bit. The cartoon, keeping with our movie going theme. Bambi is this adorable, fumbling, bumbling, immature baby deer. Cute as a button, but merely a babe in the woods. And then experience brings maturity and maturity wisdom and wisdom strength And as Bambi grows from fawn to yearling to buck, we see his antlers grow. Until at the end, his horns are lifted up high in honor. And Bambi now resembles his father. In the Old Testament, the word horn is meant to carry with it an image of strength, power, dignity, God's strength and power and dignity on display, lifted high in honor. This is most true in the biblical narrative, most true in history at the cross. Jesus Christ lifted high in honor. Might not have appeared to be lifted high in honor to the world, but true nonetheless. And what's true for the Savior is true for those he saves. He shares the honor with us. We're not deserving, but we get it anyway, in Christ. It's pretty cool The end of the Psalm is pretty cool too. It provides a perfect ending for this message. Psalm 112 concludes with these words. The wicked will see and be vexed. They will gnash their teeth and waste away the longings of the wicked will come to nothing. We see here that the normal way in which we think of greed, the normal way, it leads to disaster. The wicked are lost, they are vexed. They waste away, gnashing their teeth. Why? Because of their greed, their longings. But these are the longings of the wicked. The greed of the wicked. What are the wicked greedy for? Let's make a short list. The wicked are greedy for their own self-preservation, their comfort, their convenience. They play it safe when their life or reputation is on the line. They choose a big comfy couch in front of a big glorious game on a big technologically advanced TV or The Home and Garden Show on television, or they choose the latest snarky tweet on their smartphone. They choose these things for themselves without Any worry for others who have rain pouring in down their shanty and only dirt floors upon which to sit. The wicked take the spot closest to the front of the store. They think hateful thoughts about other drivers on the road. They cheat on their taxes. They cheat on tests. They use coarse language. They take the Lord's name and use it in ways that are Not glorifying. They argue over the silliest things. They say mean things. They talk about other people and their personal lives even when, especially when those people aren't around They view pornography. They steal from their employer. They lie. Sometimes for no reason at all. It's just a habit now. They refuse to heed God's word. They make no time for prayer. They find excuses to avoid true fellowship with others. They hold on to grudges. They wish right now that I'd stop talking about them. This is horrible. God's word says: the wicked will waste away. They'll be vexed. They'll gnash their teeth. And wear the wicked Aren't we? This is bad news. Terrible news. Which is, in fact, actually the really good news. The psalm ends with a word of wisdom for us that tells us to be greedy for doing good, avoiding bad, or else. Okay. So that's too good. Oh, but wait, we can't. We don't Like I said much earlier, even when we have great reason to bellow from our diaphragms and sing out praise to God and do the right things, We struggle. We like television so much. Our football team, it's it's our favorite football team, you know We're afraid to give other people anything of ours because, well, then we'll have less. And we might someday need what we just gave away. We're addicted to social media. We are addicted to beer and drugs. We're addicted to salacious images of naked bodies. We are utterly lost. In an ungodly sort of greed. You might fight it, but we can't do it We can't win. We don't want to be enemies of God. Enemies of God lose. But we can win. Not on our own. We are right to realize that we can't fight against our own sin nature all by ourselves. That's why the Eternal Sun came to earth as a babe in swaddling clothes to die a horrid death on our behalf. And then ascend back up into heaven in glory. A glory that he shares with us. Just because he wants to. Because he loves us. I'm telling ya, be greedy for this love Be greedy for this good news. So greedy that empowered by the Holy Spirit, you share it with everyone else. Share it because in sharing it, you feed the greed. Keep feeding this greed for God's love, for God's glory, and you will soon see your wicked desire comes to nothing. It shall perish from our hearts in Christ. And so you can see now why the video we watched called Seed Time could just as easily have been called greed time. Greed is good. Just depends what you're greedy for. Who you're greedy for. Let's pray. Father, we pray for greedy hearts that yearn for you or not satisfied in anything but you. We ask that you would send your Spirit on us powerfully. And strengthen our greed. Help us to share this greed with others. Oh, we are greedy for your glory, Lord. Forgive us for the times when we're not. Thank you for the truth of your word. Thank you for the encouragement and conviction that it gives us both at the same time. Thank you for the person and work of your son Jesus Christ and for the lavish love that you share with us and the power you give your people through your Holy Spirit. Father, we pray to you knowing with confidence that you hear us because we pray in the name of your Son Jesus Christ. Amen. And we have reached the end now of that message. Thank you for uh listening. Hope you enjoyed it and hope you gained something from it. What have I been reading lately? I've been trying to figure out Hebrew, so I've been spending time with a concise Hebrew and Aramaic lexicon of the Old Testament, based on uh Kohler Baumgartner's lexicon in Veritas Testament Libros. Not exactly a page turner, but William Holliday did a great job. Thanks for listening. This is the Faith Debate. Our sponsors, Putman Plumbing, and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks so much for listening. Till next week. God bless.