We are involved. in a war. Whether we want to realize it or not. Our generation is exposed to more religious ideas than any people in history. Religious broadcasting and print media bombard us with all kinds of deviant teachings that claim to be truth. The undiscerning person has no means of determining what truth is, and many are baffled by the variety. Discernment It's frankly not very welcome in a culture like ours. The zeal for the truth has become politically incorrect. Well, we are soldiers. Our mission as soldiers is to overthrow false ideas. This is a battle we can't wage effectively if we always try to come across to the world. as merely nice, nonchalant, docile, agreeable, and fun-loving people. Overzealousness is clearly a danger. Need to guard against carefully. True discernment is gained by applying our hearts and minds to wisdom, not by fostering a critical spirit. And there with the help of words from John MacArthur, we have the foundation that is The Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating Help We Make You Smile. And Deer Valley, Hardscape Masonry and Landscape, Incorporated. Last week I didn't mention what I'm reading, so I'm gonna do two right off the bat so I don't forget. Uh I've been stuck in this Ted Decker thing But this time it's Ted Decker and Casey Hill. He co-wrote two books, Ted Decker did with Casey Hill, one called Lunatic, which is part of the Lost Book Series, and Elion, which is also part of the Lost Book Series, are the final two books in a six book series, which is a sub series that's part of a larger seventeen book series. Anyway, yeah, being stuck in Ted Decker is is uh i is kind of ironic because uh so much of what he talks about has elements of being stuck. Yes. You know, and so uh if you read him you will understand uh why that is. He's marvelously gifted novelist. Uh I don't typically read this much uh fiction Yeah. Yeah. So so I feel like I'm stuck. But I gotta say, these last two, Lunatic and Ellion, not as good. I I think Casey Hill might have did most of the mo most of the writing. No. Not liking it as much. Hey, hey, you know. Anyway, by the way, that's Jonathan Sweites, senior Fast or Crossroads Alley Chapel, and we're joined this week by David Hughes, the founder and president of David Hughes Ministries, and uh uh just recently Uh left pastorate at Adamstown Community Church. Uh in Adamstown, I believe, right? Yeah. Creative name giving over there So I was just gonna mention that you've opened with John MacArthur the last couple of weeks and and uh I like what he says, but I'm just not sure I'm a MacArthur guy. So I'm kind of feeling the need to uh to stand up and be counted. You know, I like MacArthur generally. I think he's orthodox But uh I feel like he's bombastic and at the end of the day he would argue that what my church represents is a compromise uh uh he kinda wrote the charismatic chaos book and anything that leans in those directions he's talking about Well let's have him on the show. Let's invite him on. Maybe he'll come on. Hey John, for listening? I'm gonna find you a couple quotes from other guys from just John MacArthur to help lay that sound. He wrote a book called The Truth War. Yeah. And these are uh little paragraphs from the truth war which I thought were powerful. Full agreement was right on these in the sense. Very uh exactly I think to what our mission is with this show. Obviously all three of us on the show today, Dave, uh John, me Uh I thought I believe Dave, you go by Dave, David, where you Dave. Okay. Uh David. David. Uh Dave, John and I are all Christians. Uh and so we have that agenda personally, but the show doesn't have that agenda personally. The show's agenda is to um is to illuminate the truth. Yeah. Now we're convinced that the truth is Christianity. If somebody can prove me wrong, I would change. The problem is they can't because I'm right. Yeah, and they thought I was the arrogant one on the show. The thing is is that we're committed to inviting anybody that disagrees with us about the truth on the show to have it out and to give them at least an equal opportunity to argue for what they think is true. And I think this is an apropos subject for what we're talking uh the uh way to start into the topic for today's show. We're talking about making Clear delineations between what is right, what is wrong, what is black, what is white, what is evil, what is good, what is the Bible and what is not. And when churches stand up for the truth and engage in the truth war and are bold in witnessing and engaging the culture around them, it seems like those churches have good stories to tell. And it seems like churches that feel like, well Maybe we should water it down a little bit, be a little more sensitive to those who don't agree with us, maybe not talk about sin quite so much, or talk about stewardship of our money quite so much, or Talk about Jesus maybe quite so much as being the exclusive way. Let's let's be a little bit safer, a little more what we would call liberal in our theological approach. And it seems like those churches don't suspend don't sustain. And then you have the Uh for example, uh what's uh Highball's church outside of Chicago? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Uh Willow Creek Creek. Willow Creek, I think. Yeah. Yeah, he had uh he had a an awakening kind of just was it last year, the year before? You know what Something's wrong here. I forgot to disciple people after truth. Yeah, I forgot that you know truth matters. Right and wrong matters. We need to you know we need to teach the and he's like we've been doing this wrong And this is a big mega church if you don't know. The problem is though at the end of the day what he said was we need to go back to the drawing board to figure out how we can disciple people instead of going back to the Bible and saying the Bible will show us how to do it. Maybe he meant that the Bible was a drawing board. Possibly. But in the past, they never did. They went to the drawing board for everything to create it from scratch to do their thing. That was what they were known to be able to do. saying that this is what happened, but I'll be curious to hear the story. Here's the the history, the little bit of history I know, and then David, you're gonna fill in the uh the fuller history. David was pastor at uh Adam's what was then Um the evangelical the Reformed Evangelical uh Trinity Trinity Evangelical And Reformed Church and Reformed Church in Adamstown. That's correct. Uh you were there for five years. That is correct. Right. And under your uh pastorship the the congregation grew, was beginning to I don't know, flourish is too strong a word, but it was definitely on the rise, things were going well. Hundred, hundred and fifty people, whatever. Uh in the church. And then you left to go do other things. You know, you turned your back on these people, I understand. And uh And during the transition they obviously did something different and they started going a uh a more of a downside and after a number of years I guess they asked you to come back. After five years they asked you to come back to try to to uh salvage things and maybe it was too far gone at that point or who knows what, but now it's it's really struggling and you've uh left the password there because they couldn't afford to maintain a full time pastor on the payroll anymore, right? So is it possible that the way I've set this up Is capturing a kernel of the truth of what happened there or or is this just that it's it's has nothing to do with what happened. Let me ref rephrase that question. You want to know whether Why did that church start to die of the vine? Yeah. In your opinion. Uh when I left, uh the as as we were talking before, the leadership of the church were was not equipped to um to recognize the pastor that sh that the Lord should have brought or could have brought to the church to continue it. I'm a very basic pastor. I'm I I I give you the basics I lay the planks. I let somebody else build on a great on a the theological theme. I am just a Jesus saved type guy. Have a relationship with Christ. When you have that relationship, these things happen and and when I could get you into the kingdom of God, I try to give you s someone else to disciple. The reason that I left the church was twofold. One that I had uh that the Lord had told me that I had gone as far as I could go. and he was gonna send me into a into different another different field. So when I left there they were they were sad and they were upset But as I told you before, they brought in a a a minister who was more um concerned about comic book characters than there was it was Jesus, uh like like we were discussing earlier when Captain America died. He brought in a Captain America shield. And that's what he preached on that day, Captain America. It's a sad day, folks. Captain America has died. When they needed more ties, he dressed it up he dressed up like the uh fistful of dollars guy. Um and so it kinda got a little monotonous for them and they and then the church started falling away again. It was like performance art. He wasn't like preaching, he was doing like these dressing up in costumes Like Shakespeare and actor wannabe or something. Exactly. And then after he left, the the next guy that came in, uh, they mostly uh was looking for property to expand from his church. He had a falling out with his church and they hired him as a part time pastor. And uh uh he did not bring along the older people. He got he was bringing in new people, he's bringing in the younger people. But he was not bringing along the older people who had established the church before and he was kind of leaving them out uh uh uh from his ministerial uh circle. And so that caused a great division in the church. Mm. And when it caused the great division there was enough people there was still enough people left that caught on to what he was doing and that's why they they voted him out. Now the pastor that was doing all the dressing up kind of thing, I mean I There we've had that discussion on the show, Jonathan, a number of times about you know how much of culture you bring into the pulpit when you're preaching, you know. You know, and to not l so that might not be the problem exactly, but it sounds like he replaced content for style, right? Substance got lost and he was all about he hyper relative uh uh relevant and is that so he wasn't preaching the gospel, wasn't teaching the basics? He wasn't teaching the bas and and let me let me reiterate something. That church has been uh was there since the eighteen hundreds. And when I came there in the year 2000 and I started preaching Christ relationship being born again in John chapter three that we talk about, n the older families came to me and they said, We've never heard this before. Uh-huh. We had we haven't never heard this before. We just came to church and we were teaching the basics about John 3. 16, for God so loved the world. He gave his only begotten son, whosoever believes in him shall not perish but have everlasting life. And they said, Huh? Yeah. We've never heard that. Yeah, we've never heard this. I said, Pardon me? He says, No, we've never heard this before. And so and and I and I'm saying, well and then I talked to the older people and I said, What did what what happened here? Where did where did you go? What what happened? And he s she said it was so ritualistic and so so set in concrete. You came, you dressed up, you go you went through the carry, they had a carry and they you went through the the prayer confession. It's a it's a it's a rote that goes back in uh and I've forgotten it's uh but it's a rote that goes back and forth, you know, um it's almost like Hail Mary full of grace. Everybody else responded pastors. Kiri. Uh uh it was uh K-Y-R-E. Kiri. I believe that's the name of the spelling. That's our word of the week. So there it is. Last week we had words of the week, Messiah and Christ. And Kiri is a responsive Responsible from the pastor. I had it in my mic and my Bible and they gave it to me when I come in the church and they said this is what we do. We were talking about the transition the church took uh that took place and that they weren't equipped to bring on the right kind of pastor. What you guys as pastors. I mean Jonathan, you might leave Crossroads someday and maybe have to worry about You know, your legacy and who's gonna take on those reins and you've obviously had to think about that now in hindsight if nothing else, uh Dave. What are the kinds of things that those who are left behind should be uh Should be thinking about what kinds of if a church has to decide those that are going to help make that decision of who to bring in as the pastor What are you looking for? You're just looking for the same things that that are are the qualifications for an elder and a deacon? Is that what you're looking for? Like what does being equipped to do that mean? You know, we're uh It's possible that we're in different places on this. I would argue that um that you gotta ha you gotta look for c character and you gotta look for charisma. Not too far away. And uh I'm convinced that that there has to be some clear character um uh you know that that the guy's been tested, you know, and he it's it's clear that uh that he has maturity and depth Um, you know, that when he opens up his Bible, when he he studies scripture, that there's a there's a sense that that he's living it himself, that that it comes forth with life in it, right? Uh but then the charisma side to it is that the individual has has ability to lead, ability to is as closely connected to the congregation as possible. I feel like uh I I'm personally uncomfortable with just bringing in guys from outside from across the country somewhere. Um I you know, I think there's situations where it can work, you know, and where it's the right thing to do where the spirit leads people to do that. But um I think there's too many situations where you end up developing a professional relationship with your pastor. He's the pastor, you pay him, he comes in, he does his job. Instead of there being a a uh joining with the congregation, a knitting of hearts with the congregation where there's a sense of w genuine uh sense of family and in organic you know, um uh mutual submission to one another. And so I I guess I feel like those are the three elements of it. You know, character charisma and then the the guy that is the right fit, hopefully preferably raised up from inside the congregation somewhere. Exactly. I was uh interim over at uh Barnesville Baptist Church. and um uh Reverend Painter had left and I was there for for a year or so. And I I knew that I didn't fit into that church because they were hunters there and they liked to hunt and I never I never hunted and and things of that nature. So I d uh my theology fit. And my personality fit, but yet a I knew that as as the church itself I wouldn't fit in into that. So uh And this is what I told them that they needed to look for when I left. You needed to look for someone not so much that has the education, because I don't have that much education, but but look for somebody that that has a c has a heart for God that's gonna take you You know, uh uh to a higher plane. Just very quickly that uh a a good leader doesn't push. You know, he can't push his people, he can't command his people to follow. A good leader gets you to follow because you want to follow. And then as we're sheep, then we want to follow. We have to we you have to make sure that you trust him. You have to make sure that he is upright and that once he builds that rapport with the congregation. And these are the type of pastors that they weren't bringing into the church That's the voice of David Hughes, the founder and president of David Hughes Ministries, and uh up until very recently the pastor of Adamstown Community Church. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Project Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMB, it occurs to me that there are a number of d denominations that uh rotate their pastors. Jonathan what made me think about this is Jonathan said, I'm not a big fan of taking somebody from across the country and bringing them in There are denominations that do that on a regular basis, like every three years or so, some guy from California is all of a sudden leading a congregation in in Maryland and or vice versa. Uh, I guess you're not a fan of that. Yeah. Well, you know, you gotta think about this on so many different levels when you're dealing with leadership and you're dealing with the with with what kind of congregation that you have. If you're dealing with a congregation in in uh in a more affluent part of a big city, uh those people are likely less concerned about building a familial environment. They're more concerned about just having a formal environment where people come. It's respectable, the guy that's that that's ministering is respectable and he's bringing uh you know uh intellectual uh uh girth to his messages, you know, in a way that that that pulls you know that that people feel you know like he's respectable Uh and there I guess I'd say that there's times when when that's appropriate. Uh, you know, especially here in in Washington, DC, you know, how many people are just in and out and in and out. It's such a um a transient environment in and so when you're in an environment like that I I guess Now I'm backtracking and I'm I'm saying the exact opposite that maybe it's okay in that environment because nobody's really taking the time to build a sense of family. Well that's the point of wisdom though, right? I mean we read Proverbs and sometimes back-to-back verses seem to say the exact opposite but The the point is Wait, wait, did you just like give the impression I might be wise? It depends. I heard that. That's right, because you could say something back to back to that moment. Okay, I'm with you. All right. But the point is it depends on the circumstances, right? What's the right thing? This or that? And the answer oftentimes the wise answer is it depends. But in maybe in a community like ours, it's not downtown D C but is a little bit more rural, a little bit more community, uh small community. is that the church is always reaching towards an ideal. And if society in general is farther from the ideal then it's unmerciful to try to w require them, you know, in coming into the church to rise to meet a certain familial ideal, even though the ideal is is a is a f you know, a well connected society. Hearts of the fathers turn to children, hearts of the children turn to fathers, you know, where there's a sense of of you know the old people caring, you know, for for the younger people who are caring for the children and everybody interacting. The the reality is that Oftentimes society's not in a place where they can really m uh bridge those gaps. You know, so they come to Christ and Um so we'd like them to to bridge those gaps and to make those big jumps, but I think sometimes it's unmerciful for us to expect it and it's wrong to do so. So it comes back to the question of what is church and what's the goal of discipleship in the church. And so all that being the case, sometimes it would be more familial, sometimes not. Now the people that have to make that decision to fill the pulpit after a p after a pastor has left, to find a new pastor. I want to come swing back around to that question because that was actually the original question I was asking and we went off on a answering a different question which I was going to ask anyway, so that's why I let that go. But what what should the qualifications of those people be, of the choosers? Well c yeah, can I say c can I say first, I feel like the choosing should be a um a joining of whatever your your network, your apostolic network, your denominational network is. They they should have a role in in certifying the credibility of the the people that are ministers joined with some kind of a role then of the local people that are mature and godly, you know, as so I guess I'm giving you then answering your question, stepping up and saying, Okay, we're gonna help to discern whether or not this guy is a good fit you know, with with who our congregation is. And somewhere in the mist m in the midst of that you're not just looking for somebody that's that that is a good fit, but somebody who will lead the congregation in the right direction. That's the danger is that if you have the wrong people picking They'll pick somebody that's that that is comfortable as opposed to somebody that's going to help the congregation to grow. And how do you how do you you know, an elder How do you pick pick an elder that that would really have that kind of an orientation? It's a hard thing to do, I think. And the problem with Ad Adamstown that we had left a denomination. They had left a denomination that was very liberal. And so that we were interdenominational. We had no support. We had no support mechanism at all. And they shied away from it. Yeah. Because you had so many parts to your name, your name sounded official to me. Right. You know what evangelical and reformed You know, or whatever. And so I had the impression that that was denominational. If I if I realized that that that wasn't the case, I think I might have personally reached out to you more. Um, you know, and and tried to have been more valuable to you 'cause um I could see how you would end up being left alone there. We were on an island. We were we had no uh and and and the people that were trying to pick the pastors, we had no they had no evidence that they wanted to take. They have were avenues that were available. different times just asking for prayer and help. And I remember thinking to myself, wow, that's such an uncommon thing. And I remember thinking to myself, that's kind of cool that he's so willing to, you know, make himself vulnerable to the to the to the area pastures and I I I literally I just had a blind spot. I didn't realize that that that there's more going on there, that you were really in a place of loneliness and needing more support. And then the it was farm families and EMF died out. I want to apologize Yeah, right. Yeah, it's the evangelical group of pastors in Frederick. There's probably between um thirty-five and forty-five Um there's probably more than that that are part of it, but any given month there's that many that are out at a meeting ministers in the area. What was the denom denomination that the church left to split from? It was it was a Dutch Reformed And it was taken over in s nineteen sixty one by the UCC, United Church of Christ. Still operating as Dutch Reformed or No, they are so they they absorbed. Isn't there still a Dutch Reformed denomination No, I don't think so. In fact, when I was talking to Barbara Kirshner Daniel down at the Evangelical Reformed United Church of Christ here in Frederick Uh, they include the Dutch Reformed in their uh historical chart. She gave me a chart of, you know, like the roots of their current congregation, how they came together and what all the united parts meant And that was a big part of it. Which is interesting 'cause I'd like to know that then then that that would leave me the the sense that somewhere the Dutch Reform denomination moved in a more liberal direction, hence the reason why they're willing to be swallowed up by the United Church of Christ, which is generally a pretty liberal uh denomination. What I understood. It's Yeah. Well what I understand is that uh the the Dutch reformed died in this area. their their membership was such uh at a low ebb that they could no longer support themselves or their their organization So that's why they they joined with the UCC and then they kinda disbanded and and it was absorbed into the UCC. That's what I understand it happened in nineteen. So they were dying, but as they were dying they said the UCC's the right ones for us to hand things off to. Huh. Yes. There must still be some some independent churches then that still identified themselves as Dutch Reformed churches that let that didn't say that this goes to the case. Well they went into the UCC and then we left. They left under my pastorate, they we left the UCC because it just got too liberal with uh w with the situation with the homosexual uh and ador um the homosexual marriages and the homosexual uh preachers that were being ordained, it just got uh too too liberal Sound like a hater. Are you a hater? Yeah. I'm a hater alright. Yeah, yeah. For the record, for the record, when I speak to these pastors that that I identify with that term liberal They do not like me using that term for them. And I I asked them one time if they would give me. They don't like that term? Yeah. It's a negative term. It's pretty mainstream though. Well well I thought it was, but but they they feel like it's it's negative and it's uh uh you know an unkind thing and so I said how would you like me to identify you And they're like, well just call me Christians. I said I said the uh and I I was very careful. I said I'm I'm not willing to do so because I feel like you don't preach uh what has been the historical, you know, uh traditional teaching. I guess you can call them cults. Well hold on, hold on, so so I asked him, I said I said, so how do we clarify the difference? Because what's important to me is that is that I'm not what you are. You want to include me in what you are, but I'm not willing to be included in what you are. Uh and so how do we clarify? And they said, Well why why don't we just call you evangelical Christians and you can call us other Christians. He said, Well that's very interesting. So they they want the title of Christian and they want us to be the ones that are hyphenated. Right. You know, the evangelical Christians. Well interestingly enough. We're going to hyphenate this show and pick it up on the other side of the hyphen. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by David Hughes. Thanks guys. Uh Jonathan's with Crossers Valley Chapel. David's with uh David Hughes Ministries Inc. Uh I'm with WFMD. You can also now say I'm with the 48-hour fast. Putman Plumbing and Heating and Deer Valley Uh hardscape masonry and landscape. Boy, it's hard for me to remember to say it that way. Anyway, thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?