This is the base debate. Dr. Neil Achem Pong is a biblical and contemporary Bible teacher, lecturer, pastor, counselor, and author. He has a radio ministry here on WFMD that airs each Sunday morning at 9. 30. He is founded. Frederick and he uh says he has a passion for molding people and he gave disciples for Christ who are fit for ministry, marriage, and the marketplace. You can tell you the pastor because he uses alliteration in his bio. Ministry, marriage, marketplace. Barry Robert Scarlifer says that religion has replaced dynamic relationships with the living word of God, the Apostle Jesus Barry's written a book called The Apostle of Jesus, The Kingdom Among You, in which he works to unpack this issue and reveal what he argu argues is the true church, the true kingdom of heaven and the true Jesus. Here's what one review one reviewer of Barry's book had to say, the Apostle. Jesus will be a difficult read for those still wrapped in the robes of religiosity But for those who are seeking a new way of living and a new way of thinking, this is the book for you. Barry shows no fear As he tackles the great issues that confront the modern church. As a spiritual guide, he leads us through the maze of theological contradictions that stand as a road. Uh block, roadblock to all those who seek the way. That's uh Don Millum. Is that how you say his name? Mylam Millam. Mylam So anyway, so that's what we've been talking about for three weeks, and now three plus weeks, because we're a couple of minutes into this week's show. This will probably be the final show on this arc So if we have any dangling par particles at the end of today's show, we'll have to schedule another time to get together and do something. Yeah. So at the I rudely interrupt uh interrupt interrupted Pastor Neil at the end of last week's show. He was about to talk about something in Luke chapter five that was uh uh going to be very poignant and will now be very poignant on this week's show. So if you're listening in podcast to what what What uh some people like to do, I'm told, is they'll find because we do the show in arcs usually, you know, usually do four shows on a topic with a set panel, and people will listen to those podcasts one right after the other. So this was like an hour and a half in to a f a set of four shows. Uh so now for you listening on podcasts, there was just a minor interruption of like a minute or two. Nothing big deal. So I don't know if if you can remember your thought from last week. But here we go. Okay. Um I think we were talking about the issue of structure, um, and I said that I would not completely write off the institutionalized church because It we still need structure. Now, and I was citing an example from Luke chapter five that Jesus comes utilizes the boat for Peter, and that's his structure. And um even though Peter used the structure to fish, Jesus used it to preach. And we must understand that God has certain kinds of structures for things to take place. you you will not be able to accomplish many things outside structure. It is good to have structure. However, we should not let the structures become the end in itself. We must understand the purpose for which those structures were put in place. For example, marriage is a structure to raise a family And you cannot just go around and start having kids everywhere like that. You need the marriage to be set up the right way and then you raise children in the center of it In the same way the church has a structure as we have it today is the basis by which we can disciple. What we need to understand is that Are we still pursuing the purpose for which the church ought to exist? This is a Or has the church just become just an end in itself? Those are the questions that we need to actually grapple with. That I think that many believers are Uh like this morning I was just talking to someone and he said, Oh, uh Pastor, I don't believe in the um the organized church and I said, What do you mean by organized church? And he said, You prefer a disorganized church? Yeah, and he said why don't we go to one Sunday and And I said, listen, the best thing that happened to humanity is the church. However, we believe that many things have gone wrong and we need to redefine it. So My idea which I I consistently do, like last week I preached at church and I talked about a saving grace. And you're talking to a congregation that most of the people know Christ already And so somebody will ask, what is he talking about there? Because I do not assume that everybody sitting there really understands their truth. So we have to consistently teach people and bring them to understand terms like worship and religion and kingdom until they fully understand correctly what Jesus meant. Then in the midst of that when they have a better understanding, I believe that we begin to then throw away some of the attitudes about just making everything about the systems and the structures that we put in place. But please understand that structures are important because they are the means by which you accomplish Yeah, for the purposes for which you you set a goal. And Jesus said he's gonna build that. And we need to allow him to do that through us. And even though people might be familiar with the teaching, uh I'll speak for myself I need to be reminded, you know, because our hearts are idolatrous. You know, we will take something, even the best things, we'll and we'll turn them into idols. You mentioned marriage as a structure. Well, it's a good thing And I don't think anybody in this room is gonna argue against uh, you know, marriage, but if we make it an idol, that's a problem. Yeah uh you know, the church practices or the structures that were within the church uh that help it to function and and uh go about doing and living up to its purpose, uh those things become an idol, and they become idols because It's our heart to want to figure it out on our own. You talked about the Garden of Eden last week or the week before, uh, Barry, and the knowledge of uh uh the tree of the knowledge of good and evil And we want to do things on our own. We all want to we we all default. Our our sinful nature is one to default into I'm going to do it myself. And so that's what you're talking about is we need no no. It's not about us doing it. It's what God has done, is doing, will do. It's all about him. So he's working through his again to use the this word awkwardly because we're talking about if we shouldn't even use the word church. He's working through his church. Yes. Uh but when the church makes it about the work that we the church do as opposed to the work that God is doing through his church, we've lost our way. Uh so I I'm in accord on that I'm uh with at least I what I think I'm understanding of what's generally been said over the last three plus weeks, but I'm wondering if Where I am is exactly where you would be or you think I should be, Barry. Well, I don't intend to judge you or anybody else as to where you should be. Um but and and this is where I think the confusion is sometimes, uh, with regard to what I've said in my book about various things that people really do misunderstand. Again, my purpose is not to be against Organized church. Organized religion, but to simply point out that that is not what Jesus came preaching. Which is why uh I open up the fourth chapter of my book, which is entitled Hay and the Needle Stack, and the reason I worded it that way because of of what Alfred Lavoisier said, the quote that I think it's been three weeks ago we talked about that. uh who was a French Catholic priest, the highest theologian in the Catholic Church in the late 1800s, well into the early 1900s. Who made the statement, Jesus came preaching the kingdom, and what arrived was the church. Now, this was so controversial in its day, this great theologian of the Catholic Church by nineteen oh eight was excommunicated from the Catholic Church. Right. And you and you mentioned that quote before, and I can agree with that quote, understood a certain way. But understood a different way, I would say, of course. Jesus came preaching the kingdom and what arrived was the church. Well that's what he intended to arrive. His called out ones the church arrived. But see that that is the opposite of that. That is not Jesus' intention was never to establish a church in the sense of what we know it to be. And that was Alfred Lawazie's point. Keep in mind, top theologian in the Catholic Church. When he made that statement, Jesus came preaching the kingdom, and what arrived was the church, he was in reference to the Catholic Church. So you are saying that Jesus uh Came to preach the kingdom, build a church, but not in the sense of what we have today. That's correct. Okay. That that is exactly it. I mean what happened was People that followed Jesus' teaching um twisted it, turned it, changed it. uh into what we now understand it to be. And we don't believe the word ecclesia has lost place in that. Now let me go further with this, which is why I would encourage anybody that gets my book for sure to read chapter four, Hay in the Needle Sack, because this is w I quote two Catholics here. Because I'm trying to get a balance of if if Alfred Lauvazi is correct, Jesus came preaching the kingdom and what arrived was the church He meant the church, the Catholic Church, and so forth. So this chapter, Hay and the Needle Stack, which is why I purposely reversed that the title around is how then did we end up where we are? And in chapter four I try to explain that. Now Preceding next, I uh I want to read this quote to you because I think it's an important one that might bring a balance to this discussion. I also quote Gary Wills. Now, Gary Wills I happen to be a uh huge um Civil War fan. I've got a collection of books on the Civil War. Gary Wills both mostly writes books on the Civil War. He's a very well known writer of Civil War books. But He wrote, because he happens to be Catholic, he wrote two books about his faith, and one of the books was Why I Am a Catholic. And in that book, he has this wonderful quote, which I use right over top of the Alfred Laoisie quote Because I thought it would bring balance to what I'm about to talk about in this chapter. His quote was this: the church always was and still is A flawed carrier of the truths of the faith. Nonetheless, it carries them That is what makes it the church on earth and not a paradise that will need no church. Do you understand what he's saying? He again is a Catholic, just like Alfred Lawaisse. And in looking at their organized religion that is called the Catholic Church. There are two concerns here, and they are mutual concerns, which is why I use these quotes in particular to headline this chapter. Because what Gary Wills is really saying is, look, the church is not perfect. Matter of fact, he calls it flawed in many ways. And yet it is the carrier, he says, of the truths of the faith. He's right about that. It really is. So when when people read my book and say, you're against the church. No, I'm not. No more than what Gary Wills is. But I have concerns about organized religion that identify themselves as the church The real church, the ecclesia, is a different looking organization. And let me tell you what the difference is. We we've touched on this twice and we've never gone this far, so I'm going to go this far this time. Here's the difference. There is organized religion, that is the church, and then there is what I call the living Organism, the Ecclesia Church. As Pastor Neal said It's not a matter of going to church. It's a matter of being the church. He's right. That's exactly it. That's exactly what I'm trying to say in this about what the apostle, the sent one, Jesus, came to talk about. The kingdom is about being Like when it says, be holy for I am holy. You know, it's a matter of being. It's not a matter of a representation of, it's a matter of being. So in the same way with the church, ecclesia, that Greek word is usually translated church in the New Testament. But it's lost its meaning and identity because when people read that English word church, they think of all this other stuff that's got all kinds of problems in it And people will say, well, I don't want to go to church just full of a bunch of hypocrites and they d you know. That's their attitude about it. Organize religion and there, by the way, let's Let's be clear here. When I talk about Jesus didn't come to establish a religion, I mean he didn't come to establish any religion. He didn't come to establish Hinduism, Buddhism, the Muslim religion, I mean none of it He that's not what he was about. He was about the universal, eternal kingdom of his father. That's what he came to talk about. It's what every one of his parables is about. Every parable begins the same way. The kingdom of heaven is like And then he tells a story. And there he lays down the principles of the kingdom, the domain of the king, his father, the creator. That to me is the difference. And that's what I'm trying to say in my book. Follow what the apostle Jesus taught It's the kingdom among you. He is the kingdom. Represented, living That's what the uh incarnation was all about was to bring life and identity to the kingdom. And that's what I'm trying to say in this book. This book's not about being against church, against religion, again I'm not against anything. I'm for something that's very, very important. I am for promoting the apostle, the sent one, Jesus Christ, who came preaching the kingdom. That's Barry Robert Starlipper. He is the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD, joined this week as well by Dr. Neela Champong from Covenant Family Chapel. I'm sure you have some things you'd want to say in response or in addition to uh what Barry just said. Um and um hoping of time we have uh If you can say what you want to say and maybe also address this question, that would be good. If this idea we were talking about about the the the kingdom proclamation and living out by the leading of the Holy Spirit, uh this idea of the uh ecclesia uh living as true called out ones as opposed to these faulty ideas of the church um that have crept into uh our culture and our understanding of the church. What would that if it were to suddenly manifest itself? Or if it already had manifested itself years ago and we're still living in it, what would that be what would that look like in practice? Yeah. So anyway. Okay. Um I think that we if we look at the parables that Jesus told. All right, and I'll take one of them to help explain. the very question years. Now if you go to Matthew 13, Jesus tells one of those parables. He says, Jesus told, verse 33, Jesus told them Still another parable, the kingdom of heaven is like this. A woman takes some yeast and mixes it with a bushel of flour until the whole batch of dough rises. Now, if you bake bread, you would understand that yeast works quietly. But once you put yeast in the middle of the dough, the dough cannot stop the yeast. from having effect on it. And Jesus said the kingdom of God is like that. Now If we understand the concept of church as Jesus said uh w in the concept of kingdom and w all that we are talking about today that put uh institutional religion somewhere and hold on to what Jesus actually brought. He's saying that we as a people of God are like yeast. The world is like the dough. that the woman took and hid it in it. As long as we remain in this world and if we are doing it the way God wants us to do it The world cannot put us down. We will affect the world because this whole parable is about influence That the yeast has the ability to influence the due and let the du become something else that originally it is not. And that the kingdom of God has the ability to influence this world So that this world will become just like the original kingdom of the Father. But the yeast must learn to remain yeast and not become something else. And in this text, you you you continue to see how Jesus tells different parables just to explain how the kingdom works. And I think the Matthew 13 will be a good place to have about three of the four parables that Jesus tells about the kingdom of God when he talks about uh the parable being uh the kingdom of God being like uh a treasure that a woman takes and then he hides it. And he talks about the concept of of selflessness and how we ought to. These principles are important. So he tells us that the church must learn to influence the world, not the other way around. Right. Now he tells another powerboard and says, oh, this person hides it and then they want to sell everything just to go get it. Why? Because we are not willing to live the way the world wants us to live. But to do it, even if we have to grab everything from God, we are willing to grab that. So there are basic ways that the church manifests that Jesus has already taught. We need to go back in studying his parables and we would know clearly what he is saying. And they are very clear. If you look at a contest, the contest would always tell you what it's about. So if we're a b uh busy being, you know, uh if we are going about b uh you know, we're told to be being filled with the spirit, you know. So if we're if we're doing that Will will that mean that we attend a corporate g gathering and assembly of believers on on uh Sunday mornings or whenever? Or does that mean that we'll uh tithe to support a local church. Does that mean that we'll um um get involved as parachurch organizations in trying to influence the culture around us. Like what things would we need to think about reining in, giving up? adding to like in a practical sense what does this mean to look to live it out? We've only got like ninety seconds. Is there one or two things you would say that we should think about? Well first of all, in Hebrews, it tells us that we should neglect not the assembling of ourselves together There is an importance for the ecclesia to get together, to assemble. But to assemble for the purposes of the kingdom. And that's what the early first century church did. When they came together, their whole reason for coming together was two, they broke bread and together and they remembered Jesus as Jesus said the night of what we call the Lord's Supper. you know, do this in remembrance of me. They did that on a regular basis so that they could be equipped with who Jesus was as a person. The most important thing for us to do is to gather together as believers to unify ourselves, to neglect not to assemble ourselves together, so that we can unify ourselves around the personage of Jesus. The Apostle the sent one who came to preach the kingdom. And as Jesus himself said, as the Father sent me. I send you. So for obedience to the leading of the Holy Spirit and the Word of God uh we will figure those things out and maybe it's not gonna be as as macro prescribed, it's gonna be more micro, maybe it's a call on somebody's individual life or small gatherings, collections, their life as opposed to these big uh movements, institutions, that sort of thing. It sounds like maybe that's what you're ultimately trying to speak against and and speak in favor of. Anyway If if I'm wrong, you can't correct me because we're out of time. Gary Raver Star Lipper, the author Uh the the Apostle Jesus of the Kingdom Among U, thank you. To uh Dr. Neil Chempong, the the pastor at Covenant Family Chapel in downtown. Frederick, thank you. And thank you for listening to 930 WFMD and the Faith Debate. We're online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith Debate. Stay tuned. Dr. Neil Chempon will continue with one of his sermons here in just a moment. Here. Thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless.