Good morning, welcome to the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ and the longtime host of The Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thank you so much for spending part of your valuable day with us today. We do not take it for granted. I appreciate it very much. If you'd like to follow us along online, maybe listen to the podcast if you didn't catch the whole show or listen to previous podcasts uh we tend to do our shows in arcs and so if you catch a a show that has a topic that's interesting to you usually we did two three four five six shows on that topic and you can go find those podcasts and listen to them in sequence. I would encourage you uh to do that. Is your um headphones not working so well? Oh you need me to tweak anything over there? It's fine. That's the voice of David Forski. His headphones aren't cooperating. I'm greatly offended his headphones don't like what I have to say. My headphones are loving what I have to say because they're working just fine Uh we're joined this week by uh Daniel Razby once again. Uh I think you might have heard him say something with snap crackle pop there in the background, possibly. I'm not sure if the mic picked that up. And we're joined uh one final time for this arc of shows anyway by the author of The Head Covering. Josiah Bonjoanne. And you can find his book uh online. Go to uh Amazon and uh just put in the head covering, Josiah, and bang, it'll pop right back up uh up there and it And and uh I think he said it's like uh twelve bucks or something like that. So I mean, even in today's tough economic times you can afford twelve bucks. And you know, when we started uh this arc of shows, this is show number five. I I think most of us, maybe in Tersia was the only one, but the rest of us might have thought, you know, we might do one or two shows on this topic, then we'll have to pivot into something else that's interesting to us because there's no way we're gonna do A whole bunch of shows on head coverings and here we are show number five still talking about head coverings. As I look at uh David Forcey, he's wearing a head covering. It's uh he's got an advertisement of some sort on the top of it. It's a company hat. Okay. And I g does this count I'm wearing a head covering. Do my headphones count as a head covering That is difficult. I guess you have to ask the Pharisees for Jesus to say. So I mu I uh as long as I'm wearing these headphones, I better be careful whether I pray or prophesy. I'll just say that Um so we're gonna try to cinch things up a little bit, tie them up in a nice neat bow. You know, the the the church in recent decades has wrestled with this question. Uh Josiah would argue that the church hasn't wrestled with this question until recent decades. uh that is historically haven't been an issue. I'm had to study the the history of this, much less the deep theology of this. So I I'm not in a position to uh to agree or disagree with anything you're about to say, but If you want to take, you know, a a a couple of minutes here and and talk about the historical context as the church has related to this question of head coverings for women in the church, uh what what could you educate us about? Sure. In my book, uh, The Head Covering I have two chapters dedicated to the history of head coverings. And in the first chapter it deals more with um modern history and how it fell out of vogue. So kind of in the the first wave of feminism hit America in like eight around eighteen fifty And that's when head coverings started to fall into decline. But then around nineteen fifty and my my grandmother can uh attest to this too. Um that's when head coverings completely just like disappeared from the face of Western culture. Although it is practiced around most of the world still in Christian congregations. So maybe in the West it's a little different, but over in a lot of the rest of the world it isn't. However, if we go back through like the earliest history, I had focused more on like the um the church period from maybe like one to five hundred AD in my book. So um if you focus on like the days the apostles and then after the apostles, their their immediate successors in the church, you'll find that they all held the position that When women were praying or prophecy and they ought uh they ought to cover their head with a cloth or a fabric covering. And when um men were were doing the same activities they ought not to. And I c I could read a few quotes if you guys are interested. Sure. And and this isn't a a rebuke, but it's just uh you know, I've mentioned the Daniel in the past in different contexts how this is a radio show and it's supposed to be, you know, uh entertainment. It's a radio show gram, right? Hey good word it everybody. Have a good time. Uh and so we do want to have an inter but It's ultimately primarily intended to be kind of a educational ministry, right? A chance to help you to learn how to grapple with what the questions even are, uh uh not necessarily always tell you what to think, although I'm gonna tell you what I think you should think, but to try to form your mind about how to go about thinking about these things so you can come to your own right biblical understanding of things. And so in the it with that spirit behind it, um uh and and this again is not a rebuke, it's just a uh yeah, I think Josh's gonna probably agree with me. But any time you're dealing, I'm sure. Anytime you're dealing with like the the early church patristric kind of stuff, uh we want to be careful about saying you know all of the early church fathers held to this view or that view because we don't know what all of them held to because the The evidence is scant. We have very limited information of I mean it's two thousand years ago almost, uh and this stuff was written on stuff that uh You know, it didn't last forever. It was subject to uh weather and humidity and bugs and and uh and fire and all that sort of thing. And so we don't have a lot to go on. And religious baggage. I should I guess I should have specified all of the extra So yes, uh presently existent writings of the best we could do is of the information that we do still have. Which is quite substantial, I would say. Like um if you've ever seen the Antonicene Fathers, it's like nine giant volumes of you know like small text, double columns. So that would actually be what I would recommend doing. If you could go to those resources like the Anton I think fathers. There's nine volumes on head coverings? Uh there's nine volumes of their writings which include sections and pieces here and there that you can find with the search engine, you know, um on including head coverings. But there's also a wonderful resource by David Brousseau called an early uh It's called the Dictionary of Early Christian Beliefs. And you can find in there just for the first three hundred years um what the early Christians believed on numerous topics. So I will just throw that out. Um he doesn't really go into the the post-Nicene Folly Switch came later. uh at least interesting and generally helpful, but not ultimately persuasive. Yeah. So that that's And I just want to read you just one example. It's just it's just kind of a fun example from Jerome. who was actually the translator, the first person who translated the Bible into Latin, for those who don't know. But I just found it interesting. And a real scallywag by the way, for those who don't know. But he said it's unusual in the monasteries of Egypt and Syria for virgins and widows who have vowed themselves to God and have renounced the world and have trodden underfoot its pleasures to ask the mothers of their communities to cut their hair. Not that they afterwards go about with their heads uncovered in defiance of the apostles' command, for they wear a close fitting cap and veil. No one knows of this in any single case except the shearers and the shorn. But the practice is universal a and it is almost universally known. The custom has in fact become a second nature. It is designed to save those who take no baths. So I just found that a kind of a fun quote. Um of course it's you know it's it's translated into very old fashioned style, but basically people who um had lice in their hair little creatures generated around the roots of the hair. Um would cut their hair off, but they still would wear a head cover and I just found that an interesting testament history there. But there's lots of other passages you can read. Now did you say you had something that was like within the first one hundred and fifty years? Of the of uh the A D period? Because Jerome, that's like Constantine era. That's like the three hundreds. Yes. So I was saying that I have lots of quotes in my book from the first five hundred years. But I do have Um Tertolin wrote an entire book on the subject of head coverings around the year two hundred AD. And there's Earlier previous to him there's only one author we have whose writings are still extant who discusses the subject head governance. It's only in one sentence. And that is Irenaeus who says a woman ought to have a veil upon her head because of the angels. So that might um Yeah, we haven't touched on that. We've read the passage and w we we skipped right past the uh because of the angels thing because that's a whole another slate show is right there. What is meant by that. But uh not to get bogged down in what do we think that means, but I will say at the very least, uh to me, it it it it just heightens the idea of the the spiritual reality is really what's in in in view here. Um so you have other uh helpful quotes or anecdotes that we should uh I'm I'm also curious about the h the history of men's head coverings. Or being uncovered. Right. Well uh or or like monks wear the little thing on the back of their head like a like a or rabbis. Like a yamaka kind of a thing. Yeah. That's a that's a Talmudic thing, I think. But a lot of D even messianic believers I've seen will wear yamakas. Right, so during church services. So I disagree with that button I'm sure you do. Uh just wondering, you know, if there's Have have we done equal studies on on the history of men's head coverings in the in the early church? I have not personally focused on that as much just because it's um less of a um debatable subject as that'll be his follow-up book. The non-head covering. But maybe that should be a follow-up book. Maybe I should add a few sections on that. That would be cool. Does the Pope take his uh Yeah he still wears a little beanie. Does he does he take it off when he's praying or prophesying? Sometimes he wears a big tall hat too. I've had the same w a wonder, does the Pope take it off? I don't know. I don't think so. What what about the Eastern Orthodox Church since we're talking about the the wide practice of women's head coverings in the East? Right? We've talked about that earlier. Don't don't a lot of their church officials, men, wear some sort of headdress? They do. I actually am not exactly sure what their practice is during prayer prophecy or services. That's a good question. I think the history thing can be and this is not really related to head coverings per se, but again, following up what I said like five minutes ago, uh it it's just it's a caution. Um We can get ourselves in trouble, I think, as Christians sometimes when we try to proof text and say, oh, here's a particular verse ripped out of thin air that proves my entire point. be a little broader than that. Let's make sure we're reading it in context within the the fullness of all of Scripture, the totality of God's Word. So be careful about being too quick to proof text. And the other thing is the uh kind y y um citing particular historical uh references and again this is not i it's gonna feel like I'm rebuking and it's not. Um because I do think there's value in talking about what somebody like Jer I mean w were for Jerome we wouldn't have the Vulgate Bible. Right, so d great important hero in the faith in so many ways and yet I wasn't uh making it up with any real scallywag. I mean if you look at his biography and his history Okay then. Uh he had some issues and he had some theological blind spots. Uh and Tertolian, uh, you know, he was all over the map, uh, theologically, uh, depending on which era of his ministry career you look at Uh one part of his career he looks like an absolute faithful hero and another part of it he looks like a total like loser, like oh my gosh, is he even Christian? And then at the very end of his life it seems like maybe he kinda came back around to the right way of thinking. a lawyer, if I'm going to go argue in court, there's rules of evidence. What evidence can you bring in to bolster your argument? And one of the it's The thing is you c y y if you you if you want to bring in something that somebody said back a long time and they're not in court to also explain it, that's called hearsay, right? So you can't really bring that in except there's a long list of exceptions to hearsay You can one of the re one of the exceptions to hearsay is to show what the state of mind and and and other things that they want not not to show the truth of what they're specifically saying. but what other people generally thought that they were speaking to and context. Right. So when you hit see there's a whole book written about well obviously you should have head coverings Clearly there were people at the time that believed this and interpreted the passage that way. Not to say necessarily that Tertullian himself is right or that all of his words are specific gospel truth, but only that the prevailing wisdom in the church seems to have been Wear head coverings. Um if you're a woman in in in in in the context of church. Or that it was a hot topic of conversation. Well that's a good thing. Books against the wearing of head coverings or n why if not that necessary or or or or things like that is mostly just If in passing, oh by the way, of course we do that. Hey, did you notice they cut their hair for life but they still wear head coverings, you know, that type of thing, where it's not really being offered as evidence for here's why you should interpret it this way, but only to show that the early church by and large did interpret it that way. And I think Daniel's touching on uh what is i I think a very important use and a reason to bring up the historical notes and the quotes and that sort of thing is any time you're going to make a a a take a strong theological position. You're gonna write a book particularly, uh but even if you are in a context of a radio show and you're gonna make a strong opinion that others find very disagreeable and they're like, wow You're a loony tune, like you're way off on the deep end on this one, like you're crazy. Nobody's ever thought that you can say, Well actually You know, I've I've been trying to make my case from scripture, and I'm making, I think, a pretty persuasive one. And by the way, there's a lot of guys whose names you know in church history who would agree with me. So I'm not alone. I'm not uh I'm not a wild haired lunatic. Well I might be, but you can't prove it uh necessarily unless you're gonna say that all these other guys were wild haired lunatics too. Now it's possible that everybody for example Most of the people in this room would have some affinity for the teachings of John Calvin. But there are a lot of people in the American church particularly. Three of us. Right, who not me who are right, who are very opposed to what John Calvin and Calvinism stands for and all of that. So I could quote uh Calvin or Daniel could quote Calvin or whatever, and we would say, see, even John Calvin says, and somebody like Josiah might say Yeah, okay. You just undercut your own argument because I don't agree with a lot of John Calvin. So it only goes so far. But that doesn't mean we shouldn't on occasion point to, hey, Luther said this, Calvin said this, Augustine said this Tertullian said this, Jerome said. Those are all fine, but you have to keep in mind, Irenaeus, one of the early church fathers, a hero in the faith, I would argue. He, I wasn't going to say famously, but rather infamously believed that Jesus was 55 years old when he died on the cross. Irenaeus. And that's one of the earliest sources, might be the earliest source we have outside of the Bible that talks about the crucifixion and the age of Christ. And so we've got, oh well, see, Irenaeus. And he sat under a real polycarp or whatever he sat under, um he would know. Uh yeah, so these early sources can get uh I'm not saying that they are necessarily wrong. I'm just saying be careful. They have their place. It's important to cite them, particularly in a book. Uh I'm glad that Josiah put that in there. It shows that he uh took a scholarly approach to this and he did his homework and good for him this is just me kind of pontificating a little bit because Uh what passes for strong argument on the internet these days is, you know, well George Washington said well yeah, well who cares? Well look let me just throw in one more dimension just to consider too. So Um you know, if we have a passage like this that people debate what is the meaning, it's like how do we arrive at truth? There's so many passages in the Bible that are unclear. It's like, how do we arrive at what the authorities intended And it just so happens that the early um that the Bible wasn't written at the time that the first churches were planted by the apostles. So how did they teach the first churches? They taught them word of mouth. They they delivered um in words all their teachings, all the teachings that are now in the Bible, and those church church leaders they claim that they passed the fullness of the canon wasn't written. Uh yeah, I mean the Old Testament was written, but the New Testament wasn't. Maybe parts of it were written at that point. Yeah, okay. So How did they receive this knowledge, right? They received it word of mouth from the apostles, like the Apostle Paul would have, you know, let's say planted a church, chose the church leaders, delivered to them in in words of mouth, maybe talked about head coverings, he says He mentioned this past uh in this passage about head coverings in First Corinthians eleven that he had talked to them previously about it. So he he delivers this stuff word of mouth and then they practice what he says. And then they that practice In in scripture there's a there's a reference to it where it says that is the tradition of the church. It gets passed down as tradition. So what's important about looking at the early church fathers is you see the Bible actually pr lived out the way the you know the apostles taught them, word of mouth originally. So not everything every individual church father said is important, but what did they believe as a whole it shows what the apostles taught them. What trad uh am I making sense? Sure. Yeah, aga again, uh uh I I know I'm being a stickler now. Go ahead. But we can't know what the early church leaders thought as a whole because we don't have enough of a of a preserved record But we have enough to to give a reasonable guess at what they believed. Yeah. We we can make and we we don't even have to guess. We can know with certainty what some of them believed. We have to merely speculate as to how widespread that belief was because we have such a scattershot record of it. So that's that that's my caution. uh there. I'm not saying that that that representative sample is necessarily wrong. I just I can't take that to the bank and cash it. It's just a poll. It's like you know, you you take a sampling of society and you ask them some questions and you get a poll So it's the same way with the church fathers in this case. You can go to their writings and see, did they all was there like 10 or 12 early church fathers that all agreed on this topic? Are there none that disagreed? Then there's a likelihood that they were this is what they practiced at the time. What you're saying is you have not found anybody that disagreed on this topic. Anybody that said that there's no there's no requirement for a physical covering for women in church. Now the th talking about history, and this might have been where David was kind of going with some of his questions uh either this week or previous weeks. Um because of the proximity If the cultural context and we and but we have to remember, now culture changes by the second. I mean it's crazy how fast things change in a interconnected internet uh multinational global context. I mean it's it's it's mind numbingly fast. That is not most of human history. We've seen more change in the last five years than the human race saw probably over the course of three thousand years combined. I mean it's crazy how much change there's been. So particularly back then if you're talking about somebody who wrote something that was a hundred years after Christ, two hundred years after Christ, three hundred years after Christ The cultural context would be pr spot on to what it was before. It hadn't changed that much, even though 300 years had passed. So if it was merely a a because some would argue that what Paul is writing there is talking to their context and they understood it within their context But when you apply it to a different context, that same spiritual truth is still true, but it needs to be applied in a different way If um what would we say about what would any of us say about that in response? I would say no, that the the Bible was written to people uh in in a um ancient Near Eastern culture, but uh specifically the Jewish people and that we are grafted into that and I think the Jewish culture, the Middle Eastern culture is extremely important and vital for Christians to be uh aware of and yes, certain things may look slightly different, but to the extent that the Bible gives commands of how to act, of how to behave, I think that's incumbent on all believers regardless of what societies they're in and what time periods they're living in. And and and the Jewish people as a whole still exists. Their culture has been maintained predominantly throughout this time period, which is a very good lens to read the Bible through. You can see Ha uh what what the Jewish people what their culture is like today and it and it's very similar to you know, what their culture has been like for thousands of years, and that's it's a good lens to read the Bible through. Yeah, I I mean one of the one of the things that we do see uh in the in the New Testament, one of the first issues, the big issues the church really faces though, is the um the the the temptation for people to think and the temptation for the for the Jewish Christians to teach that you needed to be come Jewish in order to be Christian, right? In order to follow Christ and become Jewish even just by taking on customs, practices, right, circumcision sort of being the keystone, right, of of all of that. And uh and you know the early Christian church very early very clearly in the New Testament laying out like like no you know you become a Christian as a Greek and you are a Greek Christian. you do not become a Jewish Greek Christian or a Greek Jewish Christian. Anyway. my my f my full answer to that would would take a whole set of shows I think we've talked about that before in some way to discuss at some point But I know I I would agree just for for the sake of the listeners, I do agree wholeheartedly that you don't need to do anything else to become saved. Certainly not following any specific Jewish customs, you need to be saved by the blood of Christ. I would just follow up with something to the effect of, well, once you're saved, you're gonna want to follow God's commands and those commands have not and will never change. And there may be some of those that I would think have not changed that maybe you you don't feel the need to follow, but I we so we differ on that, but that's something that uh we'll get to in a different detail. I think this this whole discussion has been really good and and I think is very important because, you know, Troy you sort of brought up several like at the beginning when we first talked about this, like, hey, this is uh this is something that Pretty much nobody's talking about in the grand scheme, right? Uh but not in the modern American church anyway. Correct. The most important question nobody asks. Right. But but it's It's there in Scripture and you know, there's no part of Scripture where we should say, Well, uh, you know, I I'm not I'm not really sure about that. I don't really have an understanding for that. because of the culture that I'm in, so I'm just gonna brush over that. Uh you know, maybe May maybe, you know, you don't get it the first time around, that's okay, but you should circle back to those things that are particularly you know, difficult or don't make sense to you because there's there's that is it is still relevant to you in some way. And so we should all you know, go back and and wrestle with those things that seem strange or odd to us and and see what it is that that God is you know, that God has to instruct us there for our here and now. Well before anybody else uh picks up the baton and starts running with it, uh we we're gonna pause here because we've got a little over a minute left in the show. So I think we've We've reached what feels like as close to a conclusion as we're going to get after the this lengthy dialogue. I don't know that any minds have been changed, uh, but I do think we've all had our minds at least slightly illuminated. Maybe we've been challenged by questions we haven't thought of before or Uh it sharpened our arguments on questions we have heard before, or what have you, I think and if if if you're listening to what any of us had to say Hopefully it's got you thinking about things and ultimately what I would hope for you is if you would press into the Bible itself, read God's Word and uh and ask other people that you trust as good godly people for their insights and their thoughts and this question and all questions in life wrestle through them until you can try to to to figure them out. And you can't wrestle every question at once. So if this isn't your big bugaboo question, but you've got another big bugaboo question, okay. Wrestle with God's Word to figure it out. And then go on to the next question and wrestle with God's word to figure it out. Anyway, that's enough of my ending soliloquy. Uh I think the voice you heard before mine was that of David Forcy. He's a pastor in the area. Uh before that I think you heard the voice of Daniel Razby, another pastor in the area. You can find him online at conqueredbylove. org. And the other voice you heard on today's show The head covering author, Josiah Bone Joanne. You can find that book online at Amazon. com. You can find me online at householdofynchrist. com. Till next week. God bless.