The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. I'm not so ignorant that I don't know what date today is. Today as this show airs is September eleventh. It was on 911 back in 2001. It was a Tuesday. I know it remember it very well. I was actually on Manhattan Island that day. Uh we're not gonna be talking about that today though, but in in upcoming weeks we will be talking about I got it queue in the queue, so um uh Imran and you can let Daniel know and I'll let David know and if we don't end up talking about it in in in our recording session here. Uh talk about what does the church do when there's tragedy. So that will be something we're talking about, but we're not talking about that today because I want us to kind of finish our elongated series that we've been on. Are you a good enough parent? Are you a good enough husband, good enough wife? Are you a good enough child of your parents? Are you good enough? The answer is no. But we can make you better if you just follow the advice of these biblical principles that we we talk about here. We've been doing this now for a couple of months of shows, actually. I've I I haven't counted them, but there's been quite a few shows on issues related to parenting and and marriage and that sort of thing. And we've been using as our guide for that the materials that are available Through Conquered by Love Ministries. They have a website, conqueredbylove. org, and that is an organization founded by Imran Razvi. And Imran is uh a regular fixture. Oh yeah, I yeah, I don't want to forget uh uh the the the the better half, the better looking half for sure. Um yeah, your your wife was involved in founding that as well. And I and and Daniel's involved in working with it too now and he's not on the whole family's been involved with uh uh everything from making the books and distributing and and really uh going all over the country and speaking about it our whole family has been involved. But Tammy and I really are the ones that are behind getting the books and and uh getting uh the material out there So we do not have David Forcey with us uh at least for for this show and we'll see if we have him in in s the next couple of shows are coming up and we don't have Daniel with us. He's uh He's like, I don't know, drinking fresh water out of Lake Tahoe at the moment, I believe. Yes, that's really exciting. I can't wait to hear him debrief us on that. But joined uh joining us this week is is a good friend, I guess, of of of the Rasvies, and he's also a uh involved in in a house church up in Pennsylvania in Adams County area. And uh Steve Yeager, he's an elder with a a group of I I guess it's like five different locations that you kind of rotate. So it's like the Rotisserie League um a house church organization. They call themselves uh the Shabbat Gathering. And so well didn't I say Adams County? Okay. In Adams County. uh in up in Pennsylvania. So uh welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to have you here. Thank you very much for having me. So you can correct all the things you've gotten wrong in all the previous weeks talking about parenting and mar marriage and all that sort of stuff Um today w this is an area that I that I remember because years ago now, uh before Imran became a regular fixture on the Faith Debate panel, uh he was a guest years ago when we were talking about Uh I I can't remember why we were. We talk about health issues and food and eating and nutrition, those sorts of things. And I know this is a real passion point for you, so this might be a fun show for you. That'll make it a fun show for us. So there are some there are a couple of books that Conquered by love has has out there that we've relate to uh healthy families. Living without sugar And healthy meals, it still tastes good. Learn how to transform your diet and eat healthier. So let me ask you this. When did this become your focus? Because this isn't the thing that you start talking to Christians and they're going to talk about the importance of the Trinity. They're talking about the the importance of obedience and you know spare the rod, spoil the child, you know, and and the husband should treat the wife like the Christ treats the bride of Christ and all these Rarely, like way, way, way down on the list would be the idea of the family eating well. So where how did that end up striking you? Well, it was mostly my wife. I'm not the best at eating well. But Uh when we adopted um uh children we realized that their diet was abysmal. It was very terrible and when we cut sugar out, their whole behavior changed. It's sort of like if you have a race car, you gotta put really high octane gas in there If you put low oxygen gas or bad gas, uh the race car's not gonna run. So the same thing with our bodies. If we're putting bad things inside of it then how are we gonna actually be closer to God or or be able to think properly and act properly and and be functional as God intended us to be So my wife uh cut out all sugar. That's the first thing we did when we adopted, and we saw an immediate change in behavior. Um it was it was remarkable. And then also we made sure that there was no music except classical music. So we feel that's a very important part of healthy living as well. We'll talk about music in a different show later when Daniel's here. But um those two things were the first things we did and and it was amazing the visible difference in behavior and attention span and and just the relationship between us and the adopted children So what was the um impetus to remove the sugar? Just kind of observation you noticed that when they had something with high sugar content their behavior was exacerbated in the ooplets. And then you you were able to see the cause and effect and that is that what led it? 'Cause there's not a biblical verse I can think of that says, Thou shalt not eat sugar. So we we I read an article that uh the US population consumes more sugar than any other population in the world by pounds and tens of tens and hundreds of pounds more sugar. Um and we have an obesity problem in this in this country. So all those things we we wanted to live healthier and my wife was was feeling that she felt better when she w didn't have sugar. But almost all the foods in in the US have some sort of sugar in it. So we started looking around and and doing that and then uh we saw a a drastic difference in behavior in the children and again she was the home school mom and I was working outside the house so she was much more in tune with what's happening with the children and so she realized that that's what we do. So more to natural sugars first Instead of sh uh sugarcane we went to honey as a sweetener and even from honey we kinda eliminate that so we found out we really don't need we went to just uh fruits. uh even honey. But h honey we found is is still okay, it's it's good. There's a lot of good properties about honey, but we went actually to only natural fruits as any sweeteners. for a for a long time and really helped our children I think grow healthier and be uh much in much better mental health and ability to listen and observe and and do things that we wanted them to do. Yeah, that's the voice of Imran Razi. Let me pull uh Steve Yeager into the conversation. Is this something that's been an area of focus for you and the church group that you're involved with or not? That's a very good question because part of may migrating out of mainstream Christianity and going into more of a home ch uh church type of setting, there's other aspects of life that kinda come in with that. And uh my wife and I felt that we always wanted some land and be able to kinda grow our own food and grow, you know, have our animals and took a long time to get to that point. Uh it it's it's it's something that's uh had to be planned for and so, you know, when you have your animals, your cows, your chickens, your fresh eggs, your stuff out of the garden. Um it's uh much healthier for you um as Imran said. You look at the American food and what's on the label, you you take half the package to read what's on it and all the chemicals and everything that's in it. Yeah, one of my wife's uh favorite little catchphrases is not so much anymore because uh my daughter now is actually uh at least as devoted to healthy eating as my wife is, which is saying something. Uh and I say at least she might uh I I I wouldn't imagine something could beat my wife out on this, but if anybody does that I know, it's my daughter. So it's not uh not appropriate when my daughter was younger she wasn't quite the way that she is now as an adult. And uh some my wife would repro w kinda rebuke her and say, Honey, there's no food in your food 'Cause it's all chemicals and and stuff, right? And like you said, all these multi syl syllabic words you're like, I have no idea. If you can't pronounce it, you probably shouldn't eat it. So both sugar and salt are are um taste enhancers. But when you have uh fresh vegetables from your garden and meat that you know where it came and what it ate, the tastes are already f very strong. You don't need to do Well it's interesting, yeah. Like I'll use you know, throw under the bus right now. My mom, she loves her salt. And she loves things that are really spicy. And so she'll load things up with salt and or she'll load things up with really hot, spicy stuff, which that's probably fine, I would imagine. I don't know. She'll come to our house. We'd love spicy. But the my point is those aren't just the the way if you do it the way that some people, like my mom sometimes does it, you're not really enhancing the flavors, you're burying the flavor. And so I grew up in a house that was loaded with all sorts of salty stuff. And so when I got married, my wife has a much simpler uh way, you know, as far as she's using the natural flavors and enhancing those I had this sounds like an exaggeration. I had no idea what food really tasted like, because everything, you know how the old cliche, it tastes like chicken? To me, everything tasted like salt. Everything tasted like salt. And then I'd have green beans. This is what green beans taste like. You know, this is what uh asparagus tastes like. No idea and I've come to a pre now we have people that come to the house for a meal or something and a lot of them don't always appreciate the food because they're so used to the salt and the sauces and the the spice or whatever and And they're and they're like, Oh, this is kinda bland. I'm like, No, this is what it's supposed to taste like. Although you go it sounds like you are involved, uh, Stephen, growing some of your own food. Yes. And I know the the Rasbies do some of that as well. Yes. Uh that's different than going to the store because a tomato out of your own garden doesn't taste the same as a tomato from the grocery store. So in fairness, do people have an excuse to throw a little bit of uh salt on their tomato because it's so plastic tasting at the store? Well don't forget a lot of our vegetables in the wintertime come from California or Florida. So they have to be picked very green and to make the uh sh shipping time across the country and to be redistributed within the local stores. So You know, my grandmother used to can. She would tomatoes out of the garden, beans, all the and we would go and spend summers at my grandma's house and they would be cannoned from morning till night because that's what sustained you through the wintertime. She grew up in the depression as as uh um you know in the Depression era. And so things you had to think ahead, you had to prepare, and you had to be able to set aside your sock Uh 'cause unfortunately we as a culture are much more dependent on what we can just go to the grocery store and buy what we want. And that could be a whole nother conversation on uh the how risky that is, because the fly chain isn't uh It it's very w when it's well oiled and humming along, it's very efficient and and does a really great job, but it's amazingly fragile. So it doesn't take much to disrupt that chain and once it's disrupted, boy, as we saw, like you know, was famous infamously now a couple of years ago nobody could find toilet paper. You know, heck right now even. Good luck finding a brand new car that you want. Without having to wait months for it to be made and sent to you or whatever, you know. So um I want to swing back to something you hinted at earlier, Imran, in the very first uh salvo that you offered onto the show, talking about you noticed the change in the behavior of the kids. So many times uh you talk about we have an obesity issue in this country, we do. Uh we have a gluttony problem in general, but then that's it that's exacerbated by what we're gluttonous in in in consuming with all the the sugar and and salt and stuff. But that leads to the behavior because we have so many kids now we have kind of a ADHD epidemic almost in in the country it seems sometimes. And I was gonna say We're putting them on like Ritalin or I'm not sure what the uh in vogue uh drug of choice is these days. But we're putting them on these uh these psychotropic kind of drugs to control their mood, to control their their their brain synapses firing or whatever And all we might need to do is give 'em an apple instead of some high fructose corn syrup sh a drink, right? Yep. So and and we found that the fruits really did not have the great big highs and lows that any of the sugar products did. And so we had lots of snacks but all f all was it was fruits. And it makes a difference. And even our bodies will uh convert, you know, breads and everything else, all clut all the uh um all that to the sugar anyways. So it it's just more even. But when you have an actual sugar cane, it's this really big spike and then you have a fall. So it does create behavior problems, uh concentration problems, and really rebellion because th it's an addiction and when they didn't get it there was a problem. In fact we um mentored a couple of my uh nieces and and nephews. They came to our house and they're like, You only allow us to have one snack, one sugar thing a day? And that was in the beginning. Now then we went to no sugar at all completely. So it it's just a different lifestyle and they and it's hard to go from having sugar at your fingertips all the time to nothing And the other thing too is you uh it's not just that they get hyped up and energized by the sugar, but then there's also the crash. So they might act out because they they're just bouncing off the walls with a sugar buzz And then later on they're they're acting out because they're they're tired. They're they're moody. They're they're you know, they're they're they're dragon and so they're gr And so they might be more sassy or something because i th th the uh the ups and downs, the mood swings that come with that. So I wonder how many Uh we're not gonna get any sponsorship from Pfizer on this show anytime soon, I guess. Wonder how many like Pfizer products would be unnecessary if we would just eat better foods. Yeah. And and also corn syrup. Huge. I mean And that's worse than sugar I think, right? It is, especially with the GMO corn and and things like that. There's a lot of allergies, a lot of problems that corn causes. and having that in everything. I mean literally our co uh country has corn syrup in just about every product. In fact the same product in Europe or in Asia or in South America does not has actual cane sugar in it as opposed to corn syrup. Um and it just m because a lot of those countries realize that that corn syrup is is really detrimental to people's health Yeah, and GMO gen gen genetically modified is what you're talking about correct. Yeah, because I think isn't it I don't know if it's folklore or true or not, but apparently in Mexico the Coca-Cola you buy there actually has sugar in it. It's true In fact you you can buy Mexican Coke here that has sugar in it. They're not allowed to bottle Coca Cola in the US without without uh corn syrup. They have to do use corn syrup. They're they actually pass uh they have some law or something that that prohibited uh Coca-Cola and Pepsi from bottling with without corn syrup in this country. Now, when I was younger, I definitely noticed, you know, when I was a a young guy in my teens and twenties and very physically active and stuff, I definitely noticed the the the extra pep in your step if you had a you know, a a Coca-Cola or something or something, a highly sugared kind of item with the participatory as caffeine too, you're gonna be this rev and the go kind of thing. I definitely noticed that, but I didn't notice anything that felt negative other than on occasion you kinda crash a little bit. um you know uh your your energy level will crash I thought I would be driving my car and crash. Um but now that we've got a little bit older And I got, you know, some some aches and pains that are related to that uh youthful uh exuberance for life. You know, uh my knees aren't what they should be, my lower back isn't what it should be. And if I have something with a lot of processed sugar and stuff like that Man, my knees ache more. My back hurts me more. Like there's more inflammation. And it's almost immediate. Like almost immediate. Like within a half hour, it's like, holy cow I shouldn't have had that piece of cake, my knees are bothering me. So how fastidious are you about it d do you have a piece of cake ever Either one of you? Uh I really try to uh moderate, you know, everything in moderation and um you know sometimes we'll go out and maybe have a small little piece of something, a little cake or a pie, but During the week, I stay away from it. I just I feel better. I sleep better. Um It's just it's you know w we have grandkids and I can tell when the grandkids were having all the cake and ice cream coming from a party or something and then she's having a sleepover and Next thing you know, she's bouncing off the walls, can't go to sleep, you know, the sugar. So, yeah I mean it's it's really uh there is a a a real noticeable difference. So we cut it completely out. We only allowed sugar on birthdays or Christmas or Resurrection Sunday. That's it. otherwise there was no sugar allowed. Well I grew up having a dessert with every meal. Every meal has dessert. And in fact most of the meals had sugar, especially if they're they're packaged or pre gone. Now my mom cooked everything, so you know, lunch and dinner were really packs any cooked meals that didn't really have any sugar at all. But then we still always had dessert. And boy, if I didn't get a dessert, I was kinda cranky. I wanted my dessert And yes, these days I'm still addicted to sugar. I eat sugar a lot more than I should, but uh we uh really restricted it for all of our kids and as they graduated out of high school we allowed them to have a little more and to be a little more in charge of their own health and many of them really don't crave as much sugar. And this is a a newer Yeah, historically speaking, kind of an issue because we didn't have cane sugar all over the place or we certainly didn't have this, you know, corn syrup stuff that we do now. I remember when back when um my daughter was really young we were reading together through the uh Laura Ingalls Wilder books. And I forget which one of the stories it is, which one of the books, but in one of them uh there's a scene about Christmas. And um Lolora Engels character, she's so excited that she gets an apple. An apple. And then she wasn't eating it right away and her mom asked her, like, Laura, aren't you gonna eat your apple? Oh, I'm just savory, I'm just waiting for the right moment. I because it was like that Special. It was special to have the sweetness of an apple, you know, in December, especially, right? Because the apple season would have been over by a couple of months, I imagine, by that point. So it was Now, you kid an apple on Christ Christian, you might as well give 'em coal and they're stalking, right? What are some of the biblical principles that help to tie this together from a Christian perspective? You've I'm sure you've had you've thought about these things. Uh yeah, I mean we've Mahindri I mean we are supposed to do this is our body's a temple. The Holy Spirit's supposed to indwell in our body and we need to take care of it And uh sugar and corn syrup are addictive properties. They change your behavior. They change you lose control of different functions of your body, and that's really what it comes down to. Well, also I think since World War II, uh processing food to make long storage and long transportation uh to get it from point A to point B. So a lot of this chemical and a lot of the things that were uh infused into the general food population because first it was given to the soldiers and then somebody looked at it and said, Oh wow, look at this. We extend our shelf life uh immensely. Um and then we can start a whole new supply chain and how to, you know, streamline it And uh, you know, so it makes you wonder with all the allergies, all the reactions, um, you know, all the signage everywhere, allergic to this, allergic to that. I think we're a product of of what we've been consuming. Yeah, when I was a kid nobody had a gluten allergy as far as I know. No. Now it seems like every family's got at least one in it. They can't handle gluten. It's like what's going on? Well apparently they've changed how they grow the wheat. They've got a particular blend of wheat now so that it grows, I guess, shorter. Uh so that it's not as prone to like mill doing or something like that. Harvested faster. To be harvested faster. And so there anyway there's something about that particular strain of wheat that's really good for mass production that it changes something about the head of the kernel or something and it makes like the gluten more. Like there's there's a a higher concentration of gluten. in the grain. And so we always had gluten, but it was it was a smaller amount so we could handle it. And now it's such a a bigger amount that we have we have a hard time handling them. If you have a one Quick or two quick tips of how to make what would feel to mostly like a blander, you know, uh diet really pop and make the kids and everybody happy. What what's a what's a tip that you guys have used had success with? Uh sourdough bread has really become quite a treat in our home. My wife started, you know, raising the sourdough. Putting it out, letting it ferment, you know, and then the sourdough bread has really been a hit. Now, we have a milking cow and so we make our own butter. And so they take that own butter and put it on there and then you take the buttermilk from the butter and then you have your pancakes and uh you know it's uh You grind your own wheat. We use fruit. So we blend frozen fruit and some fresh fruits together and make a fruit topping as opposed to maple syrup. And uh, you know, we also do u use xalitol instead of sugar. Xalatol it actually helps build up teeth and and stuff but Zalatol can have some side effects for some people. I don't think I've ever heard of how do you spell Xalatol? X Y L I T O L. Okay. And actually it's been shown many studies to actually rebuild bone and teeth Really people that have had cavities, the cavities have popped out because it's filled in. Um so it's been kind of really kinda neat, but in some pe in some cases it does cause headaches in some people in migraines. So but it's a all natural alcohol comes from the bark of uh trees. And uh but it it doesn't and it actually is diabetic friendly. So if you're diabetic it does not raise your blood sugar at all. Huh. So my my tip, by the way, if I want to contribute, my tip is to go eat at Steve's house or uh Imron's house. That's that's my tip for you. So Uh this has been the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD, Imran Razvy, Steve Yeager, I'm Troy Skinner. We're all um uh in in pastoring roles at uh l area house churches. My church specifically is called Household of Faith in Christ. And we have a website, Household of Faith in Christ. com. You can check that out. Of course you can go to WFMB. com and learn more about the faith debate. And uh certainly you can go to uh conquered by love. org and check out uh the resources that are related to to that ministry. And I got another tip for ya. You need to repent, the kingdom of God is at hand. You are fearfully and wonderfully made, but you are a marred image bearer of God and you need a savior more than you might even recognize. If you'd like to know more about what all that means. Contact me. Give my contact information at Household of Faithinchrist. com. Till next week. God bless