Broadcasting for the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. So it's brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we Make you smile. Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. There you'll find the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. You'll also find podcasts of this show and news items and links to all sorts of religious traditions if you're trying to figure out what people believe. Believe in why. But the Faith Bait blog doesn't exist if you don't email me. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me Forty uh it's now ninety. Used to be forty-five. Now it's ninety updates go up each and every week, eighteen per day, Monday through Friday. So even if you don't email me something, go check us out and see what your neighbors are sending us Might be a recipe, might be something where they're taking a shot at the president. Like a a a verbal jab, if you will, at the at the president. Uh I get myself in trouble on that one. Uh Um wh what else? There there is religious stuff. I would say in the ballpark of fifty percent of the content is religious The other stuff is I'm not sure exactly what it is. What have I been reading lately? Well one of the things I've been reading is Have a Little Faith, a True Story, so they say, by Mitch Album. Mitch is Bracey's little cute little you know, read them in an afternoon kind of books, you know, Tuesdays with Maury, the Five People You Meet in Heaven. And speaking of that kind of a book Also recently read a book that we're talking about today, Heaven Is For Real, by Todd Burpo and uh ghostwriter friend who helped him to make it into a real book. And uh John Sweitzer, yeah, what what was her name again? Lynn Vincent, yeah. Lynn Vincent. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossose Valley Church. Hello friend. Hello, friend. And Chris Jackson's with the Religious Coalition. Yes. Yeah. Hello. Hello, hello, God bless. You know, I keep saying that you're with the Religious Coalition, which is true But what's your title? You have one? Case manager, day program manager, Baptist minister. Wow, you fit that all in the same business card? Try to. Case and date programmer and a Baptist minister. You can, you know, simplify that if you wanted to. Okay. Yeah. This is from the guy who last week is trying to figure out how many seconds the show has been on the air. Yeah, that one like totally like wore me out. If Jonathan's math is correct, we believe that sometime within the next calendar year we will hit one million seconds. So that'll be something to celebrate. Of course it'll be a short celebration. You only get to celebrate it for one second. Alright, so Heaven Is for Real with a big New York Times bestseller. Uh of course that gets the attention of the folks in Hollywood, so they made it into a movie. Right. And the movie did very well. It stayed in the theaters for a lot of weeks. It was I think was it number one for a couple of weeks or at least a week? Yeah, at least done well, made a lot of money for somebody I didn't see any of that money. Something spiritual shack something or other that that went around. It was a book or a movie? It was a book. Oh the book was the shack. The shack. Yeah. That that was like a best seller for a while. I feel like this is the same genre of literature Right. It's an idea that's kind of grappling with God, you know, trying to stretch our ideas a little bit about God. Well, that one you know, the shack was a lot more intentional, this one maybe less intentional 'cause it's a child's you know, but but in the the group of churches that we're dealing with, you know, churches that Uh the the virgin birth of Christ isn't so important, but what's really important is the Christ in you, you know, that's making you a better person. That group of churches are really into the idea that children represent the best of us. Yeah. There's a there's a difference between I I I hear what you're saying and I'm not disagreeing with the the generalized concept. But more specifically Uh the shack is trying to make theological points. Totally. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's its agenda. So I'm done trying to relate those two. And so they're a little bit different. uh the the whole the personhood of God, the Trinity gets all turned on his head. Yeah. Uh uh the whole uh there's a there's a uh I think God the father in that one's a woman, isn't it? Yeah, it's a uh what's it it's a politically correctness about the the the the gender pronouns that are used. Totally, yeah. So it that's got a different kind of This I don't think is trying to do that. I don't think Captain Israel is not trying to do that. I think that Todd Burke, I'm going to give him the benefit of the doubt. I could be wrong. He might just be, hey, here's a chance to make a lot of money. Because they're a family that needed some money according to the story. They were really struggling, his church is kind of small doesn't isn't able to pay the pastor enough to to live on and so he he owns a business on the side, he puts garage doors in and that's his real money that they live on So they're struggling to get by, so maybe he sees an opportunity to make a a quick buck and turn but I don't think so. That's not my sense. I think he sees this book as an encouragement. Like Hey, for you who doubt out there, heaven is for real. I know my son has been there. So believe, because my son, he's like a prophet. Yeah. And so I think his heart's in the right place, but he's a pastor, Todd Burpo is. Mm-hmm. And so I wonder where his head is, because if I'm gonna tell somebody, hey, heaven is for real, believe it, because My four year old said so is not where I as a pastor am going to start. Right, right. And but he goes there because of these things that the son Uh we mentioned it last week and it the books and and the movie have been popular, so you probably are familiar, but in case you're not, the gist of the story is the sun has Uh an appendicitis that is undiagnosed and then it bursts and he's rushed into emergency surgery and it doesn't look good and then he comes out and he survives it. I mean it's up and down, but the end result is he survives it. But throughout all of that, he apparently during the surgery, lo you know, he's unconscious, um, had some sort of a The parents are led to believe that he has some sort of an experience. Right, right, exactly. Near death experience, saw something, visited some place. I mean th that's left a little bit fuzzy. I think that if you ask Todd, Burpo, the author, he would say that his son At least his son's spirit visited heaven. I think that would be where he would want us to land. But the book doesn't make it quite that clear. So anyway, so the parents don't know this had happened. Months go by after the surgery. He's healed. He's progressing. He's you know, now he's a rambuctious little, you know, little guy again. And he says a couple of things that gets the the husband and wife, the Burpo family, to look at each other and say What'd he just say? Yeah, and that's just that's like the recurring theme in the in the whole book and probably the movie too is you know, wait fifteen minutes and you'll get a bum bum bum moment. Yes, that's what it's like. So one of those moments is uh He starts talking about I I always the first moment. One of the moments is that's not what Jesus looks like. They're showing him pictures And they say, Oh look, there's Jesus. That's not what Jesus looks like. Like, what, you've seen Jesus? And yes I have. Where? When I was dead on the operating table. Bum bum ba And then uh another time was uh what did Jesus look like? Actually there's a picture in the book. Yeah. Yeah, if you get the book you'll drew around Jesus. And do they and it's famous I've seen this picture before, by the way. Yeah? Yeah, it's a it's a relatively famous picture. I've seen that picture before. Did did they showcase the picture in the movie too? They did, and it's the picture was actually drawn by a who went to heaven herself as well. Right, yes. Mm-hmm. Well, claims to. Claims to. We don't know. And so there's there's two people that uh this two little kids that this was their idea of what Jesus looks like. Yes. 'Cause they saw him in some heavy. Experience. So that's an example. He looks awfully American in this one. He claims to have seen his grandfather who died before he was a born. Right. Certainly Jesus didn't have a perm. I mean it's it's just not possible, right? I mean and his beard is like trimmed. I mean he i would he have had to trim the beard? A well-trimmed beard? I mean, wasn't it more? I don't know. He probably looked like one of the Duck Dynasty guys for all I know. I have no idea. That is a perm. Looks a little like Kenny Loggins to me, but Exactly. Exactly. You ever seen the cover of the Vox Humana? Looks just like that. So I had to I was in an airplane. We crashed I woke up in the hospital on morphine and the guy standing over my bed played the role of Jesus in Michael W. Smith's Secret Ambition video. And for a moment I thought perhaps I was there. Right? Because I felt like I was floating from the morphine. And he's standing over my bed and I said, Tom, you're not allowed to do hospital. But anyways, I'm saying that he also kind of had this pop modern like this Jesus that they're saying looks like the guy Uh Tom Newman also had a kind of a pop modern Jesus Christ. If you're curious, if you don't want to get the book, uh if you go online and uh and just do a web search uh for Prince of Peace By I'm gonna spell this. A the girl's name is A K I A N E. Akiani? Akian? Yeah. A K-I-A-N-E Her last name is K R A M A R I K. Apparently you can buy one for one hundred and sixty nine dollars if you wanted and hang it on your wall. But if you put in Prince of Peace Jesus Painting. I'm sure that was soon Prince of Peace, the Google, the model immediately brought up by Akiani Crown. So you can see what we're talking about if you do that. So anyway. So he also claims to have seen his grandfather who's dead. Okay. And so the dad gets out a picture, Oh, is this him? And he's like, No, that's not him. He's there's nobody old in heaven And so then he goes and finds an old picture of his dad from when he was younger and he says, Is this him? So bum bum bum. Uh what are what were some other ones, Chris Help me remember, jog my memory. Well, there was a time a b uh a big occasion where uh Colton, the four year old boy in the movie and in the book, uh went to his mother. and said, I met my sister. Oh, right, right, right. Yeah, it's the big one. Yeah, in heaven. He says, um I forget the name of his sister who's who's Living with him now. Yeah, he has a sister that's older than him by a few years. Right. And so the mom thinks that she's he's talking about that sister. And she says, No well Colton says, No, I'm not talking about her. I'm talking about the other sister that you lost before I was born. And she said Okay, what does she look like? And he started to describe her and we hung out together, he said, and we had to be. just broke down in tears and sh shared it with her husband and there was no way, no way she said he could have known that. Because they never apparently they claimed that they that never told him that they had a miscarriage. And my thing is maybe they talked about it once and he was with an earshot as kids hear things. But I I'm not saying that is obs absolutely what happened, but I'm saying it's possible that's happening. message and all I'm saying is that the group of churches we've been talking about uh are not pro life. Uh I mean d right down the line they're they're always uh pro choice. And so that's just kinda interesting little twist to it. I'm just saying. Right. That's a good point. So anyway, so he knows about his uh miscarried sister. Okay. Another bum bum bum. Okay. And there are others, I'm trying to voice, I'm drawing a blank now. Well, he saw Rainbow Horsehouse. Apparently it was his great grandfather that he met Not his grandfather. Oh, so it was his I guess his father's grandfather. Okay. I guess that's who it was. And he he saw rainbow horses and he sat in Jesus' lap, I think. Right. And and he um Uh this all happens in like three minutes he's angels look like. I want to picture the angels. They all have big gigantic wings. Oh. And actually the dead people all had wings too. That's right. And his grandfather had big wings But uh Colton, the little boy, he only had little wings. Uh. Um Yeah, yeah. What else did he uh He said he saw a lot of children there? Mm-hmm. Uh so a lot of animals. Yes, there are animals in heaven. So wings on humans is definitely uh a non-biblical idea. Right? Yeah. I don't know that we could argue for sure if that the Bible would preclude that, but I don't think there's anything the Bible does says that we should expect it does say that we are like the angels, but the context there is that we will not marry or be given in marriage. Uh that's different from having wings. And the idea uh is that w you know w will reign on the earth Right, that heaven comes to earth, and so the sense seems to be that we're not gonna have wings, but okay, so anyways, I don't know if there's any meat to dig into there So well, before we dig into any sort of meat, uh Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Hotel Church, uh Chris Jackson from Religious Coalition, I'm Troy Skinner, it's the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Um There's a market for this book, for this message, for this movie, for a reason. Because people want to believe in something. Right. 'Cause they're s they're so busy kicking back against things that they ha have been traditionally told they should believe in. And so now they've they they've thrown out the bathwater, but they don't want to have that baby go with the bathwater. So they've thrown out the Bible. Because science has proven that the Bible just can't possibly be true. There can't possibly have been a a flood and you know, it couldn't have happened that The world was created in just six days and right. Um you know, and Jesus probably didn't really die and rise again 'cause I mean miracles like that don't people don't that They start to discount all of these things that science tells us just isn't possible in our experience living in life. Like I've never seen the world flooded with water. I never witnessed the creation of of a universe. You know. So we we want to doubt all those things But there's still something in us. We want to hang on to something. We believe in Santa Claus and the Easter Bunny and the Tooth Fairy. We want to believe in these things. And so somebody comes along with a book and says, look, you don't have to respect your church's tradition. You don't have to regard with any sort of appropriateness the holy scriptures of your tradition. You don't have to even believe in God the way that your pastor has been telling you you have to believe in God. And you can still believe in heaven because there's this four-year-old who says he went there and here's a book that tells you all about it. So book by Nancy Pearcy called Saving Leonardo is the one that I've been reading recently and it grapples with uh the the increase uh philosophy that God is dead. Right, the increase of of Saving Leonardo as far as uh DiCaprio or No Well it it deals with art. It it deals with it's it's very Francis Schaefer. Where you're yeah, where you're tracing through where you can look at art and you can tell kind of what the worldview is behind it. So she walks it all the way through. And what she argues is that with the rise of the scientific worldview that even those that that um that are not Christian were crying out with frustration and anger at how the scientific worldview was dehumanizing everybody. and making us feel like we're just a bunch of little, you know, cogs in the machine. And so there was a reaction against it called the Romantic Movement. And the romanticists were these guys. These guys that said, Well, look, if you're gonna tell us that there's nothing spiritual out there, you know Forget you. We're not going to pay attention to you anymore and and yeah, okay, fine. So science has told us that the Bible's not true anymore But we believe that there is something spiritual out there and they became very adamant and there's a whole stream of secularism that is based in this there is something spiritual out there, but it has nothing to do with the old, you know, old time Christian religion. But it's something that it doesn't have to be right or wrong. It's just whatever really inspires you, and we all know it's there. And so quit trying to force us into some kind of a mold because we're sick and tired of science. trying to force us into a mold. And so whenever Christians try to force them into the mold, they're reacting not just against Christianity but against the scientific determinism. Okay? Am I am I speaking too deep? Not for me, but I don't know. You know? And so there's a scientific wake it up here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. And so anyways, my point is is that is that she would place something like this right in that stream that is about a hundred and fifty years old, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, you know, some of the other um you know, Waldenspawn, some of these other guys that that were these these poets and artists that were reacting against this scientific machine and saying, man, it's not a machine. There's something inside of us, you know, and you're not going to dehumanize this anymore. We're going to rehumanize everything. And in the process, they They arrogated to themselves the power to make myths and to create new ideas that would inspire people and and that went beyond like the clear teaching of scripture or the clear teach teaching of any religion. And so most of Hollywood is built on this kind of idea now that that our stories, you know, like Noah when it came out, Aronofsky's Noah, it's not about the the truthfulness of it historically, 'cause who knows about that. But what matters is is is that we create something that is gonna move people. and move them to to to rediscover their humanity, to rediscover the spiritualness of the world. Right? And so it's uh it's a very um uh uh they're on offense. They're they're they're uh intentionally wanting to influence and change the world. And these aren't the science guys, but they're just as secular Right? And so they want to say that you can believe whatever you believe in anyways. That's when I say that this fits that genre, that's the genre that I'm talking about. That's the stream I'm talking about. And my concern is Because of these kinds of influences, these secular influences, these scientific secular influences, the just the the Hollywood the Hollywood ar artsy uh crowd secular influences Uh for for those who want to live in a culture in America that they want to be able to still say, No, we're a Judeo Christian nation. This is founded on Christian principles and the Bible is important. And heck, the Ten Commandments are carved into the the wall or on the uh the the justice building and All these sorts of things. They want to hang on to that and that becomes what's important in their religion. Right. Uh then a book like this comes along with maybe I don't know if the Tag Burpo has this kind of an agenda. He might just be influenced by these other agendas actually. Right. But th a book like this comes out and people who are true Honest to goodness, Bible believers, Bible thumpers even, say, ah, see? This book, this movie, it's important. We need to support it. We need to go see. We need to talk about it. Tell our friends to go see it because see I've been telling y'all. Right. Heaven is for real. And look, it's it it's true because it's the four year old said And we end up if when I see that frustrates me that they've taken a phrase that you and I would would use in normal everyday activity and say, Yes, heaven is for real. And immediately now whenever we say that, this is gonna be what comes up in people's minds. And so we end up having to defend this or differentiate ourselves from it instead of just being able to say, No, I believe in heaven the way that the Bible defines it. And if we have no discernment then we're gonna buy this sort of stuff, hook, line, and sinker. And maybe the book Heaven for Real is helpful in some small odd way. But in whatever way it might be helpful, it's it's tic tac helpful. Like you y you can't go off to you're not gonna dine on it. Meaning you need to brush it out just try to use a tick back. What do you mean? Yeah, it's it's not gonna sustain you, it's not gonna really clean your mouth, it's not it's it's nothing of real substance, but it's sort of some sort of momentary weird thing that's helpful maybe. Right. But not really in the I've seen the commercial about personal space. I mean those tic-tac's a pretty good thing. But it's not helpful in a meaningful, lasting kind of a way. And that's so if there's any meaning in a book like this, it's that. And so if we raised all of our hope in this tic tac After about ten minutes the tic-tac is fully dissolved, right? So if all your hope is resting on that tic-tac, in ten minutes it's resting on nothing. Okay, and this is the issue of my concern with a book like this. This is the issue that I think Christians have always had a hard time with, right? You have Many Christians that say that when it comes to cultural interactions, and you know this to be true about me, my family came from that background, that we need to separate ourselves from them and not engage whatsoever. So, you know, I like I I know very little about about the Beatles, you know, about any you know uh popular culture stuff in the sixties and seventies. I know very little about it Right. Uh and then you have people, uh Christians on the other side that say that we need to engage in all that stuff in the world, but they don't encourage people to really be discerning and to pay attention. And I'm convinced that the answer for Christians is somewhere in the middle that we don't tell people to just stay away from it. But we encourage people to be in the world but not of it so that they're paying attention to the cultural messages that are coming through the matrix, right? That had all these Christian words all through it so that Christians at at first were like, oh, that's kind of cool You know, but then at the end of the day it turns out that it's a profoundly um uh non Christian message, you know, that's woven through the whole thing. You know, and there's so many movies that are like that that we learn to participate in the culture, but not do it in such a way that we're bowing to the idols that are there. And uh I don't know that many Christians take those stance. Most Christians want to just go and be entertained. You know, and they don't really take a uh careful distinction. I think you should read this book, and I think in reading it that you need to be you you need to ask yourself, where does it line up with scripture and where does it not? so that you can train yourself to to interact with your neighbor who's doing the same thing and next time that you get a chance to talk to them, you're gonna need to be able to differentiate between what they believe and what is true And you can do that starting with this. Fin final thoughts for this show? We'll do we'll pick this up and do another show for next week, I think. But your final thoughts for this show? Well, just on Jonathan's point, I would not suggest that people read this book because um the average church member doesn't have the tools to really discern and compare what this book says compared to scripture. Unless they had a pastor actually living with them, a trained pastor, a biblical pastor, a pastor who could uh you know, properly, rightly divide, you know, what the scripture says compared to this book. Um now Todd Burpo did say that uh he did struggle with funeral service uh with a church member and he didn't know what to say how to comfort this person. Um he believed in heaven, but he never really taught on heaven and never really had a a full concept on it. I think this book was probably uh a means to an answer. And that's how we came up with it. Hmm. Interesting. Well, next week promise. We've teased last week that we're gonna do this week, but we're now gonna do next week, so apologize for that. But we're gonna go through some of the concerns. Biblically, uh that heaven for real is for real uh presents uh for us. So we are we ready? We're ready to do that next week? Yeah For real. Absolutely. Jonathan Sweites, our senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, Chris Jackson, who's got a whole slew of titles over there at the Religious Coalition. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Online at WFMD. com keywordface. And I'm looking at the clock here. I got about 30 seconds. What can I say pithy and interesting in 30 seconds? I don't know. I will tell you this. We will be back 167 and a half hours from now But you don't have to wait that long. You can go online and you can listen to this show back in case you missed part of it and want to hear the rest of it. Uh usually by Tuesday morning, Sunday's show is uh is available via podcast. So wait forty-eight-ish hours 50 hours, something like that, and go check it out. Um, so there, I killed my 30 seconds. I feel good now. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless