Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, sponsored by Footman Plumbing and eating. How can we make you smile? Find us online at WFMD. com keywordfaith. There you'll find links and podcasts and news items and the faith debate blog and I was talking before the show with our uh guest Chris Jackson. He w said he went on the website before he came on the show and he was like, Man, you have an awful lot of content on there. You have like Hours and hours of faith debate to listen to. He was impressed. You should check it out. And all that content, just the the the audio part, we're responsible for that mess. But the non-audio part You guys are responsible for that. Why? Because our blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post whatever you send me Isn't that right, Chris? There's all sorts of stuff up there. Yeah, well I mean I'll if you if you say something that's like completely just, you know, otherworldly nasty I might still post it, but I'll edit up. Oh no, no, no. Not that society censored me. And so we won't go there right now. But there is a whole thing. Trust me, my standards are a little more strict than society's, I I assure you of that. Well, but the my point is that there's some of society's standards are like Out of control spirit. Well my my thing is by the way, that's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. You're also going to be here. Have you chimed in yet? Just a little bit. So there we've got kinda got that out of our way. But basically my rule of thumb on that is if my daughter uh if I wouldn't want her to see it whether it's a word or a picture or an image or policy. Yeah, if I wouldn't want my daughter to see it, why don't I put it up there? So hot topic stuff, you're willing to go there as long as it's not somehow crude for your daughter. Yeah, or if it's it well crude see crude's a lot. See, I'm telling you there's a whole show worth of material offensive. And maybe this I don't need her to see something offensive. But I think that But the definition of offensive is no longer clear across the United States. It's clear for me. Oh I know. I know that. Yeah. Yeah. So Oh, that's moral relativism right there. I can't go there. Anyway, so Yes. Um What have I been back on topic? Usually, oh, toward the end of the show I might mention what I've been reading, but today I'm going to mention what I've been reading right off the bat. Okay. Alright, so set the stage or something? Yeah. Well, I don't know, maybe. We'll find out. Okay. So something I've been reading lately is a break like By Todd Burpo with Lynn Vincent called Heaven is for Real. Do you guys uh heard of that? Have you read that book by any chance? I have not. Wow. Well Chris and I will have a nice conversation then. It's a big movie now. But I've heard about it. Yeah. So maybe I should like interview you guys. Well I'm gonna start where my interest got peaked and then we'll just see how the show kinda unravels from there. Okay. I was talking to Chris uh not too long ago. Um uh about something unrelated to the to the show. And then in the midst of that context, I said, Hey, by the way, it's been a little while since you've been on the show. We should get you back on Yeah. Is there anything if we had John that you think would be interesting for us to talk about? And he said, Well, you know, there's this really popular movie based on this best selling book called Heaven is for Real that, you know, I think might be interesting to talk about. And I said, Oh yeah, well we'll have to think about that 'cause Uh it's the face debate and you and John are Schweitzer, you know, probably gonna have a lot of agreement on whatever the book has to say. Where's the debate? And Chris said, Well, you might be surprised. Where's the debief? And as soon as he said, Well, you might be surprised, I was like, Okay, we're doing that topic. Woohoo So So the point is is that is that you're in disagreement? With the book first, why don't you outline outline the story? Uh since you've read the book and seen the movie, I've only read the book and Jonathan hasn't done either. So you're the in the best position maybe to explain real quickly the the story arc um and later on, maybe Look deep into the show, we'll talk about you know comparing the movie to the book as some have done one or the other and print some of those things out. But generally speaking, what's the story about? Sure. It's based upon uh a family that lived out in Nebraska. Um Imperial Nebraska to bear Kansas. Just you know, it seems like that's appropriate somehow. Yeah. Out there in the middle. What are you talking about? Keep going. Nebraska. Thank you. It's also near Colorado, Montana. Yeah, well it's and that's a whole nother set of uh Is that relevant somehow too? Mind mind transforming activities that are going on in Colorado. Right. Yeah, so anyway. Yes, anyway, so uh the father, his name is Todd Burpo, and he's a pastor. of a Wesleyan or Methodist church out there in Nebraska and his son, who's four years old, named Colton uh his appendix first and he's rushed to the hospital. Mm-hmm. And uh they're operating on him and he has a near death experience. And in this experience, uh, he says, according to him, that he visited heaven, he sat on Jesus' lap. Uh, he saw rainbow horses, uh the angels sang to him. Uh he met his grandfather up there. Uh he met his sister who his mother had a miscarriage with. I met other children who were playing and all of that and then after the near death experience, um You know, he was healthy, normal, and uh slowly as he talked with his father and his mother, he started to share with him how he went to heaven. And he saw Jesus and all that. And um the father took a while to believe him, but then eventually he came to believe that his son went to went to heaven, visited heaven. And he shared his story first with the congregation, then the press got a hold of it. Now it's a big major motion picture. So did he see hell at all? No. Right. So John, what's your f I don't you haven't read the book? I don't even know if if you knew the story until Chris just shared. I have no idea. Did you know the story, the gist of the movie in the book? Okay. Yeah, I kinda had a gist of it. So what's what's your general take? This is not unique. There are other people I mean this particular story has unique elements in it, but there are other people that claim to you know gone to the other side or saw the bright white light or they've visited heaven in a near death experience. So these stories are out there. What's what's your general response? Okay, so my general response to anything like this is uh it could be And uh that uh maybe it's not. You know, that it doesn't affect my faith one way or the other. Um, you know, there's uh there's books about people dying and going to hell, you know, and then coming back to life, you know, and and being like, Well, I gotta tell everybody how bad it was down there, I gotta get my life right, you know, this kind of thing You know, and you know, you hear people, you know, again on the the heaven side, uh and uh you know I it it's kind of a genre of literature that is pretty well s you know, good selling, you know, people are interested. Why? Because eternity's a big deal Uh at least from a Christian perspective and the definition of what eternity is gonna be like is a pretty big deal. And so, um for me it's kind of like like the left behind series. You know, you're dealing with something that the Bible tells us quite a bit about, but not enough that we can really know exactly what what it's going to be like. And so anybody that's going to write about it is going to pique my interest it i my interest. I'm I'm very interested and I'd I'd like to know, you know, I i it might add some ideas, you know, to what I'm thinking about it. But at the end of the day Uh I'm inclined to say, well, that's kinda nice. You know. Let's go back to preaching the gospel. And this book has uh is f for for marketing purposes has really some advantages that some of the other stories that we hear from other people doesn't have. One, you know, he's this cute little four year old boy. And so what would his agenda be? You know, he's not he's not doing this for any other reason other than just sharing what his experience was would be the argument. And his dad's a pastor. That's a good argument and I'll respond to it maybe in a minute. So the pastor angle too, it's not just anybody, but it's a pastor who's saying this. It gives it again, it gives it a particular angle for marketing purposes that the other stories don't have. So you heard Jonathan's generalized response, even though he hasn't read the book, didn't he do it? That's probably what your response is too. Yeah, are you? It's very close to Jonathan. So you're gonna have to play the devil's advocate here tonight. I was right, there's no debate. There's no debate. That's the show. We'll see you next week. But I would just uh just say that God doesn't need near death experiences. I I know there are some instances out there and uh Christians even have had near death experiences, not just those who need to get their life right. Right. Um but God isn't gonna how can I put it, you know, use a near death experience to uh to override the Bible. The message of the Bible. So is there anything in the movie that seems to contradict scripture? There's plenty. Oh really? There's plenty. Oh. Well let's dig in, man. That's a good idea. I want to uh I'll lose the thought otherwise. You said you had a response to the idea of the four year old telling the story Without an agenda. Right, exactly. And I've had four year olds. I've had five four year olds and f uh four year olds do uh have um reasons for doing what they do. Right? They're not as sophisticated as the rest of us, but they're certainly not automatically innocent. That's all I'm saying. I was a four year old myself one time. Still are in a lot of ways. Thank you. I'm sorry, too easy. Yeah, i i right because if if if you're gonna enter the kingdom of heaven you must become like a little child, so you're gonna get there eventually. For those of us that have already arrived at that state Uh no, so anyway, the point is. I'm too mean spirited to be a four-year-old anymore. Oh my goodness. Cynicism abounds in my heart. So y you get what I'm saying though, that you know Innocence what is not the same thing as uh perfection or, you know, having it all right. And and uh to the extent that a four year old is a lot more innocent than the rest of us does not mean that he is without uh motivations. To share, you know, and and he's he's got an active imagination. I mean that would be like like the worst I could say about this kid is he's got a really active imagination. His parents did a good job in training him about what heaven was like. And so when he went into it, his imagination kicked in the gear and he had some experience that was genuinely just mental Right? I mean that would be the worst that you could say about 'em. And is that so bad? I I mean I've got nothing to condemn about all that. But the question is, you know, well we'll dig in, you're saying that there's quite a lot of people. issues uh or or lack thereof. We'll d hash that out here in a second. But I wonder playing in front of it, by the way. Yeah. Yeah. I haven't seen the the movie, but I have read the book. I d I did my homework for the show. And as soon as I you know got familiar with the Teacher's Pet, you wanna like clean the gold star next to my name. It's all about the gold star. The rest of us are having fun in the back of the room just so that you know. But you don't have the gold star. I Pretty much everything I read, not just this book, and I'm not sure what this says about me, but pretty much everything I read, I'm intellectually challenging it. Always, yeah. Everything I read, I'm pushing back. Like they say something even if I agree with it, I'm like, okay, I agree with it, but why are you saying that? Like w why are you agreeing with me? You must be reading me all the time because you're always challenging me. Seriously, they say something I agree with Yeah, if somebody's if somebody's taking the time to write a book, they're writing the book because they have a point of view they want to share. Right. You don't write a book without an agenda, otherwise you have no book. What's the point of why would you spend your time Writing it and then getting it published and marketing it. And the boy didn't write it, the parents write it. But my point is everybody has a point of view. So I'm trying to figure out, okay, what is your point of view? Yeah. Do I agree with it? Well that's not even my first my first thing is under what is your point of view exactly and how are you defending it? Okay. Yeah. And can I have res Yeah, but if they really are defending it, well, okay, this is serious thinker. Okay. And they've got something important on their mind they want to say. So I'm going to grapple with this. And you felt like this was no and I'm going to be pushing back. So this is a s this is not this Every week on this show I mention I bet with somebody writes in about this and says, Oh, you were too hard on it Every every week on this show I mentioned here's what I'm reading. And I can do that because I read about a book a week. That's right. This is not a hard book to read Yeah. And yet it took me about a week and a half to read it because I kept putting it down because it's not a good read. It's not it's not particularly good literature. Okay. It's it's i uh uh you know, it's it's not Is it opera-esque like truthiness kind of a thing, you know? Like I felt like in the background I could hear in my head about every Ten or twelve pages. Bum ba ba. Yeah, you kind of felt like they were just setting up these little scenarios. But anyway. And the bump on bum had to do with him knowing something he kind of didn't know. Exactly. But my thing is and that's what I was going to get to. He's four years old, doesn't have an agenda, but like you said, he's not without an agenda entirely. Is he looking for attention Did he say something without looking for attention initially, but then he got so much attention, he's like, cranky men picking on a four-year-old? But not leave my mind at the door. So I'm giving it the benefit of the doubt, but as I'm bringing it, okay, is there anything in this that couldn't be explained some other way? Mm-hmm. Is it possible that he overheard his parents talking about something once and they didn't realize he overheard it? So he couldn't have possibly known that. Well maybe he did. Think about this as an example, you listener. Did your parents uh tell you that there was a Santa Claus? Never. Did yours tell you? Yeah we'd have to say they did. And mine told me. Did you that's the difference between you and I did you know the reality of that situation before they realized you knew the reality of that situation? 'Cause I did. And I was mad at my mom, by the way, that she didn't tell me the truth. Uh, okay. And I was so mad at her I didn't want her to know that I knew because I didn't know how to deal with that anger and so I pretended to not know something that I knew. So what that was for over a year probably. Was that like two or three years ago or something? So the point is our kids maybe can know a lot of things we don't think they know Yeah. You know, and so there are a lot of things I think that are explainable. But at the same time is it po how do you argue against somebody's experience So if the boy says he had an experience, I'm not going to deny that he had an experience. The question is, what was the experience? Was it a near-death experience? Was it merely a dream? Was it an actual visitation to heaven? Was it a vision? There are lots of things on the table other than he actually went to heaven, and the book doesn't try to grapple with any of those deeper, intricate kind of ideas. So that was disappointing. So let me ask this Um, you said he's from a Westland Methodist church background. Right. What is your sense about the dad's um orthodoxy? Does he seem to be a you know, good old fashioned traditional, you know heads up? a gist of that really in the book. I will say he quotes too much. He's he's he quotes scripture uh occasionally in the book. Not a lot of things It's hard to get a s if I didn't know that he w 'cause he does mention in the book too. I guess in the movie it does also, but in the book it mentions, you know, the Methodist tradition that he's connected to the Methodist church. He goes to the Methodist conference and that sort of thing. So you know he's a Methodist. And only because I do this show and I care about such things that the average person, if you're not a Methodist, you don't know what Methodists believe. If you're Methodist, you know hopefully you know what Methodist I'll bet you there are Methodists who don't know what Methodists believe. But if you're not a Methodist, odds are you don't know what Methodists believe. So I'm kind of rare just because I do stuff like this on the radio. So I th oh he's a Methodist. So I immediately have, okay, I have a sense of what his theology probably is. Yeah. Other than that I think it's tough to figure out from the book. Okay, now I'm just saying that that bothers me and that that that makes me think, going into the whole thing, that we're that that we're interacting with a family situation that is um that, you know, is not quite clear on the truth of scripture in a church situation that that is that case. And and it fits then a model in my head where like, oh, okay, I kinda get where this is coming from. It doesn't make me uh be more positive toward it at all, but it but I feel like it fits a model. Uh let me reintroduce that uh the person who's saying it doesn't fit the model or does fit the model is uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined this week by Chris Jackson with the Religious Coalition. I'm Troy Skinner, your affable host of The Faith Debate. You're listening to us on 930 WFMD. Uh before we get into some of the real deep biblical stuff, which I'm chomping at the bit too, but once we go there we're showing self-control. Once we go there, we're never gonna go back to this stuff. So, Chris, you've seen the movie? And the book. I read the book. Chris is uh Jonathan has actually seen the book now. He hasn't read it, but he's seen it. I'm reading everything's customer reviews. So uh but what are some if somebody's only seen the movie What's something in the book that they would be surprised or like, wow, that's or vice versa? Well, uh going back to Jonathan's point about Uh can you tell if the pastor was deep theologically, uh, according to the according to the book? Uh can't really tell it exactly according to the book, but in the movie The pastor is more laid back. He would preach from the pulpit in a a work shirt and jeans. Basically. And the actor who played uh Todd Burpo was Greg Kaneer. You know him from a couple of movies. Mm-hmm. And uh and in the movie they r really didn't show him using a Bible passage to start off with. It's more like, okay, how's everybody feeling today? What should we talk about? Well, I've been thinking about this this week. And you know, and it wouldn't be a very meaty or Sound doctrine message, but uh we don't know if the movie is accurately representing how he would really preach. think and so he must have at least been I would hope you would think he'd be okay with how he was represented in the movie. Yeah. So your take is that the movie doesn't necessarily present the father in a stronger way biblically than than what we're kinda already saying that the book seems to indicate. Right. Right. Oh. See I I'm just saying that that fits for me a whole pattern that has been the way of, you know, a whole portion of the church, what we have tended on on this show to to say churches that are more liberal, that that uh are of the opinion that science has shown us that uh truth according to the five senses is the most important truth and so therefore uh anything having to do with spirituality uh it will be different for all of us and the only thing that matters truth wise with spirituality is whether or not it makes you feel better or not. And there's a whole number of churches here in Frederick that are of the opinion that the resurrection of Christ and uh the uh miracles of the Bible, the virgin birth, you know, uh are unnecessary for the for the Bible to be something that inspires us to be good moral people. And even though that's a kind of a nice way to live, I believe that it is insufficient for uh for answering the great questions and problems of the planet Earth, right? Ever since uh we fell into sin as as mankind. And so it fits a pattern that I'm kinda not surprised that there's a whole bunch of churches that are really behind it. Yeah. And uh you seem sad about that. I'm sad for two reasons. Um one because it's true. Yeah. And secondly, you know, the pastor doesn't portray himself as sound biblically. Yeah. And you want him to. You want this the book does it and the movie doesn't either. Right. Uh the pastor does in the book he uses certain scriptures, but they don't fit exactly the context. I would say ninety-nine percent of the time. Sure. Now we're gonna have to get into the meat of this stuff on next week's version of the show One, because there's going to be so much to unpack on that, I think. And also I want to walk through next week, remind me so we don't forget to do this, walk through some of those instances where they have the bum bum bum And what are some of these experiences that would make somebody think, wow, I think he might have actually visited heaven? What are those things? In case there's somebody listening like John who hasn't seen the movie or read the book. Yeah. Um That's good man. You're gonna get my first blush reaction. Yeah, but fresh. But we do have a couple of minutes left in the show and I'm saving these because today I mentioned it to Chris. I alluded it to uh to it uh a while ago to you, John. I don't know if you remember. And I mentioned it to Chris right before we started the show, but today's very special day. Why you know what today is? What this what today's show is? Today's show is it's a certain number show. that is a major mile marker for us. Is that right? Yeah, do you know the number? Uh I know, I know. Like Two thousand three hundred and forty five? Wait a minute. That's way too high. That's one a week, fifty times seven, thirty-five, is it is it number f three hundred and fifty? Four hundred? How many have we gone like seven years? No, more than that. How many years have we been going? It'll be ten years this fall. Ten years? This is five hundred. Five hundred. Is that something? That's great. Like if I had to guess Like John, I would have guessed a totally wrong number. I might have guessed three fifty or something like that. Seriously. So five. Job well done. So any any uh Words of wisdom to share? 500th show? You haven't done it in the first four hundred and ninety-nine. The word of wisdom is that when you find something that you love to do And uh it doesn't cause any extra difficulty for you to do it. You know you're made to do it. Keep on doing it. And that has been the case for you and I. You and I love to dig into this stuff and I think that that's just the natural. It it would come away encouraged and built up, even when we're having intense discussions with people that we disagree with. Yeah. Could you bring us a cake or anything, Chris? Let me check here and see. Heavens for real, but not the cake. As somebody who hasn't been on all of the five hundred shows, yeah, you're an a you know an occasional visitor, you've been on the show a handful of times. Yeah, yeah. Enjoy it every time. You know, and I and I don't know, I don't know if you'd listen when you're not on, but uh you're at least familiar with what we're doing here if you're not listening regularly. Uh somebody who's on the outside of the show most of the time, what's your take on nearly ten years of a faith debate show existing in Frederick? Are we wasting our time? Tell me. We are, aren't we? No, no, absolutely. It's always good to gather around scripture and and uh discuss it and challenge each other. Stay sharp, stay fresh, iron sharpening iron. Tolerance was such a major issue ten years ago. And the definitions of those things have moved in a direction that you and I and other people on the show honestly saying what we believe about things without pulling punches is more relevant and more risky today than ever before. And I think that's part of the reason why why there's, you know, any market whatsoever for this. I mean we've got two or three people out there that people Yeah, family counts. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, he's like family now. Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, Chris Jackson with the uh Religious Coalition. I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith. Again, there you'll find the Faith Debate blog. And I didn't mention it at the start of the show, I'll mention it now. Eighteen blog updates Monday through Friday is ninety blog postings a week So keep sending me your garbage. I mean keep sending me your roadbloed emails. No, seriously, there's a couple that are out I think why why am I putting this up? But a lot of it's really good. I think that's fifteen thousand minutes, by the way, that we've been on the show. Wow. That's big mass. That's the new math. Till next week. God bless.