Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City and the heart of Gridlock. County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavements. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Space Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty, WFMD, sponsored by Putman's Fleming and Heating. Putman Fleming and Heating, how can we Make you slow. Go online and visit the face to bait page. WFMD. com keyword face takes you right there This is you there, the Faith Today blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me, 18 postings a day, Monday through Friday, it's 90 a week We encourage you to check it out if you even if you don't email me something. On the face debate today, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church Mikey's not on the Faith of Bate show almost every day. Uh Chris Jackson, who is with the Religious Coalition, is also with us. What have I been reading, gentlemen? Well, one of the things I've been reading A classic as far as I'm concerned. I don't know if you guys will agree with me. I don't know if you've read it, and if you have, I'm not sure if you would agree with me anyway. For my money, one of the best books most entertaining, well-written, well-crafted novels ever in the Bible. History. I wouldn't put the Bible as a novel. In history. Is a book written by uh William Golding You know which book I'm talking about? Lord of the Flies? Okay. And you think it's one of the best ever? One of the I uh from my money it is it is one of the best books ever written. fiction yeah ever. Well the i i it is it's gotta be for me it's easily top ten. And and for easily for you to say that, that means that the the story itself is engaging, the way that he writes. And you're saying that he weaves into it then a bunch of themes that when you read it uh become really clear and you love that as well. It's The themes are so multifaceted and interwoven and I think there are themes in the book that William Golding himself didn't know were there. Wow, that's Seriously. So it's inspired? I mean is that what you say? Right, so that's my next question. How old can I have my sons read this? Well, it's it's gonna be more about like emotional maturity. Yeah. You know, and sophistication of worldview. Yeah. Probably more than anything. And so that's college. You know, your kids You know, maybe are a little bit further ahead than the typical I think to really appreciate this book you probably have to have a college level understanding of things. Uh but if you feel like you've got a really mature, really intellectual, really grounded Really together, maybe sixteen year old could re you can read it at sixteen is not gonna destroy you, but I don't think you're gonna really appreciate it if you're a typical sixteen year old. Did you read The Lord of the Rings? I have not re I've seen the movies. I was gonna use them as a comparison. Oh, but you haven't Totally different genre though. Totally different genre. What a rank is fantasy. Right, but they're both fiction. Well yeah. And so you're dealing with a screen. Categories of fiction. Okay. Never mind. On the show today we're talking about something else I've read. I can suck you into any argument. Having is for real by Todd Burpo, also uh written with Lynn Vincent. I think she's the real writer. She he probably just, you know, quoted his story to her and she transcribed it and and tried to make it into this beautiful work of Fiction or not? Uh heaven is we've already done three shows on this, and we're not going to belabor all the stuff that we've already talked about. If you want to listen to the podcast. It was gonna help you catch up a little bit. But there are some there are some admirable things about the book and we've talked about those at the start of last week's show. So we're done with that. Okay. We've ended last week's show spending uh the last half and maybe a little bit more than the last half of the show. talking about some concerns from a biblical perspective about what's talked about in it in the movie Heaven is for real and the book Heaven is for Real. And Chris Jackson has read the book and seen the movie, so he is the most qualified in this room to talk about it. So what are some of the things that I should be worried about? Let's my my daughter. I let her read this book and she comes away with a uh an altered worldview, an altered view of reality. of spiritual reality and the and what the Bible's message is. Th th those concerns are going to be well founded because of what? Well I found somebody who can answer that question a lot better than I could. Uh so humble Recognize. Just uh sit there for me. Sit there and soak it in there. Sit there and soak it in. Pajama. But uh Pastor John MacArthur wrote a a book called The Glory of Heaven and he actually has a section uh dedicated to this book, Heaven is for Real. And he titles the chapter, Heaven Is for Real, Hallucinations Are Not. The book's been out that long? I don't know what's a copyright on that. The movie's out this year, but the book's been out for a few years. Two thousand ten is when the book came out. Yeah, he actually uh Wrote his book The Glory of Heaven uh years before, then uh did a r a reprint and added a couple of chapters in here about near-death experiences. And he says here, uh, people seem to be looking for spiritual truth, messages from God, and insight into the spirit world everywhere but Scripture. Today's evangelicals have been indoctrinated by decades of charismatic influence, excuse us, Jonathan, to think God regularly bypasses his written word in order to speak directly to any and every believer. as if extra biblical revelation were a standard feature of ordinary Christian experience. Many therefore think uh charity requires them to receive claims of fresh revelation with a kind of pious gullibility. After all, who are we to question someone's private word from God? So when dozens of best-selling authors who profess to be Christians are suddenly claiming they have seen heaven and went to tell us I'm sorry, and want to tell us what it's like. Most of the Christian community is defenseless in the wake of the onslaught, is what he says. Yeah, and in fairness, I mean i John MacArthur if if you know who he is, uh then you you know he's he's Famous for a lot of things and one of the th and most of them really good things, by the way. He's a wonderful man of God, a great uh exegete, expounder of the Bible. um uh marvelous in so many ways. Uh but he is is pretty harsh in his criticism of the charismatic movement within the church. And uh you know, Jonathan re recoils at that a little bit, and I think rightfully so. Um how however in this I laugh. However, in this case I think what he's meaning to I don't think he's drawing upon all his charismatic, anti-charismatic arguments here I think he's making a historical uh point, and I think it's a fair one, that part of what the charismatic movement has brought into the modern day or the present day, it's postmodern day church into the present day church is uh uh an uh an accent on our spiritual experience. It's it's um that's what he's saying. th there's there's more emphasis on on and I'm not saying that's necessarily a pret it's not I'm saying that in a pejorative, I'm not saying it's necessarily a bad thing, but their charismatics are more into their experience than uh Presbyterians. For example. Right. You know, so uh and he's saying with two wanna take the time to place that historically? Or should we just keep moving? John uh John uh MacArthur a little bit of of room here 'cause I don't I don't I don't think he's trying to pick a fight with the charismatics here. I think that he's trying to just make a a quick point from his from his perspective, everybody who knows who he is is going to understand where he's coming from. So but the real point is kind of what we were talking about at the very beginning of this whole discussion, which is people are so lost for understanding the Bible, turning to the Bible. They don't want to trust the Bible is true, but they trust their experience. Yes. And so when somebody comes along and says, well my experience is this If we don't have the Bible to fall back on, he's right. We're defenseless. What how do you argue against somebody's experience? No, you didn't have that experience. That doesn't work. And so that's what MacArthur is saying. I think he's right Jonathan's not so sure because he's looking at me funny. Well, okay, so this book that I've been reading, right? When I read a book, I tend to pick Pick one that's really gonna take me a long time to read and to master and I stick with it, right? And so you read a book a week and and and you master them, okay? And I and I give you the props, you know, you're one of the few people in my life that I know that can do that, and I love that Um for me, approach a little bit different. The one I've been reading is Um Saving Leonardo by Nancy Pearcy. And her argument is that there are two strings of secular secularism. One is the the the five senses scientific worldview that if you can't You know, if you you can't sense it through, you know, sight, sound, taste, smell, then it doesn't exist, right? The other line of secularism were the ones that revolted against that, you know, and said, quit dehumanizing us and taking the spirit out. There is something spiritual out there. What's interesting to me is that the charismatic Pentecostal movement as we know it today seem to arise in history at the same time as the Romantics, the ones that said for you know, you know, stop trying to uh dehumanize us, you know, spirits everywhere You know, i in and they uh I'm just saying that they rose at the same time and they were the eighteen hundreds. The late eighteen hundreds and the uh the uh the fundamentalists that say scripture, scripture, scripture, scripture arose at the same time as a reaction against those who were um trying to argue that the scripture can't be trusted. And so I think to be to to put MacArthur in an accurate historical perspective is to recognize that since the late eighteen hundreds the entire world has been split into these, you know, what can be proved, you know, through the senses or through scripture, right? That's what the fundamentalists added, scripture. That's what can be proved because we have it. versus the experience of the living spirit of God. And all I'm saying is that the charismatics f uh have have flown out of the have grown out of the one, and the fundamentalists have grown out of the other. And the problem with both of them is that they miss the truth that God is a living God who who lived in history and lives today, and He's not just about our experience, but He's about transforming and changing lives and dynamically. Interacting with us every step of the way. And his word is clearly, you know, and so so the my question is how do we reunite these things instead of as a church? being just as divided ab as the world is over the same exact issues that the world is divided over. And so so MacArthur does it very well what he does. But I think that he's just as guilty as being drawn in by the by the world's philosophies and living in reaction to them as any charismat as he claims charismatics are. And that's exactly what we're arguing about here 'Cause this is the secular version of the charismatic. The secular version of the fundamentalist is the atheist that says, look, if I can't taste, smell it, you know, or or touch it, it doesn't exist. And it's an interesting, uh really fascinating. Uh point in history if you look back into the eighteen hundreds about all the different movements of uh of church uh cult, Christian church cults that get formulated around that time and that's that's the environment that from which all that stuff sprang. But we're we don't have time to get into all that right now. Real quick. Well but I think that's important. In the context of this book, Heaven is for Real, because that's the environment where this kind of thing is. Well I do. Well, you know, we don't want to get into all that right now. Although it's fascinating, I would encourage you to just Google that. Say, you know, Christian cults that formed in the eighteen hundreds, I'd be fascinated to see what you got. Uh Chris, there's the maybe in kind of not rapid fire because that's not fair, but as quickly as as makes sense, run through some other biblical concerns that we have reason to At least it's thought to from Heaven is for real. Well again, um Colton, the four year old boy who had the experience, uh mentions rainbow horses. Um And I'm sure Jonathan would say it's hard to disprove that. Just get into his head for a minute Um That's in sec second Revelation though, isn't it? Yeah, something like that. Yeah. Chapter thirteen of Second Revelation everywhere. Second condominium is as well. Second condominium. Fourth Corinthians. Something like that. Um and of course Colton says there was plenty of animals, there was dogs and cats and things like that in heaven. Um and and as I said in last week, uh You know, Todd Burpo, who who wrote the book, who's the father of Colton, um, I think he took advantage of the fact uh that none of this can be really proven or disproven. Whether animals and cats and dogs and rainbow horses and that type of thing and so he put the book out there. Um But another thing John MacArthur uh says in his book, uh, The Glory of Heaven, um, he he said he named it that or titled it that because When you look at, you know, the few descriptions we have of heaven in, let's say, the book of Daniel and the Book of the Revelation, it is a place of glory. A place of worship. It's a place it it it's almost described as uh a tremendous throne room. We have the angels and the saints of old, um, they're in in in worship, focus on worship and praising God. Um, you don't get the impression that it's a place of you know, dogs and cats and trees and that type of thing. Uh that's reserved for the millennium. Well the Lord will restore this earth and usher in his kingdom. And then the lion will lie down with the lamb and the bear and the wolf will eat grass together and And they'll be able to do that. and as unusual an idea as rainbow horses are, it's still pretty darn pedestrian. And the vision that we at least that I seem think that is presented to us in scripture of heaven is not pedestrian at all. It I mean it There's a reason why, you know, it's uh there's lots of metaphor and apocalyptic type of imagery that's used because there really is no combination of words in the in the human vocabulary to do justice to what heaven is. It's not as simple as, oh yeah, there were rainbow horses. That was heaven. That is so pedestrian, so simple, so small, as unusual as it is. You might see something like that in, you know, Oz, right? Didn't they have the horse of many colors in uh in the Wizard of Oz? You know, so is heaven like like Oz? No, heaven is way more unbelievable and indescribable than Oz, and yet what we're left with with Colton's description is something that's close to a nineteen thirty-nine movie. And that's a good point. Uh I think Jonathan might have touched on that uh in in the previous broadcast, is that uh Todd Burpo, the father, he would sit down each night and read Colton Bible stories With and they actually had a illustrated Bible. And uh they had a picture of of Jesus with uh like a purple sash and uh a white robe and everything and and the long hair and and And just, you know, the trees and the animals and the children all around and and of course, you know, who knew but Colton and and after His experience. He said, Oh, that's exactly what I saw Everybody wears sashes in heaven apparently. Right. That was a recurring thing that came up several times in the book. I'm not sure what the importance of that was really. He just mentions it a lot. So uh I don't know if did I reintroduce? I don't know if I did. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Chris Jackson from the Religious Coalition is uh on the show. Huh? Hello. Oh. He said, Oh no. I said, what? Did you just resign your commission there in the last four minutes? Um and Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Um I'm I'm Troy Skinner, like you cared to know that. Um on the whole so I I just want to say this, that the few places where rainbow shows up in scripture It shows up after Noah. It shows up in Ezekiel and Revelation when it's talking about heaven. Which is interesting. Right? I'm not uh and I'm saying that um You know, for a kid, you know, like Colton, he could have embarked that through any number of Sunday school lessons, right? You know, that there's angels, you know, 'cause we're told that And that's my suspicion. When Christ comes You know, that there's a rainbow over his head and he's riding on a white horse. Okay, rainbow horses. I mean I'm just saying that some of those things. Yeah, that's and that's my same thing with spectrum. Angels when they come out of the you know, for the final seven bowls, they have golden sashes. You know, and uh and so in Isaiah, you know, there's sashes, you know, that that are in the context of heaven and heavenly beings. And so we we have a little bit less than ten minutes, and I want to uh um This is going to be a little demanding on you, and I didn't prepare you to think about this, so it might be unfair for me to throw this at you, but we've spent You know, the better part now of the last two shows talking about concerns and we hinted at some concerns even before that. Now we've done four shows and we've been uh as gracious as as I think we can be while still harboring these concerns at the same time. So here we are, we have less than ten minutes left. We have these concerns. We're concerned about somebody who doesn't have the tools to recognize where uh the Bible is taken out of context or when the imagery is unbiblical or the influences might be from a secular worldview of a s uh spiritualized secular worldview and not from uh scripture and Christian teaching. All those things are concerns. So what what do you guys, you know, as as a minister of the word, you know, pastor of a church? What do we do in response to this? What do we have an obligation to do something to equip our people? Oh, not again. We do that every Saturday. No, I I think my uh my response to something like this would be to say, look uh there is an approach to spirituality and christian in uh the West that um is is not so concerned about being biblical so much as it's concerned about uh inspiring and and you know, making people feel better about who they are. so that they would be inspired to do good works and that it's a very dangerous stream in Christianity and that this book uh is a good example of that. You know, and so I encourage you to read it. Let's talk about it, like you said. I think that's a good approach, you know, when you're done with it. And um and uh you know, I I think it's likely that I'll use it. I I use Noah's Aronowski. I think that's another example of Uh he he took um uh liberties with the facts of scripture. Uh but when he took the liberties, I felt like he did a better job of weaving biblical themes. into his liberties than uh the whole movie of the Bible did that that was put out by the Christians a couple you know, uh last year that that was all over the cable stations. Because that one too took significant liberties, uh, but was not as artistic and effective in using the liberties that it took to weave, you know, a really good story. Aronoske did a much better job at it. uh than the Christians did. But my point is that all of those are people that that are not holding scripture to its highest standard and instead are uh taking liberties with it. And I I I think that's That's unhelpful for our walk with Christ, but it's very helpful for us to identify that it's happening, and a book like this would be a good tool. for training the average believer to identify those things. Go read it. Let's have a discussion about it. Let's see how it is that it can be uh really um dangerous in so in the hands of somebody that doesn't know what's going on. Chris I would agree. And uh in addition to that, I would also, you know, preach the truth about heaven from the pulpit. Here's here's what heaven is like. Heaven is really a place of glory, of majesty. Uh it's the center of it is God's throne. It's it's is where, you know, uh you true our loved ones will be there. Okay. But They won't be there, you know, playing and laughing and skipping and playing ball, but you know, they'll be there in an attitude of worship. And uh another source of I read uh referred to Luke chapter sixteen. Where it talks about this parable of of the rich man and Lazarus, and the rich man says to to Father Abraham He says, I have five brothers, send Lazarus to them that he may warn them that they did not come to this place of torment. And Abraham said to him, They have Moses and the prophets, let them hear them. And he said, No, Father Abraham, but if one goes to them from the dead, they will repent. But he said to them, If they do not hear Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, but one rise. I'm so glad you brought that one up. So uh here's again, people are looking for that near death experience, out of body experience, but again, even here it's referring us back to the scriptures. The scriptures are the final authority. Don't bypass those. If they don't believe Moses, they're not going to believe us today. And and that is the main point. Uh you said it more articulately than than uh I would, but that's uh would have. And but I I You know, I want to have a final word too. My final word is very similar. All of us in this room are in agreement, heaven is for real. Yes. But not one of us in this room believes that because young Colton says so. That's right. I believe so because a man said that he would die and raise again and r ascend up into heaven and he did it. And all the foundation that pointed to that happening in the scriptures that preceded him in the Old Testament, what we now call the Old Testament, were all fulfilled in that. The truths that are embodied in the Old and New Testament, everything that's pointing to and centering on the cross of Christ. And I have come to a point where I believe that is true. And if you are listening to this and you believe also that that is true that Jesus is who he says he is, that Jesus did die, did rise again, is coming again. If you believe that is true, you don't need Colton. You don't need this movie. You need you don't need culture's approval We need the culture around us to say, oh yeah, okay, you Christians probably got it right after all. We don't need any of that. All we need is God and we learn about God, discover what God has to say about our lives and about reality. In the scripture, that's where we find our answer. So, yes, we all believe that heaven is real. Amen. But we all believe it for reasons that, from a Christian's point of view, are real reasons to believe it. Mm-hmm. Right? I can only imagine sing what it will be like. That's a great song by Mercy Me. No, it's uh Stephen Curtis Chapman, I believe. That's Mercy Me. Well maybe Stephen Curtis Chapman did a cover. Oh, maybe. The r the the the original version of that is Mercy Me. Really? Yeah. He doesn't know the Beatles song he did Christian songs. Yeah, it's probably been covered by a lot of people because it's a classic contemporary Christian song, I can only imagine. But um I'm I'd have to check the songwriter, but I'd be willing to bet that Bart Mallard wrote it. Millard, Bart Millard. You're amazing. Bart Millard's the lead singer for Mercy Mean I think he wrote that song. I just wanted to add one final thought too. uh found another found another uh YouTube video that kinda reviewed this book, Heaven is surreal, and he said, um What Todd Burpo should have named the book is that heaven is for real and not many will go there. Think about that. Mm-hmm. And the road is difficult. You're just one of them, aren't you? One of them haters. One of them haters. Just preaching the word, brother. Well, thank you for preaching the word. My brother. And my other brother. From a different mother. Jonathan Sweit, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Um you you want to say something real quick? Bart Millard wrote the song. Okay, lead singer start the Mercini song. Originally Yeah. See, I hate to say it, but told you so. Jonathan Sweiss, the senior pastor of Cross the Valley Church, Chris Jackson for the Religious Coalition, I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor is Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help We Make You Smile, visit us online. WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Thanks so much for listening until next week. Pick godlass