Broadcasting to the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gredlatch County, where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement. Just ask these guys over here. Why is it? Because people continue to place their homes. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Flooring and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find links and podcasts and news items and the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com. I post what you send me eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday, that's ninety A week. So check us out, go online, WFMD. com, keyword face takes right to the face of day page to see what people have to say. On a faith debate show today, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, and Chris Jackson with the Religious Coalition. He's also a Baptist minister and I don't know, he has like seventeen or eighteen different titles. He's put the microscopic type set on his business card. So I can't And what have I been reading lately? It actually gets them more Google hits that way. So give it a shot. Here's a book I would recommend With a caveat. Oh, caveat. Barbara R. Dugwid wrote a book called Extravagant Grace: God's Glory Displayed in Our Weakness. Here's the caveat. If you are in need of somebody giving you a message that is if you have been reared in a church environment in which legalism has ruled the day And you need somebody to speak to that, this is a book for you. If you haven't been reared in that, then I don't think the author's perspective is intended to speak to you, and so you might find it a little frustrating that there's all this emphasis on the extravagant grace of God. And you're like, yes, but he's also a just God and a righteous God. You know? Vengeance is mine, saith the Lord. Where's that God? And you will be a little bit frustrated. However On the whole, I would say it's definitely it's well written. It's a good uh very, very, very good book. It's uh she bases it on the theology of John Newton. So if you were pastoring a church with somebody that that uh that was really big on that message that you were just describing And you were regularly dealing with that person and they talked to everybody just about that and they they didn't want to deal with sin, they didn't want to deal with judgment, they didn't want to deal with just but they just want to talk about grace and the goodness. Right Right. Uh would you find yourself at some point saying, uh, there's a limit to how much I can let this woman kinda be uh in a leadership position? Wow, okay, well that's a big question without having any real context from which to draw. So maybe we'll hit that next week. Yeah. I would say that it's just to just not to try to see I'm copping out. I would say that my first instinct would not be to remove uh this person from a position where they're having a chance to be having influence or teach necessarily. If they have a gift for teaching So my first instinct would be to try to work them through that and help to coach them to understand that they need to teach the fullness of the biblical message. But what if it's a big thing? But they didn't would you just kinda would you just kinda box them in and say, Okay, we're just gonna keep you in a certain place and make sure that you don't get out there and mess things up. Well if they didn't, meaning they just were incapable, they weren't quite grasping or they were obstinate. Well I mean maybe the reason she's there is because uh she needs it so bad that she can't move beyond it herself. Or maybe she needs that message as well. Boy, this is so hypothetical. But hypothetically speak probably say, you know what, why don't we take a little bit of a break from you teaching? Yeah. Why don't you just sit in on the classes and let's work through some of these things. Because I don't want somebody teaching a class if they don't if they're not willing to at least attempt to try to present the fullness of the scripture. And if you have only a vengeful, wrathful, mean spirited quote unquote old testament God then I don't want you teaching old Testament God was so loving. You can't call that an old testament quote unquote kind of sarcastically because yeah. That's how many people perceive him. Yeah, it's it's ridiculous, really. So but anyway. Okay. So does that help you with whatever your real life situation is that you're uh real life situation? I didn't say I had a real life situation. I'm gonna say I had a question for you. I'm like Lucy in Peanuts, that's five cents. That's my my advice to you is costing you five cents. Mom, if I wanted to go get that piece of candy and nobody else has touched it, you know, would that be okay? So is that a real situation? All right, so enough of that. So we're talking about uh today's show. This is uh part three of uh Well, it's at least a three-part series, apparently. The book and the movie Heaven is for real. It's very popular. You've probably heard of it. Maybe you've seen it. Maybe you've read it. You've at least probably seen the trailer or heard people talking about it, I would imagine In case you haven't, there's a young boy, I think he's three at the time when he has his appendix burst, and then when he's about four, I think he starts sharing things that he claims that he experienced and saw while he was on the operating table of z saw things uh that he understood to be heaven. His father, who's a pastor, came to understand them as him visiting or seeing heaven. Um saw things, knew things that he had no business saying that he saw or knew and so they they felt that gave credibility to what he was saying he saw. That's the gist of what's going on. And there's Before we get into the biblical challenges that this book might face and this movie might face, let's talk about some of the positives real quick. The fact that we've got somebody out there saying, hey, heaven, it's for real. That's a good thing. I'm happy about that. For fact that these parents seem to be uh the way they're presented in the book, I haven't seen the movie, I'm assuming the movie is. I'm sure that I'm completely happy about that Well th I don't have to talk about why that's the case, but I'm just gonna get into that when we get into the negatives, I think. Okay. Right. So but giving it every being a charitable reader, a charitable viewer of the movie, being as charitable as possible, and I say, Oh, okay, you're talking about heaven I'm I'm liking that as far as it goes so far. It seems in the book for sure, and probably the movie too, it it seems like it's a well functioning family. The husband and wife love each other. They love and care for their children. It's a nice picture of what family should look like as far as I can tell. So that's very encouraging. I like that. Um the book does use Words from the Bible. There are actual scripture passages in the book. I like how you phrased that. I like that. Right? So that's good. And it's for some people a fun read, so that's that's good. We all need a little timeout on a brain. I mean I sometimes read stuff that's really dense and difficult and you know I'm I'm exhausted after about an hour and a half. I was like, man, my brain is tired And then you run across a book like this and you're like, oh, okay, did I read anything yet? But that kind of a active reading and yet not so challenging, that has its advantages in certain contexts. So that's that's good, that's fine So those are some good things. Any other good things you can think of that you'd wanna throw out there as an encouragement to the Burpo family and fans of the book and the movie? Well I would say is the book is very and the movie as well is was very heartwarming Uh how can you not love a four year old child saying, you know, I saw Jesus and he let me sit on his lap and all those things. I saw rainbow horses and you know, I saw my great grandfather and And all those things. Uh offers a lot of comfort. Um you know, again, you know, just to reiterate what's been said already is that heaven is for real and uh a lot of people are looking forward to that. So uh it it it does paint a really nice picture as far as that's concerned. If course I gotta say that, you know, sounds a lot like uh the devil Nice. Well attractive. It's funny you would say something like that because that was one of my concerns as I was nearing the end of reading the book. And at the same time, this is such a warm and fuzzy That's a touching you you you want to root for these guys. You wanna It's Disney. You wanna believe their story. You want it's Disney. You wanna believe that, you know, uh ogres are real and and and uh you know, jungle animals speak. You you want to believe that. Yeah. Um but boy sometimes the things that are most dangerous are the things that uh are appear most closely to be the truth. Right. You think and things are wrapped in in innocence and th are are you know the the the the devil is is an angel of light You know, he's we're led to believe that there's something beautiful and attractive uh about Satan. So you gotta be careful just because it looks good. Yeah, they'll they please show you it just popping my head. We say this all the time. Looks like a duck's, you know, waddles like a duck, blacks like a duck, must be a duck. That's not true. Not all that glitters is not all that glitters is gold. So so what are some of the Points of concern, the the dangers perhaps even that you as as a minister, Chris, uh you read the books, uh saw the or saw the movie. You know, what are some things that you and your discerning eye noticed? Well, there's one place in the book uh I like to mention where the dad, who's a pastor, asks his son Colton Um, where did he see Jesus? And he says, Oh, I saw Jesus at the right hand of God. So, okay, well that's fine. And then for some reason the pastor asked his son, Well, who's on his left hand? And Colton says, Gabriel. And to justify that, uh the pastor quotes From the story where uh Gabriel spoke to the father of John the Baptist and said that I Stand in the presence of God. And I'm here to tell you that you're gonna have a son and you're gonna name him John So based on that, uh the pastor said, ah, so it must be true. Gabriel must be at the left hand of God. Right. Right. And Jesus But there is no possible way. Because uh once again scripture comes in in Hebrews chapter one Where the writer of Hebrews says, But to which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand till I make your enemies your footstool? Are they not all ministering spirits sent forth to minister for those who will inherit salvation? Okay, now I know it Hebrews said the right hand, but He's not gonna have any God's not gonna have anybody on his left hand either. That place of authority is just for him and Christ. And even if you I don't I don't feel like it's wise to go as far as you just went. Okay. Right. I don't think it's wise for us to say, okay, Gabriel's at his left hand because this boy saw it. But I also think it's very unwise for us to say, because unless scripture comes right out and say comes right out and says the left hand of God is for this or this is who's at the left hand of God. I think that we need to we need to have a healthy humility that says, you know, we just don't know Maybe it's Gabriel, maybe not. The little boy seeing it just doesn't make me you know, doesn't doesn't push it. And and I get concerned when we start like I feel like you just did something that that is a little bit dangerous. You said, well, this says right hand, so we can assume it's true about the left hand too. I I'm just a little bit hesitant. to want to add anything to scripture. I feel like it gets us into trouble. That's what that's what Eve did in the garden. Right? The the um serpent came and uh and she says, Yeah, God God says we're not even supposed to touch the tree. Uh God never At least we're not told that God of the United States is a very important thing. And there's a part of me that's certainly a sensitive. But I will say this. I think the context um of that Hebrews passage, I think it's I think it's fair for somebody who's studying the word and and studying that particular passage to try to figure out, okay, what is the what is the intended meaning here? And I think the intended meaning of that passage probably is what Chris is saying, is that look, it's it's it's not talking about the literal space time continuum anyway. It's talking about conceptually who's 'Cause the right hand is the is is the authority and the power of God and the the judgment of God and the you know, it's it it's i my right hand man. It's it's so the God's There's no angel who is God's right hand man or left hand man. Right and and so by implication you can say, yeah, or left hand man, because they kinda so I can see I can that now I can say we would ought to be careful You might like if we gave Chris a chance, now would you like to follow up? He might have said, now I know I'm going a little bit further than what the actual literal word for word of the scripture says. But I think that conceptually here's what I think it's teaching and why, and if he were to do a sermon on this, he probably could unpack that and and get into all the nuances of it. It does seem to be the impression that Todd Burpo saying, oh my four year old said it, so it must be true. That is in another completely different galaxy of thought and reasoning. Right? Exactly, exactly. Don't you think? At least Chris is drawing his implications from the pages of scriptures. He's taking scripture saying, okay, the implication of this passage is this. Verpo is saying the implication of my four-year-old son's testimony is this. Uh totally. Because the implication of the passage says that um i is to point out that the angels are nothing like Christ when it comes to the purposes of God. That's clearly the implication of the passage. And there's some religions that want to compare Christ to Gabriel or to Lucifer for that matter as somehow being brothers and that kind of thing. And so There's definitely a danger in in any sense of kind of lowering Christ to the level of an angel or raising angels to the world. And that's why I think Chris is So I'd agree with you. He took a shortcut on the implication. He didn't unpack it, but I think his shortcut ends up in the right place because the passage is basically to say that Gabriel's at a left hand or anybody's at a left hand is very close to saying they're on borderline equal footing with Christ. That's right. And anything that would flirt with that is not in line with what the overall message of the Bible is teaching us. So Anyway. Which which begs the question, is there any Hebrew understanding of what a left hand of God is supposed to represent? We're we're told all the time about the right hand. So it's probably i it's unnecessary for this particular discussion, but it just kinda begs the question is there less than a lot of it. And not that I have the answer, but it occurs to me I'll have to ask next time we have a uh a a Muslim guest out to ask them about the left hand of God 'cause they have an an interesting view on the right and left hand. Mm. Mm-hmm. Well Proverbs says that the heart of the fool inclines to the right no, inclines to the left, and the heart of the wise man inclines to the right. And I think, of course, politically today we know that that's got to be the case. Let's say out of that. Anyway, that was Jonathan Schweitzer, Incredible Catholic President High Church Call me out. Number five five five. Yeah. And uh Chris Jackson's on the show here too. He's with the Religious Coalition. And what are some other we got sidetracked there a little bit? What are some other things in the book that we should be as as as biblical Christians should have our eyebrows at least raised. Uh there's another reference in the book where um the pastor and the author, Todd Burpo, extends Olive Branch to the Catholics And um he asked Colton, did you see anybody else? And Colton says, Yeah, I saw Mary, Jesus' mother. He said, Oh, what did she do? Well, she acted like a mother to Jesus. And and again, I may be going out on a limb here, but I see Mary Definitely in heaven, but now just equal to any other saint, any other woman of God who's up there, she's not elevated, she's not below. But uh it seems like Todd Burpo is kinda again extending something to the Catholics. Does he say in the book that he is extending something to the Catholics? So he like he's kind of intentional about all that saying, Oh, maybe they're right after all. I don't know if it goes that far. I had the same sense reading it though that oh the Roman Catholic audience is gonna love this part of the book. He says, actually let me read. A lot of our Catholic friends have asked whether Colton saw Mary, the mother of Jesus. The answer to that is yes He saw Mary kneeling before the throne of God and at other times standing beside Jesus. She still loves him like a mom, Colton said. I'm not opposed to that. She she did bear him. And right, I mean whatever labor was there, it happened there in Bethlehem that night and he came out, you know, with uh you know, umbilical cord and all Uh and they had to spank him to get him to cry or whatever they did at the time. I mean there's a unique thing going on there that uh you think that carries on in heaven that she has a different role? No, I'm not saying that, but But she has a memory of Christ that there is nobody else on the face of the planet in all of history that will ever have of Christ. But I don't think that will be her overriding sense of him. I'm with you is his override is her overriding sense of him uh in heaven. I think you know, her overriding sense is he's he's God, he's Lord and Savior. He's magnificent. He the fact that he's her son is w way lower on the list of things. Um and the Bible talks about, you know, no one is given in in marriage. You know, the husbands and wives don't have the same kind of relationship to each other in heaven that they have on earth. I just can't imagine that God would take away from her the the memory or necessarily minimize the memory of the uniqueness of that. I think all generations will call her blessed. That's what scripture says. And I'm okay with that. I think that she will live with the sense of that in a way that that doesn't minimize the blessing and the sainthood that will be upon you and I. No, I and I'm in any way. still loves Jesus like a mom. Right? Isn't that the that isn't that the quote? That's the quote. I think that's she loves him. I can't get my head around any of it. She loves him way bigger than that. Yeah, and as much as my mom loves me in heaven, she's gonna love Jesus in a way that is light years bigger and different and more magnificent than the love she has for me. Okay, sure, but male and female he created them in the image of God. There is something about the female that for us to fully understand the image of God, right? We want to see her walking in the fullness of that. We are the bride of Christ, right? Uh that's an intentional metaphor that God built into all of creation. You know, that we are the bride of Christ. And all I'm saying is that is that Uh uh I'm slow to over minimize any of that. I think the Catholicism goes too far, way too far. Way, way, way too far, okay? Uh I do. I I that would be enough, you know, the way that they interact with Mary, I think would be enough for me to protect. Here's my point. We've talked about this particular thing now for like five minutes. Yeah, Colton addresses it with four words. Yeah, so what you're saying we're done? Move on. No five word. No, my point is there's a lot here. Oh right. It's not a simple Oh, he does she loves him like a mom. Right, the image explodes in our imagination. Oh, so Colton's got it right, a hundred percent. One he's got every nuance captured in that one little like everything. Right. The mystery is solved. It's not as simple as that. Right. And that's the danger. That's the power and that's the danger of a story like this that drops a little perspective. It looks like Chris wants to jump in and say something else. Yeah, again about this um relationship with Mary. I think Christ kind of In my opinion, he kind of conveyed the idea that the relationship has changed at the cross. Remember, he was on the cross and he said to Mary, This is now your son, the Apostle John. And he said to John, Behold your mother. You know, uh there was still many more days for Christ to interact with the disciples, interact with his mother uh after he rose from the dead. But but at this point here he's saying the relationship Okay, and you're dealing with something ontological and spiritual, and I have no impression that Jesus meant that. I I have the impression that Jesus is being a good Jewish son And he's making sure that somebody's going to take care of his mother now that he's gone. And it's a very practical s thing saying, look, John, I want you to treat her like your mom for the rest of your life. Right. I want you to be the one that takes care of her in her old age. I want you to be the one that makes sure that she has food on the table, whatever's happening, you be the one to watch out for her. And so so for me, that passage does not necessarily convey anything ontological. Ontological, in the old days, that would have been the word of the week. We don't do a word of the week on the show anymore, but if we did, that would have been it. Ontological. Ontological has to do with the state of being. uh they understand that he is ontologically changed from what he was previously to now being something different spiritually, right? And so it has to do with And along those lines, let's talk about the state of being, um, because there is some difference of opinion of how to understand what happens at the moment of death. Colton claims that he sees actual bodies walking around in heaven. But there is an argument argument to be made from scripture that perhaps that's not the case. that the spirit of the person is in heaven, but the body will not be raised up until the second advent of Christ, when the resurrection happens and everyone is given new bodies. So if Christ hasn't come again, the second coming hasn't happened, do the individuals currently in heaven right now, do they have bodies for Colton to see? Biblically. I would say no. So that was our that was my question. Reading is like, how is he seeing anybody? They don't have bodies yet Yeah. I d I would tend to agree with you uh in my hair split there is that spiritually, what do you see spiritually when you have eyes to see spiritually? And if we're made in the image of God then can you see a spiritual body? Will be raised a spiritual body. But the spirit wouldn't look like Pop when he was twenty-four years old, because he sees a picture of his great grandfather and says, Oh yeah, that's him, that's what he looks like, only he's doesn't have glasses now or something like that. I don't know. Well, I would have to what would July Spirit look like? The spirit would look like his old earthbound body? Well, I might have to go with Jonathan because uh I don't know. Uh Peter, James and John were on the mountain and they saw Moses and Elijah and they weren't in bodies at the time. Right. But they were able to recognize them. And and uh Lazarus and the rich man were in heaven and they could they could discern one another. So I don't know. I don't know how far to take that. I mean we're we don't we're talking about things that the Bible is very unclear about and so Yeah. We could surmise I think a whole number of things. He took a topic that um There isn't a whole lot of d information on on heaven, per se, what it looks like and everything. And so he In my humble opinion, maybe I'm jumping a gun, but he took a topic and said I can be safe talking about heaven and we can put some animals and some rainbows and things like that in there and and make everybody happy. Put even throw Mary in there and and just make everybody happy and nobody would disagree with it. If it's a four-year-old kid's perspective, what you just described is a little bit too sophisticated. I'm not saying that he might not have some you know, less than innocent uh reason for coming up with all of his stories or, you know, that he had an actual experience where he uh dreamed of those things. Uh but to argue that he or his dad has that sophisticated of an agenda it would be very surprising. Yeah, I I would hope that that's not true because that would believe a a a negative heart motivation for Todd and I would hope that that's not true uh for th for for uh you know, somebody claiming to be a pastor of of of God's message, right? That would be a real problem. It reminds me though, of uh when I was uh Oh how m how many years ago is this? This is you know a long time ago when my my son was was like a year old and Uh my wife would say somet I I had done something. I drank the last, you know, all but the last drop of the milk and put the carton back in the refrigerator or something like that. And she said, Did you drink all this milk and put it back with like one drop? And my standard response back then was, No, no, no, no, I didn't do it. Our son Tyler did it. Ask him, he won't deny it Couldn't prove otherwise. You know, so that that's that might be an accidental benefit for Todd Burpo with a book like this, right? Anyway, Jonathan Sweister, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, Chris Jackson with the Religious Coalition. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate that's been brought to us by Putman, Twinling and Heating. Has we make you smile? Visit us online, WFMV. com Keyword Faith. Thanks so much for listening. Until next week, 167 and one half hours from now. God bless.