And and so a peace a very peace loving people uh at that point started to wear turbans and the swords and those kinds of things. And so the common pictures of the Sikh today uh come from that period of history where all of a sudden they had to defend themselves against the invading Muslim hordes in particular. living guru Guru Govinsing came to the ascent of the throne of the Sikh uh ch uh Ghali was called in Punjabi or how you would say English uh Leadership. Okay. And what had happened prior to that was uh his father, Gruteg Bahadur, had been uh asked had championed the Hindu cause. Uh the Mughal Emperor at that time wanted to uh convert Ephraim into Sikhism and the the Brahmin to convert everybody to Sikhism. No into into m into Islam. Yes. And what happened was the uh the Brahmins from Kashmir went to him and said, ask them to champion the cause. to chanky champion their faith, Hinduism. And they promised him the Mughal Emperor, if you can c convert Guru Teg Bahadur into a uh Muslim I will all convert into Muslim. Hm. And this is a man of very strong principles and he refused to do it. He eventually got beheaded as a result. Ah. Whoops. Yeah, so that he lost and then yeah, after w after that they you know, the whole movement came under scrutiny and uh there was a struggle for survival. Sure, it's so hard. You know, it's like a it's it's a very exotic history, you know, to to think about these things happening in the Kashmir Mountains. you know, some four or five hundred years ago, you know, in the context of Buddhism, Islam, and then Sikhism in the middle of all that is uh attempting to define itself and ends up being s something of a pillar stopping the invasion of of Islam, I guess is is what I'm Well, it it's it it was And for that matter, kind of stopping the Hindu as uh in uh ascendancy. I don't know, is that the word? Well I'm I wouldn't say that. I think it was just the environment at the time because the it wasn't a question of sentence or anything else, but you had a r a group of rulers who had invaded and then taken over. Yeah. And they ruled the country ruthlessly So uh initially it wasn't ruthlessly, initially it was very loving and open minded. But as, you know, th they became more orientated towards uh faith, they became more ruthless about it. And that's when the whole um aspect of our faith uh turned in defending ourselves. And that that's why when you see Sikhs today, the concept is of the Khalsa. Sikhs have turbans, they have beards, they wear the kara. I'm sorry, say that word again, you said it before. A kalsa. The kalsa means the brotherhood. The culsa is the Brotherhood and the Brotherhood wears the turbans and the swords. Well let me be more defined. The culsa was defined was created in sixteen ninety nine. And what happened was Gru Gobinsing asked for five volunteers I've got it. Now he's the guy that was the last guru. Correct. So I'm following you. Okay. And you keeping up, Troy? No, as long as you are we'll be okay. Sorry. Troy took his tie off, you know, he's just trying to keep up here. He was the last uh living guru and he asked for five volunteers and in a at a gathering uh very few people got up except for five. And these guys he dressed them in a in a in a p turban, a cara, and put the five K's on them. K's is a sword. No, K is a k the five K's like literal that letter K. So it's kirpan, Kanga, Kachha, Kashmir. Oh okay. I use that word all the time now when I text people. K Okay. Alright, so anyways, they get five Ks, one e uh for each one, and they mean something different, but these are the five volunteers that are going to stand for Sikhism and defend their borders as it were. Champions of the thing. And then the then what the guru did was actually he actually asked the five uh people who came on board the uh to come and bless him in the in the ceremony. So it's a very symbolic thing. It's as we remember in the Basaki it's the around April the fifteenth, it's also uh uh is at the same time the harvest and the Punjab. So there's a lot of um cynicism with it. Sure. Dr. Harpal uh Mangat is a Sikh? Jonathan Sweitzer is a Christian at Senior Pastor Crossers Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Um before I forget, because before we started uh the show we were talking a little bit about your name and I think it's interesting and I don't want to forget to go there. So why don't you Explain your first name has meaning, your middle name has mean I mean your whole name has is loaded with meaning, right? So as Sikhs, um like you guys have baptism and confirmation, we gather our names from a service we have at our Gudwara, uh where the first letter of uh is chosen. And you know, um in Punjabi Punjabi Haram means God. So it comes quite frequently in in our holy book. So when I was born the letter H came out and my grandparents decided it called me Harpal. Har means God and Pal means looks looks after. So literally the one who God looks after. As a Sikh, we are we have Sings in our name. Some people like to use this uh Singh as a surname. In our family chose not to use it but as a middle name. So what does Singh mean? Singh means line Lion? Lion. Lion. Yeah. Like Aswan. Chronicles are not in a reference to the case. No, that's okay. A a rare pop culture reference from Jonathan Schweitzer. Goes back to C. S. Lewis. More likely to come out of me. Yeah. So why lion? Why saying? Well what's the history behind that? Do you know? Because when we had the Khalsa on the f on the five Ks we formed at the Basaki Uh that was what they were cho shown to be because at that time people were afraid to fight out against the Muslims, the Islam. So that he had to create lions and create people who are ready to fight to defend the faith. And so the Singh is the the the rising of the S uh uh out of the group of the Sikhs, the Brotherhood, the Kelsa. It's the rising of those that will defend the faith in the face of severe persecution. Well championship. to create a identity to survive. Uh because at that time uh you know, the people who were t who wore who wore turbans and beards were were m Islamic priests. So if you suddenly go to battle with guys who are dressed like your priests, it's a psychological win. automatically. But also you can have to create the fact that you're ready to die for your faith too as well. Right. So it's it's it was a b you know he was he was a brilliant man. The gurus were all brilliant in their own way. How about your last name? Is there any significance to that or it's just a surname that is traveled with Mungly? Uh so it's a common name from that area. Okay. Not not tied to Sikhism at all, right? No, it is very tied. A lot of Sikhs. A lot of a lot of Sikhs are Punjab uh a lot of Punjabis are Sikhs. That's where the heart of the faith is But w today we have a lot of non-Punjabi Sikhs too, where uh uh Sikhs have become uh people who become Sikhs in the United States have converted over. And we have a variety of people. So it's not just Punj uh ethnically Punjabis, we have effer ethnicity there. You uh mentioned earlier that um uh Sikhism is the third largest monotheistic uh religion in the world. Right. Normally you think Christianity, Islam, and Judaism. Judaism is probably not so populous Uh and so the list that I've seen has Judaism is the sixth largest world religion and and Sikhism is fifth just ahead of uh Judaism. So Right, but I guess Christianity, Islam, Hinduism, Buddhism, those are monotheism Sikhism are the top five, I believe, right? Estimates I think are twenty five, thirty million worldwide, approximately two hundred to five hundred thousand in the United States, based on stuff I was trying to look up online to get it's totally They're throwing darts at uh at numbers. I mean the depending on what website you go to, the numbers are one website that estimated eighty six thousand uh American seats. I was like, that sounds too low. But how many uh do you know about I mean you have to give me a specific number, but generally in our community how many Sikhs might there be? In the greater Metropolitan D C uh area there are approximately fifty thousand Sikhs. Do we have nine kudwaras? Okay. So uh and what probably uh the calculations is you know you do it backwards approximately twenty percent like any faith will go regularly to the uh the place of worship regularly. And Gudara will be the place of worship, correct? Correct. Gudwara means uh uh how's the guru Oh, yeah. And how often do you gather do you gather there corporately? Do you go there individually as you like Christianity, we b uh we are we are advised to pray every day and a and you know do the things we should do on a daily basis. But corporately we do gather every Sunday in the Gadwara and have a uh the one which is where we listen to the shabbas, the hymns, and then have a uh langa. Langar is a food. So we have a uh The food is cooked by the c uh one family and everybody has to sit to together. It doesn't matter if you're uh black or white, rich or poor, you have to sit together to to dine. So why Sunday? Why didn't they choose Friday like the Muslims or Saturday like the Jews? Like why do they choose Sunday? I don't know. I'm wanting you to say because Christianity Got it right. I don't know. I think it's just uh the practicality of it all. I mean it's it was it's been like that in the in the beginning, and it doesn't matter whether you are a Sikh in India or you're a Sikh here. As a matter of fact Come to the gr look at the question the other way around, I've been in Islamic countries and been I've seen Sikh Gudwaras there. I also don't know what day they they do it because you gotta understand in Islam Friday's a weekend day. Culturally it's their weekend And so Sikhism kind of arises out of this out of a social reformation uh that had kind of a foundation of spiritual um strength in it. Like is that a good dis description? You know, this this emphasis on equality, this emphasis on And um Sure, uh i i it is a reflection of Reformation because it came at the time of the Reformation. As Reformation swept Europe, uh you know whether you're in England or in Germany or you're in the Punjab, there was a consensus towards change. Yeah, I was I I I was just thinking about the Magna Carta. Magna Carta's you know in the twelve hundreds, you know, and that was kind of the beginning of of you know, that the king has to bow to the law and so kind of a um equalizing uh effect in the Western world and here uh in the Punjab, the Sikhs are in in the you know fourteen hundreds are beginning to move in you know to to move in this direction saying, well wait a second, you know It shouldn't be about this hierarchy. There should there there's some need for equality out there. And so, sure enough Sikhism. And Guru non non nonat? Yeah, essentially that's correct. I mean at that time uh India was very much enthralled in a caste system. And in the caste system the Brahmins were at the top and you had untouchables at the bottom And it was very difficult to trans uh send from one uh caste to the other or even uh go up in society because everything was fixed So like what how how in that culture that was entrenched for generations in the the caste system, like what was it that you know, that that brought the revelation Like Well Guru Nanak like Christ he travelled a lot. He traveled even to Mecca Mecca. He travelled on many journeys and you know he actually But did he make it to Europe? Did he make it to Mecca, he went to Mecca, he went to Jerusalem. he actually uh spent time in the monasteries of the Sufis. Uh do you knew where the Sufis were? I do. No. Sufis were initially from the Church of the Antioch. If you look after uh when Christianity was initially born uh and before the establishment of the Church of Rome, uh Peter and Paul, there a lot of the early Christians went to a city called Antioch. Antioch is on the border. Uh Uh, it's actually in Turkey but it's that part where there's a whole bunch of bloodshed at the moment. And it's part of the Silk Trade. So as the Church of the Antioch went eastwards along the Silk Trade, they actually uh brought a lot of the ideas that way. And that as Islam spread, there was uh essentially a mixing of that. And Guru Now I'm looking at stuff and this is what I've always heard is that Sufism is defined by its adherents. as the inner mystical dimension of Islam. No, it's not Islam, it's every faith. It's every faith? Yeah, if you look at it. Huh? If you look at it, grew down and you say that as a critique of Sufism or as somebody that Well I just as if you look at the historical perspective, uh Guru Nanang Devji uh study in a Sufi Muslim monastery in Nuristan. Now you can ask who's Nuristar and where's Nuristar? Well, Nuristar means light, and star means land. So the land of the light. Okay So if you go back to e even when Jesus Christ was born and the three wise men came. Yeah. Guess where they came from? Were they Sikhs? No, they came from Neristar. They came from the land of light, yeah. So land of knowledge. Is there actually a place that is Nuristan or Nuristan is in modern day Afghanistan, unfortunately the troubles is a problem, but there's a lot of history And uh you know, of Nuristan or Nurra. Nuristan, I'd say no Afghanistan. Nuristan, sorry. Nuristan modern day Afghanistan. If you look at it you'll find it Oh. Uh the wise men could not have been Sikhs though, because Sikhism didn't arrive until fifteen. I set you up. You did, totally. So but you're right. I mean they came looking for the Messiah. It sounds like I see they came looking for the lion of the tribe of Judah. Right. So I don't know if they Sorry. Yeah. But um It sounds, as I understand it, and I don't I'm not don't claim to be an expert, but Sufism is the is like an uh almost like a Gnosticism invading Islam. And so I'm wondering if it was some sort of a Gnostic variant of Christianity that merged with Islam, and that's where you're making the connection to Christianity, perhaps. Is that Does that seem to square with what you understand? Probably yes. Uh the the key thing is if you look, I mean to give you an idea, if you look and uh we have a symbol, I'm not sure you can sh uh you can show on a radius. It was single called the khanda. Yeah. It's this. And what it is, if you look at it, this is something he's wearing around his neck. Yeah, and this is uh a very familiar Sikh uh symbol. And what it is is uh if you look seen it on the back of cars. Yeah, exactly. Yeah. It's a khanda here. It's a s uh the if you look at that, uh the it's the identical thing seen on the Iranian flag. Is there is there a uh Uh uh s that symbol, there there's some organization on Route 68 headed west that looks like a Masonic Lodge that has that symbol on it. If it has that symbol, it's probably a C Gudwara. Okay. Because we fly that. Uh a yellow flag. It's a blue against a yellow flag. Okay. And what is the symbol symbolizing? Yeah. Well that's a very good question. Not many Sikhs real know this, but it actually comes from s uh this Sufi lineage. Because if you look at the Iranian flag it's identical. So the question you could ask is why do we have the same symbol as the uh Iranians? Well the question, why do you have the same symbol as the Iranians? Yeah. Sufi lineage. Sufi. Okay, so I I I've got a little bit more information on Sufism and it's saying that the Mos Muslim conquests brought large number of Christian monks and hermits, especially in Syria and Egypt, under the rule of Muslims, and that these guys retained a vigorous spiritual life for centuries after the conquest. And so That would kind of fit in with what you're saying is that that Sufism arose out of a Christian environment where Islam had taken over, and so Sufism That's interesting because here you are Buddhists in background, uh being invaded by Muslims, and also looking to to find a a deeper level of spirituality that somehow I don't know what, you know, maintain some kind of uh vitality or maybe some of your background. So I don't know, does that sound like The connection with Sufism? I'm just like off the top of my head here. It's a very good question. I think that the thing about is the music in S Sufism is very similar to the music we play in Agudwaras. Huh. They know the notes, the the rhymes. I'm gonna go find a Sufi scale and see if I can play it on the guitar. So I can feel that music, sorry, keep going. And so there's you know, uh I mean i I mean a couple of years ago I think the lady out of the Washington Post was watching a film done by the Interfaith Group in DC. Yeah. And she commented about it and uh to s one of our people in our community I had to sort of uh re answer the question and tell them yes, we we have a common heritage because that's exactly where Guru Nang that Devjee uh was for a time before he came back. And uh obviously learnings do travel with you. So we're saying here that Sufism and and Sikhism have some sort of a common root, correct? Yeah. So do you consider them brothers, spiritual brothers in some sense, or are they are they spiritual deviants that have lost their way from what Uh well I I wouldn't consider neither. I consider neither. I think the historic perspective. Because faith is often uh determined by the political environment you're in. So y you'll see the transition of faith from uh from one generation to the other. I mean We I mean I'm um I'm a born Sikh born in Burma but grew up in London. In London we had people from Afghanistan who are Sikhs who settled in there. I was surprised to learn that they were there since the seventeenth uh eighteenth century in Afghanistan. Sure. In Kabul. About a million and they actually celebrated Guru Naladevji's birthday in Afghanistan So there's a a lot there which we we open up when you when you talk to people from those communities. Even here, I I mean my daughter's uh classmate uh at at college She was of of Afghani origin, but she went to the same Gridwar as we did in New York, everything the same. Gwadara is uh uh the name of the religious institution, like we say church, you say Gwadara. Yeah, Gurdwar, yes. Yeah, sorry, um Can't quite get that. So um what about then are you saying that that Sikhism is kind of a cross be uh no, the root of it is kind of a cross between Muslim Islam and Christianity? And with you guys it actually took root in the soil of the Punjab and the the the kind of uh social reformation, equalizing reformation coming out of the caste system, saying we need something more than this caste system and so then it was ripe for the Sufi Christian Islamic Well I'm not sure that's correct. I mean, I think the key thing to understand is the lineage comes from that. Yeah. The uh at that time, I mean you you're talking about what happened was Barber invad Barber was the great great grandson of Genghis Khan. Yeah. He invaded Babak Khan? Yeah, uh basically he invaded India and became became the first Mughal emperor. Mm and if you look at the history as written, not by anybody else by the but people who study Baba, they talk about how Baba met Guru Nanak Devji. Hm. And it's a very interesting story. It's it's recounted in our scriptures. It talks about a uh a general whose father and grandfather tried to invade and he couldn't. Then he had an apparition and he uh in a dream And he went to one of his uh holy Islamic guys and said, What is this? And the Acharistian said, Uh you have there's a man underneath a tree, a very holy man, you have to go and meet. So his uh scholar said to him Whatever you the dream tells you, go and do it. So after go uh going forward and coming to the b borders of uh of India I think it was I think it was the Sutfletch River. He actually went back to where his dreams was and met Grunanak Devji and asked his blessing to go forward. And so Babur Khan, grandson of Genghis. Great-grandson. Great-grandson of Genghis. Great-great-grandson, yeah. Um, uh, basically got a blessing from the founder of uh Sikhism uh and yet it's it appears historically that Islam did not follow in those footsteps 'cause I mean today wouldn't you say that Islam probably um uh persecutes Sikhism? No, I don't think that I think you gotta understand what Islam does and what it doesn't do. Uh at that time uh But uh he went to Gurunana Devi and Gurunagade told him that, you know, you you will go to Punjab but you'll never be never be buried there. And the last of your lineage will never be buried there either. And if you look at the history, what happened? Uh the last emperor, Mughal Emperor, was imprisoned by the British in Burma. So uh but coming back to the fact of Islam, a lot of the Islamist skies even disagreed with what the Mughal emperors are doing. For example, in our faith, You're asking about what happened, what created radicalization by the tenth guru? Well, it was survival. The tenth guru's youngest two kids were bricked alive in a wall But there was uh Islamic scholars who said that is wrong. What do you think is absolutely incorrect? Huh. So there were people who spoke out against uh Islamic Muslim scholars who spoke out against the wrongdoings of the Mughal Emperor. Nevertheless, we are trying to figure out and learn about the exotic background of Sikhism. And one of my favorite parts of the conversation is it gives me the excuse to make a a pop cultural reference uh to I think it's the nineteen eighties, uh Bill and Ted's excellent adventure. Have you ever seen that movie? Yeah. And the uh Keanu Reeves character, they're sitting outside of Circle K and they're trying to study for their history exam or whatever or figure out the riddle so they can move on to the next part of their adventure or whatever. Yeah. And it has to do with Genghis Khan and uh he turns to a complete stranger walking in and out of the convenience store, the Circle K. and just randomly asks the guy, or I think it might have been a woman, Do you know when the Mongols ruled China? And it was so random And it made me laugh out loud. And so now whenever I have a chance to ask somebody just spontaneously out of the blue, when did the Mongols rule China? I do. I said now I have a chance to do it again. Anyway, uh Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel. We are joined by uh Dr. Harpao Singh Mangat Um he uh he can vouch for the fact that Jonathan Sweitzer has a pulse. That's right. He's a medical doctor in our in our community and a fine one apparently. Yes. Doing a great job. Next week we're going to get into some of the nitty-gritty of what uh Sikhs believe, and we'll maybe we'll talk a little bit about what's distinct about our fine doctor's Orthodox. uh Sikhism and how it differs from what we're used to uh seeing on television or whatever and that sort of thing. So we'll do that next week. Want to thank our sponsors, Putman Plumgen Heating, how can we make you smile? Uh who else? BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays. What have I been reading? Well lately I've been reading uh Edmund Clowney's Presbyterian Worship Did nothing to help me prepare for this show, but it's uh it's a good read. Pretty much anything by Edmund Clowney I like. I would recommend anything by Edmund Clowney. Until next week, thanks for listening. God bless.