This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious treble bean, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Hua! We're Faith Community. Leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Corner weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. philosophy developed by Thomas Aquinas, a Catholic scholar who harmonized the philosophy of Aristotle with the theology of Christianity, thus creating a system of thought that has become one of the most influential in history. Aquinas's philosophy was popular during his lifetime. But where did the philosophy go after Aquinas? For example, David Hume's denial of a connection between cause and effect, Charles Darwin's view that is called Darwinism. Kierkegaard's leap of faith, here to help us know if something could come into being without any efficient cause. And to explain the principle of proportionate causality and other big fancy words like that, two moderately smart guys. John Sweitzer, founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in Frederick County, and Hayden Booth, a layman of the Roman Catholic Church. Church, a self-proclaimed Thomist and lover of Christ. Welcome to the Faith Debate. You can find us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. So, Thomism, Thomism. Take your pick. Do we like it, don't we? Is Aristotle, does he have a place in the church or doesn't he? Should we should should Christians make arguments that uh are philosophical in nature or purely biblical in nature? Can we make a biblical argument and allude to philosophy? Can we make a philosophical argument and allude to the Bible? Should Christians accept Aristotle? Should non-Christians accept Aquinas? So many questions So many questions and here to answer them all in thirty eight seconds or less. John Sweitzer and Hayden Booth. And so we came out of the last show in Hayden, you were about ready to like disagree with me fundamentally about what represents. And uh and I was arguing that that uh Aquinas uh at least from some in the Protestant world, kind of represented a competing uh basis for truth or a com competing place to find truth that uh that has become uh even in non-Christian circles like like a primary um you know uh foe uh d that that fights against what Christianity represents. Obviously that is uh the the current Uh use of science to fight against Christianity is a perversion of everything that Aquinas taught, but you are going to fundamentally disagree with me on that. So there is a big misconception uh in huge. Huge. Massive. Uh it that huge Huge. Aquinas didn't bring Aristotle into the church, he brought the church into Aristotle, and that is just it's just outright false. These uh as we were saying, the the single most quoted book in in the Summa, um Thomas's overarching massive uh theological treaties is scripture. uh first and foremost and uh like li like I was saying you uh when we're we're on our on a break, I think Thomas is currently rolling in his grave, knowing that people are are are thinking that he could in any way his thought would be divorced at all from scripture. That is his first and foremost uh hope, that not hope, but his intent. to be completely in unity with with the script. That's one of the arguments actually against Thomas Aquinas from those. Always. Somebody's going to pick on you. I'm joining that fight. But I think for those those because we're talking last week we were kind of laying the foundation and kinda hinting at where we're gonna be going, and we've already b uh hinted more strongly this week at where we're going. We're talking about this in the context of the Christian church. Yeah. world thought, but in the context of the Christian church. But those who are outside the Christian church will oftentimes reject uh Aquinas' thinking and arguments because they say in order for us to grapple with his arguments we have to first believe in the Bible that he believes in, and we reject the Bible. We reject his God. the biblical God as valid. So I think that's true, but there's another reason why modern philosophers reject him. And the other reason why modern philosophers reject him is that Aristotle's uh cosmology that put the earth at the center of the universe. Cosmology. Is that what you put like eyeshadow on and lipstick? Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's cosmology, cosmetology. Uh yeah, so uh there's cool place downtown that's like the cosmetology, you know, uh palace. Anyway, so cosmology having to do with the uh the origin of the universe. Not not origin, but like Like what what is it set up? You know, the earth at the center of the universe, everything revolving around it, that that all of the um uh all of the R uh the rotations around me. That all orbits were circular. They had to be circular because they uh they would appeal to you know the the Plato's forms that that were perfection, you know, and so the perfect forms, everything needed to like move. We had another dragon in the heart of the Flat Earth Society. Totally, yes. We had a guy On the show that was Flat Earth. So nevertheless, um sure enough, the point is is that his because science and physics rejected Aristotelian uh physics, then science just kind of threw out all of the It's Aristotelian, isn't it? Aristotelian I'm not learning words, I'm learning how you guys pronounce them in your hoity-toeity, you know, uh elite circles of uh You know, they use cosmology and hoy toy in the same paragraph, I'm impressed. I'd love to respond to what both you said shortly. very, very common misconception, especially in atheist circles, that in Thomas's d five ways, his five proofs for the existence of a God, um, that he was arguing for the Christian God, that he was arguing for the God of the Bible, and he goes straight length to say That's not what I'm doing in in the in the five ways. Eventually he will go on to say, here is why the God that is described in the five ways must have a characteristics that we would normally attribute to the Christian God. He spends a significant amount of the suma doing that. Um uh we can get into a little bit of of that later. But uh, it's a little bit of a fake news thing that that that they take a couple of things that that he said like his his false cosmology, uh physics, uh astrophysics in his in his connection to Christianity. And they're like, oh, because of those two things we can't even pay attention to them and they just go on, you know, and they they substitute instead a mechanistic uh practical approach to science as being the most important uh way to go. Uh and so uh so I'm agreeing with you that they misrepresent him The question I think that uh that Schaefer asks is was there something about what he what Aaron is misrepresentation? I gotta take up for the person who's not in the room. right now who's listening to this Aquinas is pulling their hair out. Because I don't know if that's exactly fair because think in terms of like the intelligent design arguments. It's a very similar uh contemporary example of what we're talking about. The intelligent design, one of the critiques against the intelligent design argument is that it's not really arguing for the biblical God. It's creating it's arguing for an intelligent designer. And so y so anybody that wants to assign uh a motive of, oh, you're just trying to pro uh put forward the the Christian conception of God and they can kind of hide behind this. No, no, no, it's just science But in their heart of hearts there's lining up the dominoes so that at the end they'll have a proof for the biblical God. I think it's similar with Aquinas. I mean he's he's got an end game in view. And so for those that are saying, no, no, no, no, no, no You can't let 'em off the hook that easy. I think is fair. However, now I need to turn around and speak to the person I was just representing. Argue against yourself. Everyone has a predisposition Everyone has a view on God. You either believe he doesn't exist, you believe that everything is God, you believe it's the biblical God, you believe that there are millions of gods, you believe but you have a view on God And that's going to color your perspective of whatever you're trying to persuade someone else to think about things. So Aquinas believing in the biblical God, of course that's where he's Coming from that's where he's trying to get you to go because he thinks he's right and he wants you to be right thinking. And if you don't agree with him, well you think he's wrong and you don't want him to be wrong thinking, or somebody like Hayden who embraces Aquinas. You don't want Hayden to live in a delusional state, so you're going to try to persuade him. You're ridiculous, Hayden. Of course there's no God. And if there is a God, it's certainly not the biblical God that Aquinas believed in. What about this? The problem of evil and all these other issues that are going on. How do you explain that? And so we all have we all s have our predispositions. The the best we can hope to do is to be gracious towards others' predisposition, meet them where they are, try to understand their own thinking and arguments, and at the same time be honest about our own Not try to pretend we don't have them, but honestly admit that we have them and take that into account as we're framing our arguments and having a dialogue with somebody else. So there I just had the argument with the person who's not in the room. But I felt like I maybe needed to do that because all of us are too like-minded. It's very platonic and Socratic as well, you know. Have the whole discussion uh write the whole book of the of the discussion. Uh We say this often, I think, in Christian circles that that you can't argue somebody into belief in God And yet that's at the heart of kind of what Aquinas is doing is that is that it can be argued that that God is necessary and that God is rational and that God is true, that that you can prove philosophically the existence of God. The problem that I think has happened ever since he did what he did, which is extremely logical and extremely, you know, if if you're an intelligent person taking the time to read through his material is going to be enjoyable. You know, if you're the kind of guy that that really likes, you know, logical, you know, uh rigorous logical arguments, you're gonna enjoy him The the the problem there of course is that at any point that you find yourself disagreeing with uh a bit of logic for whatever reason you might disagree, uh it it starts moving you in different directions. And that happens with all more in-depth thinking. This is why theologians that are believers end up disagreeing with one another because a little change here down the road, a couple arguments could mean that that I'm in, you know, a a completely different philosophical field than than where I started in the first place. I think to be a to be hold on one second let me just reset real quick. That's Jonathan Schweitzer. Before that was Jonathan Schweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the fake debate on 930 WFMD. Sorry but We're about halfway through the episode and I wanted to just anybody who joined late, I wanted to know what's going on. So there you go. So I would say in order to be a Thomas, you do not have to agree with everything a Thomas says, obviously. Um to quote uh Bishop Robert Barron, uh he's Very uh well known Thomas thinker. Um sort of pick and choose. If you if you like uh Augustine's theology in one place, grab it. Like a a quiet theology in some place? Grab it. I mean I I I like Augustine so much I I named myself after him when I was when I became a Catholic. Um it's my Uh confirmation name. Yeah. Um but he says things like uh if a woman is to dye her hair, she should dye it red in order to remind herself of the fires of hell to which she is bound because she's altering her hair. Aquinas said that? That was that was Augustine that said that. Oh, Augustine. Obviously. Ridiculous. Augustine would never say such a thing. So you don't you don't have to agree with everything what uh you know if you're a Thomas or if you if you you consider yourself an Augustinian or uh you know a Platonist, you don't have to agree with everything they say, absolutely. But um I think that Aquinas has a a a great deal to say and a great deal um That hasn't been said in a really long time to quote to paraphrase Chesterton is um he has been largely forgotten. by Christian theologians and Christians. And I think he he he as I alluded to earlier, he's he scratches a nerve that a lot of us have that has been kind of um kind of put to the wayside, especially in light of, you know, the the new atheist Dawkins and Dennett and Harris and Hitchens and all all all of their ilk is we I think the Christian church was caught with their b their their pants around their heels uh when when that stuff started to come out I I was I I would say a casualty of that. Um when I first started to doubt my own Christian faith, it was because of arguments from people like Dawkins and uh and Harris and Hitchens especially, um that that tripped me up and I could not find Yeah, yeah. And um By the grace of God I I I had people like like like you, John, and um stumbled onto C. S. Lewis and eventually Aquinas and I I would say that these people were integral, you know, me coming into my faith. But again to point this all back to to put this all back to Christ, um, you know, we're not we're not saved through Paul, as as Paul said, I think in in Corinthians. Uh I'm not saved through Lewis, I'm not saved through John Sweitzer, I'm not saved through Thomas Aquinas, I'm saved through Christ. And um He will give somebody, even if they are more intellectual, if they're more emotional, he will give them the sufficient grace to to find them if if if they're searching. I really believe that. Um and it He uh Augustine des describes Grace as um a good analogy is imagine somebody who wants to quit smoking. Um they really want to do it, they've been wanting to do it for a really long time, but they're addicted to it. They they they can't accurately make that decision freely and of themselves. Um the grace is sort of if God took that addiction right away. You could make the decision much more freely and much more openly. You could see with more clarity and make decisions with with less impediment and I feel like that is sort of what thinkers like Aquinas and Lewis and Chesterton and Merton and blah blah blah blah all the way down the line uh do for a lot of people and that's why I think it's very important that that we there there at least is a discussion of bringing uh tomistic and scholastic thought back into Christian circles, Protestant and Catholic. Yeah, so I kind of feel like what's happened, right? So Thomas Aquinas uh gave to the world uh a a construct by which, you know, through Aristotle and the other guys, through baptizing Aristotle as as you were saying uh gave to the world a uh a freedom to say, wow, the world is understandable, it's sensible, it's rational and logical And so it it seems to have released, you know, if you will, the technological revolution, the scientific revolution leading to the technological revolution. But Where both of those things have gone wrong in our day is precisely where they left Thomas Aquinas. Yes. And so I kind of have the sense that Thomas Aquinas let the the Almost almost like he created this atomic power, right? And once it got out of the gate, people immediately started using it uh the wrong way, you know, to to reject God and say that that only the the five senses are necessary to discover truth and that's The only truth that's out there is what we can discover through science. Right? So they immediately took this atomic power that says that there there's the book of Revelation and there's the book of creation and both are avenues, you know, to finding the truth. They used the that new power the wrong way and so we get to the end of the nineteen hundreds to the twenty first century and what do we feel like? We feel like Uh there's not a purpose. You know, we we have all this technology, but there's no meaning to life. And that was at the heart of what Aquinas was all about that there is a meaning, that there is a uh a uh uh an end goal to everything that that ties together, but the modern scientific revolution, the Renaissance, threw all that out and still found all the truth that Aquinas said was there and they've used it and so now we have this this world where we can almost cure cancer, you know, where we are curing cancer, where we can go to the moon, where we can do all these things But we still gotta return to that one part of Aquinas that was thrown out by much of the Renaissance scientific thinkers. I agree with ninety nine point nine percent of what you just said and I'm I'm I'm gonna I think it's a lot of people. Reference. Well no, I can't I can't. That's just it's No it's not in the marrow of my bones would be with you, ever. I think I think uh we we alluded to the concept of human causation and we might as well get into some some meat and bones philosophy. Yeah. Um let me ask real quick, what do you think the impetus behind uh um Thomas Aquinas' thinking was, do you think that he was the impetus was him going on the on the offensive or the defensive? Do you think that he was defending the faith? uh giving Christians reasons to believe that, you know, their understanding was intellectually defensible Or do you think that he was trying to persuade nonbelievers that they should hey, you should take a gander over at this uh faith construct we have and maybe accept it as your own? What do you think? I would say his intentions were multifold, depends on where he was speaking, what he was speaking to, and what he was talking about. I would say that the Suma was as as I mentioned before, it was originally designed to be an introduction for beginners. to theology. Um Thomas is I I think it might be a paraphrase or maybe a little bit of an inquiry incorrect quote, but um we shouldn't use bad arguments to defend Christianity. We shouldn't use bad arguments to defend the existence of God because it just gives I think he calls them the infidel, but the nonbeliever the the occasion to scoff at us and to say, look how ridiculous it is in as we were kind of talking about before, they throw the baby out with the bathwater. They say this argument must be bad, so all of them must be bad. We have to abandon everything. And I think that is where a lot of a a lot of Even even lame enough to philosophers have gone wrong in uh sort of throwing out someistic underpinnings and m metaphysics and understandings of the university. So the Jewish community are uh often will credit uh Maimonides as being their their most ingenious thinker ever You know, he's he's like the the height of Jewish um uh genius. And he lived about a hundred, two hundred years before Aquinas and grappled deeply with Aristotle and reason and and trying to tie uh those things together. And so it is the case that Aquinas in his era had some really important uh um thinkers to respond to in terms of dealing with uh you know what's right and what's wrong and whether or not Jesus really was uh you know either the Messiah or you know the true God. And so uh so anyways, just thinking about again the season that he lived in Answering your question, Troy, whether or not uh he was trying to respond to the world. It feels to me like he's trying to respond to arguments coming from the world. Sure. Uh but clearly he's built in a way that I don't know that he needed to. He d you know, he they call him the the ox that roared. The the dumb ox. The dumb ox 'cause he's this big fat guy. that apparently only ate like one meal a day and wouldn't talk with people when he's eating with them unless, you know, it had some kind of, you know, really logical, you know, if they started talking about the weather or something, he'd Just kind of fade out and move on, you know, to go back to thinking about what he was thinking about. Uh one of my favorites is uh he was sitting at a at a dinner with with uh with the King of France, I believe it was. And um he was you know, people were engaging in conversation and uh just out of nowhere he slams his fist on the table and says, I have heard about yeah Fasier talks about this. And uh yeah, yeah, so uh he had just come up with uh some Philosophical tree. And so so he yells out in the middle of this, you know, uh sophisticated uh i environment. I have it and everybody turns and looks at him and then uh he's like, Oh excuse me, you know, and and he left to go right down or whatever, you know, whatever it is that he'd been thinking about. Not even Sears could keep up with him today. Yeah, they would they would cut out the t the table to make room for his belly when he sat down at the uh uh at the uh at the de has it windows. I'm beginning to wonder if I could relate to that. Yeah, I know you're itching to try to go on a deep dive now into the philosophical stuff, but you know, we're not gonna have time to do that. How did the Renaissance move philosophers move away from key elements of uh t Thomistic thinking? So that's what we're going to spend the the the majority of our time in next week's show talking about. In the a couple of seconds, uh I just want to address something you said about ten, fifteen minutes ago on the show. You're talking about, you know, your faith almost got shipwrecked, uh if that's possible, um by Uh Dawkins by by Dawkins and other people who were asking asking questions you didn't have answers to or making arguments you didn't have a good defense against, or taking apart arguments you had heard before and realizing that they were pretty easily taken apart. And you mentioned some dead guys, but there are some living contemporary guys too that are also good. Absolutely. William Lane Craig is a really good apologist. John Lennox is awesome and he's he's kind of funny. He's got a British accent, so he's He sounds really smart. Uh you know, there's well loved by some of these guys. Somebody that's really something that's really accessible and more of like pop culture-ish, like Elise Strobel. Uh Josh McDowell. Sure. You know, there are some guys out there that make really good arguments. They're solid guys. Um you know the intelligent design guys are are pretty smart heady thinkers too. Uh what's that organization out in Seattle? Um drawn a blank. But anyway. Institute for creation research, probably not. It might be something like that. Hank Anagraff actually is another guy that's pretty smart and pretty good at apologetic. So there's guys out there now, John Frame. I mean the list could go on and on and on. So if you find yourself in a place kinda like Hayden was a number of years ago where you're not sure that what you believe can be defended and you're having you're wobbly Go online, Google uh top Christian apologists, and then pick one. William Lynn Craig, pick one and watch their YouTube videos and and then you'll see that You don't have to surrender your intellect at the door when you become a Christian. Anyway, till next week. Thanks, John. Thanks, Hayden. I'm Troy. Thank you for listening. We'll be back 167. 5 hours from now. Till then. God bless