Good morning, Julia. Thanks for spending part of your day with us here on News Radio 930 WFMD. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Imran Razvy, Daniel Razby, and Greg Windsor. We'll be talking about the Last Day's Pride Parade and the Return of the Lord. That's uh a book that you can find at BarnesandNoble. com. Uh and uh and uh perhaps in uh like a a a really good used bookstores or something maybe. I don't know where else you might be able to find it. Anyway, we've this is our third go-round uh talking about this book with the publisher of the book, Greg Windsard And uh by the way, I should probably do an adequate job promoting the other people and their and and their resources. You can find all sorts of really good family and devotional and uh household related, uh uh marriage related kinds of stuff. through the ministry that the Razbees have had now for I don't know ten, fifteen, twenty years, whatever it is now. They're online at conqueredbylove. org. Their ministry is Concord by Love Ministries. And you can connect with me online, of course, at WFMD. com and Households of Faith in Christ. I know it's a mouthful, but that's the name of the church, Household of Faith in Christ, and so we just added a dot com to the end and came up with a web address And if you missed it, uh there may or may not still be tickets available, I'm not sure. You can go to EstherBallet. com. There's a performance later today uh of the world premiere of Esther, the the ballet that I've written and I'll be conducting uh and uh A a and we'll have ballet on uh a group on stage and so on. So it's gonna Esther ballet dot com. And in Rockville And the uh the the world premiere was yesterday and the the second ever presentation is today. That's right. Yeah. Three o'clock, I think, is today. I believe so, yes. Good but go check it out on the website. I'm not sure if there are any tickets left, but you can also send us a message and uh be on a list if we ever do some future events. Yeah, because the plan is to do like this is the first annual of something, right? It might not be the same Ballet might be a different ballet in the future, but they would do other events. So yeah, that all that'll be on the website. It's Estherballet. com. Now will that uh Sorry to kick off the show with a whole bunch of like promotional kinds of stuff, but uh your church uh has done a lot of things almost monthly, at least quarterly, where you have barbershop quartets or special singers or musicians or or presentations. You had a spiritual warfare conference this past spring, for example. There's lots of Lots of things that you've been involved with. Will those sorts of things be on that same website? No, we don't have a social media presence for for the church, so you can certainly reach out to me directly if you're interested in getting involved and being part of some of those other events. But this one, the Esther Ballet was it was a public event. Okay. And uh shame on me and maybe there's not a good answer to this question or an or an existent an answer to this question But um Greg Windsor you've got this this book you've published called The Last Days Pride Parade and The Return of Lure, which people can buy at Barnes and Noble. But if they wanted to connect with you or follow you in some other way, do you have a social media presence or a website or something? You can contact me, um uh y yes. Uh you can uh contact me through Gab, through uh Worthy the Worthy Forum or Gab. Okay. Now the word before I'm not familiar with, Gab I am. Yeah. So yeah. I I'm on Gab, I'm on Twitter, I'm on Facebook, I'm on uh MeWee. Parler is back, I'm on that. Um what else am I on? LinkedIn What else am I on? I don't know. I'm I'm probably forgetting. Not all of us are social butterflies like you troll. Truth social uh I feel like I'm forgetting a couple, I don't know I'm on I'm on a uh a a lot of those uh the the the ones that conservatives who got kicked off of other forms I'm typically on those and uh I'm on YouTube I guess you want to call it and I'm on sermon audio and odyssey. com Anyway, if you if you're on any of the ones I just mentioned or you're curious if I'm on one that I maybe forgot to mention, go to household of faith in Christ dot com and you can see all the different social media links and if you want to connect with me there I'm happy to do it. Uh I'm not very interactive as a start, but I will respond to those who interact with me. So I post, but I don't jump on other people's postings and get into all those the Twitter wars in the comment sections. I don't typically do that But I will post and if somebody wants to interact with me on one of my posts, I'm happy uh to do that until it becomes inane and or insane. Then I will uh bow out. But I'll give you ample opportunity to prove yourself. as we th uh as either inane or insane before I do that. So uh fair warning. All right, so we're talking about this book, The Last Days Pride Parade and the Return of the Lord. So the last day's pride parade, we've brought talk about the historical connections, we made some biblical arguments, extra biblical uh historical connections, those sorts of things. Talking about You know, what's new, what's not, that sort of thing. But now we're getting into and the return of the Lord. So now we're we are closer to the return of the Lord today than we've ever been. Amen. We all agree on that. So what does that mean for us? The things that are talked about in this book, talking about these these these uh goeth before a fall parade, things like that aren't anything necessarily brand new, but they seem to have reached new heights And we've talked about the how that's infected the church and the churches uh in too many ways, the visible churches has fallen away or has been allowed themselves to be infected in ways that are uh unbiblical or uh unhelpful for sure. Um so He obviously wrote this book not just to educate us about the history, but to understand that maybe the times that we're in and maybe even as a call to action. Right. So as a publisher of this book that's been written by Tom Maccabeas, what would you say we need to be cognizant of? What w if somebody were to do anything with what we've talked about these last couple of shows and again today What do you what do you hope we'll do with this information? Well well I think you know surrounding many uh passages in the New Testament, end times, last days, you'll notice the word it's like watch out, be on your guard. You know, be careful that you don't get led astray with the air of lawless men. You know, um all these, you know, flee flee immorality So it's like there there's these constant warnings. So I think that the church has to be grounded in the Word of God, you know, and and drawing near to him. And, you know, pursuing holiness. If we're pursuing holiness and something comes along which is defiling or you know, or God forbid an abomination, we we recoil at that. or if if it's leading astray young people, which is which is a whole nother serious issue. So so so the church first of all I I think need needs to be um uh hold on to God's word and I think that the author also tries to um uh uh highlight th this this thing of come out, flee. You know, the Maccabees, they fled. They fled to the mountains. Matthew 24, fleet of the mountains, Sodom and Gomorrah, get out, get out. You know, so and then and in fine uh in in Revelation 17 and 18 Um, you know, there's there's this whole concept of Mystery Babylon, w which is a major New Testament tie-in. And what is the defining characteristic of Mystery Babylon? It corrupts the earth with immorality. So there's this defining characteristic, and you know, it says, watch out for the teaching of Balaam. who corrupts the servants to immorality. And of course it's spiritual immorality too. Jezebel, what does Jezebel do? Revelation 2. Seduces God's servants. So there's this constant theme throughout scripture linking this sexual um defilement with um you know the false teachers and all that and so god's people have to stand firm And first of all, separate ourselves. Be separate. N not in a holier than thou way, but just do not let this stuff infect us Now Greg knows his Bible so well he just casually made a mention to Mystery Babylon, uh, but not everybody who hears him talk about that will know what he's talking about. Is in the book of Revelation It's talking about uh you know there's two beasts in the revelation. One of them is depicted as uh as a harlot. Kind of the church has lost its way. It's it's false teaching, it's it's and it's Uh it's basically uh in an inmoral way marrying itself to the world system, the world governments, the ways of the world, that sort of thing, and the and this harlot is riding atop the beast and is and uh and has a uh has a name across her forehead, mystery, Babylon and and words that go on from there. And so that's the if you want to look that up later and and and and see what the context there is. But it's talking about the corruption of the world and the corruption of the visible church working in concert with one another where w one infects the other and the other infects the one and they almost become indistinguishable Um and and um they they are distinguished but their their aim and and they actually turn on each other. Interesting in the book of Revelation. So they're not Completely in lost. Yeah, but their their their aim is to destroy everything that is godly. Right. Uh the aim is to set their sights, uh the the the beast's sights are set on them. And that's what we see going on in this world. So that's why it's exactly directed to what the book is talking about. There's this incredible uh energy and effort that's directed at all things biblical, all things godly, all things that are about the true church, about holiness, are under assault. Things we've taken for granted, and it's not just biblical per se, it's even the things that would be merely part of the natural order of things as God created them. So it's not just the the world is attacking chapter and verse. But it's attacking these pervasive truths that have just have been considered common sense. Like for our whole life until now it's no longer common sense. Because it was common because people were rooted in a in Western civilization, common sense was biblical sense because we were rooted in biblical truths. Even if you weren't Christian, you were reared on biblical truths. You just accepted them as common truth But now that's completely rejected. Yeah, and we've we've we've crossed the line where uh I I think there's an ebb and flow to history, and I think it's happened before. I don't think that we're completely distinctly unique, but there is something that's afresh and new for sure. But we've crossed the line from merely pagan to demonic. Right. Right? Yeah, and I I would say that the whole purpose of that side, the evil in this world, is to replace what was common sense biblically based worldview to a new common sense, which is the evil based, devil based worldview. So what we as uh the call as a Christi uh as a biblical worldview i need is n i is being replaced daily and they're changing the meaning of words to help change that uh bib the the world view. They're changing Um they're forcing people to accept and participate just like the last day pride parade uh book is is showing. It's not it's not okay just to be a bystander, but you have to participate now. And so a lot of Christians said, Well, you know, we think and act differently in church but out here we have to interact with the public and You know, we're probably the salt of the world. Yeah, we have to be loving and we affirming help them or save them if we don't uh participate with them. And that is completely wrong. You can't put, you know You can't purify poison. You just can't. And I I I love how you're you're drawing attention to the participation part. Uh he was talking about how the typical slide into degeneracy that we see uh in the world and in the church even, uh it it starts with this this uh this lean to be tolerant. Right. You know, I I I'm not going to agree, but I'm going to tolerate it. You know, I'm not going to call it out as sin, I'm just going to coexist with it. I'm going to tolerate it. But then the next step after tolerance and what the pressure the world puts on you is to not merely tolerate, but to accept Affirm. Right, yeah, to accept and affirm. So it's not just that I'm going to tolerate it and it's wrong, but I'll be okay with it. Now I'm not going to even say it's wrong. Right? I'm not even going to go so far as to call it a sin. And you feel like that'll satisfy the world. That'll keep the wolves at bay, right? They won't be at my throat anymore. But that's not enough. What they then want is they want you to celebrate. It's not enough that you tolerate. It's not enough that you accept. You now have to celebrate. You have to march in their parades. You have to be a part of the celebration and and wave the flags and put the things in your store window and all that sort of stuff. But now we've gotten to the point where it's gone to a fourth level that That pastor I just mentioned didn't even have on his radar screen twenty years ago, which is they want active participation rights. There's all these articles you could read about how you are such a hater if you, a straight man, refuse to go on a date with the man who thinks he's a woman. Because of course, I mean, he's a woman, so that's that's heterosexual. Oh no it's not. It's homosexual and and they they don't even have room for the people who say, Well, you know, I I wouldn't date somebody that's th that that's transgender. because that's no longer dating somebody of the opposite sex at that point. And and they they have no no tolerance for that. You have to you have to join in. You have to say you're you're okay with that And and it's it's it it's it's crazy. Yeah, let me reset again. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. I am Troy Skinner. You just heard the the voice of Daniel Razvey, um and chiming in for a half a second while he was talking was Greg Windsor, and you also heard right before that uh Imran Rasby and we're talking about uh issues related to this book, The Last Days Pride Parade and the Return of the Lord, uh published by Greg Windsor. You can find it at BarnesandNoble. com And it's uh oh go ahead. You want so the uh yeah, it's if first uh first we overlook evil. Then we permit evil, then we legalize evil, then we promote evil, then we celebrate evil, and then we persecute those who still call it evil. That's the other quote I've I've heard before. Uh it's not my quote, I I uh I heard it somewhere before And you're s and you're seeing Christians who claim themselves to be Christians persecuting people that are actually standing up for the Bible. And that's really where we we've gotten, where w the the so called Christians of this world are now persecuting anyone that stands up for the truth. And it's not just in the LGBT, I mean we talked about on the program a few a few weeks ago or a couple months ago now maybe, about uh how the pro life movement, largely made up of professing believers, are persecuting the abolitionist movement. Those who say that it m it should be considered a murder and anybody who participates in it should be a murderer and punished criminally. That that argument is completely rejected by the pro-life in fact they're demonizing people who hold that opinion Um which is the more biblical opinion. Yeah, and the whole linguistic argument thing and Enron was talking about how they change the language, they changed the meaning. You know, I th it wasn't too many weeks ago now, there was an article that I saw uh and it was talking about I think it was one of the Ivy League schools maybe or some big think tank or something. I can't remember what the source of this was, but the point of it was that they've now deemed that if you use the word biologically or phrase I guess biologically male or biologically female that that's hate speech So if you're trying to explain what's a trans woman, what's a trans man, you're trying to explain stuff, well, you know, you have a biological male who and if you go on to finish that sentence, you can't finish the sentence because just saying biological male is hateful It's descriptive and even that that descriptor I'm not a fan of that even because that's almost conceding the argument before you started it, right? Biologically male No, male. Right? Physiologically, biologically, mentally, emotionally, you know, front right spiritually. Spiritually. They're they're uh definitively male, like where are we gonna just subdivide and we've already surrendered the the the ground before we started the argument and that's not and that's the whole point I was saying before. It's not enough. It's uh y you can surrender all the ground in the world. Until you're actively engaged in it yourself, they won't be satisfied. Right. Yeah, I mean now you know, we all saw well, y there pedophilia is still gonna be bad, but it's not anymore. It's map You're a minor attractive person, you can't even say pedophilia anymore. Minor attractive person. So they're trying to normalize all the evil that's out there and to the point where you gotta start promoting it and then it'll be the other so called Christians will be turning in Christians that don't support it and don't will move forward in that. Just to um You know, there's a phrase, Revelation 13, it says, you know, speaking of commonly the Antichrist, it says he causes all to receive the mark. It's the that word uh in the Greek, there's a coercion, there's a manipulation, so that the people do it themselves. And and just getting back to history, that is exactly what and Burntiakus wanted. He wanted each person had to sacrifice, not just the abomination temple, everybody had to own it for themselves. to to fall away. So that spirit of intimidation uh is is is alive and well. But there there's a verse that says the people who know their God shall stand firm and do exploits. So there's knowing God, standing firm, and then doing exploits, reach re reaching out with the power of the gospel. Because it it's invincible. Standing standing your ground say, no. We we love you but w this is sin. And here's why it's so disconcerting. Uh y you said this is sin. That's why it's so disconcerting. It's not so much that it's this evil, horrible sin, although it is It's that it's it's missing a mark from the holiness that that God represents and that God calls us to. And so there's a so I don't want us to merely be talking about the negatives and be on the attack against the evil, although we need to call evil out. particularly the evil that's within the church. You know, we need to identify the wolves and shoot them, uh, so that we can protect the sheep. So but protecting the sheep unto what? Th there's a beautiful picture there. So the uh what makes this evil so horrendous is the truth, the beautiful truth that it denies, that we have a creator. Right. Who is loving and almighty and all powerful and he's a God of order and and and uh and a and a god of of perfect holiness and righteousness and everything that God endeavors to do is done well, like is done to the perfection of doing things well. And so we're called to be like him. We were made in his image and that's a beautiful thing. But of course we have this sin, which is we've been talking about now rather extensively. And so that sin not only is it an evil that's a sin against God, but it's an affront against what we were made to be. Yeah, we're not living up to the beautiful thing that God made us to be. And so we want to call people to Holiness because there's blessing in that. There's blessing in walking the true walk. There's blessing in having an actual biblical marriage. There's blessing in raising a biblical family, training your children up on the way they should go. There's great blessing in those things. And when we fall short of that, that's where you have all the angst and the trouble and the anger and the and the venom and the the yeah, the death and the just the disgusting dirt of our lives. It's because of this sin. So we want to call people to what's good and beautiful and that good and beautiful is represented by Christ, who lived the perfect, beautiful life and died the perfect death that we should have died. And then and then we can Once we embrace that, we can live that out by increasing sanctification out of gratitude for God. So it's not about trying to avoid the evil so much as about trying to embrace The holy embrace the good. Because that's what ultimately we're going to have in glory. Everything is perfect. There is no evil. It's only the beautiful. It's only the good that's left. But it but it's it's the devil's counterfeit of the biblical culture and the biblical worldview. And the biblical worldview, I mean we've we've teased th this on the program that we're gonna be talking about this at some point soon, and maybe in the next few months, uh the the idea that in the in the world generally there's three main v uh uh paradigms, you know, the the guilt and innocence and the fear and power and the honor and shame. And all of three of those have their roots in biblical the true versions of those have their roots in the Bible. But there's also counterfeit ver counterfeit versions of all of those. And the counterfeit version of the honor shame culture is arrogance and and and pride In fact, mo uh the uh uh i there are I've heard some sermons where some pastors have uh attempted and failed to properly distinguish between the biblical desire to be honored and to have honor with pride and arrogance because it can look very similar on the outside, but it's a counterfeit if you if you don't know what you're looking for. And this pride parade thing This is all desiring false honor. They are in a state of shame. Sexual immorality causes great shame and they want to be honored. So they are they are proclaiming honor on themselves by being prideful, saying, Look, look at me, I'm so arrogant, I'm so prideful. And that is exactly the counterfeit of what honor because honor can only f Come from above. Only God can provide you honor. Glory. Someone that's more honorable than yourself can give you honor. And the the honor that you cannot place it on yourself, and that is the devil's counterfeit. All all of the devil's counterfeit cultures come from oneself. They don't come from God from the from the outside. So I think the pride parades and the pervasiveness of that is the infiltration of the devil's counterfeit honor and shame into a culture that traditionally has been very um guilt and innocence oriented and a lot of Christian uh uh pastors they may be fighting it the the r the wrong way. They may be thinking of it as oh no, you're you're guilty, you're going to hell, or whatever. But It's not so much that well we understand you're in a position of shame. You know who can cover that shame is God. And here's how that we tell you about him. So there's a positive uh way to preach that and I think Uh that may be uh something that we need to dig more deeply into at some point. And some are so given over that in their heart has become so hard that they would argue and retort to you that I don't feel any shame. That's because they become so calloused. They glory in their shame, the Bible says. But we can see not everybody has is is as as completely given over yet to the hardness of their heart and they're not as calloused yet. And you can see it in the statistics the the level of depression, the level of suicides, the level of substance abuse is much higher among the people within these uh the these sinful um uh groups. I I I don't want to use the word communities because I don't think they fit the definition of community. But these people who identify as belonging to certain groups. uh they have outcomes on the whole that are far worse than the outcomes of those who don't uh don't say that they belong to one of those groups. And so that is something that is just, you know, the statistics would uh would bear that out. I I don't wanna forget we've got a couple of minutes left on uh on the show and so I do want to have a chance to promote the book one more time and we might have chance for a last minute uh purchase of the things and so I I do want to do that. But before we get into is there anything specific that we've talked about the last three weeks that you'd like to say in you know thirty or forty five seconds to put a button on some things? No, otherwise we can just start promoting away. I I think one of the things the actual items of the of the last day prize freight is really to open your eyes No, don't be asleep anymore. Stand up, know what is right by using the Bible, and stand for that. Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid of people telling you that this is not the way the world is anymore. The world is the way the world is. But you are a Christian, so stand up for being Christian. Hm. Good words. I like that. You have something better to say? Well, I I just want to say, you know, the good n the good news is there's a and and this is under reported, there's a lot of people coming out of of There's people who are waking up after living in that lifestyle, just like many of us woke up after living in heter heterosexual sin. And the gospel is changing people. People are coming out of it to God's beautiful plan You know, li like what you're talking about. So there's there's good things happening. Alright, so your website for your um your events and stuff, the one that's today and ones that might be coming in the future is therballet. com. So E S T H And that's gonna be the website even if you have an event that's not about ballet or escor, it's gonna be the website. Gotcha and any future performances of that and contact information. Okay, very good. And uh connecting with you and buying the book one more time. Yes, just go to BarnesandNobles. com, type in uh last day's Pride Parade, and it's also available in other outlets. Okay. And um if somebody's destitute, is there a way for them to try to get a copy of the book just to do that? Absolutely. Uh there's a complimentary copy available to people. If people contact me personally, I will get you a complimentary copy of the ebook. Okay, very good. So if you want to get in touch with uh the publisher of the book, Greg Windsor, just get in touch with me and I'll put you in touch with with Greg and we'll we'll handle it that way. And to do that, go to Household of Faithinchrist. com. You'll find my email. You'll actually found my find my phone number there as well. I'm a pretty open book on that sort of thing. Uh if you harass me I might block you, but I haven't had him do that just yet. So you could be the first. You can leave precedent setting. You could be that one. There's always that one, you know Uh and of course, I don't don't always give a fair shot of promoting the radio station the way I should. We're inc incredibly grateful that we have this time to talk about these sorts of things every week. on Sunday mornings at nine o'clock. And so definitely go to wfmd. com. You can get updates on local news and see what's going on with the other shows And you can connect with the Faith Debate. The Faith Debate does have its own page at WFMD. com. You can see uh what's coming up on future shows. You can see what was on recent shows, you can connect with all the podcasts. that sort of a thing. So you can definitely do that there. And if you're on Sermonaudio or Odyssey. com, I definitely encourage you to find the podcasts of the show there as well. But looking at the continue our conversation on the Faith Debate next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.