This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-ball forum. We're Faith Debate. Community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. The issue of homosexuality is bringing division to the Christian Church in recent years. The Episcopal Church now allows the ordination of openly gay clergy, but not until after a big fight within the denomination. The Methodist Church had a big international denominational vote on allowing same sex marriage just this year. The measure did not pass, mostly because of Methodist leaders in Africa, putting them at odds with the majority of Methodist leaders in America. It's a contentious issue and we are going to go there. For a few weeks on the faith debate beginning this week. But first, we're going to take a quick moment to talk about something that I have reason to believe is almost certainly not an area of contention for today's two panelists. Sharon Watts is rector at Grace Episcopal Church. in New Market, Maryland, Jonathan Schweitzer, founder of Cross Bridges in Frederick, Maryland. Jonathan just wrapped up the Frederick Goes Purple campaign recently, and so this is our first chance to have him report back. So what can you report back? Well we can report back that uh all the middle schools and high schools went purple for the month, that uh a number of businesses like Shockley Honda and uh Thomas's English Muffins, which is now uh I'm forgetting the new name uh of the uh company, but you know, whole companies that went purple along with all of the municipalities across the county and a bunch of churches, several churches lit up their their spires and their uh you know the front of their building purple and uh Sharon uh is uh here today with a purple uh uh ribbon on her shirt and so uh there was really good awareness, education, you know, people that are talking to other people and then getting additional levels of training. you know, because uh and and those that are, you know, struggling, uh walking around in the streets and and and then coming up and sharing their stories, right? Like like there's just a space where the community was embracing and working together. uh about what is a, you know, arguably uh the most difficult uh health issue of our time And so uh I'm really pleased with how it turned out and I look forward to the community continuing to kind of move that forward and to take things to the next level together. And Sharon, you're obviously a supporter of of the movement and uh and you had some words of praise for how the event went uh before we started the show. And I know that health issues are a big uh uh matter of importance to you because of your history. You worked in the medical field for quite some time, right? Yes, I was a nurse in RN for thirty nine years. in medical issues and bul mostly in Baltimore and spent a good deal of my time um in intensive care units bringing back people who had addiction issues and working with people both in their homes and in the floor floor nursing. Um very rewarding. I met a lot of people who had very difficult journeys and I met uh many people who recovered. And I think it's really important that we continue to work very hard to treat and uh work with prevention and to work with recovery issues within our community. Um if we don't we are going to be losing wonderful people that could be so enriching to our society. And that's the point which we have been losing. You know, more than one a week for going on three and a half years and so that's a that's a lot of that's a lot of people that have passed away in our community now. Yeah, Red one a week in Frederick. Right in Frederick. Right in Frederick. But if you look through the entire United States, we are losing so many people every day. Almost two hundred people a day. There's a lot of depression, a lot of loneliness, a lot of isolation. You know, something happened. What do they say about millennials that uh twenty-seven percent of them claim to have no good friends, twenty percent of them claim to have no friends. Right. That's that's they're called the loneliest generation ever. Is that just uh social media? I don't think it's just social media. I th there there's more going on dynamically in our nation in terms of losing our faith in terms of, you know, the uh the vitriol between political parties and such that uh that we're just we're we're we've lost something in terms of cohesiveness in I think we're paying the price for that. Yeah, the and lack of community. Uh and the need. That's the heart of our community actually relates uh in some measure to the issue we're gonna be talking about these next few weeks. Yeah. And there's um uh some potential medical scientific component to it that might relate to it as well. I think that's how we ended up stumbling into this topic when I first had opportunity to connect with Sharon. We were talking about different things and And uh this show, uh the Faith Abate show came up and we talked about what would be an appropriate topic and health issues came up and then somehow you blended the two Well both both of them were very different to me. separate topics. But for me, um w one of the reasons that I initially got interested in uh healthcare is from reading the Gospel of Luke and just being so as a young person, um, a teenager, just being really uh drawn to the healing stories of Christ. Um and for me, um one of the things that we need to look at as churches is stepping forward to um offer our actions, putting our faith to action so that we can help people who are n in need of healing. Um For me, I think uh one of the most important things is getting our churches involved more. A lot of times with churches we Step away from issues like this. And we n really need to be following Christ and bringing people to the table with us and talking to them. I think one of the most important conversations we can have in our churches today is what are your impressions of this entire crisis, this opioid crisis? How does it affect your family? Because I know very few families that have not had at least one encounter with someone who's an addict in their home. um or in their their extended family and if it's not with their extended family they have friends. And I tell everybody if you are not one of those families, you don't know how blessed you are. Now before we transition into the um the predetermined main topic uh for this week's and the next few weeks shows, uh you have an event coming up at your church, a bazaar of some sort. We do. We have a bazaar. Christmas bazaar. We have a Christmas bazaar. So put on your calendars, please, November sixteenth, from nine to four. Um at Grace Episcopal Church. We are at uh 5740 Green Valley Road, Newmarket, Maryland, 21774. And one of the main events, we have a silent auction, which is always very successful. Each one of our vendors put up an item and everyone gets to bid until somebody wins And uh we also have a lot of vendors where our teenagers are working on a uh a youth activity room and we are having a Santa Claus who will be walking through and greeting people. And um I'm going to gather people at noon and talk about the Christmas story. So bring your kids Bring your fun smiles, bring uh yourself to the Christmas bazaar, and we hope you have a wonderful time. It's hard to believe we're headed into the Christmas season, huh? Yeah. Now that's a lot of information and and and we kinda sprung it on people. I'm sure that nobody had their pens at the ready. So the quickest way to get all that information it's on the website, I'm assuming, the church's website? It is on our Facebook page. And um We will also have other um in newspapers and things that we're sending in out. Okay, so if you go to Facebook and put in Grace Episcopal Church, you'll probably New Market in New Market. You'll see all the findings. Because there are many Grace Episcopal Church. They have to put in new markets. Okay. Good helpful test. Right, so I'm gonna I'm gonna reset now because we're gonna enter into you know the the intended dialogue, get all the niceties and pleasantries out of the way. Uh this is the Faith Debate. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer with Cross Bridges uh on the panel again Um I don't know how many shows this is, it's gotta be a few hundred at least. Yeah, a couple hundred. More than that. Yeah. Yeah. We've probably done at least five hundred of them though, right? Yeah, at least Um and uh Sharon Watts is the rector at Grace Episcopal Church in Newmarket. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, host of the Faith Debate, and uh pastor of Living uh faith ministries in Hagerstown, uh, Maryland. So we are going to talk about this homosexual question and give you a little peek behind the curtain. When when the topics for the show are determined, I usually go to uh you know, prospective guest and say, what's something you think maybe would be a good topic to tackle? Something that you're really passionate about, something you don't think is talked about enough, something you think is misunderstood, you know Whatever. What do you think? And I put that question in here and we talked about a couple of different things. And then she kinda landed on, you know, I think we should tackle the homosexual question and what that means for the church Um so let me ask kind of a generic question. What was it that made you w want to tackle this question on this show? So I think this is a question that's really pressed We're very divided within most communities about how to address this issue Um the Episcopal Church started working very deeply in the late nineteen nineties in relationship to homosexuality. And we have uh extended our discussions internationally. It has been painful and it has been difficult, but we have uh discerned and come to a different place. And um and I wanted to offer that because I don't think this view is heard very often. So you think of a different place, so what is what is the place now? So we started in uh in twenty twelve we made a we had a general convention where we would um accept homosexuals within our community with no reservation. We um We received them for full pastoral care and this includes before the government allowed same-sex marriage, we developed a blessing service. And afterwards we we do participate in marriage. The same we would with any other. We don't do everyone. We every person has to marry people according to whether they think they can be successful or not, or they can be supported or not. So just like we don't marry every heterosexual couple couple that comes to us, it's the same thing, same standard. Um so And this has come from a lot of scripture analysis, this has come from a lot of prayer, this has come from a lot of international discussions, and I wanted to bring that to the forefront. Now there it's interesting we were joking before the show started, and this is the first time Sharon's been on the show and it can be a little bit nerve wracking, you're like walking into somebody else's world But this is an issue, a lot of the issues we tackle on the show, but this one particularly, because it's so high profile and front and center in our culture, that this is a show where I I'm imagining that Jonathan might feel like he's in the minority culturally uh and runs the risk of being misunderstood or uh you know being accused of hate speech uh a and not having compassion and that sort of thing So I don't want to put words in your mouth, but are you feeling any of that weight before you weigh in on the uh I I guess right now we're gonna start with the gay marriage question? So that's a yes and no question. The answer is yes. Yeah. Yeah. Particularly in the you know, in the last ten years, uh our culture uh shifted dramatically. in a very short period of time. Yes it does. Um and so uh definitions that uh have been biblically accepted for thousands of years, uh as well as definitions that uh have been culturally normative uh shifted, you know, in a very uh short period of time and And in that same context, i in the context of that shift, people that that were on one side of it and were not considered horrible, just you know, having a an opinion, you know, that is again rooted in uh what was an understandable biblical worldview. all of a sudden became outcast and, you know, persona non grata and and you know, how many scenarios do you hear about in the news, you know, just one after another where where somebody uh and it just happened this week where a um a doctor in England was let go because he's uh he's uh his personal convictions are that uh that gender doesn't change and so it's not appropriate for him to identify somebody according to a a pronoun different from their birth gender. And so, you know, he just shared that openly and he got let go. from his job as a uh as a doctor, as a physician for that that purpose. And so that kind of scenario m means that that We don't just get to deal with the issue of individuals that that struggle with it, but we also have to deal with the fact that that you know, if you stand in a biblical uh a traditional biblical view on marriage and gender, then uh then you are um facing significant uh not just push pushback but rejection and loss of influence, loss of favor in a whole number of circles. And so uh so that doesn't mean that we should stop loving and caring for uh people in in that scenario, but it does make it way more complex about, you know, it's it's it's one thing to love um people who, you know, face rejection in the world. It's nothing to love somebody uh that is is being used to reject you anyways. It's it's just a different scenario. Now as a point of clarification, uh everybody here understands, but in case you listening don't understand, we're not meaning to blend transgenderism and sexuality uh as the same issue, they're separate issues. Correct. Uh and right now we're focusing primarily on the the the sexuality and particularly as it relates to marriage for for right now. So Jonathan is now with Cross Bridges, but before that he was a longtime pastor at uh Crossroads Valley. And um when you were the pastor, were you ever approached or if you had ever been approached by uh a same sex couple? Who asked you if you would marry them, you know, what did you say and how do you or how would you have said what you had to say? So I was never approached uh to marry a couple. There was uh one scenario where uh um Two gentlemen were coming uh to church regularly and um and there was uh just, you know, the question as to, you know, where they might be on that issue and Um so one of the pastors dropped into a list of sins on a Sunday morning, uh, you know, homosexuality and Shortly thereafter I got a phone call uh asking, you know, if they could sit and talk with me and uh kind of discuss where we stood on the issue and we had a a very uh pleasant conversation, just talking through, you know, what we understood to be uh the biblical uh perspective on the issue and uh as a result they chose to not continue to uh attend church will reward. So uh that's an example of um of a scenario where uh we faced it personally. I know many pastors that um have been called uh on the phone just to be asked, you know, hey, where do you stand on this issue? And sometimes I've even uh felt like Like those phone calls were being made like in a systematic way to kind of say, okay, well these are the you know the the bad churches, you know, that won't accept it. These are, you know, the accepting ones. And so again, um You know, there's significant uh pushback there. And it's interesting that it that it gets framed that way. Uh you know, that uh because you haven't explicitly said it yet, but you're of the opinion that the uh A biblically sanctioned marriage would be between a man and a woman. Right? That that would be your position. Yeah. And it's interesting I think I would put it this way that that I don't see in in scripture uh s space to define uh marriage any other way Right. And so uh it's it's where Jesus um talks about marriage and and he just comes out and he says, you know, it was this way from the beginning. God made them, male and female, what God has joined together, let no man separate. Like like that's the the the positive expression by Christ as to, you know, what he sees when he when uh uh he's looking at marriage and and he ties it into creation. So anyways my point is just I'm sure we'll hear your perspective on those pa uh many of those passages over the next couple of weeks, but that we don't really have space to define it In other ways that it's not a good thing. But Jonathan doesn't really define space, but uh the Episcopal Church apparently has decided they see space. So how how do you how would you try to persuade Jonathan that there's space where he's not seeing it? So first of all, I'm not going to try to persuade anybody. I'm just going to offer what what we believe. Um first of all One of the things that I think is different between um the two perspectives is we are not a scripture alone church. We're a church that also believes that we stand not only on scripture, but we also s stand on what we call traditions, which is um the knowledge of the community as it has grown through the centuries, um in prayer and in worship, and our understanding of of what the Holy Spirit is doing to us and le where it's leading us. Um we also believe in standing on reason. We believe that God gave us a um ability to think, an ability to learn, and that this is our responsibility to use this. So we stand on all three things. So you usually don't see Episcopalians pulling out as many Bible verses. we usually talk on it. But when we look at scripture, we're looking at scripture as a place where we're reading something that was written in another language. And most of us are not really fluent enough in Hebrew, Greek, and Aramaic to be able to really dive into scripture from that level. But we do One of the wonderful things of our time, we do have computers that help us to do translations. And we can oftentimes go back to word-to-word translations, which I think is probably helpful for both of us. Um and so we're we're looking at um another language. We're looking at um a time period in which price was talking. which is not today's time period, so we've got th thousands of years. And we have to be careful sometimes how we bring some of these concepts forward. And then we're also looking at a cross-cultural experience. We have a area in the Middle East that's not the United States. So we try to take all these things into consideration when we're studying scripture. Now you mentioned uh traditions and reason. The traditions part I'm I Um I took that initially to mean like uh church tradition and maybe in your context specifically the Episcopal church tradition. But up until recent years, was there much of a Episcopal church or Christian church tradition addressing um uh gay marriage and and and and that being so our our reflections literally began in the late nineteen nineties. Um so But traditionally though, that's not a very long time. That's like thirty years ago. That's correct. So um we started uh doing a lot of reflection around the late nineteen nineties And that's when we're gonna say I gave you much more credit. Twenty years than thirty years. So that's that's when we started to look at this information. So for for this particular issue it's probably more about reason, right? Trying to examine things afresh with new uh scientific inquiry and medical opinion and s and sociol sociological or maybe the way to ask that is is how did your traditions prepare you in the nineties to begin to approach that differently. And actually well we I don't know if we're gonna have time to give that a full breadth uh answer. So we're gonna have to wait a whole week to hear the answer that we've we've only got about sixty or so seconds left in the show. Unless you feel like you can answer it in less than sixty seconds. Do you think you can? No, that's good let's take a little time with us. Okay. Yes. So we're gonna be back at this next week. Um and we lost a little bit of time by talking about some other things that are important to talk about. Uh your website is still up on the GoPurple, correct? Absolutely. Frederick County GoesPurple dot com It's a great website website. The gentleman that uh donated just did a fabulous job on that. As well as uh you can go to the Facebook page. And you can see all kinds of pictures and and events that happened over the last month. So we're going to be transitioning though for those that that were participating, we're transitioning into what are the next steps. And so we're going to be rallying those that participated to uh to kind of identify together what are some things that we can do to capture the momentum from Frederick County Goes Purple and keep that going throughout the year. So stay tuned. That's Jonathan Sweitzer with Cross Bridges. Also Sharon Watts, rector at Grace Episcopal Church in Newmarket on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate We're Online at WFMB. com. Till next w week one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from just about right now. God bless