Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like Plowing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you find links and podcasts. the news items and the face debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner, at Clearchannel. com. Troiskinner, all one word at ClearChannel All One Word dot com. I post what you send me Nineteen or eighteen. Nineteen will be nice, but eighteen don't have to be suffice. Eighteen blog updates a day, Monday through Friday is ninety each week. I encourage you to pop in and see what other people are sending. A lot of it is theological and religious in nature so Some of it's political, some of it is uh social comments, uh pop culture, uh reading recommendations, uh you have it stuff. that are just mere jokes or interesting pictures. Um there's always at least one thing that's good. And usually multiple things of the eighteen that uh are likely to strike your fancy, so I encourage you to check it out. On the Face Debate Show today Not a panel discussion. We are in the about to hear part three. Not as bad as it sounds. Part one was very short, and now part three is going to be very short. Part two was the chunk. Part three of a message titled, Where's Your Hope? Um we don't have a panel because of some logistical issues uh in getting s some shows scheduled and so I'm taking advantage of some audio I have of some messages shared recently that have been heard live and in person but have never been heard over the air before. So this is new content as far as you are concerned. Unless you were in attendance uh the day that I I shared this live. Anyway, this is um based on Psalm one twenty seven and then when this is over we're gonna jump into uh the beginning of a yet another message after that to flesh out the remainder of the show. So thanks uh for listening today. Without further ado, we're picking up where we left off last week. Are we any better than Solomon? Than the Israelites No. We're not. So where then is the hope? Well, the last two verses of 1 Corinthians 15 tell us that it would all be vain. But thanks be to God, he gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my dear brothers and sisters, stand firm. Let nothing move you. Always give yourselves fully to the work of the Lord, because you know that your labor in the Lord is not in vain. And so it comes down to this: hope in our building efforts, our work, versus hope in God's grace and the finished work of Jesus Christ. That's what it comes down to. It's okay to hope for an HVAC unit that will properly heat and cool your house, as it should. It's okay to hope for Christian brothers and sisters to do right by you. It's okay to hope for a solid house, a flourishing career, and obedient children. It is okay to hope for those things. But we need to place our hope in God. Reorient your identity as one who is beloved of Jesus. And when your hope wanes, as it sometimes does, and you fall through in your walk, as we most assuredly do. And you might even question your faith. I think maybe all of them there. Recall that he is faithful and true. He has sent his Spirit to guide and comfort us. As a Christian, you are a child of the Father. He will always protect you. He will always provide for you in the way that he knows is best for you If you can recall this, then you'll have the words of Proverbs 3 to strengthen your hope. And we close with this. Proverbs 3, verses 24 through 26. When you lie down, you will not be afraid. When you lie down, your sleep will be sweet. Have no fear of sudden disaster or of the ruin that overtakes the wicked, for the Lord will be at your side. And will keep your foot from being snared. There's our hope. Let's close in prayer. Dear Father, we thank you for the encouragement we find in your word. Because your word reveals to us who you are, what you have done, what you are doing, and what you will do. Help us to turn to you, to put aside all the false hopes, and to hope only in you and your work on the cross and your work in our lives. Forgive us for our failure to do so consistently. Increase our trust. Increase our faith. Help us to remind one another always, each day, every time we see one another, to remind one another of in whom our hope is grounded. Grounded in Christ. It's in his name, Jesus Christ, that we pray. Amen. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD, a special edition. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to the show on uh Free Talk 930 WFMD. That was the conclusion of a message titled Where's Your Hope? We're about to hear the beginning of a message titled Filled by Emptiness, based on John chapter 20, verses 1 through 9. Some of this might sound a little bit familiar to you. Let me explain. We've had some technical issues with the show in in uh in the recent weeks and months and particularly with these special series and Um so to give if you're interested in hearing the whole show want to give you an opportunity to to hear these messages in their entirety. And so ones where we had some glitches into and um technical difficulties. Uh we're replaying not the exact same message, but different versions of the same message. So you're hearing actually something that has never been broadcast before. But um uh I might have done a message that was very similar to this in another location at a different time. So it's essentially the same message, but there'll be some little tweaks. here and there, uh obviously. Um going to do it exactly word for word, otherwise just play a recording every time, right? So Here's part one, filled by emptiness, and uh at the conclusion or as we uh get toward the middle of this message, I'm gonna jump in and have to uh wrap up this show, and then we'll get the last half of this message in next week's show. Good morning. Always a pleasure to worship with you. I want to thank uh Jace and the rest of the elders for again inviting me to come and share God's Word with you today. It is It is w truly a humbling experience, uh, an awesome responsibility to do that and every time I get the chance to, it's um it's a reminder of how small I am and how big he is. And uh I hope that By the end of today you will be reminded of that in powerful ways. This morning I'm going to begin with an admission and a confession. My admission, well let's start by reading Proverbs 1922, which says that what a man desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. That's the NIV translation of that verse. And my admission is that I quote this verse repeatedly, often saying it's one of my favorite verses. And my confession is that I ignore this verse just about all the time. And I didn't truly realize The truth of that, until I began studying and preparing for this message, as I was examining the twentieth chapter of John's Gospel, it was impressed upon me that I have a problem. I have lots of problems, actually. Problems of idolatry. Problems I was blind to, problems I want to warn you of. Warn you of idols that are almost certainly are in your life as they are in mine. If you would turn with me to John's Gospel, John chapter 20, verses 1 through 9. It's the story of the empty tomb, one of the most famous parts of the Bible. And because it's so familiar, we might think that we know all there is to know about it. But if you're like me, you might be in for a bit of a surprise this morning. John chapter 20, verses 1 through 9. There we find God's word saying to us, Now on the first day of the week, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early while it was still dark. And saw that the stone had been taken away from the tomb. So she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb, and we do not know where they have laid him So Peter went out with the other disciple, and they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together. But the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first, and stooping to look in, he saw the linen cloths lying there, but he did not go in Then Simon Peter came, following him, and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloth lying there, and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with the linen cloths, but folded up in a place by itself. Then the other disciple, who had reached the tomb first, also went in, and he saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the scripture that he must rise from the dead. Pause for a moment to pray. Father, we praise you and thank you for who you are, for what you've done in creation, what you're doing in our lives, for what you've accomplished through the person and work of Jesus Christ. We thank you for giving us your word so that we might study it, ponder it, meditate on it, and understand it. We thank you for making your truth available to us in a way that we can comprehend and and uh apply to our lives. We ask that you would clear our mind of distractions this morning. We ask that whatever struggles and stresses and problems that we brought with us on our way to this worship service this morning would be cleared and we would have an uncluttered mind right now to focus on the truth of your word The truth of your word telling us who Jesus is, pointing us to him. And it's in his name, Jesus Christ, that we pray. Amen. So verse 1 starts now on the first day of the week. That's Sunday, day after the Jewish Sabbath, which is the last day of the week. This is the third day. After Jesus was put to death on the cross. Now before he was killed, Jesus said that he would give the sign of Jonah. We read about that in Matthew chapter twelve, also in Matthew chapter sixteen. and in Luke chapter 11. And Jesus said he would rebuild the temple, referring to his body, in three days. You can read about that in Matthew 26, Mark 14, and in John's Gospel chapter 2. Jesus was indicating that he would rise from the dead on day three. This was day three. But Christ's followers had somehow, for the moment, lost sight of this promise from Jesus. Now verse 1 continues, Mary Magdalene came to the tomb early. Matthew's gospel account tells us that there were two Marys. The accounts from Luke and Mark tell us that there were two Marys and other women too, even providing names. John doesn't draw attention to the other women. Doesn't mean that John didn't know the other women were there. In verse 2, we read Mary reporting that the body is missing, and we don't know where it is. We, as in the other women who were with her. But John doesn't talk about the other women. He doesn't need to in order to make his point. In fact, he can make his point more powerfully, perhaps, by mentioning just Mary, Magdalene. Now if you're curious, by the way, John also doesn't make mention of the earthquake like Matthew and Luke do. He doesn't tell us that it was an angel who took the stone away, or that the Roman guards fell down in shock. It doesn't tell us that Mary and the women were bringing spices. Matthew and Luke and Mark, they include details that make sense for what they're writing, and John includes details that make sense for what he's writing. They can't each write down everything. Remember, John tells us at the end of this gospel account that if he wrote down everything about Jesus, then the world could not contain the books that would be written. But if you're still concerned about the selective use of detail among the gospel writers, I have a scenario for you to consider. And so imagine You go to the store, you come back home, you say to your spouse, guess who I saw at the store? And your spouse says, I don't know who. And you say, Julie. Now, does your spouse suddenly think it was just you and Julie at the store? What there were no employees? No other shoppers at all Why wouldn't you say something like, among the 14 employees and 73 other shoppers in the store, one of them named Sally, by the way, I saw my friend Julie. You tell your spouse what's relevant. And what's relevant for John is that Mary Magdalene was there. And part of what makes this relevant for us is this can increase our confidence that what John has written is authentic and true. Because if you think about it, John has created for himself a witness problem. The testimony of women back in that day in that culture was not worth much Only men were seen as competent to provide witness, and you needed two of them. Two men, not one woman. So what's John to do? Is John to ignore the fact that women were the first to be witness of the empty tomb? This would ignore the example of Jesus, who gives great respect to women. So John doesn't discount the women. Although I will say perhaps to address this witness problem he's created for himself, he does give examples, emphasis rather, later in this passage to the fact that It was two males who raced to the tomb to witness an empty. But again, back to the problem of bringing up Mary, as we were saying, considering the ancient Jewish culture of John's day, women were not highly regarded. And in this case, we're talking about a woman who had been demon-possessed. Not by one, by seven demons. Definitely a social problem for Mary. But John doesn't try to hide from this as he relates what happened. In fact, you might say he's trying to draw our attention to this because he knows that there's no more male-female distinction in Christ. And he knows that there is no more shame from the demon possessions once you're redeemed in Christ. Jesus had female disciples who were with him. One of them was Mary. And he loved her and the other women unlike the rest of society. The rest of society did not. The way that he did, and so Mary is distraught. The man who had delivered her from seven demons. The man who had loved and respected her so much. He died, and now his body was missing. And she cried, as John will tell us ten verses later. She had an idea in her head of what Jesus would mean for her And that idea came up empty. Now back to verse 1, which next says, While it was still dark, It's easy to gloss over this is merely a time marker. John is merely telling us what happened and when it happened. There's nothing wrong with that as far as it goes. But thirty verses later, John writes that he is written, so that you may believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing you may have life in his name. And so He didn't write a history book. He didn't write a newspaper article. He didn't write a blog titled Fun Facts About Jesus. He wrote a gospel so that we would know that Jesus is the Son of God, and if we believe, we have life in Christ's name. So, with this in his purpose, why does John tell us It was still dark. John regularly uses stark contrasts when he writes in a Common contrast that he uses is light versus dark, as in good versus evil, uh understanding versus versus spiritual blindness. For example, in chapter one, John writes, The light of the light or the light was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and the darkness has not overcome it. Chapter three, he writes The light has come into the world, and people loved the darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. Chapter eight. Jesus spoke to them saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life Chapter twelve, Jesus says, The light is among you for a little while longer. Walk while you have the light, lest darkness overtake you. The one who walks in the darkness does not know where he's going. While you have the light, believe in the light, that you may become sons of light, and so you get the idea. It's a common theme. Well, the very last time that John uses the word dark in his gospel account, it's right here. Chapter twenty, verse one. He says it's still dark And it was for them from their perspective. Imagine the Jews have this long, rich history with Abraham and Moses and David. Then they had to deal with wars and exile, oppression. In the first century, when this story takes place, when this story is written, the Jews are being ruled by the ruthless Roman Empire. They wanted a deliverer. They were promised a deliverer. And some of these Jews, like Mary and John and Peter, thought they had found this deliverer in Jesus. And then he's arrested. That's not good. Then he's mocked. And ridiculed. That's not good. And then he's beaten nearly to death. Definitely not good. What is going on here? And then he's killed on the cross. And so now Christ's followers are depressed and disillusioned, they're scared and hiding everything they've unraveled. They didn't know what to think. Everything that could go wrong had gone wrong. All their earthly hopes had come up empty. They were still in darkness. Now the passage continues through verse 5 Mary saw the stone had been taken away from the tomb, so she ran and went to Simon Peter and the other disciple, the one whom Jesus loved, and said to them, They have taken the Lord out of the tomb. We do not know where they have laid him. So Peter went out with the other disciple And they were going toward the tomb. Both of them were running together. But the other disciple outran Peter and reached the tomb first. And stooping in to look, he saw the linen claws lying there, but he did not go in So, Mary Magdalene comes to them frantic. Peter and John run to the tomb, and the body is missing. The tomb is empty. And I can almost hear my mind saying, How in the world was somebody who's stolen the body? Could you put yourself in their place for just a minute? What would you have thought? What's going to go through your mind? What might you have said? I think I know what I might have said. I might have said something like, are you kidding me? This is nuts. Have me committed, put me in the same found, throw away the key. I can't take it anymore. Everything I trusted in. Gone. All my hopes that Jesus would lead a political revolution. All my hopes that Jesus would teach everyone a better life. All my hopes that Jesus would do something, anything. It's all gone. All my earthly hopes, all these idols I'd constructed Come up empty. The disciples were still in spiritual darkness, and so They saw the empty tomb, and they saw nothing. And we're going to pause right there and pick up with the conclusion to this message in next week's Faith Debate Show. Our show is sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, I encourage you to visit us online, wfmd. com Keyword Faith. What have I been reading? Well, uh last couple of weeks I've shared with you some stuff that I've been reading that had absolutely nothing to do with religion or theology or matters of faith. But that's not true this week. I've been reading a book by David Peterson called Engaging with God, a Biblical Theology of Worship Um if you like to wrestle with the serious matters of uh church liturgy and those sorts of things, and this is a great book I'd recommend it. If you would rather just read some sort of devotional thing off the shelf. This might not be your thing. And if you're into the really, really dense, hard to fathom and figure out theological discourse as some authors are so gifted at This isn't that either. This is accessible but but serious stuff. Anyway, the show hopefully is accessible and occasionally serious and Occasionally not so serious as stuff. My partner Jonathan Sweitzer not on the show this week. We'll be back uh very soon on our next panel discussion show of the Faith Debate. Uh we both thank you for your longtime support of this show. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.