The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Well I'm not sure why they decided, but uh the the management of the radio station decided to put me in charge of this radio show called The Faith Debate. On News Radio 930 WFMD. I am Troy Skinner, the pastor of a church in town called Household of Faith in Christ. Our website is Household of Faith in Christ. com. joined on the panel as usual by three other men who are pastors of churches in the town or in the county anyway as well. Imran Razvy and Daniel Razvy are with a church up in Thurmont. Uh they have an organization, a ministry that's called uh Conquered by Love Ministries on the website, conquered by love dot org, and that'll be uh particularly relevant in just a moment. You'll find out why. And uh David Forcy is also the pastor of a of a church that Meets in someone's home and send the south end of Frederick County. So if you're looking for a church, no matter where you are in the county, we can probably hook you up And and if you need advice or prayer or you know somebody to yell at, I can certainly put you in touch with Imran and Daniel. You can yell at them all you want. I won't bother David. I I I reserve David for me to yell at David. So uh we've been talking in recent weeks about uh family issues, marriage, parenting, s you know, sibling issues, household structure, those sorts of things And we've been using books and materials available through Conquered by Love uh ministries on their website, conquered by Love. org. And so this week we're going to be talking primarily, I think, about household organization. And they've got a series of books about that, uh, and which or at least related to that. Some of those include how and why we plan our week. Spend a Friday with the Razzies. That one, ooh, well spend a Friday with the Razvies. Uh teach your children to ask what's next, mommy. Yeah, don't bother daddy with that. Uh Day of Rest. and systems. And I think this actually does sort of piggyback a little bit on where we ended last week. We were talking about systems and structures and somebody's got to be in charge and that sort of a thing. So I think that these structural elements uh fit together. So I want to start with the fun one. Spend a Friday with the Razveys. So if we I were to spend this coming Friday with the Razvees, what what would I get? Like ice cream, lollipops? What happens? What happens on Friday? Well at the at the end of the week, and especially when kids are young, that you know you do you do a lot of preparation for the next week and if you take a day to prepare and and and figure out, you know, what's what plan out the next week, what's gonna happen and what are you gonna eat, what are you gonna wear, all those different things that uh that allows you to streamline the week's activities and not have to spend a lot of time each day, you know, wondering what we're gonna do next Do you do you do that on Fridays, like as a family? Pow wow, like here's what we're doing? Generally in in in growing up especially when w uh that's that's kinda w way we do it. So normally it would be my wife's purview. She runs the household. Okay, I do the do the outside work and and uh make money and take care of the family financially and spiritually, but she leads the children in training and and taking care of the house. So on Fridays she would do the planning for the following week uh what are the groceries we need? Okay? Daniel, you're cooking on Monday. What what groceries do you want? Plan it out now so Monday doesn't come on and you say, I have nothing to cook. There's nothing here. No, we know what we need. We get it ahead of time. So we're not going to the grocery store every day of the week because somebody else needs something else to cook. and what activities are we gonna do. So children have something to look forward to, they have plans. The hardest thing for children is not having structure, not knowing what's going to be next, what's going to happen. They're in the middle of some activity and you say, okay, it's time to go What do you mean, I'm not ready to go, nobody told me I was going anywhere. And you tell me I've got to go now, I've got to stop what I'm doing, uh again you're dealing with a lack of security. They don't have any control over their environment. So when you do the planning and have it structured and planned out then within that structure they have a lot more control. And you guys do that on Fridays, it sounds like at least in this example. Right. So my wife does all that uh on Fridays for the following week so that way everybody knows what to expect the following we And and to the point where you you can lay out make sure all the clothes are clean that you're gonna wear for the whole next week. If you have uh and it's all planned. You know, they're in a in a in a pile in order, you know, here's what we're gonna do. So everything's planned and laid out, so you don't have to think about the the structure of that af after all. If you again taking time to plan just for a activity is is useful, but for just a week of of h running a household that's um it frees up a lot of time. So the one who's in charge of that is the one doing it. Like the whole you have fifteen people in your house. You don't co call all fifteen together and then send an outch. That's the wife's job. Okay. But we w she might ask, hey, Daniel, what do you want what do you want to cook? Um Lynella or Christina or uh David, what do you want to cook? And so we make sure we have n uh all the right groceries. Um is there any activities that you guys want to do? Oh you wanna play volleyball, let's try to fit that in. Oh you wanna play soccer, let's try to get that fit in So yeah, th the children have input. They let the parents know what kind of activities they want to do and the mother puts it together and and gets it there and it's on my schedule as well, so I can schedule my appointments meetings around family activities. But if it's not planned, then everybody's going in different directions and also it takes a lot more time to get things done. Because then they're always coming to mommy asking, Hey, what are we doing? What are we doing? What what are we eating? What am I gonna wear? survival requirement to do this when you have a household of fifteen people. Right. But whether you have thirteen children or or one child, it does make life easier if you make the decisions all at one time and then you don't have to think about it every day every time. So do you guys do we we don't we're not uh we have uh right now it's my wife and I and our adult disabled son. So you know my wife and I just have to make sure we're in communication and we're touching bass all the time. Uh and it works most of the time for us, but there are rare occasions when we both feel a little bit like we're not as connected as we should be and we will sit down and I call it getting out the calendars. I said, Hey, you mind you mind sitting down for a minute and getting out the calendars? And so we go through the calendar and we kinda map out, not like you guys do where uh we map out the next week in a very specific way, but we're just making sure we're on the same page with all of our appointments and r and and obligations and the different things in our life. for the for the coming months. And we usually go ahead at least two, three, four months. Sometimes if if we get on a roll we might just touch base with what we know of for the whole rest of the year. When it comes to shopping and stuff, you know, my my wife does almost all of the almost all, like ninety nine point nine nine nine percent of the cooking And and she does ninety-nine point nine nine percent of of the shopping, so she just kinda knows in her own head what food she's gonna need to f uh to prepare and that sort of stuff. Um But we do something similar that fits us. Do you guys do something like that where you're comparing notes weekly or at least, you know, regularly? Um David Forcy by the way is that I point in the audience is like, hmm, I'm imagining he's pointing to someone. Who's he pointing to? I'm pointing at David Forcey. Uh yeah, so so my wife and I will uh we'll sit down from time to time sort of as uh you know on on an as needed basis to to figure out what um yeah to to to stay connected to to make sure we know what's what's going on. Um You know, to to plan things out together. Um uh my wife and and our kids, she does a lot more in the way of um you know weekly and even even sort of daily reviews of just you know and uh when everybody gets together in the morning saying, Okay, reminder, this is what's going on today, these are um this is who's doing what and when kind of deal as in addition to a w sort of the weekly. And that can be particularly challenging in today's culture. And I don't know if your family either one of your families would fit the typical norm for what passes for normal in today's society. But so many of our kids are overscheduled. And I think you have a lot of kids like you guys have a whole bunch of kids, both families. The Razvy and Forcey families are both r well uh unusually large compared to what you see your next door neighbors having. Um and so I mean a family that's got like two or three kids and one of the kids is playing soccer and has, you know, banjo lessons and another kid is playing basketball and has piano lessons and, you know, another person's involved in theater and uh you know is taking ballet or something and And and and then somebody else is doing karate and all these other and then of course there's church functions and a lot of the churches have programs for the kids with youth group and prayer meetings and all these things. All of a sudden you're doing two, three, four, five, six, seven, twelve things a week. How do you manage it? Did you guys have to deal with any of that? Don't do it. No a and and a lot of people say, Oh well no we have to make sure we get all the activities done for the children. No. The this goes back to what we talked about last week, family unity. It's the uh very important for the family to be together. So yes, we did activities, okay, but we did soccer. And if only one of us was in soccer, the whole family goes and sits and watches them do soccer practice. Because we all do it together. And so y you do guest activities that way, but everybody does it together. And you know, maybe three or four of them are all in the same soccer team. That that works too. But you do as much as possible, you do together as a family. If we're eating dinner, we all eat dinner together every day. Um it's it it was very, very rare growing up that we had a dinner that only half the family was at. You know, if i if my dad had to work real late or something, maybe, but we'd usually delay dinner and wait till he gets home and then eat with him. It's important to do things together as a family and so sometimes we get bogged down in all these activities and it just breaks up the family. So it doesn't actually it teaches it may it may may the kids maybe learn some skill with karate or soccer or whatever they're doing and violin lessons But you're not you're you're losing focus of the more important thing is to keep the family unified and and following God together. Did that get harder as as more of the kids got older? And they were driving and having part-time jobs and things like that to have the family come together and eat because they're part-time jobs. They might be bagging groceries on Wednesday nights. It does make it more difficult. And one of the requirements from when we had our children get jobs in it, we're ha having dinner together. So find a job that you don't work during dinner time. Dinner is very important We uh as a family, when as a ministry when we were out there d speaking on the circuit and talking and and doing that, we um did a survey in a large homeschool conference, I think there was I don't know how many thousand people there, and we asked teenagers You know, in what way would you like your s to see your family more unified? Simple question, in what way would you like to see your family more unified? Ninety percent and these are all homeschool children. So these are not children that are in public schools. Ninety percent of them said, hm, it would be nice if we could eat dinner together. That means ninety percent of the homeschool children were in so many activities they didn't eat dinner together. And that's what they wanted Okay? We're under the false assumption that we have to do all these activities to give all these things to our kids. No, we don't. When we f only had Daniel My wife and I put 'em everything, karate, gymnastics, you know, uh soccer, um t ball, everything. Because we wanted to give it to all the that's that's the American way. Get 'em involved in as many activities as possible. Then we had another child and another child. And it became a l a little bit harder and it was taking up too much time. And we made a decision. What is more important? Are these activities more important or is God more important? And if God's more important, what does God want for our family? He's designed the family. He wants our family to be unified and going in one accord, following him, glorifying him in the activities we do. So and then when we adopted and we had five more children at one time and from a family of three children to eight children overnight, again it it became more complicated. So we literally eliminated all the superfluous activities and we did an activity together We put everybody in soccer and m my wife and I coached. So even though we had different age groups, we coached three teams and we would coach at the same time so we all would be at the same place. And uh we try to uh s uh schedule our games too so that it wouldn't be in conflict. We could always be at each other's games. And uh you've probably heard of Wo Woody Bakum and uh he's a big advocate. He said if you send your children to the Romans They'll become Roman soldiers. Don't send them to the to to the school and expect them to be uh Christians. If you send them to school they're gonna be you know uh they're not gonna be uh yeah, they're gonna be secular. And his biggest thing when he he said when he talks to parents, so but they gotta be able to play sports. I mean what just play sports. So, well, if you want to buy down to the god of sports then that's your temple. You gotta tear down that temple. Sports are not that important. They're not. But we have the false presumption in this society that every child has to be able to play a sport 'cause they could become famous and they could make millions of dollars. No, majority of them, ninety-nine point nine percent of them will never make it professional and there's no reason to spend all that time and energy. And you know what? I have a couple kids that I think could have done really well and been professional, but w they didn't have the chance Is that gonna keep them out of heaven? I don't think so. And that's more important. Yeah, I don't know. If you're not with LeBron James, I don't know if you have a chance at heaven actually. So your kids are all younger, none of them are working age. So you haven't had that training. Yeah, they're uh they're on the on the cusp. They'll be there. So are you beginning to plan for And have you given similar instructions to the kids that are in the oldest end of your uh pecking order to say, hey, when you get a job, make sure you're home for dinner? No, I think we'll we'll probably cross that bridge when we come to it. Um but uh I mean our our family culture is to is to do everything together. Um you know uh my uh Yeah, if uh you know, if we can't uh get all of the kids into sort of the same activity then then we we just don't do it. Um you know, we we worked hard to to find a um you know a a music teacher that all of our children could take lessons from. Um you know and and and certainly we're sort of And it must be a pretty darn good music teacher because not all your kids play the same instrument Uh that's true. We uh we had to find an instructor that could teach multiple instruments. We had to we had to make uh one exception to to add the add the cello into the mix. But uh but It was with two music teachers that uh that we were able to work out everybody's still going together on the on the same day and so it's uh you know, still is a a family activity. Because I mean athletics can be important and the bonding and the team and the lessons that can be learned through teamwork and common goals and all that sort of stuff. So sports has a place. But if you had to choose between a child being on a soccer team or taking piano lessons, which one would you choose? Music. Yeah. The music is mentally and spiritually very uh uh very important and I think it's it is important for everybody to understand music. Uh you don't have to take a lot of it, but take a it it should be a required course in in school. But Well i i uh as you're teaching children and and hopefully you homeschool. If you're not homeschooling, please start homeschooling. And if you don't know how to homeschool, contact us and we'll help you. But it in your home school curriculum, I think both uh should be required. You should learn sports and you should learn to play music because sports are important for exercise. Music is important as a a a language, just like uh any other language, but it helps with brain development and emotional stability and all sorts of things. So they are both important. I mean PE is always a required thing at all s even public schools, right? Um not so much anymore. Not so much anymore. That's one of the issues actually in Forever County public schools there's been some pushback because there's not enough physical activity, not enough recess for the younger kids, not enough PE physical education classes for the older two. I I think that uh that a lot of the things that you can acquire from from sports can be easily easily accomplished in group activities, whether playing games or uh doing manual labor together, you know, working together, uh, spending time outside. By the way, I think I might have misspoke. I think I said uh I referred to FCPS as Freddy County Public Schools. My apologies Frederick County Pagan Schools. Just wanted to clarify. I I apologize if I misspoke earlier, but it's Frederick County Pagan Schools. That's why you need to homeschool. So yeah, again, uh as pastors, we want to relate to the Bible. So what is more important in the Bible, sports or music? Well, we have both, right? And the sport at that time was being able to be able to arm yourself and be trained as a soldier, that was a sport that was able to do that. And David was both, right? He was vr a mighty man. He could defend and and help and take care of the kingdom and he was very much musically inclined. He wrote the Psalms and he sang and danced to to the chagrin of McCall who absolutely despised him at that point Was uh McCall's heart uh close to God's or was David's? The Bible clearly says David's heart was a it was after God's own heart. But with that, David was not allowed to build a temple because he had blood on his hands. That was a sport. Right. But his heart was still after God's own heart. So as Daniel said, I think music is more important and as David said, you can learn a lot of the skills you would learn in sports is working together leadership. David Forcy. Uh yes, yes. Not not David from the Bible. Uh uh Oh this David Forcy here is pretty ruddy as well. Good blonde uh Middle Eastern guy. Exactly. Come on, haven't you seen the paintings of Jesus? All the Middle Easterners were blue eyed, light haired Come on. Yes. And uh so I I think that both are important but you shouldn't have to one you shouldn't have to choose. I think you can ju do some group sports or activities together And it doesn't have to be at a competitive level where you're always, you know, chasing or competing or traveling where it takes up all your family's time. I think family is the most important. That's the most important family and family function and having multiple children. You can do learn a lot of those skills just being part of a larger family. And building in a day of rest is easier if you're and your system, your schedule as a family, if there's not sports, right? Starting with the day of rest and making that a no exceptions sort of deal helps to uh Helps to set the tone, I think, for sort of how you're going to be able to do that. the day of rest, right? And because all sorts of problems. Of course on Sundays everybody likes to go to the uh to the American cathedrals called sports arenas and watch the uh the the the footballers uh have their blood sport. So uh we do have our pr priorities out of whack. Uh we only have a uh like a short amount of time left but I do wanna Well, talk about this one. Teach your child or your children to ask what's next, mommy. So talk about the importance of that and what you mean by that. So there's there shouldn't be an idle time. as as children. Because when you're idle and and uh there's a phrase about idle hands and uh I don't want to Devil's Workshop. Yeah, there you go. Um so It's not mean to say oh the children should always be working and that's I don't mean they'd always always need to be working and and doing manual labor and working themselves death and and and all that. But the child needs to know what is the next thing do. And there always needs to be something next to do, even if it's plain, right? So my parents trained us uh when we're uh we were very little is any time we're done with the task that's assigned, you finish that task And then you go ask what's next mommy. The book is what's next mommy, not what's the next daddy because uh the father's not always necessarily in the home if he's you know working outside the home to provide. But it may be if you And most daddies would just say, Go ask mommy. Yes, they come ask me what's next, Daddy, I'll say what's next is ask mommy. And and that really is true because mommy's in charge of their training at home. I mean daddy's the principal but mommy's the teacher And and so, you know, the the household is run by the mother, that's why it's what's next, mommy. And so when you finish your task, you go find out what is next. And if she doesn't have a specific thing then she'll say, Okay, well go take a break, go play or whatever and I'll call you when I need you for something else. But you have to get that permission first. You don't just go off and do your own thing once you finish whatever you're in the middle of And it's a really good tool. It always it always makes the child start thinking, Okay, I I had there is more there are more things that are important to do. Like uh you know, the priority is to help the family. Secondarily it's whatever I'm I I w I feel like doing. But the first thing is to help the family. And on that note also, if you if the children don't have something to do Their biggest thing is I'm bored, I'm depressed. And that's what's causing a lot of the depression and suicide and thoughts and everything 'cause they don't have any structure. They don't have a purpose in life. And what's next mommy gives them that purpose and mommy might say, Hey, it's time to go play Legolos for half hour. Okay, I'll go play Legos for half hour She might say it's time to go do dishes for fifteen minutes. Okay, I'll go do dishes. What's next, mommy? And that also makes uh lead leading the children for the mother much easier instead of having the mother having to chase down the kids Where are they? I gotta find I gotta get this down, get the trash taken out to the trash bin. Where are they? And then she knows where they are. Because as a leader, you gotta know where your troops are. The children are the troops, right? You gotta know where everybody's deployed, what they're doing, and instead of chasing them down, they come to you. It can help bring some security to the mind of the child too, right? 'Cause they the future is more predictable. They know there's something next that's coming and mom's got it under control. I have an adult disabled son and one of his favorite things that say is and then Like he asks, you know, he'll go he'll look at the calendar and he'll be like Monday and he wants to know what we're doing on Monday. Tuesday, he wants to know what we're doing on Tuesday. And then um, you know, we we exhaust his uh curiosity and he's fine and he feels more settled and secure. Or when it's in the moment of the day, like in the morning, he might say he might Uh he might ask about what we're doing first. And let's say he hadn't had breakfast. Yeah. I said, Well first we're gonna have breakfast and then well and then we're gonna go do this other thing. And then And then basically until it's time for bed. And he's like, Okay, now I know what my day is. And so there's a real sense of security for them. And one of the differences between Daniel and I, when I was growing up I was bored a lot. Because my mom gave me a lot of free time. If you can do whatever you want. And I was bored. Yeah, I was bored. But Daniel can can attest to the fact that he probably was never bored growing up Yeah, I don't really remember e ever having a time when I was bored and didn't have anything to do. I could always think of things to do. And that's because my parents gave me a lot of different things to activities. Not The outside the home activities going the different places like we're talking about, but they they helped me practice different things, so I always had things to do And it wasn't ever T V. We didn't watch TV growing up. It wasn't playing on the internet. It uh it was the always activities, whether outdoors or indoors, things to do, whether they're productive or not less productive. Well, you know, it strikes me as we're talking about all this stuff for kids. I think there's some adults who'd apply these practices in their lives too, and we'd have a much better world to uh to live in. Ain't that the truth? Anyway, this is the faith debate. Thank you, gentlemen, again. Daniel Razi, Imron Razley, and David Forcey have joined me, Troy Skinner on the panel again this week. Connect with us at wfmd. com or householdofynchrist. com. Or if you want to learn more about these specific things we've been talking about in recent weeks, go to Conqueredbylove. org. Conquered by Love Ministries is the Rasvy Ministry. And if you want to connect with them, the easiest way to do that is probably to touch base with me. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from ITO, right about now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com, a service of Holtzappel heating and air conditioning. WFMB's Fox News Update, a service of the S