This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Kua, where faith community leaders wrestle. over the truth. Yabba do in less than 30 minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith-debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Oh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. How ecumenical is too ecumenical? This is a real and serious question for Christ's Church. As a case study, today we're going to look at the National Day of Prayer. Each spring, a number of Christian church leaders gather with political leaders all across the nation to pray and encourage common values. That's important. What are those values? What faith traditions should be included and or excluded from participating in the National Uh Day of Prayer events. So back on the panel for round three of what's been a stimulating conversation since the first time. I'm sure this week will be no different than the last two. We have the founder of Bridges in Frederick County, Jonathan Schweitzer, and the senior pastor at Trinity United Methodist Church, Dr. Eliezer Valentin Castañon. And um We don't have we can we can pick up the threads where we left off the last couple of weeks and we don't have to talk exclusively about the National Day of Prayer. But I think we're going to end up before today's show is over talking a little bit about that. But before we jump deeply into that um Jonathan had to hold his bladder for a full week to then uh hit us with this question that he was burning to ask at the end of last week's show we just ran out of time. So do you remember what it was? Yes, please don't uh flush this down your toilet. Uh so the question is whether or not uh whether there are you were describing that Jesus, uh uh Pastor Casignon. Uh is where you live, w where your faith, your faith is in Jesus. He defines who your faith is. And um And honestly, um I'm trying to uh I'm trying to make a distinction And it's a distinction that that um that is pretty important to me and I think uh many pastors that are friends of mine in terms of of defining like what's really important, you know, in terms of of the uh you know the body of Christ in terms of of preaching the gospel. And And uh it's possible that that you're just in a different place on that. And if that's the case, you know, as a I'm deeply committed to the to the First Amendment. I'm deeply committed to you know, to us being being people that honor one another and work together in Frederick to do good things, uh even across religious barriers. Um but um and and so I want to openly admit that I'm asking the question to kind of discern whether or not you're in what I think is in uh in terms of Christ. And that's gotta be irritating to you. I mean I I just want to kind of recognize up front that that that I'm kind of the guy that is pushing for something that I think you inherently would rather rather we avoid. You're not the first one to ask the question. Sure. And so it's not a it's that right? Yeah. Somebody walked up to you and said, Are you in? Yeah. Well in a different way. That's the story my life. That's not the story in real life. No, they just assume I'm out. So in my case, you know, yeah, people have you know some people have asked the same questions because you know again this is coming to the point this is coming to the to the to the conversation because you know people want to um ascertain, you know, if if he believes like I do, then he must be in. And this is where we always enter in in in a bit a little bit of a challenging conversation. Because, you know, well, you know, there are certain things that we can say, you know, we can proclaim certain things and we can even say the same s make the same statements Now does that necessarily mean that that means the same for both of us? Not necessarily. I mean I get that. We're digging into that. I'm just wanting to be clear that that that Uh there's there's different kinds of in versus out. You know, like like what does it mean to be a citizen of the United States versus you know being an enemy of the United States, right? I think that's an important distinction. What does it mean to be to be Christian versus being Muslim? I think that's an important distinction. What does it mean to be um you know to be a member of my family versus somebody that that is not a member of my family, right? These are all distinctions that that that uh define for me certain boundaries. You know, I treat my family a certain way, I treat my friends a certain way. uh other people um I'll be friendly with, you know, I try to be friendly with everybody, respectful of everybody. Right. Uh and so so in all those spaces there's there's roles that I play inside of who's in and who's out. And so if You know, if you're in in terms of of what I'm describing with the body of Christ, you know, then then it means that there's a certain amount of things that we that we can do for the sake of the gospel that is more than what uh other things that I can do with people that are Muslim or Jewish but are still a part of the community. I can still do things with them but but there ends up being different categories of things and so uh so none of this is intended to like hurt anybody or to to to to create hate Uh but the National Day of Prayer I think is very important because uh in that particular event uh we had we had this this really amazing moment of an African American uh Bishop Harry Jackson coming in and saying to the group that was gathered that he as an African American uh had been a racist and uh and began to tell us his story about how he uh uh how he dealt with his racism so that he could, you know, uh embrace people in Christ, you know, specifically This is inside the body of Christ discussion. And so sure enough, um the room afterwards was in this place of of tremendous like love towards one another and hope, you know, to be even be an answer to those that that are not believers that that we can we can love people that don't look the same, that are of different cultures, you know, this kind of a thing. Uh and then, you know Uh unfortunately the journalist that wrote the article wove a a really uh harsh narrative that I don't think you necessarily bought into. Uh but it became clear that that you have some concerns about what the definitions of that group are in terms of being in and again if it's the case that we're in different places then uh it just defines some of our relations it it helps to define some of our relationship. We still have significant things that we can do together. So now that's my apologetic for asking this question from last week, uh which I haven't flushed down the toilet yet. The question is, um are there parts of uh things that Jesus taught that that you uh that you don't agree with. Interestingly enough, that's um interesting way to put the question. I don't I don't disagree with Jesus. I disagree with our interpretation of what Jesus said uh which is from my perspective a little bit of a different, you know, uh understanding, which is what, you know, in most cases when we have a conversation on on the subject of Christianity Um that's exactly what it always boils down to is our understanding of what Jesus said. Um so I don't have an issue with what Jesus said. I have an issue with what some people proclaim to say that Jesus said Um you know, and just to give you the example, you know, as we were talking about uh this this idea about who's in it, who who's out, um, you know, Matthew twenty-five, and you know the passage very well, thirty-one to forty-six, who's in it, who's out. The passage Jesus says who's in? People who are in, the disciples, the folks who are in happen to be those who take care of the poor, take care of the of those who are in in in difficult situations, in difficult conditions. And Jesus says, Because if you did it to them, you did it to me. So taking care of the other, taking care of the other human being becomes a fundamental understanding of what it means to be a follower of Jesus. And then Jesus then flips that and says, you know, to the other folks who were on the other side, right? It says, but because you did not do this to me, you did not this to to the other, you did not do this to me, and therefore you're not a follower. So from my perspective then in in that understanding the so who's in and who's out? Well those who follow what Jesus taught and what Jesus asked asked has asked us to do and how Jesus has asked us to live our lives in our faith. And so and here of course then always come the question about, you know, but um is is the idea of belief, which then comes usually to the point of how do we define belief and usually we define belief by our theological discourses. And so when we define then our our belief by our theological discourses then we enter in in a in a very difficult and challenging place. Because each one of us will have a different understanding of the other. So in in the Bible, what would be uh something that would be a uh definitive for belief, for right belief. Like when Jesus says that um You know, Jesus hear my voice, you know, and and if anyone does not hear my voice, you know, you know, he's he's not my sheep when he talks about uh there's places that he talks about, you know, eternal judgment you know, where people are gonna be cast out, you know, into uh into darkness and there's gonna be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Like there's there's a whole number of passages that uh that are a side of Jesus that I think are uncomfortable for any of us to to deal with but are still a part of Like in the example of a the prayer of Rexis, for example. And it it's it's it First of all, should it be broader than just Christian people that are there is one question we can tack tackle that in a minute. But in the context of it's gonna be Christians gathering together to pray for the nation with our political leaders. That's kind of the gist of what's supposed to be happening at these things. So if somebody shows up uh claiming that they're part of that Christian family that's there to pray, but they don't believe in the resurrection of Jesus Christ, w would we all agree that okay they're they're on the out, they're not on the in Yeah, meaning they could be in the room, but they clearly don't represent like like what the the identity of the people in the room is kind of intended Well, you know, a as we were having the conversation um uh um earlier um uh with Jonathan and I, um the the the issue is, you know, if you if you have a com if you're gonna have a conversation uh if you can have a a day of prayer and you say this is a national day of prayer um and and then you define the national day of prayer for Christians only Then okay, then then Christians only should shut up and if people who believe themselves to be Christians should you not show up to the event. Um My my challenge in as I mentioned to to Jonathan was, you know, well if we have if we are talking about having a national day of prayer where we said we are we are coming together as a community to pray Well, if we mean as a Christian community to pray, then let's say that we're coming as a Christian community to pray. But if we say we are coming as a community, meaning a larger community to come and pray together, then It's not simply then about having Christians in a room to pray, because then, you know, Christians aren't involved the only people who pray. And if we're talking about having that national thing of prayer. Who are the people who aren't Christians praying to What do you mean? If if somebody comes into the room to pray and they're not a Christian, are they praying to God? Right. So he's asking the bigger question, right? So our nation has a national day of prayer And if there's a uh you know, if we're under the First Amendment and our nation has a national day of prayer, then It would seem appropriate. I'm actually, I think, in agreement with this. Uh I think there's nuance to it that we probably would agree with as we dig into it. But if it's a national day of prayer, then I would expect that Muslims would pray to Allah for the nation and Jewish people would pray uh to to Yahweh, to Jehovah, and um Buddhists would do uh I don't know that they pray to anybody but they would you know they they would you know So you're saying that that's meditation that that that would be an ideal for the National Day of Prayer? Or would be it or at least would be an okay uh I'm saying that Uh so so if we have a national day of prayer as a nation, I don't think there's anything wrong with Christians gathering on that day together and doing a Christian thing. And I don't think I don't think uh that Belly Asiers disagree. That's the point. You can have if you could be a prayer and you say well this is gonna be a day of prayer and is the Evangelical Association or the uh or the uh Frederick Every Ministerial Association calling for a Christian day of prayer. So we know that folks are coming and are Christians and we're gonna come and we're gonna pray in the name of Jesus. So that is an understanding. So if you are not a Christian, then you feel out you know out of the equation. Yeah, but clearly you're gonna feel out of the equation because of course this is a call for Christians to come to pray. But if we're calling for a and this is and this is where our conversation was um a few a few months ago is if we're calling for a national day of prayer where we're saying we're we're inviting the community to come to pray So we're then inviting the whole community to come to pray, and that implies of course not only Christians, but also implies then Muslims and Jews and anybody else who has a different religious understanding who believes in prayer. Now, do we necessarily have to agree with all you know all the other beliefs that those folks have in terms of their faith? No. But it means that if we're coming to do this thing as a pr as a c as coming to pray. that we accept the fact that people come to pray and they're not necessarily going to pray in the name of Jesus. At the same location in if in the same event for example after your example just one second. It's Jonathan Sweitzer, this is the Faith Debate at 930 WFMB. I'm Troy Skinner and we're joined this week by Dr. Eliezer. Valentine Castagnon. So go ahead, your point, your example. So I was going to say, for example, uh when the president uh gives his you know, his is uh you know, his speech when he's uh set in as president, you know, at the moment of being set in. Uh sometimes I have a Jewish person pray and a Muslim guy pray and, you know, different people pray. That's something where the government, as it were, has called for an event and as it represents all the people, uh I'm not I I I i in my heart I might um honestly uh you know make a judgment or whatever about you know the others that are praying but at the end of the day I'm like that, you know Uh it's the First Amendment, you know, and it and it represents the whole nation. Uh the problem is nobody thinks that the government's allowed to do that anymore. And so as a Christian, I don't feel an obligation to gather Muslims and Jewish and Buddhist together to pray in the same location, um I do feel an obligation to gather Christians to pray. If on the National Day of Prayer uh they're praying around the t in in fact I I led something like that when we did the Frederick forty eight campaign, the first time we did it We invited Catholics and Muslims and Jewish people to all pray before we gathered at noon that particular day. We had uh at that gathering we had both sides of of uh the political spectrum. We had people from all parts of uh you know religious backgrounds, you know, saying that that we can do this thing. But but what I didn't do was invite people to pray together in the same location. Now I do think there are times when when an elected leader can do that, but atheists and secularists you know, won't even allow that anymore. Right? Meaning they they say they want none of that. You know, keep it out of the out of the public square. I don't want to see anything like that. And so I think what you're saying is you'd like to gather all those religions to pray together. Well you know, it it my my thing is simply and as we were having that conversation was that, you know, if When we when we call for a day of prayer and we call this a national day of prayer, so we're we're calling everybody to come to pray. Um so I don't see I don't I don't have an issue or a challenge having people of different faiths coming together to pray Um in you know in the same thing. If if I stand up to pray, as as I have done many times, you know, in uh in public meetings where we have uh where we have gathered together. And um, you know, I always end with with what I learned to be my prayer, which is in the name of Jesus. Um so If somebody else comes to pray, who's a Jew, who's a Muslim, who's some other religious tradition, and praise and praise to God in whatever way they feel is the appropriate way to pray. I pray in the name of Jesus because that is how I believe is the right thing to do. From a Christian's perspective, if I invite uh a Hindu, a Jew, a Buddhist, uh uh a Wiccan, uh a pagan, uh Roman mythology believer, or whatever, all into the same room to pray with me I'm equating all their understandings of God with mine as equally valid. And I think that that's horrifyingly wrong because those people, from a Christian perspective, are lost and need to have the lostness of their situation pointed out to them. But we're giving them kind of this, you know, it perception that the God that you are praying to is the the one true God, just like the God that I'm praying to is the one true God And I'm thinking of the example of uh of Elijah, I forget the chapter, but it's the latter sections of uh First Kings where he goes and uh challenges the the the prophets of of the Baal worshippers. And said and they prayed all day. And they danced around the the sacrifice and they were they were cutting themselves with swords and knives and stuff, doing everything they could think of to try to get their understanding of God to answer And he didn't, or it didn't, or she didn't, whatever, I'm not sure what Bale is, but ba Bale didn't answer because Baile isn't real. Isn't the true God. And Elijah didn't do any of that. He just said, okay, God, boom. Dun after pouring water on us. So if I get together with somebody who's not a Christian and give the impression that their prayer to quote unquote God is the same as the Christian prayer to quote unquote God I'm creating a false equivalency that I think is confusing. Don't you don't agree? I don't. I don't. I don't agree with that. I think that, you know, part of the thing here is and and this is when we, you know, if I Um if I invite people to pray and people have different beliefs, um I'm opening the door for folks to come where they are. And and my thing is, you know, I I'm offering that moment of grace for because, you know, indeed if I disagree with you theologically and you know in your belief It's simply to say, you know, even though I disagree, I I believe you do have a right to do the same thing that I do, which is to pray. And in that sense, you know My m my openness to the to the to prayer is precisely an openness to receive somebody who's different than I am. is confusing to me. Are you making a First Amendment commitment or are you making a Christian commitment? Right? 'Cause 'cause I'm in agreement I do not want us to go back ever to a theocracy where where everybody in the nation is required to worship the same way. I don't care if it's a Christian theocracy or whatever. uh I I I don't think that's the way to go as a nation. I think the First Amendment is vital in uh in that that God himself is the one that gives us that freedom of conscience. Right? So if you're just talking about First Amendment, then I'm in agreement with you. But if it but but it sounds to me like you're talking about more than that, uh and that you're almost saying that that Muhammad or Buddha or Um you know, other faiths could be just as good a way to get to God as Jesus. Jesus is good for you, but You know. Mm-hmm. Other people could get there those other ways and that's fine. Right. Well, you know And I can't tell that distinction. That distinction's important to me. It might not be as important to you and so I keep driving at it and you Well for me, you know, somebody who uh you know Muslims don't pray to to Muhammad. Muslims pray to Allah. And Allah simply means God. Um so it's it's you know the the distinction is interesting because you know and uh if if we were to talk to a Jew or to a Muslim, so they are both praying to God and and in this sense. So When we come to pray, we pray to God. And you know, in our case, of course, we come to pray to God through Jesus Christ, because again, that's what we have been taught, and so that's what I sustain as a as a Christian Um when I when I encounter somebody who believes something different, um, you know, part part of my my my desire is for that person to feel that Even though we believe something different, we can be in conversation, we can be in dialogue, and we can work together. I also believe in the idea that you know Respecting folks is an important thing, respecting people's beliefs are an important thing, even if they don't agree with with me. Yeah, but so do I. I mean I respect them. Like I respect them. We have a note of agreement, we're gonna end right there. John Swipes are the founder of Bridges and um Also joining us the senior pastor at Trinity United Methodist Church, Dr. Eliezer Valentine Casignon. I'm Troy Skiner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. You can find us online at WFMD. com. You can keyword faith or find the drop down menu for the shows and uh click on Faith Debate. It takes you podcasts to the list of shows that'll be coming up and the shows that have recently aired so you can figure out which podcasts you might want to check out. And you can also go to WFMD Facebook page and you'll see some uh links to uh podcasts and and information about the show there on occasion as well. Thanks so much for listening until next week. How many hours? 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.