Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share. Share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson said that the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom, and it's in that spirit that we seriously wrestle with important ideas, possibly even disagreeing with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop about better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. Purto Faith Debate is brought to us by Allstrad Mopal Mobile Document Destruction. All shred, shredding today for growth tomorrow. You can give them a call at 1-877-2 Shred. On the panel this week to talk about uh church retention issues. Last week we had uh Timothy Fisher from uh Walkersville Brethren in Christ Church uh on Along with uh Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel and uh from Redeemer International Family Church, Chris Gieslin, and they're all back this week. Last week we were talking about how do we get the fannies in the seats, and this week we're gonna talk about how we keep those fannies in the seats. And whether we should worry about that, or if they as pastors should just be preaching and sharing the truth and if you don't like it tough. So I'm gonna actually have that be the very first question. All right. You're preaching the truth, you're sharing the gospel, this is what who Jesus is, this is what Jesus did for you. You don't like it, tough. Mm-hmm. I mean at some level is that True. Well what I preach is the mission of the church is missions. And you have a mission that you're to fulfill, that God has a purpose for your life. Rick Warren, of course, wrote this great book. the purpose-driven church. And it really is what is the mission? Every human being has a mission. And you know, uh as a believer in Christ, you have a mission. And I'm going to come alongside of you and help you fulfill that mission. And that's basically the way we retain them, is we're supposed to make disciples. And if they find that passion, find that mission, you can't beat them away with a stick. I mean they're gonna be there. And you know, some will leave, but maybe they're gonna go to another church and find out what their mission is there. uh not like what you had to say or what you were asking them they left. Almost weakly I'd say. You know, we're we're th we're three well well now we're three years old and so um but it's not on those issues, it's mainly on other issues uh having to do with um Um issues that a lot of secret sensitive churches don't talk about, for instance, uh homosexual marriage or abortion or those issues. We've had people just walk out and are in disagreement. um because of the times we live in. And you know, we believe those are biblical standards and so we do preach that and minister that. But Um when we get people committed and connected um and they find their purpose, you know, they run it with a passion and we do everything we can to put it in our budget, to fund it. to help them any way we can to see them fulfill that mission. Now I'm gonna pr um ask you to dis to define for somebody who hasn't heard the phrase before what seeker sensitive Well and now and I got I'm not gonna I'm probably getting into trouble with this and maybe these guys can help me with this. Okay. John, how about if you answer that John answer, yeah. The definition of secret sensitive church. What does that mean? A secret sensitive church tends to think in terms of their Sunday morning service being a place where those who are there have never heard the gospel before and so they gear the music. Maybe they'll have drama uh and the message towards uh making it easy for somebody that has never heard the gospel before to hear the message of the gospel and to not um to not be made to feel uncomfortable by it, but to be facilitated in hearing that message. So they put all that on Sunday morning. Whereas a non-seeker sensitive church just thinks in terms of uh just preach the gospel and if it offends, then it offends. They don't necessarily think in terms of trying to not offend people. So how I how I framed this show today was if you don't like it tough, that would be the opposite of a secret sensitive church. Yeah that's right. That is correct. Yes. Uh Tim, have you had somebody uh ever, I'm sure you have, some who you weren't seeker sensitive enough and they they went elsewhere. They didn't like your s they didn't like hearing the truth or Whatever. And are you concerned about that? Um I would say yeah, definitely we're we're concerned about that. I think that when someone comes to church, um You know, they're looking at the entire experience of what they experienced there. Um it kind of reminds me of uh right outside of Walkersville, the brand new shopping center has opened up And I remember standing in line for a free uh burrito. And um as I was standing in line for about twenty minutes, one of the workers from that California tortilla came and she was kind of greeting everybody in line and I sort of engaged in conversation with her and she stopped right there and was nice and friendly. Um you know, to make a long story short, everything about my experience that day was very positive, so it was very easy for me to go back. So I kinda look at it as, you know, not just the message or the music, but you know, someone comes in with children and they can't find classrooms or the nursery's a mess or things look filthy. Um long before I open my mouth, they've made some very serious judgments either for or against the church. Um we send out to every one of our guests that we get their name and address. Just a very simple survey. Would you notice first? Would you like like best, would you like least and and it's it's kinda surprising that sometimes somebody'll say what they noticed first or what they like best was you know, how well groomed the lawn was or something like that. So non-eternal. Uh and yet that was an important first impression uh that was made. I remember a few weeks ago I just sort of stood and watched how our greeters interacted with people who were coming for the first time. And they were smiling and very friendly, the kind of person I'd want to meet if I was coming in the church for the first time and and I let 'em know that you're very good at what you do. So I think we need to be aware of so many you know, s detail kind of the things as well. What does the Bible tell us about this uh this issue? I mean it tells us to go and make disciples And there are guidelines for those who uh aren't living lives, uh aren't demonstrating the fruit they're supposed to have and how you're supposed to deal with them and if they don't uh uh take well to how you're dealing with them that you're to kick them out of the church basically and hopefully that extreme measure will make them come to their senses and they'll come back into the fold. Um but those are kind of The the two polar ends and there's not is there much guidance from the from the scriptures on what to do in between those two extremes I think there is, but you are t you're exactly right. It seems like they're almost anti to one another. There's the radical mercy of Jesus, his love, acceptance, and forgiveness. Then there's the high standard of the Word of God, which is like the plumb line, but really the two join together. And there's a difference between somebody that's just accepted Christ and somebody that's known Christ for ten years. Uh, you know, I was recently with somebody in there they've known the Lord for twenty years and they love going to this to a church where they don't talk about issues. They don't preach the Bible straight. A seeker-sensitive church where they gloss over a lot. And um he likes it there because he's not getting convicted of his sin. And, you know, that's one of the important things we do need to be convicted. We are growing in Christ. So many couples that come to our church are not married They're living together, they might have children, they're not married in the very beginning, but you know, then you know we s we instruct them and you start to share with them and then they see. But now if they've known the Lord for twenty years and they're living together, you know and they haven't seen the sanctity of marriage, for instance, then, you know, there's a problem, uh, they haven't grown in grace and so they're going to I think grown in disgrace. There's at least one church, and I'm not going to name names, but there's at least one church uh in Frederick that I think would fall into the secret sensitive category that is rather large. And actually quite talked about by by people. If you were to go and ask somebody if they've heard of this church, a lot of them would say, Yeah, I've heard of that church. And they're People aren't being convicted of their sin maybe in that church. Well they're doing great outreach. And um I don't know why you can't name them, but uh uh you know maybe I should name 'em. You know, um they're doing great outreach. Uh and uh they've done a lot of things right Um, you know. Uh but I think there is I don't know I and I I don't I don't want to say anything about any other church, but I I would just thought he was here. If the pastor, I don't know if you've had him yet, but you should have him and that would be good because uh there is a There's some value to what they've done. But there is some place where conviction has to take place and the word has to be preached and ministered. And that's up to the individual pastor to make that decision. Yeah, I was just going to say that um that most seeker sensitive churches, uh, they do what all of us do in evangelism. They just happen to do it on Sunday morning. All of us when we go to evangelize We put on our best behavior. We think in terms of uh trying to understand where the person's coming from and what's going on in their lives. We we look to serve and to bless and to to uh to meet them where they are and and and a seeker sensitive church since simply does that on Sunday morning and they'll tend to have other services at other times. Um nevertheless It is true that many times churches like that uh can be uh very effective at evangelism, but not necessarily very good at discipleship and helping people to grow. And Billy Graham himself uh says that he used to lay awake at night on that very issue trying to figure out I've got all these people that have made these commitments, but how do I help them to grow up in the Lord? And that balance Um when a church is headed by an evangelist, the p the lead pastor is an evangelist, it's gonna tend to be an evangelistic church and could be a mile wide and have a have a have a ton of people. but not necessarily be great at discipleship and I don't think that we need to judge that. Somehow we in Frederick Uh it's not one church is the church and Frederick, but all the churches in Frederick are the church and Frederick. Somehow God uses all of us together to accomplish what he wants to accomplish. And Uh he's bigger than that. I think that's really a mystery how God uh makes that happen. Tim, I know you're interested to say something. Yeah, I would just uh say in defense of seeker sensitive churches, I mean that that is such a broad term and while there are Seeker sensitive churches, they would call themselves that where the gospel is watered down, where there is no conviction of sin. that's really not I think the heart behind the seeker movement. And I remember thinking back in probably the late eighties, um, you know, Bill Hybels and Willow Creek Community Church was sort of the seeker church that kind of spawned the seeker movement and I remember thinking prior to that oh they're just watering down the gospel and then because I was in a preaching subscription where I received different ministers on tape, I heard Bill Highballs preach for the first time and I was just awed that it wasn't at all what I expected. There was the conviction, there was the strong word So um a lot of what seeker sensitive churches do is they try to think, okay, what are the roadblocks that are out there? What are the uh misperceptions, the presuppositions that people have, how can we address these first? And then they they preach the gospel. So And part of it is a reaction p maybe to the the history the church had of being kind of these these hellfire and brimstone kinda preachers, right, where it was almost nothing but Convicting of sin. It's why it's saying that though, the greatest move of God in this country, the two greatest revivals that actually change society. were previous to the Civil War and the Revolutionary War, both of those were where hell was talked about a lot. And there was a very strong conviction that took place in people's lives. And, you know, the anti-slavery movement came out of that. Um, you know, uh the Revolutionary War in some ways was precipitated by that. We talk about Charles Finney, we talk about John Wesley. These were all great men who preached a message about hell. Uh Jonathan Edwards, uh president of Harvard University, I think is uh and tremendous moves of God that took place. during their preaching. So we shouldn't we should not be too condemning of those old moves. Oh and I wasn't necessarily being condemning, I was talking about the the and actually you're kind of leading me I think where I'm going next, I think. But before I do I want to reset the stage Uh you're listening to Frederick Face Debate on um Fredericks News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. On the panel this week we have Timothy Fisher from uh Walkersville Well I'm not sure why I have a hard time saying Walkersville. Walkersville Brethren in Christ Church. Uh that would be in Walkersville, I gather. Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel, uh, in Frederick and from uh Redeemer International Family Church, not to be confused with any other church, uh Chris Gieslin, and that's also uh in Frederick. Um what I wanted to as a kind of a case study, uh if you will Going back, I don't know how far you'd have to go back, uh s uh certainly a thousand years ago, but maybe more recently than that, uh in Europe. Everybody went to church. Alright, that's a little bit of an exaggeration, but not much, I don't think. Everybody went to church. Now in Europe. Not very many people go to church. And those that do go to church, maybe are going to churches where they're not being convicted of their sin, uh, in the message and they're and uh and and they might call themselves Christians and not really believe in the resurrection and they they would have uh uh a really liberalized kind of theology. Um is that a coincidence that that uh the churches are uh struggling in Europe And yet uh they're trying to be seeker sensitive and inclusive and everybody's welcome here and Well, I don't know I don't personally have any stats on how seeker sensitive churches tend to be in Europe in Europe. I do know that um that that there has been a an onslaught of um of uh elite uh educational uh institutions that have have undermined uh any validity to there being anything supernatural that have undermined any um thought that anything is beyond scientific in in uh this attempt to to make science as the final arbiter of all truth and therefore you know, Christ and miracles and resurrection from the dead in heaven uh are no longer important. And I think that that it's not so much seeker sensitive that has caused the problem, but that there's been a a loss in in uh uh genuinely believing that there is a God, that there is hell, that there's heaven for eternity, and that that our sins uh can cause us to end up in one or the other of those places and a and as a result of a loss of of of that conviction based on an evolutionary mindset, based on a a scientific mindset uh people uh even when they go to church uh take God out of the church and try to turn it into a uh just a a way to take care of the poor and to to take care of one another. Not like that's bad in and of itself, but by removing the The God orientation by removing the transcendent, the holy, that God calls us to Himself, they have gutted the life out of the very church and why go if the life isn't there and that's it's humanism. It's just pure humanism. And um, you know the where the church is growing the most is in the most persecuted areas, like in China, twenty five thousand new believers a day. These are committed believers and just believe the gospel, believe the word of God as the inerrant word of God and um around the world in the third world. It's the Pentecostal movement, the charismatic movement that is, you know, just f strongly uh whole countries are coming to God and it's it's an amazing thing. In Central America where we work in Nicaragua, there's a tremendous move of God there. Guatemala and then Costa Rica and uh these nations down in s and uh Argentina, Columbia uh Columbia, there's this church there of three hundred thousand people. Incredible moves of God that are taking place in the third world. And the common denominator is uh power, evangelism, uh believing the Bible, that it is the inerrant word of God. And you know, to and they're preaching it that way. Strong commitment. Well I have unfairly because I obviously just don't know what I'm talking about, have have unfairly blurred the line between uh you know, seeker sensitive and uh liberal theology. They're not necessarily they don't go together. Although now that I've kind of blurred that line, is there any danger that a church m seeking to be seeker sensitive would might stumble into becoming uh a little more or is that not something that typically is the normal? Well I just I'm not gonna I I can only tell you I I'm not comfortable with it, but I'm not comfortable in condemning it either. In other words, I think that there's a lot of different ways that you can reach the lost and whatever the Holy Spirit's led us to do, and I'm not going to point at somebody and judge them based on that, you know. Uh we talk about mega churches and um a lot of mega churches are like Bill Heidel's church is a megachurch. It is a secret sensitive church. Uh Rick Warren's is a secret sensitive church, but it's different. has a different um feel to it, you know. Um so I think, you know, we just have to be very careful. We just need to fulfill our mission. and maybe not criticize others. Well you mentioned the mega churches. Um Lakewood Church in Houston, Joe Olstein has a uh New York Times bestseller out right now that's based on basically his his his sermon messages Um and he doesn't deliver messages that uh are very condemning to someone spiritually. He's about lifting someone the about being victorious in your life and and uh it seems to be Um I've recently been educated on what secret sensitive means, but it seems like his message would be a secret sensitive message. It is. Uh and yet his church is gigantic. Yes, his father's it was his father's church before him. His father had a different preaching angle really And um it's even split up their family. His sister and brother in law are are pastoring another church in Houston over that very issue. And they have a church of about three or four thousand people, which is a mega church in our terms. And you know, it's over that very issue that they feel like he's watered things down and he's trying to reach too many people by that. But I I I think he's got a good message. The danger of um being PC in your language or or or finding a way to only say things that aren't gonna offend people. Um is uh is best illustrated by the uh one of the most extreme examples and I wouldn't say that that we're there now or that any secur-sensitive church is there now. But the church at the time of Hitler in Germany was unwilling to say certain things. And they w only wanted to say what, you know, was politically correct. I mean in every sense of the term it was all about being politically correct. And as a result They were unwilling to look at Hitler and to condemn things that needed to be condemned very severely uh and very prophetically, come what may, whatever persecution and and and might have been the result. And my concern here in the United States is that In order for the church to grow, if it has to be so PC, is it possible that that our society has just so been wrapped up in humanism and these things that that we've just w we're we're down the slippery slope and we're already slipping away. That would be my concern. The danger is is i if we're unwilling to hear the truth any longer and as a result are willing to allow things like that get away. I don't think so. I hope not. And um and nevertheless, uh these guys are bringing a lot of people to the Lord. There there's a lot of salvations that are happening, and um and uh my prayer is that for all of those that are being saved is that they will than be discipled. And uh may God give those churches the wisdom to continue to do that and to to bring them you know to to a place of being godly in Christ. And I don't think it's out of the question that that could could be the case and is even now happening. One of the things it seems to me that will keep someone um in a church for the long haul is if they pick the right church to begin with. the right church for them and their family, a church that is going to do the things spiritually that they need to have. Uh I have uh an aunt who lives out of state and she asked me or actually she asked me through my mother, my mother asked me, you know uh she had gotten out of the habit of going to church. She hadn't gone in decades. And now she's, you know, in a place in her life where she uh is attending some Bible studies and reading the Bible again and she wants to go to church and she's afraid of picking the wrong church. So, Tim, what how what's a good church? How how do you recognize a church that you can stick with for the long haul when you see it? Well there's this church in Walker's so I like it. That'd be a heck of a commute to Orlando, Florida. Yeah. But that is a good church. Amen. And that's a that's a tough question. I I mean uh you know, I I think that that God is so into variety and one of the mistakes that we as pastors can make is to stop being ourselves and trying to be like someone else. And every church is led by a different pastor that God is uh you know, we trust that God is called and is using and because of that God's into variety so all churches aren't gonna look alike nor should they. Um so I would just Tell her, you know, don't be afraid to try and see, you know, you know, get the variety and see what it is that, you know, she's she's looking for. um in a local church. Um because we all have our preferences. That's not you know, we have our preferences as worth in as far as worship's foul, we have our preferences. I mean there are some unchurch people that they've gone to church for the first time and they're not offended by a message that goes an hour. So everyone's looking for something different. Um but if we're being biblically accurate and true to the gospel and the calling I think that's the most important thing and that we don't hold our preferences as gospel. That we don't say, well this is the only music style or this is the only version of the Bible or uh a hundred other different things. Now those are a couple of things that might be indicators that it might not be the right church. What are what are some reasons that somebody should leave a church and go find another church or what you know, what are the things in your mind that uh I think one of the areas um there's two areas, I'd say liberalism and legalism and they're two different ends of the spectrum in my in my opinion. And um the liberalism of course it just takes all the it it becomes a humanistic gospel and has no real thought to the real purpose of the gospel. Those would be churches that uh don't have any sort of problem, they'll consider homosexuality to be a sin. Yes. Wouldn't wouldn't cause any trouble for uh for two members who uh live together, aren't married, and come and worship every Sunday and nothing's said about it. Maybe even teach a Sunday school class for that matter, right? Yes. Yes. So that would be liberal. Uh you would recognize a liberal church how though? Well, yeah, uh you know, I think by their theology, really, more than you can see. the inerrant word of God, I think is an important question. And then on the other end is the legalism, and that is having to do with with uh, you know, being hyper authoritarian, a toxic faith where they're really uh, you know, overlording people. The Bible talks about overlording, where there's too much control in people's lives or too much involvement. in their lives, right. And and what does that look like? Do they get into your finances? You know, pastors we're the under shepherds, but we're imperfect as well. And you know, we need to point people to Jesus, that's basically and and I I like the way Chris uh worded this because these are the the very same issues that the Apostle Paul who wrote two thirds of the New Testament dealt with. He dealt with groups of people that were bringing legalism into the church where it wasn't Christ alone, but it was Christ plus something else. And he also dealt with the liberalism where um you know there were no standards, whatever you want to do with your body is fine, you know, fornication and everything goes. So, I mean the the same things that the Apostle Paul dealt with, wrote to churches about are the same things uh that we deal with with today. And uh again I would make a distinction that Chris has already made uh several uh minutes ago that there's a difference that if you have a a a same-sex couple coming to your church who aren't claiming to be believers then that's a whole different approach than a a couple that are claiming to know Christ and and and so forth and where church discipline is certainly uh in order. But in all things uh that we deal with this in love. Well we could talk about this all day. I know you guys could, and uh and I would certainly enjoy listening in all day as you guys can hear talk, but we're out of time. Uh thank you guys uh for being a part of the show today. Chris Gieslin with uh Redeemer International Family Church, Timothy Fisher with Walkersville Brethren in Christ Church. and uh Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel uh in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. You've been listening to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding today for growth tomorrow. 18772 Shred. That's 1877 number two. S-H-R-E-D-G. If you'd like to hear us talk about a particular topic on this uh show or if you'd like to uh recommend your pastor to be on this show, please email me at Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Thanks again, and God bless.