The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Merry Christmas. Today is December 25th. The day that uh the majority of the Christian world has decided is uh the day we should recognize and celebrate the incarnation of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. We're not gonna do a Christmas themed show today because we did one just a couple of weeks ago. Uh but any time you're talking about Christ and God's Word, it's Christmas themed or it should be. So anyway, I just want to right off the gate uh right off the bat, out of the gate, wish you uh a a joyous uh Christmas Day celebration and to our Orthodox friends um you know and and and early Uh Merry Christmas and a Day of Epiphany uh to you because they won't celebrate till in the first week of January. So they're a couple of weeks away. Um Anyway, last week if you're listening you heard us talk about uh Bible translations. And before your eyes glaze over, hang in there. This is important stuff. All right? There's a little bit of heavy lifting. Maybe we'll leave you with some muscle soreness afterwards. But no pain, no gain. Come on. Chop, chop, let's go. Bible translations. Seriously, this is an important thing because it's the kind of thing that people who aren't believers will try to throw in the face of believers to get them off balance to get them to doubt the word of God. We need to understand uh uh why our texts uh are the way they are, why there are different translations. You'll hear I I I've I've interacted, uh I used to um make my living in outside sales, you know, talking to various uh business people and retailers and stuff and and people with Muslim backgrounds and I've had discussions where oh you have all these different Bibles. Now we have one Bible. You know, there are different English translations of that one Bible, but it's still one Bible. There's one, the Word of God. And and last week We ran out of time and we didn't have a chance to shore things up the way I wanted to. We might have actually lent some uh some credence to those arguments that would undercut your confidence in Scripture and that is certainly not the goal. We can and should have confidence. Let's I want to take a second just to explain real quickly some of the different translational approaches. So last week we were talking about the King James, the NASB, you know, new New American Standard Bible, uh the English Standard Version, the uh New International Version. We mentioned some of these Bibles last week, and there's some differences And part of the reason is for those differences is translational approach. What are they trying to do? So you take something like the King James or the New King New King James. or the ESV or the NASV, they're attempting as best as they can to be what people would call sometimes rather sloppily call word-for-word translations. There's no such thing as a direct word-for-word translation because the syntax doesn't match up with the ancient languages with with uh contemporary English. or even King James English. Uh like the word order it shifts around. Uh idiomatic language it makes no sense in English uh if you were to do it woodenly, word for word. Well, okay, what's really being said there is this. There's reasons why you can have some changes. But those are um really good study Bibles, I would say. The NASV, the ESV, the King James, those can be if you're trying to if you don't know how to read Hebrew, you don't know how to read Greek And you want to know, well, what did the original writers actually say? Those are translations that will probably get you closer to that. Then there's the dynamic equivalency translation, which is more like a phrase-for-phrase or thought-for-thought translation. The NIV is a good example of that. They're not married to trying to make every word uh as closely it wouldn't leave match as possible, but they're trying to capture okay, what is What is this phrase or what is this sentence saying? How do we convey that in an easily understandable English? And then there's the paraphrases, which we haven't talked about at all. Those are not as useful for study among that would be I would go so far as to as to call them not scripture but commentary. If you use it as commentary and you don't take it as scripture, the inspired word of God And we're I'm referencing things like the message or Yeah, well that's even beyond uh paraphrase. Like New Living Translation is not as far gone as the message, right? New Living Translation NLT is a very popular Bible that people carry around with them But that's it y you don't understand I I I have no like somebody in my church asked me which Bible should I read or here's my Bible, is it a good one? Sometimes the answer is no. But sometimes well, you know If you want to really press in and know the word, the NLT, the New Living Translation, probably not the best place for you to be. It's not that it's loaded with error, it's just it's not really God's word because they're paraphrasing it too much. And like you said, there's a lot of interpretation It's more like in heritary than it is like a Bible. Yeah, all translations involves some interpretation, you have to admit. But it's like way more common and prevalent in in that. But the message is something other. That's so m that's more like a storytelling version of the Bible. It's it's it's it's paraphrased on steroids. Which Again, has its place maybe, but not if you're thinking, oh, I'm gonna go into a Bible study and press into the God the the Word of God and I'm gonna understand what God has to say for me. The message is not the place to do that because that's not And in fairness to Eugene Peterson, who was the translator o or the uh the writer of the message, uh that really wasn't his aim. I don't think he was trying to give us a translation anyway. So in fairness, I don't uh Well, I think also With this whole discussion, everybody has a lens they look through when they translate. Uh you look at the King James um, you know, the seventy translators. Um they were uh pretty much from the Catholic Church. Uh their training, their visuals, their what they were going. They were commissioned to a task and they did it. I'm grateful to God they did it. Okay? But as you go through different translations or parap paraphrasing, you you have a lens. And sometimes it's good to compare the lenses that you're looking through and try to decipher kind of what that is saying and then go back and try to go to the originals and see what is God trying to say. And um, you know, because it's his message. It's his plan. Uh, it's his kingdom. And, you know, so if he's the author and you know, this book was penned over thousands of years by how many different authors? And the, you know, some of the authors didn't know anybody else, but as Peter says, as they were moved by the Holy Spirit, some versions say Holy Ghost. Um, but you get the point. And the reason that one would say ghost and one would say spirit is because they're both dealing with the Greek word pneuma and they're trying to decide, okay, how do we best translate the word pneumo and pneumo can't they have they have a range of possible meanings. It could mean wind It could mean breath, it could mean spirit, it could mean ghost. So given the context, for example, this is last week, right? No word has any meaning outside of a context. So given the context, what's the best English word to put there? And I think ghost and or spirit are both fine because they're capturing the idea of an immaterial presence, being, person. Well like in the Hebrew ruach. Right, exactly. Ruach can be breath, can be uh uh uh it can mean wind, it could it could mean all kinds of different English adjectives to you know, explain, but you know, like it in in the in the Hebrew it's ruach and then it's depending on if it's God breathing into the br Adam's nostrils, the breath of life, the ruach. I mean so it's all what it's supposed to be. Absolutely. Is it talking about the wind or is it talking about God the Holy Spirit The context tells us which one it is, and so we we can know. And this is the thing we didn't have time to say last week that I really want to make sure we don't miss again. So I'm gonna say it early. So The Bible that you read, if you read the King James, you read the NIV, you read the ESV, the NAS NASB, I mentioned the NET last week. If you read a good solid translation of the Bible into English, it is totally right and appropriate for you to say, I am reading the Word of God. You can have confidence you are reading God. And that the word of God is one hundred percent true all of the time and never fails. And so there are going to be some different translational decisions that are made, but never, ever, ever Do any of those translations, unless it's the heretical uh translation that the um that you'll find at a Kingdom Hall with the Jehovah's Witnesses, they have their own their own. Well they add to tremendously Yeah. So if if that's the Bible you're reading, you need to get rid of it and get a a an actual Word of God Bible. But the doctrine is never in question. There's never a disagreement. If you read the King James and I read the NIV and uh Stephen's reading the uh the NASV, we're all going to get the same doctrinal teaching from the scriptures. Uh even though we're reading three different English translations. So I I I really want to make sure that that's emphasized. And the doctrine I mean you can't you can't not hear the gospel by reading those translations. I mean there's verses that are missing in some that we talked about last time that ha the claim has been made that that does change doctrine, but those doctrines can be found other places. You can get the Trinity out of a lot of other verses besides John verse in first John. There is a concerning passage in Acts, Acts 837, where Philip and the eunuch are talking and the eunuch says, Look, here's water, what uh what's prevented me from being baptized? And then and then they go down to the water and Philip baptizes the eunuch And a lot of translations leave out the verse that says, Well Philip answered the eunuch, if you believe with all your heart your heart, then you can be baptized. And the eunuch said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God and they went down to the water and Philip baptized the eunuch. So that's uh a quite a strong doctrinal statement that's missing if you get rid of that verse. Um and so that's that's But there's not a single s uh central tenant of the faith that rests on one verse. Right. Correct. There's not one. Yeah, and the i i i then it it becomes an opinion that because if this is wrong, what else is wrong and if that d you you can start going down the road and you can start kinda looking for the the hairs to split and uh it can distract you from the main message. And so I think it's very important that, uh, unless again you're reading a Bible that's a commentary And even Schofield, like we've mentioned the Schofield Bible, he wrote a lot of Bible notes in his theology and inserted it early in in American church history and there we have um the let's say the pre-tribulation rapture doctrine that seems to be so widely accepted because it was in the Bible notes. And so it did have an very careful I will say And make sure you know there's a difference between your Bible and the notes in your Bible. The notes in your Bible are not scripture. Their opinion that is quite often wrong Probably in every single version of the Bible. The translators' notes are wrong in one or more places. Um Yeah, I'd say some of them are are gonna be better than others and generally speaking trustworthy, but yeah, they can be a guide and they can be an aid. But they're not they're not scripture, they're not inerrant like the word of God is. Which is kinda stupid 'cause elephants don't have tails like cedar trees. It was quite obviously a dinosaur. Um that looked like Uh so I mean the King James isn't isn't immune to that either. Um Calvin I mean the whole reason for the King James was actually because of that. The King of England was mad that people were using John Calvin's notes and a couple of John Calvin's uh uh notes in the in the in the um Geneva Bible uh were saying that the ki people were sometimes right to overthrow the king and the king didn't like that. So he said, throw out the whole translation, burn them all, we're gonna make our own that doesn't have that note in it So that was the whole reason. It wasn't changed the meaning of the text. He was just annoyed with Calvin's notes. So it w that was interesting. Yeah, and here's something that's interesting because you used the the phrase last week and uh we didn't have time to to to address it at all last week, but you talked about, you know, the textus receptus, the received text. Uh interesting bit of history on that is well when the King James was uh was was published and being being made widely available. Uh there were some guys that did back then what I used to do for a l a a living and that was marketing and advertising. They had to they had to get this thing out into households. And so they basically advertise it as the received text. So it's an advertising cloak. It's the name of the actual text. And so it's the question, received by who? It begs the question. So I think people put a lot of or a lot of the uh King James you'll see from the on the front, the authorized version. Authorized by who? King James. Yeah. Who who cares? Yeah. Well see politics plays into uh you know over over the uh centuries and the millennia. You know, when we talk about, you know, the word of God, I believe that it was preserved in the Paleo Hebrew, in the Hebrew, in the Aramaic, and the uh Greek and the Latin and the you know, and now we have the seems like the common language of our day. is English, even though we have many multiple languages all around the world. Um you know, my son is a air traffic controller and uh the Master overriding language all over the world when it comes to interacting with the air traffic control to whatever you is English. Even though it's all over the world and everybody speaks, you wait a hundred years if Jesus has an eternity would probably be Chinese. Well it might be, but it's just interesting that Nath common language That's the common language of of of at least officially on some of those issues. So Yeah, and and it it might be helpful, uh this is gonna we're gonna maybe geek out here a little bit, but it it it might be helpful 'cause we have some people that like to geek out on faith debate. I hear from them on occasion. uh that when we go into areas I think oh the average person is not going to care about this at all. There's somebody listening that really appreciates that we went there. So the main thing for us really you mentioned how you know the the Paleo Greek, the Paleo Hebrew the main thing is what did the Apostle Paul write in Romans? That's what I want to know. What did Paul write? And what did the Apostle John write in 1 John chapter 2? What did John write? That's what we want to know. So whatever translation or whatever textual evidence we have is going to help us to best determine what that the answer to that question is, that's what I'm interested in knowing because that's the inspired text. John and Paul and and all the other authors of the Bible, they're the ones that are carried along by the Holy Spirit as they write. And so that's what matters. Uh and so it's interesting, why do we have all these disagreements? Well one, we have a lot of English uh I think think in between shows you mentioned there's sixty plus versions of the English Bible out there now, translations. And we were talking about that off air and one of the reasons is money, right? Other co other cultures, other countries don't have that issue that we have to discuss this. This is very much of an American problem. You go to Spanish and there's like three translations, you go to Russia and there's probably two. I mean it I don't I don't there's some languages they wish they had one. Yeah, don't don't quote me on those numbers, right? But it's relatively few compared to English. Right. And you're right, there are plenty and if you go to the Museum of the Bible in DC, you'll see a whole s wall full of books They have are empty. They just have the name of the language on the front. There's nothing in them because there is no Bible, but they had try to put the language uh every language uh the Bible up there. Uh but like th a couple of thousand books there that are completely empty. They just have the name of the language 'cause that's the extent of the Bible translation. There is none. Let me read that real quick because I'm not sure if I introduced you guys properly at the beginning. So that was the voice of Daniel Razby that I just jumped in on. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. on HD2 of 99. 9 FM and on the web of course at WFMD. com and on podcast as well and now about to speak is uh Stephen Jurger. I just was going to jump in and say Are you and ask the question to the panel? Um we have how many versions of Hebrew? How many versions of Greek were uh being used at the time of the writing of the New Testament. Was it a language, a common language, a official language? What was? Because it seems like We get to English and we got uh sixty two different versions and I just wonder did they have that issue? In the first or second century or can anybody Well the New Testament is mostly written in what's called Koine Greek, which is common Greek. So it was the common vernacular and it was the it was the it was the language of commerce. It was the English of the day Right. It was the it was the language that they used when they conducted business. It was it was the language that kind of knit the empire together. Everybody kind of knew Greek and so that's I think big part of the reason why the New Testament is written in Greek because they wanted These were circular letters. They'd write it to a particular congregation in a particular location, but then the expectation was it was going to travel to other locations too. Uh and we see evidence of this in the writings themselves saying that that's what they're they're doing. So there's but there also is a classical Greek and there are some um There are some letters or or books of the New Testament that have m uh a headier kind of a Greek that Uh I I'm not an expert on this, but my sense it's still koine, but it's a higher level. It's almost classical. So like Hebrews uh is an example. Which that's why there's debate over who wrote Hebrews, because the theology is the Apostle Paul's theology. But the Greek is Saint Luke's Greek. And so like, well, is it Paul? Is it Luke? Is it uh is it Barnabas? Is it Apollos? Is it one dictate to the other? Well and I Uh I've become increasingly persuaded over the years, so I've heard a few people make this argument and it makes sense to me, but it's just an opinion, so take it for what it's worth. But I think it's Very likely, perhaps even probable, in my view, that Hebrews was originally a sermon preached in Hebrew by Paul that Luke wrote down in Greek. Very interesting. And that would that would explain the Pauline theology and it would explain the the the the Lucan Greek. It would it would really help solve that riddle. It almost feels too easy, but it it makes a lot of sense to me. Well it I I think that sounds uh pretty interesting because Hebrews was written to prepare the Hebrews to go from a temple sacrifice you know, the whole sacrificial thing. And it prepared them for the high priest. It prepared them that they were moving from a effetus, a temple, a sanctuary, a actual ark to the building of God, the stones, the the the living, almost like the temple of God setting living stones as it pleases him, as Paul said in in Corinthians. So there's a that that that seems to fit of a preparatory work that God was preparing because everything they knew, believed and thought and were taught was going away and decades. Or if they'd if they had already become believers it kind of had gone away and so part of what's going on in Hebrews I think is saying, look Don't think about going back. There's nothing to go back to. There's nothing there. It's all fulfilled in Christ. Christ is the new high priest. So all the things you thought you were leaving behind, you now have them in Christ. Don't go back. There's nothing to go back to. That's a big part of what's going on. I agree 100% with you, yeah. There's two things I want to get to real quick. Uh one is something you said last week um and I want to touch on that. You you mentioned you preach from multiple translations, you read multiple translations on a daily basis. I think that it's it's great to see other translations as, you know, confirmation or backup or alternate commentary or whatever. But I do recommend that most of our listeners pick one, read that one because You need to memorize the Bible. And every believer should have very large portions of the Bible memorized, if not entire books close to it as close as you can get to that. And if that's the only thing that's possible, call me. I'll explain how it's possible. I have most of the New Testament memorized. And I'm not the only one. I'm not bragging by saying that. It's not as hard as people think it is. But it's a lot easier to memorize one translation than to memorize different ones that are almost word for word the same and then they're different. So that you're not you you keep getting thrown off. Yeah. So memorization, one translation is very helpful. Yeah, I would say pick one that you that you maybe would memorize and have as your primary Bible. I I would not be an exclusive reader because you're not going to catch like we we said last week I think uh all these translators they make an error here or there. You're not gonna catch the errors if you're only reading one version ever I would like to take the longest Psalms of the Bible, Psalm 119, and there's a scripture there that says, Thy word I've hit in my heart that he might not sin against thee. Um that's uh just kudos to what you were saying about scripture memorization. Um and with the technology we have today. Uh maybe you know you're driving or you're working and you cannot be reading, but you can listen to it. We hadn't we had a whole st uh episode on memorizing scripture, I think, a few months ago. But in in anyway, I just wanted to make that note that if you're on information overload with ten different translations every Bible study every morning, then you're not gonna really be able to memorize it as well. Uh English So you can just kinda compare and check the translations. Oh that's different. Which version I've been a k I've been a King James guy for almost you know, I was born again in nineteen seventy-five and all my memorization, all my my thought and recall is King KJV, okay? uh but but I've really become attached to the NESV. So I go to the King James, pull what I want to find through memory, and then I go and I I have a parallel here in front of me. KJV on one side, NASV on the other And it it helps, you know And I think it's possible to have both of them committed to memory at some level. I mean I the New Testament authors they knew the Septuagint which was the Greek version of the and the Hebrew. They knew them both. I want to get to that because I think that's if we have a couple minutes left. That's what I want to get to uh because a lot of the discussions of translations have to do with New Testament and people assume that the Old Testament trans uh that the they all agree in the it turns to the Old Testament But they don't. And in fact the the King James agrees with all the other modern translations in using in pr translating primarily from the Hebrew Masoraic text And as I said last week, there's a lot of evidence, especially lately, to s suggest that the Septuagint is actually a more accurate original Hebrew a preservation. Um Septuagin is a Greek translation, but it's a Greek translation of an older version of the Hebrew and when the Dead Sea Scrolls were uncovered In areas where the he modern Hebrew text and the Satugent do not agree, um, the Satouitent usually agrees with the Dead Sea Scrolls And so I think that's that's really important and there's relatively few translations of the tattooager into English uh language. Brenton did one in the eighteen hundreds. Um and that's pretty uh uh decent. But there's a Apostolic Bible public lot. That's why I said it's really hard to find that one, but you can get it. It's it's uh you can only buy it from his website. But he did a very good job and there's um some interlinear versions of that with the Greek right alongside the the English and a couple other things. And that one is the true word for word, literal things, such that like the word order makes no sense in English Like but you can see exactly what it uh what it was in in the Greek. Um so it I think that's interesting and I I there may be some times where the apostles were quoting from Hebrew, but the vast, vast majority of the quotes are from the Greek uh Septuagint text. We're gonna let that be the last word because we're out of time and you know what, there's still more to be said, so I think we'll actually pick up on this topic next week as well. We might not do the whole show on this topic next week. But there's some other things I think that should be said. The last voice here before mine was Daniel Razby. You can uh learn more about the ministry that he's involved with at promptedbylove. org. uh Stephen Jurger's with the church called the Shabbat Gathering in uh Southern Pennsylvania. I'm Troy Skinner. My church is Household of Faith in Christ. You can find us online at Household of FaithinChrist dot com Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Tell next week one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless