This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most Others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com keyword faith sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales entire pros of Frederick. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the The sound of Britain. Let's get ready to rumble in this corner. Weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Tune into the news and you probably wonder, can I believe what that newscaster is telling me? Love certain politicians or hate certain politicians, most would agree that government officials don't Always tell the truth. If your marriage is on the rocks, you might start to wonder if there's anyone anywhere who you can believe. Heck, even your cute little kids lie about not taking the cooking without permission while they have their hand in the cookie jar. We end up getting jaded. Jaded about the companies for which we worked, jaded about the bureaucracies that seemed to rule our lives, jaded even about the athletes we used to admire and And these are of little consequence when placed in eternal context. Eternity. That's a mighty long time. What do you believe about it? eternity and your place in it. More specifically today we're going to tackle this question that has eternal consequences. How does someone move from Unbelief in Jesus Christ to belief in Jesus Christ. Here are the answers to that question Two dear friends and local pastors here in Frederick, Kent Rambler, pastor of People's Baptist Church, and Peter Kemney, Pastor of Good News Presbyterian Church. So this what we've done this is our fourth show together. We've had very little disagreement. I'm not sure if we've had any disagreement on our first uh three shows on the faith debate I'm wondering though, if maybe there might be some hints of some different takes on things as we answer this question. uh today because um peter is a Presbyterian pastor, Reformed tradition, and uh Kent is uh Baptist uh tradition Um went to school Bob Jones gonna have a different take on some of these salvation types questions, maybe, I wonder. So, who wants to go first? So that uh their argument can be held up as the pinata for the other two bat around later on. I guess uh Peter's gonna call is gonna build is gonna construct his pinata. Yeah. Troy, well it's good to be here and it's good to be with you, Kent. We may not have a lot of disagreement because the Bible says a number of things and we can't say everything But I would say to those listening, if you're not if you're not persuaded that the Bible is the word of God, if you're not persuaded of the claims of Jesus Christ, I would uh underline a uh verse in the Old Testament book of Ecclesiastes, chapter three, verse eleven. Very interesting statement. Ecclesiastes 3. 11 says, God has put eternity into man's heart. C. S. Lewis described this as an echo of a tune we have not heard, or the longing for a country that we've never visited. I think about one morning I got up early. I think I got in my car about five o'clock in the morning. I turned the radio on and I hit upon seven eighty AM I heard this crackling sound coming over radio station 780 a. m. It wasn't WFMD. It was a radio station out in Chicago, WBBM. I'd only been to Chicago once. Had I never been there, hearing those crackling voices coming over my radio would tell me that there's a distant city way out there And I think for uh even the most uh resolute unbeliever, certain experiences come into our lives. It could be the death of a loved one, it could be the birth of a child. It could be just being out on a beautiful October day in the mountains. And something strikes you that there's more to life than what we see in the here and now. This all testifies to the existence of a creator. And um Psalm 19 speaks likewise. It says The heavens declare the glory of God. And so the uh many unbelievers have this wrestling match With a sense that there's more to life than just the here and now, and they're on belief. And so what should they do? And I would s uh suggest a couple things, and we talked about a lot of this last week. Uh one thing I suggest to friends who are not Christians and they're skeptical or they might say, I'm not so sure I say you need to immerse yourself in Scripture, and uh a verse I underline is Romans chapter 10, verse 17. Uh faith comes from hearing, in hearing through the Word of Christ. And so you need to stick your nose in the scripture. You need to go to a church that teaches the Bible carefully and clearly. And you need to ask questions as you go along. But you also have to recognize that the Bi excuse me, you have to recognize the Bible's assessment of our nature outside of God uh giving us spiritual birth And the Bible says that we're spiritually dead. We cannot accept the things of the spirit of the Spirit of God. And so, what do you do then if you're spiritually dead? I would say God uses means. And so stay in the scripture and um attempt the impossible. You know, Jesus told a man who was lame to reach out his hand. Well, how can you reach out your hand if you're lame? Well Jesus gave him the strength to do it. Or I remember years ago when my wife was teaching my daughter to read My daughter said she had the little primer uh excuse me my wife said to my daughter, just read the sentence in front of you. Well how can I read it? I don't know how to read. But it is in the process of of struggling with it that you learn how to read And in the Bible, God commands on believers to trust in Jesus Christ. Well, how can I trust if I don't believe? Well, you move toward Christ. You you get yourself in the scripture, you read it. And faith God grants you faith when you do that. It's interesting you brought up that uh news radio WBBM seven eighty because I grew up in Chicago every day. We listened to WBBM on the way uh to school um later when I went back to pastor there on the way to work. And I could tell you all about Chicago. I could all tell you all about that news radio, the personalities, because I've I've been there. And that's why it's so wonderful to have somebody's testimony who's been there. They know what heaven's like. Yeah. They know what hell is like. It's it's no surprise that Jesus would would speak more about hell than any other person because he knew the horrors of it and that's why he came to die. to save us from hell, to save us from our sin. But he also knows what heaven is like. And he even gave uh John and and the Apostle Paul a little glimpse of that. And so it's wonderful to have somebody that's been in that distant city and can tell us all about it. And the Bible does teach us much about heaven and teaches us much about hell. You know, the Bible says that If you will seek the Lord, you'll find him. And in fact, Jesus even said in uh in John chapter 8 Jesus was talking to the Jews there. He says, if you continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed, and ye shall know the truth. And the truth shall make you free. And I want to go back to what you said earlier, Peter, that uh means God's word. Uh Jesus corroborates that. If you continue in my word, you will know the truth. And that truth will make you free. You also made reference, I believe, to Ephesians chapter 2, and uh the necessity there it says, for by grace Are you saved through faith? And that not of yourselves. It's a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And that grace comes as a result of us humbling ourselves. James chapter four says God gives grace to the humble. He resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Uh he dwells with those who are of a contrite and humble spirit. And even the man that was um asking for Christ to heal his son He says, Lord, I believe, because God Jesus said, I will heal your son if you would believe. Oh, I believe, but oh I help my unbelief. He just didn't know if he had enough faith. And what I see in Scripture, the emphasis is not on the amount of our faith, but on the object of our faith. And it always comes down to Jesus Christ. Now As I study the uh John chapter 3, uh I see God drawing Nicodemus. Here's a very religious, moral well respected individual, kind of nervous, doesn't want anyone to know that he's uh gonna be talking to Jesus, kind of embarrassed apparently. But God is obviously drawing Nicodemus. There's doing something in his heart there. And yet Jesus tells him immediately that his real problem is that he has to be born again. And Nicodemus responds, Well, what do you mean, born again? So it's obvious to me that he's not yet regenerated. He's being drawn. But he wants to know how to be regenerated or born again, and Jesus says, For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whosoever believeth in him, Jesus Christ should not perish but have everlasting life. And so uh a prerequisite for that being born again is faith. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Kent Ramley. You just heard his voice a second ago. He's the pastor of People's Baptist Church. Before that, you heard Peter Kemity. He's pastor of Good News Presbyterian Church, by the way, I spent twenty years. I grew up in Chicago as well. I'm very very familiar with WBBM. Uh the um Home of the Chicago Bears broadcasts on the radio. So um but you're a good reformed guy, Peter. Yeah. And you talked about, you know, seeking God. Right. Um you how would you how do you flesh that out? Because in in classic reformed circles, uh there's an emphasis on, you know Deadness in sin. And a dead man can't get up and save himself. A dead man seeks nothing. He's dead. I've never seen a dead man resuscitate himself. And in fact, uh Ephesians 2. 1, Paul writes that we're spiritually dead. We're spiritually spiritual corpses. So in what sense then can can we seek? That's a good question. Well, let me just say one more thing. And Kent just quoted from John three. For Jesus said you must be born again. the kingdom of God, if you're going to be saved, if you're going to know Christ. And so you read those verses, and it might lead you to think the Bible's very fatalistic I guess there's nothing I can do to be saved. In fact, I I read once of a pastor in Savannah, Savannah, Georgia, Benjamin Morgan Palmer. He was the pastor of First Presbyterian Church in Savannah in the mid-1800s. And during a period of revival in Savannah, he was visited b visited by a friend who was skeptical about Christianity. And he complained to Palmer, well you're sort of complaining to me, Troy. He said, You preachers are the most contrary of men. On the one hand, you tell people that if they don't repent and come to Christ, they're going to perish. On the other hand, you tell people they're unable to come to Christ on their own because they're spiritually dead. Well, Palmer said, well, you know, there's no sense in us arguing about this if you think you could repent on your own and come to Christ, then go ahead and do it. And after a pause, his friend cried out in despair. That's the problem. I've been trying my best for three days, and I can't really turn to Christ. Then Palmer said, well that's a different matter. Let us pray then to God who can do for you what you can't do for yourself. And within a couple of days, uh, this man, his heart was genuinely turned to Jesus Christ. And so if you know if you're an unbeliever, I say to you, you cannot change your heart. Your heart is dead. And I say to you, you are blind, you cannot see the truth of the gospel. But don't despair, because God says You should nonetheless use these means. Romans 10:17, faith comes from hearing the word of Christ Get yourself in the Bible. 1 Peter 1, 23 and 25 says the same thing. You are born again through the living and abiding Word of God. And so immerse yourself in Scripture. Again, I as I said, get into a church that teaches Scripture Be around a Christian who can help you as you raise questions about Scripture Yeah, and I've seen this happen. I mean, there's one fellow in our church, he was coming to church for ten years. I don't believe this stuff. I don't believe this stuff. But he kept coming. And in time, the penny dropped, and he saw it, and he had a lot of honest questions over the course of those years. And we we discussed those questions. I'd impress him, but when God was pleased, God gave him faith to believe. Now do you just do you do you subscribe to uh um big theological term, alert, alert, preventive grace? Yeah, provenient grace where the idea that you know God gives somebody not saving grace uh n necessarily initially gives them just enough grace so that they can begin to search out the truth, attend to search and ask these questions. I I don't know if I'd use that term, but I do believe that God draws people to himself. And God over time. Yes, God does draw people to himself. Then there's other folks, uh, they have no interest. Why is that? First Corinthians two fourteen The natural f excuse me, the natural person does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. They're folly to him. He's not able to understand them because they're spiritually discerned. But if God sometimes God draws a person, so that's why I say stay in the scripture, go to a Bible teaching church. Get to know Christians. I think there's a lot of caricatures that people have of the Bible and of Christians. And in time, many of those caricatures are punctured. I see in Scripture too that there are we're talking about an infinite and eternal God. We're talking about truth that is beyond even our sometimes our finite understanding. I see the sovereignty of God very clearly, but I also see the responsibility of man. I believe that there are clear commands given, for instance, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. I believe that's a legitimate invitation. How the grace of God and uh the uh part of the spirit in drawing in man, how that all plays in together, it to me it's like uh It's like parallel railroad tracks. If you look down a a rail line and see those tracks, those those parallel rails, they appear to get closer and closer and closer the longer you can see down those tracks. And I guess it's non-Euclidean geometry where you begin to take things into infinity Extrapolated out. In non-Euclidean geometry, they say that those parallel lines will intersect uh that blows my finite logic. But I see in scripture a sovereign God, but I also see my responsibility to respond. I don't see how those connect other than God said it, so I believe it. But in the fine in my finite understanding I may not but here's the clear teaching of Scripture. that whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. Or, like the Philippian jailer, when he says to Paul, Sir, what must I do to be saved? And Paul simply says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Uh he didn't go into a theological exhortation. It was as simple as that. That's what he needed at that time. It's uh it's the command that we're to respond to. And if you would come to Christ, you can come to Christ. How all that fits together is a mystery. So do the churches that would identify themselves as being seeker sensitive, are they are are they on the right track in some sense? There's people out there that are searching after the truth. They want to hear the truth, but they can't quite get to the truth themselves and or or not. I do not believe that apart from God drawing someone to himself that anybody seeks the truth. It's Romans chapter three, verse ten or eleven. Paul says, No one seeks God Romans 8 verse 7, uh far from seeking God, it says the mind of sinful man is hostile to God. And so I did not seek God. Uh he sought me and turned my heart toward him. I think in many seeker sensitive churches, probably not all, I'm not trying to broad brush, but often it is a soft sell. of the gospel. I I don't see a lot of uh emphasis on repentance. I believe that's part of biblical faith is repenting. It's the other side of the conversion coin. turning from your sin, turning to God. I don't believe that's a work. It's a accepting what God said about your sin and accepting what God says about your salvation. But uh I see the difference in seeker sensitive churches often is a man centered focus. uh the worship tends to be more entertainment oriented, for instance. So is that how I would square maybe some of the things you said earlier on today's show with what you said most recently on today's show is the the idea that people uh might be seeking after God as he draws them. So God is drawing them, maybe planting a seed of seekingness in them, if as it were seekingness. versus they on their own decided, I'm gonna seek after God today. Is that is that is that the distinction that the So secret sensitive churches again not going to pay with too broad of brush, but those that that fall within uh within that uh that umbrella, um they're maybe not paying as Uh as much attention as they might to the idea that God is the one doing the drawing as opposed to the individual doing the seeking. Is that Well, um I don't wanna I don't wanna have a wrestling match with seek or sensitive churches, but I would say that when God draws someone to him What they're going to respond to is a clear statement from the Bible, the clear teaching and preaching of the Bible. Uh Jesus said in John chapter ten, My sheep hear my voice. And so when I teach in our church I expect that there will be some folks there who are not believers. I don't try to pander to them. I don't want to preach some therapeutic talk about their most uh immediate needs But what I want to do is I want to present Jesus Christ to them. And when they see Jesus Christ in all his beauty, that is what will draw someone to know God. Yeah, one of the big differences is if you go to certain churches that would claim to be Christian churches, um, and and they've kind of lost their way in my opinion. Um and I would say in the in the opinion of the Bible uh they've lost their way. Um you you take in the their service, what they would call their worship service, you listen to their message that they would call a gospel proclamation. And it doesn't sound anything different than you might hear in uh a mosque or uh uh a unity or unitarian uh church or a a g Jewish or a corporate seminar. Synagogue or a self helps. It's like this this is again speaking to the felt needs and and uh you know where you are now, have your best life now, all that sort of stuff. Um anyway, we have about um A minute ish left. So you have a final thought you want to chime in before we wrap up the show? Either one of you? You don't have to. Well Um I would encourage our listeners who are not involved in a Bible teaching church to seek out a church where you can get to know Christians and where you can have be instructed in the Bible. Kent's Church, People's Baptist, is a wonderful congregation. Our church, Good News Presbyterian. We run a course uh called Christianity Explored, and it's just for those who want to learn the basics of the Bible. What what are the claims of Christ? What does it mean to be a Christian? Do I buy this stuff that these pastors are talking about? It's a gr we've done it many times. Once you come to the first one, everybody's gone through all seven. They love it. It's a great forum for discussion. And we have a Bible study, the Exchange. program. Okay. So if anybody's interested. You can find our churches online. People of Baptist Church, that's Kent Ramler's Church, and Peter Kem News is Good News Presbyterian. We're online at WFMD. com. We're at the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Sponsors Hilo Auto Sales and Time. Higher Pros of Frederick. Thanks for listening till next week, 167 and a half hours from now, and Happy New Year! God bless.