This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Ah, the fate debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of division. From Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh. Yeah. Troy Skinner. Back for one more go-round on the Faith Debate. Thank you for tuning in to WFMD. Also online at WFMB. com. You can take us with you and stream if you like. Normally I would have a panel to get together, Jonathan Sweitzer and and and one or two guests on the show. That's not the case today. If you're listening last week, you know why. I received a very touching uh um I mean seriously touching uh email from a listener and we had an email exchange and uh she's got some real questions and uh I tried to provide some answers. I don't know that I answered them as well as I as I might have or would hope to, but I did the best I could and we're working to put together a panel to talk more fully about it. But I wanted you to have a sense of what's going on with all of this before that panel speaks. And so I've been sharing with you the email exchange. And as I mentioned last week, yeah, we get some email and some mail, some old-fashioned mail um from listeners to the Faith Debate Show. I've been doing the show since 2000 and uh what, four. So this is our going up fifteen years, our fifteenth year I think of doing this. So gotten some mail. Some of it's been critical, some of it's been uh pleasant, you know. Usually it's pretty quick and to the point and Uh and it's not pressing in in a deep, profound kind of a way, and this was an exception to that. So to recap, in case you missed last week's show, I would encourage you to go online and listen to the podcast. You can do that by going to WFMD. com Wfmd. com, see a little slower. Um keyword faith. But just a re quick recap of some of the things. She mentions how she listens to the show via podcast. She listened to a show that was recorded about a year ago on January 8th of 2018, uh, where we talked uh about how somebody moves from unbelief to belief in Christ. And she's uh concerned that that's a situation that is where she finds herself that she doesn't think she's a believer, uh, and so she needs to move into belief. And yet She says all the right things, she thinks all the right things, she bel says she believes all the right things. She's talked to pastors who assure her that You know, she is uh one of God's saved ones that she belongs to the Christ to the Church of Christ. Uh and She's just having a hard time accepting the truth of that because she says she just doesn't see enough fruit. And by that I guess she means she doesn't feel enough joy. and and satisfaction and peace. Doesn't feel like her person has changed, that she's not maybe more forgiving or understanding or patient and kind than she you know than she once was or or whatever. Um and so I responded telling her that uh we have to keep in mind, essentially we have to keep in mind that um our salvation as believers in Christ is it's not about us. It's about him. About what Jesus has done, what he has accomplished. And sometimes if things are true, whether we fully can appreciate them or not. And so I gave her some tidbits of of of of advice, which is dangerous because I don't know her personally. Uh it'd be much better to know her well and personally and to be talking uh directly to her in person right in front of her. uh and but that's not the opportunity that was available to me. So that kind of brings you up to date on on the exchange of emails from that I read to you last week and now I'm going to pick up with the exchange of emails where we left off last week So, where I left off last week was I responded to an email that she sent to me. And so she's responding now back to that. And she says, Troy, thank you for what you wrote. I'm glad you'll be addressing the problem and having uh a pro have addressing the problem I'm having on a program. So please let me know when it will air. I've been attending the PCA church I mentioned for about three years and have already spoken to several of the pastors. They appear flummoxed, as if they've never seen anyone with this problem before. They all say that they think I'm saved simply because I'm worried about it. In his book, Around the Wicked Gate, Spurgeon addresses a very famous uh um former now now passed on uh pastor uh a hero in the Christian faith. Anyway Spurgeon addresses this and writes that conviction isn't salvation, and that only trust in Jesus resulting in peace saves. My many references to self and no mention of Jesus in my previous emails simply illustrate my dilemma. I don't have a personal relationship with Jesus, and I'm terrified because of it. I can't connect with him. He has always seemed abstract and distant, and no amount of Bible reading, prayer, church going, etc. , changes that. That is my problem. And when I'm honest about it with friends, pastors, and counselors, they give me blank stares and don't know what to say. How do I make my heart trust when he seems abstract? Intellectually I know he is real, but not so to my heart and experience. Since Jesus is peace personified, I can't know him without having inner peace despite circumstances. And since I haven't peace, I must not have him. Isn't that true? So my response to that was, we live in, or rather, we live during, can't even read my own writing. We live during an era with a heightened sense of the ideal. Sitcom, Solve Problems in 30 Minutes, Romantic comedies always end with a couple blissful and awash and gooey feelings, and many churches teach an over-realized eschatology. What I mean by that last phrase is an understanding of life today that pretends we're already in the age after Christ's return. We have people telling us that we can have our best life now, that happiness is Ours if only we have enough faith to name it and claim it, that our words are powerful enough to speak whatever we want, including peace, into existence. These are not biblical teachings. The Bible tells us that we will suffer loneliness. We will continue to struggle with isolation, and we will have doubts about our relationship with our Maker Thomas famously had doubts, but I have no doubt we will see him in glory. John the Baptist had doubts, and he is saved The writer of Ecclesiastes had doubts. So did Elijah, Jeremiah, and other not in the Bible people like me. The point in all of this is that too many people have been peddling to us a bill of goods for years. We need not buy what they're selling. It's a lie to say Jesus Christ followers will necessarily feel an intimate closeness to God on this side of heaven Some feel this more readily than others based upon personality type, life experiences, where they are in the sanctification process, etc. There is much to consider, many, very, many variables. Know this in your heart. God loves his children whether they feel loved or not. God keeps his promises, whether we have doubts about them or not. God is near, even when we only experience him as distant The truth is the truth, whether or not we can fully grasp it. It's unhelpful to set our assurance upon the foundation of our own feelings and experiences. Our feelings and experiences lie to us all the time. And so does the accuser. God never lies to us. So it is helpful to set our assurance upon the foundation I'll end with a quick story about feelings and times when we should not give in to them. Years ago when my daughter wasn't Very motivated to do something, she told me her reason was that she didn't feel like it. And I said to her, feel again. So you seek after God's face and say, Lord, I don't feel you hear with me, and he says, feel again. And I advise that you keep feeling. He's there, holding your salvation secure whether you feel it the way you think you should or not. I truly hope this is helpful to you. If not, I'll take solace in knowing that for all eternity you will ultimately live your life in a renewed earth. And do so with no nagging questions, because you'll be fully awash in the glowing love of your king. And then she wrote, Troy, what you wrote is helpful to me. Thank you for your candor and for taking the time you did to correspond with me. Blessings to you. And then I said my goal was to have a discussion about this topic on the fate debate at some point in January, and here we are. I'll be thinking of you while we do the show, I'm sure. And then I sent her a link. Here's a transcript of a sermon that might be an aid to you. And that's the end of our correspondence back and forth. And I will put that link on the faith debate page. If you go to WFMD. com, keyword faith, and find the section that talks about today's show. The show that's dated today, January 13, 2019. uh in the description of what the show is all about and stuff, I will tuck in there a link to uh what I sent uh to the listener as well. Now a couple of points of clarification I should make. One, I was pretty bold in in in telling somebody that they're saved. I don't even really I don't know this person personally. I don't uh uh so clearly don't know her well and so that's a bit of a risk. So there's kind of an assumption. assuming that she uh truly has a proper understanding, uh assuming that she has, you know, s uh confessed uh a a belief in Jesus Christ and that she's seeking after that relationship and she's been going to church and she's trying her darndest to be faithful, whether or not she feels some of the accoutrements of that or not. If somebody is uh gives the outward appearance of being saved and yet they just can't convince themselves they are, and and and and you feel like it's an assurance question, not a salvation question then we need to help bolster someone's assurance. Now if it continues to to just drag on and on and on, then maybe it's not truly an assurance question. Maybe it really is a salvation question. At which case maybe you need to d the the advice would be a little bit different to dive in and uh and and uh help that person to understand the character and nature of God, the the will and purposes of God, the the the the plan and activities of God. Um and and uh And his involvement in her life, in all of our lives. Uh and until maybe something clicks. Um anyway. So that was the best I could do not having met her and not sitting across from her And I read all that to you because I assume that she's not alone, like she said in her very first email, maybe it was her second email to me, that you know, she can't imagine she's the only one. And she's not. If you are a believer in Jesus Christ, if you call yourself a Christian Uh you must wrestle, at least on rare occasion, with assurance, right? You have doubts, nagging doubts, right? You have You have the world peppering you with reason to have doubt. You have the accuser, Satan, the devil, you know, and his and his minions, his his demons trying to hit you with doubt, trying to uh throw you off course. Um But I right now am sitting in a chair. If for some reason I started to think, well, am I really sitting in a chair? I'm not sure. I I'm not sure I can feel You know, my legs have gone numb. I can't feel the chair. Am I really sitting in a chair? Whether I feel the chair beneath me or not, the fact is I'm sitting in a chair. And that was kind of the point that I was trying to make. So we spent all of last week's show reading a majority of the email exchange and now we've spent um you know uh well it'll end up by the time we're done being almost all of today's show. uh reading the email exchange back and forth. I wanted to do that because we're hoping to have a panel discussion to sit and address these issues starting next week and I wanted to leave time for the panel uh to talk about the question. uh or questions and provide their answers, their insights uh in a way that might be uh of aid to this particular listener and also hopefully to you. And so as you can see it took over a show and a half to read the email exchange. There wouldn't have been a lot of time for the panelists to talk if I did that. So this has all kind of been read into the record. You've heard it Uh you can go back and listen to last week's podcast and uh if you're joining this show late this week, you can go back and listen to this podcast as well. Get yourself fully up to speed and then when the uh panel takes takes over the topic, we'll be there. Now I wasn't sure when I would have a chance to to mention this other aside. By the way, this is the faith debate, uh uh sometimes called the Frederick Faith Debate. on 930 WFMD in Frederick, Maryland. I'm Froy Skinner and uh we're online at WFMD. com. So I've had somebody knock on my door um months ago and normally my my daughter happened to be home and she even said, Wow, you you you did that? That's so unlike you and it is, it's unlike me. But I I did it, what can I say? Some guy came to the uh door knocking and saying, Hey, I I wrote this book. It's called Growing Up in Frederick County, Maryland. Uh his name is Tim Christopher And uh I'm selling it for like ten bucks. You wanna buy one for ten bucks? And I s and I said, you know what, anybody who's got the gumption to sit down and actually write a book and then get out of their They're lazy Susan and c are uh their uh lazy boy lazy Susan, that's the thing that spits around spins around the table, right? Lazy boy and uh knock on doors and and try to sell these things. You know what? I'm gonna just just the effort itself should be rewarded. So I'll buy one of your books. And so I read the book. And what do you know? On page thirty-five and thirty-six, here's what I found. Kinda cool. And and oh by the way, before I read it, so the book is uh again, Growing Up in Frederick County, Maryland is the title. And it's basically his memoirs, just anecdotal stories about his life, his you know, his his family um you know little things that happened, memories that he has. It's basically I I think his motivation was to write this primarily as a family record. you know, a a family history that he could pass down would be shared and uh you know with generations to come for many, many, many hope you know, hopefully hundreds and hundreds of years, right? That's I think what his motivation was. And once he was done, he thought, heck I might as well turn it into an actual book and see if I can sell the darn thing. And so there he is. And so i that's the context. So here's one of his little snippets, one of his little um you know, memories from from his childhood The phone rang, and I answered it to find that WFMD, the Frederick radio station, was calling. The man said that I had been selected to enter their listener contest and if I answered the question correctly, I would win the prize. And then he asked, Who is buried in Grant's tomb? After thinking it over, I said, Grant, and I was told that I had won. I asked what the prize was and he said he could not tell me, but it would arrive shortly, and I gave him our address and told my family about my huge win Two weeks later, a box from WFMD arrived and I couldn't wait to open it. We all gathered for the event and I tore the box open. And there it was. A set of six iced tea glasses in a brass-colored caddy with a handle at the top. I fell into the depths of depression. But mom was pleased. Uh that's Tim Christopher's book, uh sample of it, growing up in Frederick County, Maryland. Anyway, I don't know if Tim listens to the Faith Debate or not, but uh if you are listening, hello. Yes, I read your book. Uh appreciate you taking the time to write it. And one of the things the reasons it s it spoke to me, my daughter got married last year and um uh and the uh engagement period was over a year long. And and we knew what the date was gonna be. And so One exactly one year prior to the wedding date, I started to write a journal and wrote one page and the filled it up one page of the journal every day. uh for a year and then gave it to my daughter uh on her wedding day. Actually gave it to her um that there was a a brunch the morning after her wedding and gave it to her uh on that day. Anyway, and so in writing the the journal, part of it is trying to give, you know fatherly advice, sharing memories of you know of of of her when she was growing up and that sort of thing. But also part of it was to give her kind of a record of family history, kind of like what Tim here did with his book, talking about our ancestry going back into the um uh mid eighteen hundreds is about as far as I know about my family. Uh and talking about aunts and uncles uh uh great grandparents and and grandparents who she didn't get to know very well because they either passed on before she d uh was born or they had died you know shortly after she was born. And um Giving her all that you know, that history of w how we came to be where we are, you know, as a family right now, that sort of thing. So I it really it spoke to me that he took the time to write the book. I really uh I really appreciated that he took the time. I took the time. I didn't publish mine. Mine's just handwritten in a in a journal that my my daughter now has. Hopefully that journal will will hold up through time and it won't get lost or, you know, in a move or something like that and who knows. Um Assuming Christ doesn't return before then? Uh fifty years from now, a hundred years from now, five hundred years from now, maybe people in our family are are reading uh that journal and and knowing something about what will for them be their ancient history, right? And I will say it was therapeutic. I would encourage you, if you haven't ever done something like that, I would encourage you to think about doing it. It was very therapeutic. It's help it helped me to kind of understand my own story. where I came from, not just where my daughter came from. And uh to understand m part of how I was built into the person that I am and some of my own, you know uh emotional struggles or intellectual challenges or you know whatever defines you know your person, you know, um A lot goes into making you who you are, including I think family history. So if you can dive into your family history, I would strongly encourage you to do that And that's something going back really quickly before we wrap up the show. I got a couple minutes left. To the listener who sent the email that we had the email exchange back and forth that I read last week and this week. If you're listening right now, dive into your story. Dive into your family history. Not just you and your siblings and your parents and your cousins and aunts and uncles. And not just your grandparents, but your great grandparents and your great great grandparents, as far back as you can go and try to get a sense of what What has been the makeup of your family? Who who are you guys as a family? And can you see any common threads that might affect you? is a struggle with assurance something that maybe you can uncover to find out maybe that's something that your family's had an issue with or maybe there's some other issue that's or issues that have happened in your past and your family's past and your kind of generational things that would help explain why you now find yourself in a place where you just can't quite latch on. Do you have daddy issues that make it hard for you to to connect with uh with God as your father, for example. Do you you know d have you been burned by people who don't keep their word? And so you have a hard time taking God at his word Um did you grow up in a prim and proper environment that makes it difficult for you to express yourself emotionally, uh to be in touch with your emotions, to even be able to label the emotions that you feel. To give yourself first, to identify that you're having emotions, to identify what that emotion is, and to give yourself permission to experience those emotions. Maybe you you've got some issues like that going on in your life that are affecting your relationship. with your creator. Something for you to think about. You specifically, the listener who wrote the email, but also you, the listener, who's tuned right now and hearing my words if you have common and similar struggles. Anyway, thank you so much for listening to the show. Again, we're in our our fifteenth year of the Faith Debate. I can't believe it. Yes, Jonathan Schweitzer and I started the show when we were three. Fifteen years we've been doing the Faith Ebate show. Wow. Anyway, thank you. That couldn't happen if we didn't have listener support. Uh thank you so much for the rating success we've had over the years and for our sponsors that we've had over the years. Seriously could not happen without all the guests who have appeared. If you would like to uh listen to uh a podcast of the show or find out about what's been on the show in in recent weeks or months or what's coming up next week You can do so by going to wfmd. com, keyword faith, or go to the drop-down menu for the on-air schedule. Click on the faith debate, it takes you right there. You get to see what Jonathan and I look like and all that sort of stuff. I know you care about that, right? Anyway, thanks again for listening. Until next week One hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from just about right now. God bless. Happy Epiphany.