This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the master of divinity. From Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh. Troy Skinner. How should a Bible believer understand the makeup of mankind? Not talking about clown makeup either. Is it some combination of heart? Heart, mind, will to form the human soul? It's a pretty deep philosophical question, isn't it? With me to tackle this topic today are two friends of my family and friends of the faith. Debate. Andrew Messinger is a basketball playing high schooler who has attended Faith Church in Frederick for quite some time. This congregation continues to be part of the PCA or Presbyterian Church of America, which is squarely within what's called the Reformed tradition. And Jonathan Schweitzer is a church planner, past president of the Evangelical Ministerial Fellowship of Frederick and founder of Frederick forty eight, among other things. We'll talk about those other things maybe at uh some point during this cycle of uh of programs that we're doing. And uh uh together. 'Cause we've got some exciting news we're gonna share, I I'm assuming, right? Anyway, so if we're gonna make any headway on this difficult subject matter, we're gonna need to begin with defining some terms. So, um we're gonna have to define what we mean by our discussion of the human soul, the human heart, the human mind, the human will. So uh welcome to the show by the way, Andrew. And uh John, you wanna maybe start? You wanna try to tackle how when you're when you are talking about the For the purposes of this show, when you're talking about the soul, well let me just start by saying that as a uh forty-seven year old man, I like to pick on high school guys, you know, uh on in these kinds of topics. Actually, uh Andrew and I uh have been I've I've taught uh in a uh weekly co op, uh homeschool co op where uh uh my kids also attend and they're in his class. And uh after one of our classes he popped in the room and I was talking with some of my students. You know, I come from such a strong charismatic uh i. e. Pentecostal background that you know those issues always come up when you're hanging out with people from other uh uh right traditions and uh that particular day we were asking the question Uh w what exactly is negative about being emotional in your faith with the Lord about, you know, having strong emotions. And uh and so he just happened to pop his head in and Andrew's, you know from his relationship with my sons, uh, has a reputation of just being a guy that likes to think about the deep stuff and grapple with it. And so I'm kind of I'm kind of excited about us having on our show a guy that Um he's just graduating from high school and uh he's just a real thinker about this. So having said all that In my background, we would never say that we're just being emotional. We would say that the Spirit is leading us, and oftentimes when we're led by the Spirit, that it results in things happening that to outsiders are so often described as emotionalism Right. And and I'm not totally well I've been uncomfortable with that because it's clearly, you know, uh a way of kind of speaking negatively about it, you know, that like that's that's over emotionalism. Uh and so, you know, I've kind of worked that through, but it's clearly the case that we're a more emotional group. And when pastors get together in Frederick to pray, uh if you have some charismatic guys there, Presbyterian guys, other guys there, it's always going to be the case that the most uh emotional, out outwardly um energetic, uh fervent, you know, there there's a uh that that word that we're told to pray fervently, you know uh the the effectual and fervent prayer of a righteous man in James. Uh the prayers are always going to be a lot more emotional, like at all levels, you know, like weeping You know, if we're if we're praying about sin and brokenness or or joy when when we're praying about, you know, his power and or excitement, all those kinds of things. And so the question that I asked that day was Both before we're believers and after we're believers, is the emotion Part of who we are, part of our soul. Lest less. Less trustworthy than our intellect. Can we trust our mind more than we can trust our emotions, both before we're believers And after we're believers. And so we got in a really healthy discussion about it. Yeah, and when you said led by the Spirit, you're talking about the Holy Spirit. Right. Yeah. Not some sort of spirit within or that sort of thing. So that's correct. The Spirit of God is is moving Yeah. And see that's what leads to this kind of a discussion, which is why I wanted to try to define our terms a little bit, because somebody who is um grappling with a hard teaching in scripture and then use is using every ounce of energy they have in their mind would say that they're endeavoring in that study while being led by the Spirit to do so. Yeah. So that's what leads to this discussion. So does being led by the Spirit merely mean an exuberance? uh and and some sort of external exa uh evidence of of being emotional and heighten have a heightened sense of one's emotions. Or, you know, and so that's why So when you're talking about the double and be taking about the heart when you're talking about emotions? Or what are you talking about? Um I think he's saying that just in general m the more charismatic um denominations tend to be a little more dynamic. Um you see a lot of crying laughter and and happiness and You know, when they sing praise songs I've attended charismatic churches, they dance when they sing a lot of times in the aisles. My church is a reformed church. We don't dance. We don't even clap. You know, we we do none of that. Um they're more led by the heart imp impulsive emotions, not necessarily in a negative way, uh but They follow what they believe the the spirit is guiding them through their feelings. Um whereas uh generally speaking the reformers tend to allow the spirit to lead them through their mind more often. Okay, so so I think it's important that I that I interject here that that while I recognize that there is a strong emotional component, meaning laughter, uh sorrow, um uh joy, uh anger, uh uh celebration in Those that emphasize this being led by the Spirit and filled by the Spirit, most of us would not say that it's a primarily emotional leading of the spirit. In fact, we would uh I think tend to r rigorously reject that it's merely an emotional leading of the spirit. We would argue simply that that we're human and that humans have natural emotions that uh that we feel are appropriate uh proportional responses to the reality of what God has done. And so so for us it it it we would argue that it's the whole soul, mind, will, and emotions that are being engaged by the spirit. In fact, that it's not the soul that is primarily leading things, and we're diligent to say this, that it's primarily the spirit that is leading those things, but that that um that it feels to us historically that the church uh has had too much of an intellectual approach and has kind of uh put down uh emotion as somehow being an example of immaturity as opposed to a natural human response to things that the Spirit is doing and and so we would we would encourage it not discourage it, but we're not saying that the emotion is the primary thing that's going on. We'd say that the the move of the spirit uh Does that make sense? Yeah, I guess I'm still trying to figure out how Um how we're selecting our categories and a s you know and assigning uh meaning to the words that we're using. So like you talk about the soul. So when you say that What is the soul? What w how are you understanding the soul? Is that the the full embodiment of all that is the human? Is that what you mean by soul? Uh well, uh generally I define soul as the mind, will, and emotions. Okay. Yeah. So it's interesting that Jesus Jesus quotes the Old Testament passage that he says, Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. And so he almost seems to add the soul as as one of four parts of us, but when he's quoting that in the Old Testament it it says, with all your heart, soul, and strength, and it doesn't include the mind, meaning that the mind in the Jewish orientation didn't need to be identified as an additional part of that. And so even Jesus adds a uh you know the mind in the New Testament uh because he's in a more of a Greco-Roman environment where the where the mind is understood differently and so he includes it, which is an interesting because I think that there are uh examples where the the mind and the heart are used interchangeably. Exactly. So Do they mean the same thing? Are they are they different terms for the exact same thing? Or is there a slightly nuanced difference between them? And that's what I'm trying to figure out how we're understanding those now because over the course of our conversation, because we're probably going to do a handful of shows together, you know, I want to make sure that the three of us at least, if nobody listening, at least three of us will know what we're meaning So when you when you use heart, you primarily are meaning to convey the idea of emotion. Is that right, John? So so so far up until now, but now that we've introduced it Uh in the Old Testament, like you described, decisions were not just made in your head, but they were made in your gut. That sense you know that it doesn't actually even say heart Uh the word there is more of a gut. It's a word for the gut, not for the heart. And so um so that the the Jewish orientation actually uh includes more of an emotional component to your mental component, meaning that they're they're united more in a in a Jewish uh orientation. So David says, Thy word have I hidden my In my gut, in my heart, then I might not sin against you. By the way, that's Jonathan Schweitzer. Uh we're joined this week by Andrew Messinger and I am Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. One of the things that might be causing confusion for society, not I don't know that we're confused in this room necessarily. Yeah, we're but a societal confusion is we have a tendency to equate when somebody says mind, we think brain And I don't think that's what the Bible is telling us. I think when it talks about the mind, it's talking about the The mind is more than the brain. It's that it's the it's the it's the heart, it's the gut, it's the intuition, it's the the understanding. It's more than just the circuitry in our brain. I mean, do you agree with that? Yes, I would agree with that. Um, but you included heart again in your definition of mind and Jesus lists the four, so he kind of puts heart together with the two, and so Um I I guess my point is is that that even when we study the New Testament or the Old Testament that I don't know that those categories are that there's a clear delineation between them. And so even in our discussion today dealing with a more mental or intellectual approach or more emotional uh approach, i. e. heart, like I I don't know that that even what we're talking about is necessarily uh a good correlation to the b to what the bible says. It's a it's close, but I would say that let me let me confuse it even more. Uh let's throw in the word will. Exact yeah, strength, will? Yeah, how how is that to be understood? Or how are we going to try to understand it differently during our conversation Yeah. Uh than we do mind. Clobber you. You know? Okay, well I I I might have this will to clobber you. I might be emotionally reacting. It might be my heart Telling me I should clopper you. So how are we You and I have talked a lot. Andrew, what do you think? Um as far as Will is concerned, I think it's more of a combination of the mind as well as intentions and desires. It's not just what I'm thinking, but it's what I want. Where am I going with what I'm thinking? I think definitely the mind is not just our brain, like you were saying, it it also includes gut reactions. Um but I think the will is something more It's not just it's not just our thoughts and our feelings. It has more to do with what we want to do in the world. Meaning an actual choice that results in an action, something that we're doing. Right. So, you know, if if my will is to glorify myself then my thoughts and actions are going to follow that and they're going to my actions are going to be designed to bring glory to myself. Whether they're successful or not is a different thing. But if my will is to bring glory to God then my actions will follow that as well. So it's interesting there again that that what you said was that if your will is to, you know, do either of those, that your thoughts and your actions would follow that. And so in that lineup, the will comes first and then your thoughts come. And uh it you know, which is a part of our discussion, you know, which part of our uh of our soul, the mind will or the emotions, if those are even good categories to use to describe the soul, uh, which one of those leads? And that's kind of what got us into this. Um in and ultimately uh the discussion about the the charismatic was Uh if God gives us an emotion, meaning we're believers already. So I'm talking about people that have already given their lives to Christ and spirits living inside of us. If there's an emotion that comes, can I trust that emotion more than I can trust my mind? Right, okay. Yeah, let me let's go there in just a second, but I just want to make sure that I think we're all on the same page. Yes, go ahead. I want to put it out there so w anybody who objects, you can object, and if nothing else, the listener will have a sense of what we're talking about here. Right. So We're talking about primarily I mean there's other words we've thrown out there, but we're primarily talking about understanding the the inner man, if you will, as being the heart, mind, and will. Yeah. And if those three we're limiting it to those three, you get to the strengths and things, but those three things for our purposes represent the whole which is the soul. Yeah. And we're n and we're choosing to use the even though there's overlap and we're admitting it's an oversimplification. Yeah, yeah, right. But we'll accept it for the when we use these words for the sake of our discussion, when we say Soul, we're talking about the whole person. When we say heart, we're talking primarily about the emotional aspect. When we say mind, we're talking mostly about the the mental intellectual aspect. And we say will, we're talking about the the the commitment, the decision making, the the drive abstract. Is that are we all on the same page? Yes sir. I would agree with that. So now so now the questions that you're asking that we that we've spent you know fifteen minutes uh getting up to I blame you because I'm you know I'm not very talkative. Because no joke, we've got like five minutes left in this episode. Set the stage for what the next episode is mostly going to be diving into. We can pretty touch on it a little bit now. Okay. But your the question is the question before the jury is the soul of a believer. And it's an interesting distinction. I might want to ask you in a second why you're making that distinction specifically. But the soul of a believer We'll do that in like the third show or something. Which of those three aspects of the soul Should we might we trust more than the others? Can we trust our mind, our thinking, can we trust our emotional understanding? Can we understand our decision making? Trust our actions, our thoughts, or our emotions more. Is that what you're asking? I am. That is the question at hand. Okay, well let me ask you this as we wrap up this. I was gonna let Andrew say it. Well okay. Why are we making the distinction between the the the the believer and the nonbeliever? Oh okay. Well I think the believer and the nonbeliever All three of those things are fundamentally different. A believer should at least think differently than a non-believer, should have emotional reactions differently than a non-believer. And their will, like I said earlier, should be intending to glorify God and not themselves. It ch the fundamentally we are not the same types of humans. The old man has died and the new man has come in. And so the the the idea the word is re regeneration that we use, that that once a person has been born again regenerated the spirit is living inside of them then then there's an expectation that that there's a new man as opposed to what was the old man and that the new man uh is first of all, he's come alive in some way where he's previously dead. And so therefore there's a there's a distinction between, you know, uh what part of him can be trusted. I mean we say that previous to Christ we couldn't trust any of those things. Well I think it's But that'll be an interesting discussion once. No it's out there? I was trying to kind of lead you into going directly into what I think is implied. What we're saying is before a commitment is made to Christ that the heart, mind and will can't be trusted. Pretty much Okay, sorry. So I'm not I'm not I'm not willing to go with any With any assurance and certainty, you can't I mean certainly through common grace you're going to make some good decisions, you're going to have positive emotions. Yes, that's what I'm saying. That's a whole discussion in and of itself. But it's not going to be a question, but we're saying for the sake of this discussion, look We can't trust that nearly enough to even talk about that right now. Let's talk about what it is for the life of the world. He'll agree completely with you. I'll agree Mostly with the right. That's right. He subscribes to uh radical uh depravity and you don't. Yeah, he's practically Calvin. I'm Hobbes over here. He's a Calvinist. All right. So how much time do we have? We have about uh Minute and a half. Anything else you wanted to say before I wrap up? Nothing comes to mind. No. Okay. John? Nothing comes to mind. Okay, well I'm all six. I don't know. I put you on the spot. Do you want to talk about the thing you have going on in your life or not yet? Um okay. Uh so sixty-second info mercy. So we have moved uh my wife and I from pastoring a church into a place that is kind of like in between uh churches and in between churches in the world. Uh and uh and the heart of it is to be a bridge both between churches and between churches in the world, meaning to identify the gaps and to be just a bridge builder, to know people in all of those places and to know knowing people well in all of those places, what they believe, why they believe it to to be the kind of guy that says, hey, we can work together even though we believe differently, and this is why we can work together, and so let's find ways to do so. So that's the heart of it. Yeah, so that's a little teaser for you, a little sampler platter. We'll get into the you know maybe we'll dedicate uh some episodes down the road specifically about what's going on and what it means for the church and we'll debate it because there's some there's there would be a reason for debate. Is it a good idea? Is it a debate Right. It's it's in my life because you're gonna debate my life. It's kind of a new idea. Why not? But the bridges is is is uh you know relatively, at least for this area, a unique parachurch ministry. And so do we need yet another parachurch ministry? It could be a subject for debate. Yeah, totally. Right? That's absolutely true. Anyway, so We'll get into some of that with Paul Black. Which we're gonna have on in a couple of weeks. That's right. About or a couple of weeks actually. About where we are in uh kind of history and God's purposes and and so what are the distinctives. Well that's Jonathan Schweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. Andrew Messinger is uh is it Messinger, Messinger? How do I say that Messinger. Messinger. Messinger. I keep trying to go with a kind of a weird Germanic uh kind of a thing there. Nessinger. Uh and this is the Faith Debate. You can find us online at W Fm D. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts of this show. If you want to hear this particular show, give us uh twenty four to thirty six hours from now and it should be up there. Uh and you can find a uh Kind of a preview of what's going to be on in the coming weeks as well, so check that out. Thanks so much for listening till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.