This corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community with the notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting longed up. Top 10 church. Church faux pause the turn off millennials. Five things millennials are looking for in a church. Why millennials are really leaving religion, it's not just politics, folks. These are real headlines from real articles. The Christian pastors are really reading. So let's ask, how does the church tend to view millennials and how do millennials tend to view the church? Here to tackle these questions with me, Troy Skinner, are Jonathan Sweitzer, co-founder of Crossed Bridges in Frederick, and Michael Bartlett, the uh I think founder and pastor of Collective Church also. And Frederick. So thank you guys for coming on the show. If you're uh new to the faith debate and you're not sure what it's all about, you can find us online, WFMD. com keywordface, and you can you can see my ugly mug and Jonathan Schweitzer's uh brilliant smile and um Teasers about what's coming up on future shows, a recap of things that have been on the show recently, and links to podcasts in case you missed some shows that you'd be interested in. So Uh that's about us. Let's take a minute before we dive into the millennial question with a youngish millennial looking pastor uh to to find out his his story. Your your rel your church is relatively new to Frederick. Correct Uh I'm not I assume that means you're relatively new to Frederick. Correct. So how'd you get here and how'd you become a pastor? Yeah, so um I didn't grow up going to church. Um but when I was thirteen a church plant moved Uh within about twenty minutes of where I was living at the time, which was Loudon County. So I'm from the general vicinity and they invited my family to church but it wasn't really something we were interested in. You know, we didn't feel like anything was missing from our life, like we didn't feel like anything was broken. Um but through getting to know these neighbors we decided, okay, this church thing can't be that weird. And how old were you then? Uh I was about thirteen years old. Thirteen. Okay. So we went to this church plant Uh it was portable, they set up and would tear down every single week. And we fell in love with Jesus this and this church Um and so my family no church background. My dad went to Catholic school up in Massachusetts as a kid, which, you know, he did not have a great experience there. So all of a sudden we found ourselves going weak and So he didn't like having his knuckles whacked? No, he was a terrible kid too. It only made it worse. Um but yeah, like we started going to church and um around the time I was fourteen or fifteen I put my faith in Jesus and I was baptized and Um, spent the next few years loving it, serving, being a part of it. Uh, but to be honest, ministry was never something that I felt called to or passionate about. Uh, until I went to college. I went to college in a small school down in Johnson City, Tennessee. I wanted to get out of the hustle and bustle of Northern Virginia that I was born and raised in. Right. And yeah, so I went to like The complete opposite. No one drives fast. Like people open doors for you and like say h hello, which is very weird for me because it's like, no, where I drove up you don't talk to strangers. This is weird. So the first Sunday there I went to church at the biggest church around. Fifty people. I it was uh it was like three thousand people in Johnson City. Johnson City is thirty thousand people. It was ten percent. Wow. And so We're like, let's check it out. And um I went and uh but my first experience was they started singing worship and they didn't have a screen with slides, which is what I knew, and everybody picked up a book and started singing. And I was like, I don't know how people are singing while reading the Bible. And I didn't understand that it was a hymnal. I'd never seen one before. I'd never experienced that. So I went back to my roommate and I was like, man, I went to church today and they they sang the songs out of a a book and like it was an hour and forty-five minutes. Like I've never done this before. And his response was, you grew up in a church that is abnormal. what you went to was today this Sunday was normal church. And then something clicked. My my family wouldn't have ever found Jesus in a quote unquote normal church. It was only through church planting. And your friend said this basically just on the um on the surface level things like the the worship style the vibe. Yes. Yeah. At that point I didn't even know denominations existed. Like I didn't even know that was a thing. I just went to a church that my family loved and I That was my world was so small when it came to the church. And so was that like a scary revelation to you or like frustrating? Like how did that hit you when that happened? Scary? Um Frustrating because as I got to like learn more about the church and realize like learn to do a church history classes and all that, like the domin denominational disunity really, like some of the the shine started to wear off the more I went to school. And I realized like, oh man, like one, this is way more complicated than I ever thought it would be. Yep. Yeah, I have a pastoral ministry degree. Um w which I at the time I I was like, I guess I need to be a pastor. You know, going to this church and realizing, you know, this church is wonderful for Johnson City. This church is reaching a lot of people, a lot of people that ended up being my professors. whom I respect tremendously. So was the school connected to that big giant church? Kind of. So like there was a little bit of like they did a bunch of events on campus, but And they were part of the same movement of churches but um which is why we went, because they were denomination was it, the non-denominational from the Restoration Movement. And so or the Stone Campbell movement is another um way that it's talked about And yeah, like now it's funny is like I have friends who work in that church and that church actually financially supports collective, which is very strange. But Learning that there are different styles of drawing. So what's so strange about it? Because you don't you use overheads instead of Um, and just not knowing that church could be done differently. You know, I was very naive to church and very n I knew Catholic church. I went to a few Catholic funerals when I was in high school of Massachusetts, which is like very Catholic. So you know, just being naive to that and at the time like my whole world changed in that moment of like, Oh, church can look different But also realize my family would never have connected in that type of church. Right. And realizing I need to go into ministry to plant the type of church that my family would go to. Unchurched. Now you didn't leave college and complain to church in Frederick, did we? I did not, no, no. Uh y uh there were times when I thought I should. Um thank God I did not because my I was very like twenty two thinking, Yeah, how hard can this be? Thirty two now, it's very hard. Um No, I did multiple uh residencies and and church planning internship type things and portable churches in America. So I was up in Cleveland, Ohio for a year and a half. Actually my wife and I got married and six days later we drove all of our stuff, which wasn't much, to Cleveland and I raised my salary to learn at a new church plant up there. Um and then after that I moved uh to Glen Burney, Maryland, worked at a church there, uh then Annapolis, Maryland, did another church planting portable church scenario. And after two years there, I was released to go plant um wherever we chose. And so that led me to researching. It led me to trying to figure out I'm a data guy. So like what's the youngest city that's also growing. Um, to be honest, Frederick wasn't in the top ten because I grew up playing baseball out here as a kid when I travel played travel ball. And of course we called it Fredneck. And Urbana wasn't Urbana. Right. The first time I drove through Urbana. A lot of things shifted from when you played baseball to now, right? Insane. And Loudon County where I grew up did that. It went from farms to overgrowth, high income. And I've got two blue collar pants. My dad's a contractor, my mom's a daycare. So my fear with Frederick was that it would look the exact same way and eventually To be honest, like I wouldn't understand the city anymore or the the county. But we we visited and um very strange story. We actually posted a picture on Instagram of Carol Creek. And my old youth minister's wife was like, my best friend lives in Frederick, you should meet her. And I'm not the type to like go meet a stranger, um, but my wife is. So she's like, let's have dinner with these people. Yeah, that's a that's a uh bad skill not to have as a church planter. No, no, I can I'm not I'm not I'm not outgoing naturally. And so um I'm very lucky to have outgoing people on my team 'cause I I I like curl into a ball and eye. And um so we met with this couple and we're sitting down for dinner, never met him before, and we're like, okay, tell us a little about yourself. She's like, Oh, I went to Milligan College in Johnson City, Tennessee. And we're like, wait, we we went to Milligan And she's like, Oh, do you know Alice and Nick? And I was like, That was my roommate's best friend And before we know it we had all these connections and we met it was at the time like a young thirty year old couple who had kids who was struggling to connect in a church and Frederick. And as we left dinner that night, they said, like Please plant a church in Frederick. And I was very hesitant still. But obviously my wife and the and my daughter. That's a powerful moment though, you know, people on the ground saying, you know what, we need this. Yeah. Which again like the Macedonian call. But you can't ignore that question. And so we spent the next six months praying about it and visiting and eventually we realized that we felt God is calling us the Frederick. And so we moved up three years ago. And then we launched the church a year and a half ago. So we spent a year and a half on the ground just learning. Um Frederick is a unique city. And everyone wants to claim it as a Baltimore Washington corridor. Frederick doesn't want that. They want to be Frederick. So we spent a year and a half learning and serving and bumping into people and trying to meet as many people as possible before we launched on September 17th of 2017. Yeah, it is interesting. I mean it it in a sense it's kind of connected uh in dramatic ways to Baltimore and DC. But it's such a crossroad city to borrow a the name of a of a church that John was involved with at one point. But you know, we're we're not that far from York or Harrisburg or Winchester. Gettysburg. Gettysburg. Harper's Ferry. Yeah, but I'm talking about more metro kinds of places. uh like the radio stations, you know, I work for WFMD and WFRE and one of the challenges we have as as a radio company in Frederick is the way that Nielsen divvies up the geography And so we have listeners in Southern Pennsylvania, but we have a hard time getting credit for those listeners with advertisers because of the way Nielsen TVs things up. We have listeners in West Virginia Same problem. We have listeners in Northern Virginia. Same problem. We have listeners in the Baltimore Metro and in the DC Metro, but we tend to only get credit for the ones in the DC Metro Yeah. It's like you know the Bermuda Triangle of of Maryland or or the the tri-state or quad state region or however you want to look at that. But apparently even back in the day not many Indians lived here in the area because it's, you know, between the mountains and the river, it just wasn't like uh easily traveled area. So anyways, so anyway, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You just heard Jonathan Sweitzer say anyways right before I said anyway. And uh and uh Michael Bartlett, Pastor of Collective Church in Frederick, is on the show too. So I'm curious You had friends, well uh people that became friends that you connected with, these these random connections and they're saying, We're having a hard time finding a church that we can like connect with. And so you this is the question, right? So how is your church different than all the other contemporary worship music, big screens up there, uh, you know, seeker sensitive kind of So how how is your church different from what's already out there? I to be honest, I think the biggest thing, 'cause I think uh you look at Frederick or even just kind of the the area that people come from to go to church, right? Um I don't necessarily think we do things that differently than s some of the churches that look like us, you know. But I think the biggest thing is the fact that I'm thirty-two. And they always say that y your church is ten years younger than the lead pastor of that church. And so like there's there in the beginning I thought that's insane. But then we realized when we planted this church, my wife and I at the time we had one kid and we were like one of four families of kids. We have two now and we're like old You know, and we've been married for ten years and people like seek out advice from us and I'm like, I don't I don't know. So I think a big piece of it is like our our team and specifically our staff is early thirties down to we have two twenty four year olds and because we have a young staff and there's a young presence throughout, we attracted young people. Now there's a tension in that because And pre-launch, before you launch a church, all you do is network and meet people. Well, I'm gonna meet people who look like me and kind of fit into my life. And so we met a lot of 20-year-olds. w without kids or twenty year olds with one kid because that's who we were. And so when we launched our church, it was like all millennials. And of course like people just show up from marketing or whatever and a lot of our older generations were like, I don't fit in here and we kept saying, No, no, no, please, please, please stick around. We want you to fit in here. This church looks like this because that's who I connected with and Um we just continue to see like young twenty and thirty year olds keeping it. So you didn't necessarily set out with a strategy of we're gonna build the church for millennials. It just organically kind of happened because like, hey, he looks like me. Yeah I'm good looking, he's good looking. Let's go to church with him. Yeah, our thought was we knew there are people in this city that looked like us, sounded like us. Like looked tired like us is really what my wife and I joked about. Right. And we're like, let's look for other tired young parents who don't know what they're doing with their life. And let's hang out with them. And w that's who we met, a bunch of like thirty year olds who had one kid and we're all like, You don't know what you're doing, you don't know what you're doing, we don't know what we're doing, let's be friends. Yeah. To at least feel better about ourselves a little bit. Now how much of it might be um more substantive It me uh meaning that maybe without even trying strategically, but your s your sermon illustrations might be more about raising a two year old when you're twenty-five, you know, or or whatever. Is that The case is you're just naturally drawing upon your own experiences and they can connect with that? Yeah, I would think so. I mean this past Sunday I talked about Habakkuk which the majority of our church had never heard of Habakkuk. But I connected it to back when I was a kid growing up watching T GIF on Friday nights and how sitcoms are thirty minutes and when a sitcom ends, the resolution's there. But life isn't that way and Habakkuk kinda teaches us that life isn't a thirty minute sitcom. And, you know, I asked the church like how many of you grew up watching TGIF and it's eighty percent of the church. who that was their childhood. You know, so like I am able to pull on some of that nostalgia of you guys listen to the same music I did, you watch the same shows that I did, you know, felt the same thing. Now do you find yourself yeah, you mentioned there's some people that are older And like, well, this doesn't really fit me. And I don't know no you guys listen to the same music I did, you watch the same shows that I did, you know, felt the same thing. Now do you find yourself you know, you mentioned there's some people that are a little older You know, well, this doesn't really fit me. And like, no, no, no, please stay. So do you find yourself, you know what, I better start working in some illustrations for the forty and fifty somethings share. I I struggle with that. I w because it's hard for me to talk about like parenting when I've got a f now a four year old and a six month old. And so And what I do is I actually uh there's a few couples that go to a collective that have adult kids that come to our church and they also come because they want to go multi-generational, they want to be together with their young thirty year old kids. because they're just happy that they're going to church. So I do my best to spend as much time with them as possible just to learn because I don't feel like I have the right to speak to parents of middle schoolers. Now my wife's a middle school teacher, so I draw on some of that experience. But I will say, you know, David and Denise, who have two have their kids and their grandkids go to this church And here's what I've learned from them. And they they like lead a small group for us. So we do our best to make sure that while we are a young church, when you go, our leaders aren't all twenty and thirty year olds. You know, we have found people who love Jesus. who are in their fifties, sixties, seventies, who for some reason want to be around a bunch of young people and we do our best to capture them and I do my best to learn from them because There is a lack of wisdom, you know, that I have and and I recognize that. And you know, the first year and a half, like I I can get by on past experience, but at some point, if you know, the more I preach, the more I have to draw from that wisdom Um, because there's gonna be a gap and these these young adults will start having kids that are getting older and I need to point them to the people who have middle schoolers and Adult children and stuff like that. Yeah, it's interesting. It's like the inverse problem that you hear from a lot of pastors, you know, pastors that are in their forties, fifties, sixties, and they're having a hard time figuring out how to connect with the younger listener to come up with the right illustrations because they didn't watch the same T V shows or listen to the same music or have the same cultural touchstones or you know, political happenings. You know, you talk to somebody who's you know, older than the three of us are, and they might have distinct memories of J F K being shot. Well, I don't You know, ha we, j John and I, and you, because you're just you're just old enough, uh, have distinct memories of nine eleven, correct. Yeah. But you probably have some people now that are in your church that that's like just a history book story to them. Yep. Yeah, they have no idea. Right? So that's there's this ever changing timeline. So you're gonna have to I guess adjust to that. You're gonna be the forty something, fifty-something, sixty-something pastor trying to connect with young people, right? Yeah, I joked that by, then I quit. Um, I'm not cool. Like I'm just not cool. I'm not a cool person. Like I like to hang out with my wife, my kids. I don't go You and I should be friends. I just I'm not cool either. After all these years you finally admitted it. Yeah, there's a gap there and I reckon like we we talked about relationships a few weeks ago. And so I had a call one of my friends, who's in his early twenties, he's not married, and I was like Talk to me about dating apps. I didn't have to do that. I went to college. I met my wife my first day. We dated all throughout college. We got married great. And now I've got friends in m in the twenties and thirties that are like trying to meet the one on Tinder. And I'm like, I don't understand how this works. I've heard terrible things about it. So there's a piece of it as well. Like even with our millennials, and and I know I'm in that millennial bracket, but our younger millennials are even the generation after that where I'm constantly Googling things. I have no idea what they're talking about. Yeah, by the way, you might be more attuned to this than I am. I I know something about it, but not enough to to really articulate it well. They have subdivided the uh the generations so regularly now It's hard to know who belongs to what generation. Used to be a generation was like forty years, then a generation was twenty to thirty years, and then a gener now a generation is what, like six years or something? It's like they're changing the name. There's gen there's millennials, there's generation Y and Z and and I and even other ones, right? So Millennial Bracket they they classify as twenty two to thirty-seven. Um, which in my opinion that's an adult, whether they want to be or not. And so we treat our millennials like adults. Like you're twenty two. Oh well yeah you're an adult. Um there is a breakdown. I you know Are you suggesting that there are people advocating for treating millennials as something other than adults? I think that's a m a general decision people have made about millennials not being able to handle themselves and their lives. You know, there's a lot of negative thoughts on millennials. Yeah. Well deserved. That'll be interesting to get into that whole discussion. That's the grumpy old man and he goes, well deserved, you whippers snappers. Yeah. Can you believe that we would be like be in that sp that space? I mean I'm just sitting here like thinking about this whole thing and I'm like really I'm like we're we're like the old fogies in the lawn Right. Totally. You know, and how uh how many times have we had people on the show where you know, where they're older than we are and you you know, we're the young hooper snappers, but we're the Xers, you know, and there's just Not as many of us out there. Yeah. I don't know if there's we're gonna have a comment about this, but it pops into my mind because I've talked about this sort of generational thing. I have uh children that would be right in the sweet spot of your congregation. And so I was just thinking I have n nieces and nephews that are looking for what you're describing and I'm I'm thinking, hmm and to the point you're talking about, you know, people not treating these thirty somethings as adults, that's is an issue within the American culture. You know, it used to be, you know, years and years and years before we were all around, that you were, you know, ten, twelve years old, you're helping out on the farm. You know, you're you're you're working. You're you're treated more like an adult. Certainly by your teenage years you are. People who are getting married and having kids in their teenage years. Uh and then it shifted and then it was, well, you're not really an adult until you're eighteen, or you're not really an adult until you're twenty-one. Well you're not really an adult until you age out of your parents' uh health insurance at twenty six. You're not you're not really adult until 'cause you know, thirty's the new twenty. I mean I would agree. You know what I mean? Adolescence used to be like if there was such a thing as adolescence, I'll th I think there was a time when there wasn't an adolescence. You were a child and then the next day you were an adult. And then we invented this thing adolescence, which started out as like teen years, and then it included the preteen in the teen years and and then it Yeah, well maybe we invented the twenties. Now Adolescence is like twenty years long, but in the Jewish mentality you were you were placed as a man, right? The bomb mitzvah, barb mitzvah thing. right at puberty or some you know, thereabouts, but you weren't really considered trustworthy until you hit thirty and so So that Well I know some people over thirty that I don't consider trustworthy. Yeah. But the point is that's why Jesus couldn't go into ministry uh until he hit thirty years of age because you weren't really considering so so yes, it is the case that we're there again. And maybe we didn't seem to be in the past, but I don't know that that's really so new, you know, in terms of long term history. That's something that's been around. All right, really quick. We have a little bit of time for plugs. We don't always have time for plugs at the end of a show, but we uh I don't have enough time to ask another question, so do some plugs. John, you have a website. It is It is FrederickGoesPurple. com. And we are going purple for the entire month of September in order to uh to surround those that are in opioid addiction or in recovery to let them know that as a community Frederick cares about them and so that's going to be a really big deal. Alright, and Michael, you h I'm sure you have a website here. Yeah. It's uh it's www. mycollective. church. Mycollective dot church. You can tell he's not cool because he still says www. I know. School people don't say that anymore. Or maybe millennials do and we just don't know it. com thing was happening back in the nineties, all the commercials online at on the World Wide Web at W. dot it. We're online at WFMD dot com Keyword Faith. I'm Troy Skinner. I want to thank Jonathan Sweitzer and Michael Bartlett for being on the show today. Thank you for listening. Until next week one hundred 167 and a half hours from right about right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com, a service of clustered spires. Maryland's Golf at its finest. From the 930 WFMB Roy Rogers Restaurant News Center. This is WFMD News. Multiple townhomes on Carrollton Drive in Frederick were destroyed by fire Friday morning. Sarah Campbell, the public information officer for Frederick County Fire and Rescue Services, said it happened in the five hundred block of Carlton Drive around nine A. M. Fire and rescue personnel arrived on the scene and they located members of Frederick County Code Enforcement who happened to be in the area as well as Fritter County Recycling Crews were trying to notify uh members of the Townham complex that the roof was on fire. When they arrived there were four units that were well off um involved in the roof area. There was fire showing from the Alpha and Delta, which is the front and side unit. She said the fire eventually spread to the entire unit, which included seven townhomes. Fortunately, no civilians were injured, but Campbell said three volunteer firefighters were taken to the hospital. Also, two birds were rescued from one of the homes. The Washington, Maryland chapter of the American Red Cross, said seven families and eighteen residents were displaced because of the fire. There's the local service organization. which can help you acquire public speaking skills which can help you for a lifetime. Even if you are extremely shy, they can still help you. Beth Davis Reinhold I was dragged to Toastmasters. My best friend invited me continually for about four years and I and now I only wish I'd gone the first time she asked me. Before Toastmasters it would literally take me weeks to get up enough nerve to call for a hero point. Now I speak in public every day in my role as lead instructor at Frederick County Workforce Services. I teach computer skills and basic job search skills like interviewing and resume writing, and it's my favorite thing Ryan Holt, who was the elite instructor at Frederick Workforce Services, has improved her life offered