It's the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master of the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Tremble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Hua, where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get Ready to rumble. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder. of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Oh mama. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting longed up. How political is too political? Last show we looked at some intramural questions facing the Christian Church. Actually the last uh few shows we have. This week we're gonna try to focus maybe on some intermural questions if possible. Again using like we did last week the National Day of Prayer as a case study at least to some uh measure. Uh how inclusive should the National Day of Prayer prayer be? For example, should people of all races be invited? Both sexes? Okay, the question's a little bit harder. What about those with divergent sexual orientations or gender identities? How about people who do not have legal standing to be in the United States or skin And white supremacists or militant tree huggers. For one more go-round, this is show four of a four-part series. We have on the show again the founder of Bridges in Frederick County, Jonathan Schweitzer, and the senior pastor at Trinity. United Methodist Church, Dr. Eliezer Valentine Castagnon, and I've laid tongue firmly in cheek on some of those examples that I put forward. And by the way, we would be remiss. It's the Christmas season. Uh we've got New Year's coming up and just a Christmas tree in what a day or two. I what's it New Year's Eve is tomorrow, I guess. Uh Christmas uh It was just last week and we have the uh Day of Epiphany coming up for Orthodox friends uh and not too many more days. So uh happy holidays and Merry Christmas. So Uh but that that speaks to what we're talking about. The the politiciz the making political can't say politicization very easily. Politicization. Yeah. The the making political uh questions of faith and having national days of prayer that uh tie into our government and our and our Americanism and and you start to have questions about, you know, what should the church and leaders in the church do as it relates to Orthodoxy, but then also as it relates to you know, our constitution and First Amendment rights and uh and so does the church sometimes in these sorts of things focus too much on the political? Um if it's n if it's a political event, kind of tying back to what we were talking about last week, if some if we're going to have some sort of a political event Then obviously anybody and everybody can show up. And I don't think anybody should bat an eye at what their religious beliefs are. If we're gonna have a religious event then it's important to start to make distinction of well what kind of religious event is this exactly? But it gets really fuzzy when it's a quasi-religious slash quasi-political event. Which one is it? Is it both? Is it the thing? What's that? Quasi political, quasi-religious. Well, I I would say that it's it's always it it's always talking about things from a faith perspective And how that faith then intersects with politics or cultural issues or inter interpersonal relationship and that sort of thing. So I I will admit that I've got you know some fuzzy feeling about the National Day of Prayer because I do think it blurs some lines that could again cause some c some uh confusion. Last week I talked about The the the fuzziness and the confusion that can be by having, you know, Muslims, uh Hindus, Jews and Christians all praying together and all saying they're praying to God. And I would argue that only one of those groups is actually playing praying to God and the other are are uh praying to some sort of facsimile of of God. Um you know, if I this is gonna sound harsh, but I mean I've been doing this show long enough. If you've been listening to this show for any length of time, been doing it since two thousand and four And so you probably know where I stand on these things. And this is gonna sound really mean and kinda cutesy. I don't see a whole lot of difference between um Reaching out to Buddha and reaching out to this microphone in front of my face. I don't see any difference between a prayer to the uh Allah of Islam and a prayer directed to this microphone in front of my face. I don't think you actually believe that. Don't you love it when I tell you what what you believe? I don't think you actually believe that. Because there's several places in scripture where uh where gods of other religions are equated with demons. And your microphone as much as you might think it's a demon Okay. So you're going to be able to do that. Yeah, yeah. uh fallen angels to to demonic activity. But if if this microphone were the answer is yes, John But if this microphone were to represent an icon of of religion like like some people pray to statues or right or things like that. Then it becomes an object it becomes a it's a man made yeah thing that's turned into a a an object of worship. It it's So in that sense a demon and the microphone are the same. You're worshiping and serving created things rather than the creator. Which is why it's important to say that Jesus isn't created, by the way. If he's just a creature like I am, then why would I be praying to him? Yeah, and the reason why I think this is important And so um anyways the reason I think it's important to make this distinction is because I believe that there's there's uh There's wicked, evil forces, spiritual forces that are out there. And uh and if we're just agreeing that everybody's just kind of, you know, praying to the same thing, we make no distinction, then how do we call out uh you know, a Hitler or how do we call out anybody because we're basically saying that what they believe is okay and it's what they believe and and we we just need to respect it instead of saying a and in a fact I'm pretty sure that that You're not just a moral relativist. I mean when I hear you talk about immigration and other issues, but you're really clear about Evil. Evil is one thing. Right. Evil is one thing. And we it's sort of we sort of have a a c a better sense of how to recognize evil in the world. And and I think that Usually, you know, this is like some years ago the Supreme Court, uh just in the Supreme Court used to say that, you know, um well when trying to define what pornography was Um when you see it. You know it when you see it. And uh and so it I think that it's as clear in many in many cases, it can be as clear as you know, say, well, you know, you know evil when when you see it. Um and and So it's it's but apparently we don't. Well and yeah, well and that's hopefully the world is okay. There's why we need mouth and tongue. Which is why we need special revelation. Yeah Because God tells us what is evil. Because we do know evil when we see it. Especially not when I'm looking in the mirror. You know? I hear that. But but it is precisely you know, and let me just make a little parenthesis here because you mentioned something that I think is very important to to highlight. Um you mentioned something about epiphany earlier And uh you mentioned something about the uh the the uh Orthodox Church and celebration of Epiphany. And I just needed to clarify that no, this not only the not only the Orthodox celebrate Epiphany, but also every country in Latin America celebrates it if any as as the major uh Christmas holiday. That's when we talk about uh the the twelve days of Christmas. Yeah, but isn't that 'cause there were were originally Catholic and then they've kind of moved in a Protestant direction. Well, and so it's kinda built into their cultural orientation. It is, but it's because it's precisely you know Like I think it comes from Catholicism. But I could be wrong. Well probably I'm wrong. It is in by the same token the issue is that but it is part of what the Christian church celebrated. This is not something that just if you know the Catholics sort of King, you know, we have been part of that tradition, so this is part of our tradition, meaning that, yes, Christmas starts, you know, we say on on December twenty-fifth and ends on January sixth That's the those are the day the twelve days of Christmas. It's not the days the twelve days before the twenty fifth, right? And you get more gifts that way. I mean I think that's the important thing. That's wanted to make the point that, you know, we do make that and so in Latin America you indeed um celebrate. You know, well at least you know for us in Puerto Rico we celebrate Christmas as you know in the US uh celebrated, but we also celebrate um Three Kings uh or Epiphany. Um in in in the entire uh Latin America basically is uh the Epiphany celebration is the Christmas celebration for for uh for for folks. So how does that relate? Like tie that back in. I just wanted to make that point. Okay. Right. But getting back we're talking about the the kind of the politicization there. Oh I think I said it right that thing. Uh of of of these kind of National Day of Prayer kinds of events. And again I get nervous because It's too common in our American context to confuse uh God ordained righteousness with jingoistic American values. Or with our political party in. If you're a good Christian you must vote Democrat or you must vote Republican. Like you know, depending on your political orientation, you're gonna pick your your poison on that. And we have these events where we really blur the lines And a lot of times I've been to the National Day of Prayer a number of times, uh so I'm not like prudition in avoiding it. I've actually MC'd it a few times. So but there's always a little bit of a conflict. Like I'm trying to understand the appropriateness of it. Because on the one hand it is, if you ever if you ever go to one, I mean, it really can be uh a heightened spiritual experience where you feel the present of the Holy Spirit There's people from all different churches and you're praying together. But then at other moments within the same event, within the two hours that you're in the same room with all these people, there are other moments where it feels overtly political. And you know you're you're you're you're asking those who are in attendance who happen to be publicly elected officials to stand up and be recognized and you know, and it it feels like a political event in those moments, so is it a political event? Is it a religious event? Is it is it both? And if it is both, should it really be both? Should it Should the Christian church be in the business of having political events? I mean we can do four shows on that, I know. Yeah. But my my answer to that is that is that if you have people in the room at any event uh that are you know leaders in your community um in on a national day of prayer type event it's you know it's it's right to invite, you know, leaders in the community to the event, then it's right to recognize them as well. Right? They're they're leaders in the community. They play a role, they bear a weight. What about the CEO of a business in town that employs five thousand people or five four hundred people and they're they're a leader in the community. They stand up and be recognized. I'd be okay with that. Yeah. You know? Yeah. I would argue that everybody in that room is probably a leader. If some they're leading a church, a parachurch organization, a a a local business. These are movers and shakers that attend these prayer breakfasts. Every single person in the Usually they ask the pastors to stand. They'll ask the nonprofit guys to stand. But they don't usually they'll go further. They don't call them out by name. They call out the politicians by name. And I think that that's done with an agenda so that the people in the room know who to vote for. See, they're here, they're one of us. They they they agree with us. Whether they agree with us or not, it's a voice. my my my second part, my qualification, is to the extent that they're just representatives of one party and that that they haven't all been invited, then I think that the National Day of Prayer event it's almost always missing what it should be. Very darn near exclusively Republican. I know it Right. And there's been efforts to move in that direction. Um and things like um anyways, there ends up being being certain issues uh that that are raised. Like I think immigration is important uh a pretty important issue for you and and how we how we deal with, you know, the the the immigrant that that is in our midst. I think uh racial issues, you know, at this last one were dealt with very strongly and were dealt with in a way that that was, you know, far from one party or the other. uh abortion of course and and uh homosexual marriage are issues that that at this point seem to just go to one side to one political party and uh and so the question is how do you Uh so I think it's right that that we would find a way to be praying about issues of righteousness. outside of just a political orientation. And that at that at the National Day of Prayer event that is a Christian gathering that that they should that And I think they've been been trying to move in that direction. I think they're making, you know, important headway. Uh I can't say that I feel like they're really there yet Yeah, this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. You just heard the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer, the founder of Bridges. And it's interesting. We can talk a little bit about Bridges here in a moment. I'm Schwartz Skinner, I don't know if I said that already or not. And we're joined this week as well by the uh senior pastor at Trinity United Methodist Church, Dr. Eliezer Valentine Castañon. Now does senior pastor mean that you have a whole stable of pastors that work with you? Yeah well I just actually have some some good leaders and and one of them is a pastor too. Okay. Yeah okay very good. So we're talking about um interacting with the community and the leaders around us, and that's part of what Bridges is doing. But you're doing that as a religious Christian oriented organization. It's it's not the church. It's what's sometimes referred to as a parachurch, something that's done with the church organization Uh and I feel like the rules are a little bit different for a parachurch organization than for a church. Um so you're trying to bridge those gaps, you're trying to interact with people from different Faith traditions, uh different uh brands of Christianity and even non-Christian uh faith traditions and political leaders and business leaders of Muslims. has its own, you know, silos that that uh can benefit from working together in some key places and praying together. And then silos from which they launch their missiles at each other. Yeah, I don't know where the silo metaphor comes analogy. I think it's a farm uh analogy that you have stuff in one silo and then maybe the twain. Right, right. It was initially the agricultural thing. It's also where they house our nuclear warheads and silos. So all that being the case that there's you know that that there's those silos, but then recognizing that there's ways for the for for those that are that are Christians, the body of Christ to be, you know, interacting with with all of the community about bigger issues that affect all of the community, that we can serve together side by side, and that that Christians um you know, should be allowed to do so without losing their First Amendment rights, without without feeling like they have to uh lose uh permission to you know speak the name of Christ or to be authentically who they are in Christ I think sometimes there's been a sense for Christians that that once they get out, you know, in the rest of the community serving that that you know, that they have to not say anything about their relationship with Christ that almost they have to like become secular and uh and you know that's tragic I feel that you know that you would rip the heart out of why we serve and then tell us, you know, or rip the heart out of why we love and then tell us to love. And uh I don't know that a Christian is able to love uh, you know, if if he can't love for the sake of Christ. And so anyways, uh, you know, I think You know, those are the bridges that we're looking to uh to to get across. And we got we got more than one that is dying a week from opioids right now. And so that's that's not just a Christian thing, that's not just a secular thing, that's like the whole community. And uh and so Christians bring to the table s you know Christ, the Holy Spirit, you know, spiritual transformation, and I think they should bring that with them when they when they go to serve those that uh that are in need. But Others wouldn't bring that, but I think we all gotta work together, you know, uh to make a difference. Perhaps my only argument is precisely that, you know, Christians bring that to the table. And I think that that's something we bring, and it's something that other religious uh beliefs also bring to to the table is their their faith into into the conversation. Now, you know, it's interesting that in the conversation you know we we turned we turned um the uh other faith uh beliefs into, you know, equating them to a microphone or to equating them to demons. Um and so It it's a little bit challenging then to enter in a conversation when you are starting from the place that you believe that somebody else's religious belief or faith actually is just the same thing as just you know talking to a microphone or you know equating that as saying, you know, well you really don't believe in a God, you really believe in a demon and uh and you've been guided by a demon. And then you you know pretending that we can enter in a conversation and dialogue about moving forward as a society becomes a little bit of a challenge. Um because you know if if if because part of this you know, respecting somebody not simply because it's a human being, but re respecting somebody who also has a different set of beliefs is it is fundamental to move a society forward, especially when we want to achieve things in common like you know dealing with the opioid crisis. And many other co you know further than respect with you and I disagree with you. I would go further than respect and say that we're called as Christians to love them Uh and so and and the kind of things that you know a an organization like Bridges is involved in doing is providing things for the uh the common good in the here and now in the in the uh physical universe that we can see and touch. It's it's all part of the uh the general provision, the the the the common grace that God uh puts on his creation so that we can have the means to have relationship and dialogue to share the truth of the gospel. So That's why that's why I don't have the the issue with a parachurch organization, which is what I'm going to call Bridges. I don't know if that's a f if you are comfortable with that or not, but sometimes a parachurch organization doing that to me is is different because it's not the church doing it, it's somebody who's a strong Christian with strong Christian v values and a Christian biblical worldview that is drawing from that to then serve the physical need of the world around us. But if we do that at the expense I mean, nobody lives longer than what, 125 years max. in today's age. So if I can make somebody comfortable for the next hundred and twenty five years, but then they s they spend eternity damned, I didn't do them any favors. I didn't love them. So that's what I'm saying that when the church starts to blur those lines, you start to lose the saltiness, you start to lose the flavor of what the belief is. That's where I'm drawing up. And so this is where I would agree with you, uh, that it's very hard to do If I believe sincerely in in my read of scripture is that is that um that there's that that it's pervasive all throughout scripture that that when when the people of God came up against people from other religions that they they called those other religions not gods and or demons. Right? And so so I agree that it's very difficult, but But to ask me to believe something different? Um well I think it's okay to ask me that, but uh But I'm of the opinion that that the foundation of the United States that that that built the First Amendment that the reason why we committed ourselves to the First Amendment is the exact same scriptures. And so uh so I don't think that's why you've never found in in any uh Buddhist countries You don't find the same freedom of religion? India is it's it's it's a mess right now, uh, to be Christian. The the resurgence of Hinduism is is uh is violence against Christianity. Same thing with with uh Islam, you know, same thing with um not so much Judaism. Judaism is the one that that seems to really be able to to have a foundation, which is why I say that that that America is built on a Judeo Christian foundation. that provides freedom for all religions. But but I'm I'm deeply of the opinion that if you remove the Judeo Christian Foundation that you will lose the religious freedom and that will end up being true for everybody that will just fall back into our tribes and fighting with one another. And so so it's difficult But the very scriptures that that teach me that, those might be demons are the very scriptures that tell me that I should love those guys, serve them, care for them you know, do all those other things. And so if you remove the one, you remove the other in my mind. Right. And for me, you know, if you if you get to that point of working with people and collaborating with folks and and and that's your way of getting to that place. I again I don't have an issue. But I you know, for me it's um for me the idea here is that, you know, my sense of love and respect is, you know, I I I know where you are. It's not my faith and it's not what I believe to be the truth. Um but I'm not the one who gives salvation to people and that is God's. And so for me it's you know, if I share my faith, if I share my journey, um, you know, it's you know, God is the one who ha who has to work. with that other individual, that other human being, and my sense simply is, and so I will respect and love that human being and work with that human being. And see what we're saying. in the same fashion that I will work with any other Christian for that matter, uh because I believe in in working together for the common good. Because you know in many cases I will disagree with Christians too. I gotta say this. Well we you got five seconds. So so it's my impression though that Pastor you have a a absolute standard, a very strong standard on issues of of immigration and other issues that All right, that was ten seconds. Very hard to work with. As Jonathan Sweites are going over time, I'm for Faith Debate. Thank you so much, Dr. Eliezer, Valentine Castañon. This is the Faith Debate. Visit us at WFMD. com keyboardface. Till next week. God bless.