Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things, this is the Frederick Faith Debate. Sponsored by Putman Plumbing Heating. How can we make you smile? The faith debate is online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you find links, podcasts. News items, the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so just email me Troy Skinner. My email address is Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me 18 posts a day, Monday through Friday, if 90 posts every single week. Some of the stuff is pretty darn interesting, some of it is rather silly Um even if you don't send me something to post, you might want to check it out and see what other people are sending. I'm pretty sure with eighteen items from which to choose you'll find something that is in your wheelhouse. On the faith debate today, part two and the final part of a message titled Filled by Emptiness, based on John chapter twenty. Normally this is a panel discussion show, but because of some scheduling uh difficulties and conflicts uh in recent weeks. Um deep deep digging deep into my audio archives of stuff that hasn't been on the show before. Um if you're new to the show I because I guess I'm doing the show and for other uh reasons, particularly my good looks. Uh that can't be it, right? Uh I'm invited to uh to to s share messages at churches in the area from time to time and uh oftentimes most of the time those messages are recorded And if they haven't made air on this show before, I save them for times such as this. And so that's the situation here. This is the last half of a message that was shared in uh Poolsville at Poolsville Baptist Church where our good friend of the show, Jace Broadhurst. Doctor Broadhurst has been on the show a number of times. And uh we have uh account of as one of my really dear and good friends. So anyway, we're joining us in in progress, but I think it's gonna make sense if it doesn't hang in there for eight seconds or so and uh it'll quickly you'll figure out where we are. All right, here we go I can empathize. You know why? Because sometimes, as in every day, I know there was an empty tomb. And what I see too often is nothing. Just an empty tomb Empty. The disciples were hoping for earthly things, trusting in earthly solutions, knowing Jesus But still full of angst. I have found myself hoping in earthly things, trusting for earthly solutions, knowing Jesus. And still full of angst. Just a few short years ago, I was hoping for earthly things in my employment. I had a pretty good job. Lots of responsibility, lots of community respect, lots of ego gratification, lots of money. Not Bill Gates soap for Winfrey money. But real money. I was keeping up with the Joneses. There are people in my neck of the woods that probably were pointing at me and saying, you know what? You are the Joneses. And then, despite my good performance, I was laid off. The hopes I'd placed in my career had come up empty. But also place my hopes in the economy. I worry about it. I still put my hopes in the economy. Even worry about it now, after the stock market crash of two thousand eight, you think I'd have learned my lesson. A stock market crash in two thousand eight cost my father-in-law his entire retirement fund that he had with Lehman brothers. They went bankrupt. The hopes that he had in his his investments came up empty. More recently, I've placed my hopes in politics. During some recent election cycles, many of my candidates lost, most of my ballot question issues lost. My faith in the electorate came up empty. Oh I tell you, there's times when most of my candidates have won. And My host and the government still came up empty. I've been in darkness I'm talking about as recently as this week. Just like John and the other disciples. I placed my hope in earthly things and they came up empty like idols always do. Passage continues with verses six and seven. Then Simon Peter came following John and went into the tomb. He saw the linen cloths lying there and the face cloth, which had been on Jesus' head, not lying with a linen cloth, but folded up in a place by itself. Now there are at least three interesting points to note about These verses. Point one on our list of interesting things to note about verses six and seven is that I have assumed that the unnamed disciple is John. There's nothing in the text itself that says the disciple must be John. And there has been some debate over this. Through the years. But the majority view of evangelical scholars is that this disciple is John. The 2,000-year history of the church is pretty consistently maintained that this disciple is John. The evidence we have indicates that the early church fathers understood this disciple to be John and as I read John's gospel account in conjunction with the other gospels I become firmly settled that this disciple is John and so for all of these reasons I'm very comfortable saying that the unnamed disciple is John. However, if you think you might disagree, I would welcome you to come talk to me afterwards. Uh you know, it's a good thing for a good practice for us. You know, things that uh are subject to a little bit of interpretation that aren't essentials of the faith. You know, if you've got a good biblical argument, let's hash it out. Let's talk about it. Now point two on our list of interesting points. about verses 6 and 7 has to do with the detail provided about the burial clause. Now why did our author include this detail? One reason is because the clause were there. He reported what he saw. Another reason, maybe, in case you might be thinking the body was stolen, just think again. You might not know this, but burial cloths, very expensive. Very, very valuable. So why would robbers steal the body and leave behind the valuable cloths? And even if they wanted to do this, be easier said than done, when the balms and everything were mixed together and added to the cloth as part of the burial process, the cloth would stick to the body almost as if it were glued there. You might remember the story of Lazarus coming out of the tomb. Jesus brings him back from the dead. John chapter 11. Lazarus still has the cloths wrapped around his body when he comes out. They didn't just fall down when he stood up. The people had to help remove them. And note that the head covering in Jesus' tomb was neatly folded and set aside. What polite robbers these would have been. Now, point three in our list of interesting points about verses six and seven actually connects with the next verse. Some have suggested that within a generation of Christ's death there emerged this rivalry, different Christian camps, some elevating John, some elevating Peter. The Bible doesn't say anything about this, but it's possible. We do know from 1 Corinthians that there was a rivalry in Christian, various Christian camps between the followers of Paul and of Apollos and of Peter. Even today we can see some form of this sort of rivalry with the Roman Catholic Church elevating Peter, claiming him as their first pope. So it's not beyond the pale of possibility. Now, if John intends to address this rivalry, he does so brilliantly. Mary Magdalene comes first to Peter, who runs out with John. But then John arrives first at the tomb, having overtaken Peter. But then Peter enters the tomb first. As John waited before entering, but then John is first to believe after taking in the scene. So if any Christian is tempted to make an idol of their favorite apostle, John cuts them off the pass. Because they're both first in a sense. And recall that in verse 4 of today's passage, it says that Peter and John ran to the tomb together. Now continuing with our passage, verse 8 and 9 of John 20 says, Then the other disciple, John, who had reached the tomb first, also went in and saw He saw and believed, for as yet they did not understand the Scripture that he, Jesus, must rise from the dead. Then he saw and believed. At first, there had been no true belief. There was belief in idolatrous, earthly things. Mary Magdalene believed in Jesus as a great healer in her experience. Of Jesus casting out those demons. But trust merely in that experience came up empty. Peter had watched the example of Jesus and was energized by his teaching, often getting very emotional in his devotion, but just this emotion wasn't enough. It came up empty. John had placed his hope in what he thought he knew regarding what he had seen, but his knowledge of what he saw failed him up until this moment. It came up empty. Their hopes came up empty because they were trusting in merely earthly things. Idols, which are empty things. They weren't trusting in heavenly things. Jesus rising from the dead, that's a miracle. Miracles are heavenly things. But John hadn't placed his hope in heavenly things at first. Peter didn't have hope in godly things in this moment. Mary Magdalene had been spiritually delivered from Seven demons, and still at least for a short period of time, she did not have hope in spiritual things. Are you like them? They have their minds on things that are on earth, not on things above This is contrary to what God says in Colossians chapter 3, verse 2, set your minds on things that are above, not on things that are on earth. The disciples weren't doing this. Maybe you are not doing this right now. Well the disciples started doing this. And you can start doing this too. Same way they did. Turning to the scriptures. Again, John chapter 20, verse 9 says, For as yet they did not understand scripture. Earlier in John chapter 5, verses 39 and 40, Jesus tells us, you search the scriptures, because you think that in them you have eternal life. And it is they that bear witness about me, yet you refuse to come to me that you may have life. Are you refusing to come to him? Are you failing to search the scriptures to find out what they say about Jesus? Your knowledge of Christ, like John had, it's good. Your emotional connection to the Lord, like Peter had. That's good. Your personal experience with Jesus, like Mary Magdalene had, that is good. But hoping merely in that knowledge, that emotion, that experience, that's not good. Learn from the Bible how to understand your emotional experience and education. That's what the disciples finally began to do. Because that's what Jesus told them to do When he began about 30 minutes ago or so, I quoted Proverbs 1922. What a man desires is unfailing love, better to be poor than a liar. I desire unfailing love. You desire unfailing love, don't you? But we all desire it in the wrong places. Our paychecks, our reputations, our health, our friends, our families. These are all good things, but they're not God. And we treat them as we should treat God We've set up idols. I'm guilty of this. The result is that I've set myself up to be distressed and in fear, just like the disciples were. Until they understood the scriptures. The scriptures say that what we want is unfailing love. This is true, but I've caught myself in a lie. I have too often replaced unfailing love found only in Jesus. I have replaced his unfailing love with desire for earthly riches. But as Proverbs says, it's better to be poor than a liar. When I was invited to come speak with you today, Uh it was back during Advent season, and there were Christmas trees all over the place. And those trees gave me a metaphor that I'm now gonna share with you. My idolatrous hopes and dreams are like a big old tannin ball. Each branch is a different idol. One branch, my 401k. Another branch is my beautiful daughter. Another, my wife. Your idol tree might have a branch for your grade point average. Your football team, another for your house, your car. Well, instead of getting rid of the idol tree at its root, By going straight to Jesus, instead, I now realize, looking back, that when I lost my job a few years ago, I grabbed the axe Of my own strengths. And I started chopping away at the job branch. And when the economy tanked, well then I started chopping away at the retirement fund branch. Realizing the society is headed down the wrong path, that's not attacking a way at the face and the goodness of man branch. And then I hacked away at time stealers like television and video games and hobbies and I re-sharpened that axe of my own strengths. And then I attacked every branch I could find one right after the other. Is this microphone just another idle branch that got hacked away? So I'm hacking away the branches. One right after the other. There goes one, and another, and another, and another, and another, and another, and another, and another, Turn another and furiously I went after those branches And I was exhausted. But I kept going anyway. And the more branches I cleared, the more Branches I found. Even if I could eliminate all the branches. What then? What would I be left with? Pretty sorry looking Christmas tree, that's for sure. I'd be left with my own exhausting efforts. And my effort will have become the Isle. And as we know, idols come up empty. And so we come back to the tomb. The empty tomb. Empty. Is it just another empty idol? Well, if we come to the tomb looking for the body of Jesus so that we might venerate it, so that we might weep over it, so that we might use it as a reminder of all the things that Jesus taught us. If this is all we're looking for in the empty tomb, then it is an empty high home. If we come to the tomb looking for evidence that something supernatural did not happen, If we're looking for an icon or a relic, for looking merely for Christ's example to us If we're failing to understand what God says about this empty tomb in the scriptures, then it is an empty idol. But if we come to the tomb to be reminded that Jesus told us he would not be there. If we come to the empty tomb believing that Jesus conquered death, a death he died for our sins. So that we can join him in glory if we come to the empty tomb, knowing that the tomb is now empty, because Jesus is now ruling at the right hand of God the Father. and that his Holy Spirit now dwells within the hearts of Christians, then it's no empty idol. In fact, we might say is not really empty at all Because the emptiness of the tomb fills The tomb with evidence that God has fulfilled His promise to save us from our sin. Let's pray. Father, you are so awesome and mighty that words fail to capture our hearts for you. Hearts of flesh that you've given us, these new hearts, these remade hearts. And yet humbly we come before you and attempt to do just that. We ask your forgiveness for those times when we pursue our happiness, pursue love. In ways that always prove to fail because they are merely earthly. They are idols in our lives. We praise you, God, that you have given us unfailing love in your Son Jesus Christ. Help us to stay focused on Him, on your purposes for this world. Help us to have eyes that see as you see. Break us of our bad habits. Help us to rest in your love Trusting in you, knowing you, valuing our knowledge and our experience, our emotional connection to you, but overall Relishing in an undying, unquenchable joy that knows that we have salvation in Christ. It's in the name of our wonderful Redeemer and Savior, Jesus Christ, your Son, that we pray. Amen. And that brings us to a conclusion of this what turned into a five-part series of, I think, three different messages over the last five weeks. on the special editions of the Faith Debate Show. Next week we should have a regular panel discussion show in place. At least that's our hope and our intention for now. And I'm excited about it because next week we will be celebrating having been on the show on the air for five hundred shows. It's hard to imagine it it could be that old. Uh we'll be celebrating our tenth anniversary later in the year and there's more than fifty weeks in a year, so it doesn't take quite uh you know, I think uh a full ten years to get to five hundred shows. So we will be celebrating five hundred shows on the air next week. Not sure if we'll do anything particularly special in celebration uh other than make note of it and uh And maybe we'll reminisce a little bit, I'm not sure. If there's anything special that occurs to us between now and then, uh we will incorporate it into the show. Otherwise we will dive into the meat and potatoes of this show, which is theological, religious, faith-based debate. uh where we honestly and uh with integrity uh and with graciousness uh are free to disagree or agree uh in a spirit of friendship and uh pursuit of of uh proper and true understanding of things. What have I been reading lately? Well I've been reading A Brief History of Christian Worship by James F. White It's a good book, particularly if you like to read, you know, some serious theological matter. Again, it's successful, it's not over the top difficult, but it's not, you know, uh fluffy either. James F. White, a brief history of Christian worship You can find us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. I encourage you again to email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me, 18 blog updates Every single day, Monday through Friday, ninety blog updates per week. Uh so even if you don't send me something, you should go visit us, WFMD. com. keyword faith or go to the drop down menu for the on air program lineup and click on the faith debate. It takes you there it's just the same. And uh and see what people are sending. Some of it's just kind of darn fun. Fun's okay. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating, longtime sponsor. They they've been sponsoring us almost the entire five hundred shows we've been on the air. Putman Plumbing and Heating How We Make You Smile. For my partner Jonathan Sweitzer not on the show this week, but I expect him back on the show next week. The two of us, thank you so much for listening to us on Free Talk 930 WFMD, or as I like to call it News Radio, 930 WFMD. Old Habits Die Hard So 167 and a half hours from now, God bless