We affirm that all civil authorities have a duty before God to uphold justice by establishing equal protection under the law for all image-bearers of God. from the moment of fertilization, which is conception. We affirm that civil authorities must reject all partiality in judgment by asserting the same legal prohibitions and available sanctions against homicide that exists to protect persons after birth and persons before birth That's the first part of Article Nine, which is uh headed Imago Dei and Equal protection, it's part of the Christian yeah the what's it called again? The the statement on Christian nationalism and the gospel And uh we've been working through this and we're heading down the home stretch now. This will probably be our last show on this topic, I think, on the Faith today. Um we started this whole series of shows with it was me and David Forcy and then we had Daniel Razby join the fray. And now it's just me and Daniel. We scared David Forcey off, so this show is just me and Daniel to try to finish this out. Let me finish reading the denial, by the way. By the way, you can find us online. Connect with me and then therefore through with Daniel if you want and David Forcy and Imran Razley as well by going to household of faith in Christ. com, Household of FaithInChrist. com. Of course you can go to the radio station's website as well, WFMD. com. I encourage you to do both. They both serve different functions. And uh Daniel's family, they have a ministry as well online at concordbylove. org. So Uh let me finish reading this. It's just a short denial that that is part of this article and then we'll have discussion about it. That says we deny any law which classifies abortion as a lesser crime than homicide. or which allows any class of humans to murder pre-born children with legal immunity is a just law. Uh let me just say this. Is it possible? that this is the best part of the entire document. Is it possible? Yeah, I think it might be. 'Cause this is like Punch you in the nose, straightforward, bang, it's murder, conception, fertilization, I mean it's homicide You know, I mean they are they're they're firing all cylinders on the side. I would s I would say there is a difference between how side and murder. Okay, so that they And there is and and and that's the unfortunate part. I would say it's not strong enough. Okay. Inform me. So homicide is the killing of a human being by another human being. Okay Murder is the intentional killing of another human being with malice. So murder is a lot stronger than homicide. If you uh uh uh w walking out your door and you trip on your uh uh neighbor who's walking in front of you and and he falls down and and he dies, hits his head and dies. That's homicide. You haven't intended anything. You aren't probably even gonna go to jail for that Okay. That's not murder. Now what's the difference between a homicide that goes as like is there a is there a homicide that just means homicide just means the cause of death was somebody else, a person. Like do we s does a person, let's say in our current government Would a person go to jail for homicide and not murder? Like is there a level of homicide? Because there's justifiable killings Right. Right. So if I if you're attacking me and I shoot you, that's self defense. Now I've still committed homicide, but I haven't murdered you because it's a justifiable homicide So ha all homicide means is somebody died and the cause of death was not natural cause, it was it was another person. Like when I watch Law and Order or something, you know. Murder, there's a manslaughter is less But there's also intentional manslaughter. So there's first degree murder, second degree. All of those are homicides. All of them are homicide. And then there's also homicides that aren't even illegal, like self-defense, for example, right? So I don't think that simply classing abortion as homicide solves anything 'cause oh you're adm well you're admitting that it's a person and saying, Okay, well if you kill them then you commit homicide. H homicide. But then the abortion activists you're just gonna say, Oh well yeah, but then but we're justified. We can kill them because our life is more valuable, our health and emotional state is more valuable. So I would I would say not precise enough. Do you think that's just they don't know? Like I don't know what the words mean? uh because there are plenty of h justifiable homicides and what they should be saying is that any law that classifies abortion as a lesser crime than first degree murder would be yeah unjust. Yeah. Um because th th if they're gonna do that though, then I think that um uh Because abortion can be defined and understood slightly differently too. So I think you'd want to clarify what abortion is. Because the way it reads now, maybe I would be okay, maybe you would be too. I don't know. You tell me if they were to replace homicide with manslaughter because some understandings of m abortion would qualify as an abortion but not necessarily a murder. Mike, I I do something to a woman that causes her to lose that baby, but I didn't have malice, but still I'm guilty of having that child right, so that's Right. In our context it would be a man so I'm wondering if that would solve it. Otherwise you've got to go through really defining abortion. I don't know. That's true. That's true. So it uh maybe the what they're saying is uh And and I agree with the statement, right? So that if if it happens to be a lesser crime than homicide, then yeah, surely I I'd I d and and I guess there are homicide crimes, right? And so what they're saying is maybe some of it would be murder, some of it would be manslaughter. There'd be plenty of women Certainly in the years immediately following such a big ban I think the mistake is they would they would claim, hey, I didn't believe it was a baby, so how can I ha how can I have intended to kill my baby if I didn't think it was a baby? And as As you're educating me here, I feel like maybe their mistake here is they're saying a lesser uh as a lesser crime than homicide when homicide isn't even a crime. It's a category of killing, but it's not necessarily a crime. Right. And then you've got to decide is it a justified homicide or an unjustified and if it's right. And so yeah, homicide's the wrong word here. I guess it sounds like to me. I guess what well it it You it's there's multiple steps, right? 'Cause the first step is to say that if a baby dies because somebody else caused them, that is homicide, right? It's not no different than killing them when they're outside the womb, killing them when they're inside the womb. Then once you establish that, then you get to the the point of, hey, was the killing justified? And and and i uh or or is it illegal? And if if it's illegal, how's it to be punished? Yeah, they're talking up in the paragraph above too about available sanctions against homicide. They use it a second. I think that they're using homicide in a way that is not legally precise. Right. And so that would be an area for them to improve that, use a better legal, stronger, more definitive word there. So okay, good try. This is not the best part of the document Navy, right? But as you mentioned, it certainly sounds to the layperson as if this is a real And it doesn't say murder they're not staying away from murder, right? Because they say or any class of humans to murder pre-born children with legal immunity. I mean they're using the word murder. They're not shying away from that. So they just I think this was just them knowing about as much of uh about these legal things as I do. Which isn't really all that much. They needed you in the room to help them with this. You could have strengthened it. But I I do respect where they're going coming from with there and and I I wish they would have gone one little step further and say that they want to actually hold everyone involved in that accountable and not particularly the doctor. so-called doctor who kill uh who does it because the woman who is uh going along with it and the boyfriend or the husband that's encouraging it and all these other people are their accomplices. And they're the hitmen that are hir uh they're or the uh the the contract uh uh putting that putting out a hit on the baby, right? So they are they do need to be held accountable to the same extent as murder. Yeah, and they're not limiting the document. Because the pro-life movement, by and large, explicitly limits it only to doctors and will not even hear of a m woman ever being punished, I think they could have gone farther in here and say, hey, we clarify that that's actually the biblical position. Yeah, that's some infighting on the uh so-called conservative side of things these days. Oh so we're down to the last uh article. Look at that. Article XX, dos X. Dos X, that's uh twenty. on quote unquote neutrality and the separation of church and state. So here's what they say. We affirm that the church and the state each possess their own sphere of influence. For example, church officials ought not to write or enforce civil laws in their capacity as church officials, and civil officials ought not to administer church ordinances or dictate doctrine. in their capacity as civil officials, even though both spheres are under the absolute authority of Christ. In the denial, we deny that the separation of authority between the church and the state means that their must be a separation of God and the state. We further deny that there can ever be a separation between religion and state as everyone possesses views about ultimate reality, purpose, and cause. which inform their morality and preferred policies. We deny the idea that a nation's laws do not impose morality. and religion and they offer just one scripture proof text on this one which is interesting. But anyway, I don't have anything to say about that one. I I do. Oh, okay. So for the 'cause we have something to talk about. Uh I'm looking at the references. They said, He that is not with me is against me, and he that gathereth not with me is scattereth abroad. That's that's what they're saying. There is no way to separate. Um Matthew twelve three. So that this whole last section, right, they're making a great point. I I love that they're saying this. There can't be separation because everyone possesses views about ultimate reality, purpose, and cause, which inform their morality and preferred policies, right? And so here uh let me tell you a story. So Uh back when I used to care more about voting than I do now when I thought it mattered more than I than I do now. Um I I hear you. I would I I routinely and I still do because I I I still uh uh g like going through the motions of this I I I look up when we're getting close to the election, I look up all the different candidates for all the different offices, from school board and mayor all the way up to president, right? And I call them and I try if at all possible to speak to the person or representative of the campaign that can speak on their behalf, but and whenever possible to speak to the actual person and I ask them a few questions. The first question I always ask them is What are your views on abortion? And I want them to tell me. And there have been plenty of times when a candidate, especially candidate for smaller, lower level office like mayor or county council or school board They'll say, Well what does that have to do with my position? Or it or they'll say, Well, I'm not going to answer that because that has nothing to do with my position. Or they'll say, Well, my personal opinion is this, but I don't even understand why you're asking the question. And my response is, that's the entire point. Right? 'Cause they may say what what uh what you think about abortion in f uh it is shows what your world view is and informs how you're gonna respond to every other possible law. So I don't really care That yes, as mayor, are you ever gonna be called up to vote on whether abortions are allowed in the city of Frederick? No, because the state has preemptive authority on that by the laws of the state has already passed. Okay, so can you in your position as mayor ever prevent babies specifically from being killed in Frederick? Maybe not in that parti in that particular position. I don't really care. I care what you think about it. And what you would do if you were if you were going to dictator what you would actually do about abortion. Also they might progress up the ladder and get in state office or national office of some sort. Sure. But even in that in that smaller office, right? He that is faithful in little is going to be faithful in most. Right. That's what is really, really important. to know what your worldview is and yes, it does matter. You cannot be unbiased. It is not possible to be unbiased. And that's what the the the s the the news media is very famous for having this problem. They all like to pretend to be unbiased And when we uh in reality they're either liberal or they're conservative or they're something else if there's another category you can think of, but they're not neutral. Neutrality is and is and they're they're talking about neutrality if government is not possible. Neutrality if anything is not possible. Right. Either for me or ga or with me or or against me, right? Yeah. Right. And and i i i you can't just be either gathering or scattering. And but even if you want to be objective about something, like if I'm a judge, right, I may have my own preconceived notions about you or your case or whatever But I'm my responsibility is to look at the case and review it and then apply what the law is, regardless of what I think. But what I think does actually matter Right, even if I had to follow my job. Well I think because that matters the way I act and import myself in every area of my of life. So I that's my disagreement with the statement. I'm I'm just glad that they put that in there and they could have expounded on it slightly more, but it's it's It's great. So I I'm happy that. In fairness, we're gonna spend ten or twelve minutes. In fairness though, to us, it's a short statement. Christians against Christian nationalism statement. Uh it's it's it's basically a page. Uh the other one was like a dozen pages or something. This is like a page. Or maybe it was at least a dozen maybe was it a dozen? Ten pages. The other one was ten pages, this is basically a page. So the statement says, as Christians, our faith teaches us everyone is created in God's image and commands us to love one another. So far, so good. As Americans, we value our system of government and the good that can be accomplished in our constitutional Here's the first problem. Democracy. It's a representative Republican form of government. It's a representative democracy if you want to use that word, but that's a buzzword among the leftists, so that tells you something. Today we are concerned about a persistent threat to both our religious communities and our democracy. Yeah. Christian nationalism. This is what they're coming after. So Christian n nationalism, they say, seeks to merge Christian and American identities. That might be fair. Uh they go on to say, distorting both the Christian faith and the America's constitutional and oh and America's constitutional Democracy. They love that word. Christian nationalism depends demands. Hello. Demands Christianity to be privileged by the state and implies that to be a good American One must be Christian. Well I would say to be good anything you must be Christian. Because there isn't no one that's good, not even God not even one except Christ. And if you're Christian that means you have Christ in you. So that's the only way to be good at anything Now here is the part that the Christian nationalist statement was trying to address, but they didn't tell us why. It often overlaps, Christian nationalism does. uh so they say, with uh pro overlaps with and provides cover for white supremacy and quote unquote racial they didn't put the quote, I'm putting the quote unquote racial subjugation. We reject this damaging political ideology and invite our Christian brothers and sisters to join us in imposing this threat to our faith and to our nation. I am sorry. I as you know, I am on record how many times now I am not on board, at least not fully, with this whole Christian nationalist thing. I had a lot of things to push back on with the national Christian nationalist statement. I'm not I mean in some context, okay fine, I'm a Christian nationalist. In other contexts, no, I'm not. So I'm not I'm not really really talking about, and yet I gotta say this is a straw man. They do not go hand in hand. Somebody that calls themselves a Christian nationalism is not necessarily providing cover for white supremacy and so quote unquote racial subjugation. And I would uh go so far to say that if you are in a believer in white supremacy or racial subjugation as they as they put it. You're not Christian You're not a Christian. Yeah. Right? So Yeah th that's that's like that's like saying we're against we're against Christians because Mormons say they're Christians and I don't like Mormons. But they're not Christians. So you know I don't care if they say they're Christian, they're not, right? Jehovah's Witnesses, they're not a Christian on a nation. So y you can't fight against that. Now but I would I would do wish that the statement we've been spending all this time on might have addressed it a little bit more. And and I I think I I have a feeling the reason they didn't is because they wanted to make it clear that It's so ridiculous to have even that accusation brought against them that it's not even worth responding to. But the problem is it's being repeated often enough, it may need to be addressed a little better than what they did. Um so now they get into some um you know a standalone statement kind of thing. We'll just take a few at a time. The funny thing is they don't mention racism at all in the rest of this whole statement. They just make the accusation there without putting any evidence of why. Oh yeah, no, yeah. It's it's it it it's total smearing, straw manning uh it's emotionalism, it's it's it's all that. As Christians we are bound to Christ, okay. Not by citizenship. You would actually agree with that But by faith right so and this is addressing one of the problems that I have with the whole state. So they say some a couple of good things here, but now let's see if it continues. We believe that people of all faiths And none. And none. So is that even possible? Have the right and responsibility to engage constructively in the public square. So but by that definition we've argued in the past in recent shows that Everybody has some sort of a religion, some sort of a faith driver, right? A worldview that they they buy into. Anyway. But I don't think all all faiths or opinions should be uh allowed to be engaged constructively. No, but the people should be uh uh they have a responsibility at least, right, to try to be constructive in the public square. Whether they accept Christ or not, we would say that they have the the you know If they're practicing a different faith privately, still publicly, they should engage in constructive actions in the public square. So I think we would have to do that. Right. Patriotism does not require us to minimize our religious convictions. And yeah, our religious convictions do not allow us to to be minim or allowed to be minimized. Uh our religious affiliation or lack thereof should be irrelevant to one's standing in the civic community. Well uh irrelevant But even if you don't embrace the Christian nationalism movement to say that somebody's religious affiliation should be irrelevant? I mean what if they're a Satanist? Right? Well they're basically saying is when you go to vote between two people and they both state the exact same priorities and but one of them is a Christian and the other one's a Buddhist. But they have both have legislatively the same priorities. There is no difference. It's completely irrelevant what the religion is. No, it's certainly irrelevant. You know? Yeah, yeah, the ground for what somebody believes is hugely relevant always. Government should not prefer one religion over another or religion over non-religion. Um this is purely secular humanist uh ideology on on uh on steroids, right? Um And why? They don't give any references. One thing that's different here is there's no list of Bible verse references. And if you will Statement had like hundreds. Yeah, and I'd be willing to bet that uh you know people who uh wrote this would lean in a secular humanist direction and that's a religion And they would and they would argue that the government should favor that religion. But anyway, religious instruction is best left to our houses of worship, other religious institutions and families. I actually Don't disagree. And neither does the other statement, actually. They say that too. Yeah. America's historic commitment to religious pluralism enables faith communities to live in civic harmony with one another without sacrificing our theological convictions. And I would are we running out of time? No no we got about three or four minutes. I will say just real quick on that, that is a um a a a misunderstanding of history as we've discussed on the still be on the show before Because our historic commitment to religious pluralism just religion used to be defined as different denominations within Christianity. And so that's the pluralism that's allowed, not other faiths besides Christianity. Now it looks like we have three or four more, so we might have just enough time to squeeze these in and wrap this whole thing up. Conflating religious authority with political authority is idolatrous and often leads to oppression of minority and other marginalized groups as well as the spiritual impoverishment. of religion. I I feel like that's argument by mere assertion. I I mean w there's no like you said, there's no scriptural proof texts. There's nothing to flesh this out. They're making a claim and it just It's what it's it's true uh on the face of it? No. Uh I would say no, it's definitely not um uh true on the face of it. So And you have anything else you want to add there, should we go to next one? We must stand up to and speak out against Christian nationalism, especially when it inspires acts of Violence and intimidation. Wow, do they project something into there that the Christian nationals would never embrace, right? They're inspiring acts of violence and intimidation, including vandalism. bomb threats, arson, hate crimes, and attacks on houses of worship against religious communities at home and abroad. Nobody that I know that's legitimate advocating for a Christian nationalist idea It's getting bombed. Right. I mean this is total emotional manipulation, isn't it? Whether we worship at a church, mosque, synagogue, or temple, America has no second class faiths All are equal under the U. S. Constitution. As Christians, we must speak in one voice condemning Christian nationalism as a distortion of the gospel of Jesus and a threat to American democracy. By the way, you want to know who organized this campaign? Give you a uh a couple of quick ones. A group of Christian organizations that came together to try to put this together and there's a bunch of endorsers uh that signed off on it. The uh the website and the campaign for this is organized and managed by BJC. I don't know if that means anything to you. But uh they claim to be a defender of faith freedom for all. Uh it's the uh BJC is the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty, and it is a leftist group So even though they have Baptist in their name, uh, I don't think that most Baptists would want to claim them as their own. But this includes um Somebody who's a coordinator with the Cooperative Baptist Fellowship, that's a very uh leftist uh again Baptist group, uh the Catholic Social Justice uh group. Uh Tony Campolo, I don't know if you know that name, but he's uh way to the left. The Episcopal Church uh has people uh who are endorsers of the social justice movement. Yeah, the United Church of Christ, uh the ELCA Uh the the PC USA. I mean people who know some of these things. Doug Paget, if you if if Jim Wallace, the uh these If you know some of the names, if you're kind of on the inside and you recognize these groups and some of these names, uh yeah, you mentioned females, Paula Dempsey, Elizabeth Eaton, Sister uh Simone Campbell. Diane Randall, Melissa Rogers, Amanda Tyler. And there's nothing wrong with women. to the left. And I don't care so much about their politics, but their theology is not biblical. And so that's who's behind this. That does not mean you should support Christian nationalism just because those that are concerned about it are not biblical But uh the way they've argued, it's it's it's not a Christian argument, it's not a biblical argument and I mean I I we kinda r rushed through it 'cause to be honest, it doesn't deserve a whole lot of time. But anything you want to say and finish? We got about thirty seconds. Anything you want to say to the wrap up or something. No, I think that's that's good. I'm I I wouldn't agree necessarily with the whole of the original statement, but it was definitely a lot better crafted than this response. We can both agree that this response is totally awful. Um you know, ultimately we do have our citizenship in heaven So we always keep that focused, but that our morality should inform how we act everywhere in life, including in government. And that's gonna put a wrap on the entire Christian nationalist thing that we've been doing now for many, many weeks, few couple, two, three months, whatever it's been now. It's been a long time. Um what we're gonna tackle next time I have no idea, but I will soon enough. And um it it'll be something that probably veers away from the whole statement things. So maybe it'll be some hot topics or some theological, uh divisive kinds of questions that we can go to war over. Anyway, thanks so much for listening to the Faith Debate. Thank you to Daniel Rasby for being part of today's show. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find us and connect with us online at household of faith in Christ dot com. Of course you can follow the show online at WFMD. com. We'll be back next week at the same Played the same time till then 167 and a half hours from right on now. God bless