Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Thank you for spending part of your day with us here. You can find us online at WFMD dot com, of course, the Faith Debate page where you can See what's coming up in future episodes and access all the old episodes. And you can also find all the information about this show at householdfaith in Christ dot com. That's the website for the church that I pastor. I'm Troy Skinner and I've been hosting this show for uh well far too long. And uh and so we're we're slowly over time getting all the old uh faith debate shows that we can a find and access. Some of them have been lost forever I fear but All the ones we can find are being uploaded onto uh sermonaudio. com and odyssey. com. So you can uh access that stuff through Household of Faith in Christ dot com website as well. Uh Daniel Uh force of Daniel on blending your names. Uh Daniel Razvy and David Forcey are uh on the panel again this week as Uh e per usual, uh Daniel's uh with a House Church in Thurmont and a ministry called Concord by Love Ministries online at conquered by love. org. And David Forcy is the pastor of a church that meets in a variety of different locations on rotating weeks Not multiple locations all at once. Um he hasn't figured that. The big churches do that. We have figured out how the house churches can do that model too, right? Yeah. No, we don't want to we don't want to do that. Anyway, so and we're joined this week, uh if you're listening last week was a it was a rare treat, it was like a cultural exchange that happened. Um Moses Fu is from Singapore. And it's interesting I asked him before we got on the air, so is Moses like a name you just gave me to make it easy to pronounce and know who you are? He's like, No, my name is Moses and I gotta tell you, I'm a little surprised because if I understood what you said in last week's show, Moses, you weren't raised Christian. Right? You became a Christian when you got to Singapore and the Befriend Me program met you and your wife and they introduced you to Christian faith through movies like The Passion of the Christ by Mel Gibson and and other things like and investing in your life and being there to serve you and that sort of thing. So how does somebody born you were born in China, right? Yes. Somebody born in China, not a Christian, end up with a name Moses. How'd that happen? Uh it's my Christian name that's given by my pastor on the two thousand six, once I become Christian, then later on he gave me how cool is that Yeah. Uh not really a common practice, but my pastor willing to give um new Christian uh uh English name or Bible names that represent our character, yeah. He will choose in some So he so he ha he helped you choose or he chose for you Moses? Yeah initially he gave me Joseph but um there's two Joseph I'm not really keen to that so he gave me Moses I feel that's it's great. Okay. Because he done the great job. So that's it. That okay, that's that is that is cool. Um so so do you change your name legally too on passport and birth certificate and I think No, the one is not in my identificate. big card or or any of the my passports, but it's a Christian name that I usually introduce myself in my career. Um to other colleagues. Yeah. Now we want to talk about some of the bigger, broader cultural kinds of questions and and if that's where you're most comfortable staying, we will. But I can't help. I mean you weren't raised Christian and now you've converted uh as a young adult you converted to Christianity. What does your family think of that? Your parents, brothers well, I don't know if you have brothers in China has kind of the one child policy. I don't know if you have siblings, I have no idea. Yeah. My mother used to have one more child but due to the one child policy and also if you give birth you will lose your job because our government uh planted. in the in that era of time. So not much private companies. So you have to earn money. So she You know. Right. Okay, so to give up the second child. So what about the family you do have, you know, parents, aunts, uncles, that sort of thing? What do they think about your conversion to Christianity? That's uh amazing story that happened in my life in 2006. Once I uh converted, my mother Sally gave me a call. I'm just two weeks baby Christian. Last things happen in my life that uh my grandfather uh fell down and got a stroke. Um during the accident and the doctors say not much time. So I have to decide whether I go back, but it's my final year project in Singapore and my mother knowing that uh is It's the last chance for me to go back to see him. So to call me. And she called you two weeks after you became a Christian, not knowing yet that you were a Christian, right? No. No idea. I never have chance to tell her But we experience together about this Christianity and the true God in our life So when you went home to see your uncle was in the action? Yes. You went to see your uncle and he's a chance to grandfather. You had a chance to share with your family what you were beginning to learn about Christianity at that point or you didn't really know enough to really share a whole lot? It's amazing that uh once uh I told my mother that I become Christian and I get the air tickets f uh to to my hometown she get chance to know some underground church, home church, uh in nearby my house. My my hometown house. So they pray and they give some suggestion to us because Uh my grandfather has uh high pressure and uh diabetes, uh all different uh uh stroke, uh different uh disease coming together, so he cannot talk at the time. So they say even he cannot talk, you preach the gospel to him, if he note his head, God will know that enlightened me and my mother, even though my mother Never say he believed Christ, but he very willing and joined with me to visit my grandfather to preach the gospel. So I will I'm the one to ask my grandfather, he's a communist party person that he joined the last civil war before the Chang Jiang River, that the Communist Party already win the nation. They just come through the river and he is the one to join the army at the last stage of the civil war. So he is a faithful Communist Party uh um army uh members. So he rejected me at the first stage. Uh I asked him he no reaction, but once I asked him the third time that God created this world and he sent his only son Jesus to save us, to forgive our sins, die on the cross. Do you willing to accept? He noticed his air. Hmm. That's amazing. Then my mother noticed his she smell. They never do this smell before once she entered the hospital. That uh really uh changed his life. Yeah. So it's interesting your mom was not concerned or worried or mad at you or anything like that. No. I don't know. Has she now become a Christian herself? Yes. At that year, me My mother and the grandfather all become Christian because at the last stage of my grandfather's life people all sing those give up naturally die. things in front of my grandfather. So he feel insecure and uh no meaning fo to continue living in this world. So I pray to God, if you are real God, please heal him. Totally. And I'm not sure it's gonna matter, but I'm curious what the uh religious background of your family was until your conversion. What what what would your mom describe your faith as? My mother, father, all three thinkers. Yes. So they weren't necessarily in into Confucianism or Hinduism or Buddhism or anything like that. Because So they're kind of secular. Science evolution, that sort of thing. Uh in in China this cultural revolution that n nineteen sixty six to nineteen seventy-six. The ten years cultural revolution, die of all kinds of religions in China. So people's spiritual world is empty. So a lot of people become free thinkers, including my parents. I is it the same as an atheist saying believing there is no God, there's nothing spiritual? It's just the material world. The material world by Karl Max. um evolutions. So Marxism. Yeah. Yeah, and and and naturalism kind of stuff. And Darwinian evolution and all that sort of Yes. Interesting. So how does this connect to what you brought up last week? I felt like this was going to be a big topic so I saved it. You you mentioned the Chinese culture church. What is what's a Chinese culture church? What does that mean? I mean it's the church that just uh m uh doesn't shy away from introducing or allowing cultural elements from China into the church? What what is what does that mean? I think um that's the difference between uh Chinese immigration church we call Chinese culture church. Um you use that term I can use that term also uh because We emphasize that Chinese culture really uh planted the culture blood in our uh in our uh citizenship or nationality Because uh in Chinese culture we have the moral idealism in our culture. So people want to live a moral life. Moral idealism. Yes. Okay. Also uh they want to uh glorify their our own uh families or glorify the uh the nations. So once um in France those uh uh after after the Italian and French uh people that go uh go out of the dark age of church They want to emphasize the humanity. They want to find new religions. Once those are just rates the the uh the missionaries from Catholic visit China to translate off a lot of Confucianism uh famous books. Yeah the Jesus they they found wow China have such uh big group of of holding m high moral values but without religion. So they want to testify the European countries can having the same thing. So the very emphasize of humanity and without God So China gave a very big example to show that those uh philosophers that can be success because China already doing that. Yeah, so I'll adjust if I'm trying to connect the dots from last week's show, which might not be fair to the listener of this week's show. Go listen to the podcast, what can I tell you? Uh by the way, during this break, I guess uh and and I stopped just now, so I'll reintroduce. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith Debate. Or joined this week by Moses Fu. He's uh he grew up in China, he he now lives in Singapore, he's in the United States right now learning how uh Christian businesses try to conduct their affairs so they can bring those practices to Singapore. Of course the panel also has uh Daniel Razvi and David Forcy. on it uh as well. I'm trying to see the difference between uh comments of the show now. Trying to see the difference between what the church would generally teach and do and look like um In contrast or in comparison to what you're defining as a Chinese culture, Church, because high moral standards and having a strong sense of intellect, I mean that should be something the church would do anyway. But what what's We'll be distinctively Chinese about what you want to make sure is protected. Okay. Um this is a very important uh discover uh from we converter become uh Christian as Chinese culture people, but once we want to preach gospel to our own nation people that will face a lot of difficulties. From the government you mean? Not government. From culture shock. From from the people you're talking to. Yeah, yeah. Because they set very high moral standards They also intellectual. They also chasing those success in the world. So if you just emphasize God, they reveal you are something Weak or you are have some car accident or you all Your brain damage. Yeah, you're brain damage to to to believe God. We can do ourselves as Chinese histories. All people like that. The high moral the there's three uh three things that uh standard the success identify in i in Chinese people. If you read a book, very famous you set high morals. Or you do a very good uh uh uh ac academic or you win a battle in the history, you success. Or Uh oh you set a very high uh uh moral standards. You are saints. Let me let me ask uh Daniel andor David whoever wants to jump in first. Does that sound or feel all that different than what's going on in Western culture these days? The rise of secularism, the the the credentialed class with all the the institutes of higher institutions of higher learning and and and and the importance of academic, you know, letters behind your name and and if if you believe if you actually if you say you're a Christian in America, it might not have the same culture shock that you would have in China. However That might be where the difference ends. Because if you say they say, What do you mean you're a Christian? Well, I believe there actually is a God who created us, which means that evolution isn't true. and that he God is the maker of all things. And the historical narratives that are presented as his history in the Bible are actual history and true. And Jesus actually lived, actually died, actually rose again from the dead. That's all true. They think you're brain damaged, even in this country I think. Right? Is it that different do you think? Or what what do you think what do you think the uh the the difference might be if I'm missing it. I guess I I try y y you you're feeling like you can outreach m better to the people from China that immigrate. if they see a congregation that is only Chinese. Is that the the idea that they will be more comfortable visiting and They see it's possible that Chinese people can be saved? I mean that uh Chinese people aspect you as a religion people, you shall set even higher moral standard or even more success than us, then they will be more persuaded or trust your God is true God. Otherwise I'm higher intellectual than you. I'm more successful than you. You're expecting pressure. I'm a higher moral standard than you. How come you persuade me to believe your religion? So you're trying to make sure that when you're talking about the the Chinese culture with the church, you're trying to comport yourself to to deal with things in a way that those who are Chinese nationalists would uh have one less barrier to overcome. Like this seems familiar. You don't look like you're that brain damaged, and yet you believe in this God thing. I'll hear you out because you're like me Whereas if you somehow didn't present yourself as looking like them that they just wouldn't even hear what you have to say. So what are some things you have to be careful not to say too quickly that would scare them away? Okay, uh don't just tell them that okay, if you don't believe, you will go hell. That kind of simple gospel will scare people away. that they don't have this that culture before because we identify Chinese culture is pre Christ society. In our history, if don't have the British people that's selling the the the you know the addiction uh The six degrees? Yeah. To the people, to the b force uh Chinese government to do the business. We are so intrinsic doing our own business. We don't know the outside world If if those missionaries don't come into China as Jesuits, they only set one desert of missionary, but they set a lot of Catholic Church and shots a lot of Chinese uh classical uh books to Western world. That culture exchange. We don't know a lot of things of Western world So I mentioned the Jesuits and the Catholics a couple of times. Is that the predominant uh Christian exposure that people in China and Singapore would have? It's mostly Roman. officers uh people is they use the intellectual knowledge teaching math geographical things to attract them and even they uh uh the they can edit the very accurate calendar for the Chinese Empire. So the even higher those trust rates become their own officer. So that inference is because they had More knowledge than you, more intellectual. So because they knew their history, because they could create a good calendar that was accurate, that gave them credibility. And then they also So academic ability is really important to the Chinese. Very, very important And also I've got no shot at impressing anybody who's Chinese, I'm sorry. Send someone else. So I have I I have something that pops in my head. I think this is part of the the we've talked about this on the show before. We haven't had too many shows dedicated on the different cultures honor and shame versus guilt and innocence. But you touched on it just a minute ago. You said when you start to witness to somebody from China, you don't start with hell that you deserve hell because you're sinner and I think what you're getting at is you start with the most honorable thing to be is Christian because now you're in a place of honor with God and is more shameful if you're not Christian. You can get more honor, more faith. by being saved. That is the f focus. And you explain the gospel, you explain hell, all those things too. They are part of the story. But the most important thing that will get somebody to start thinking offended is if you deal with the shame and the honor. Because that in in in the West Everybody says you are a sinner, you deserve hell. Family doesn't matter, individual only, and you go to hell for your sins. That's also true. But we forget to talk about the community and the honor and family. And I think uh every culture has more of a focus than one or the other. So that's uh I think that's the cultural di difference. So are you saying then maybe the um in Singapore it is not all that honor and shame culture as much. There is more individualism now. And that's what you're afraid of if you join in with all the Singapore churches that you will lose the We will lose identity of the culture. Our cultural mandate, yeah. What kind of a church does your mom attend in China? She will attend some uh government church. Yeah to no community life. Just finish the service, everybody go home. A government church. Those not registered it's called underground church. And what w does um what is lost by registering, if anything? Uh they are monitoring your preach message? preaching message and uh right now uh also have some more control in nationalism that emphasize uh you are Chinese first then Then you are Christian. So they're monitoring the messages. Do they uh you do they change them or tell them what the messages should be, or you get in trouble if you don't play it safe? Is that what I think there's uh common understanding and agreement between uh those pastors and the govern government. Yeah. Don't touch those sensitive political topics. Gotcha. And the government doesn't really have to censor them so much as the pastors just kinda know what the rules of the game are and they self-censor. Yes. Yeah, I I wanted to say something that was kind of interesting to me. You know, when we're here in the West, we think of the Chinese church as underground and persecuted and all these things And when I talk to Moses, um, I get a different feeling is that you know, we are looking at it from a different viewpoint, from the Western culture and w western viewpoint. uh because we have a a Christian heritage and basically the whole country was Christian and we've slowly uh gone away from that. Um, but from Moses' standpoint, it's sort of like the early church where the rest of the world is not Christian and they're new t new Christians and they're trying to not so much as um the anti political or anti government is more of as Paul said, you know, give unto Caesar what is Caesar's. So Moses' church is trying not to be antagonistic against the government It's it's a rightful authority that God placed there. So what they're doing is we want to teach about Christ, how Christ changes your life. and what how important that is and how you can be an effective Christian to help China. So it's Almost like uh you know, we talked about um uh uh uh you know, Christian nationalism here. It's Chinese nationalism, Christians there, and so th it's important to be s still be part of China. They're proud of being Chinese. It's a very proud, honorable thing to be Chinese and they want to change from the inside, but not antagonistically, but more of how can we love the government and officials and share the peace of Christ with them as opposed to, you know after them and saying, Hey you're doing this wrong, you're doing that wrong, you're gonna go to hell, you're ruining the country. No. How do we love them? How do how do the early Christians love the people that were persecuting them? And that's really where uh Moses' church comes from is hey, we're not hiding anything, but we're not gonna talk bad about the government, we're just gonna talk good about Christ But in in Singapore there's no registered churches, right? Like North China. Or there are. There's registered churches in Singapore too? Um but government is very open. Not monetary anything, yeah. They pay a tax. Yeah. Okay, that's different than what happens in this country. Right. There's churches uh do not pay a tax. And so when you're talking about protecting the Chinese culture, you're trying to do that in Singapore because those people in Singapore, they're gonna go back to China or they're gonna have influence on their family in China. And so you want them to have Yeah uh the ability to do that better in China even though they're in Singapore at the moment. Yes. Right. Okay. A question about um do we have a little time? Uh if you want to ask it real quick and then we'll answer it on the other side. How about that? Okay, all right. Well my my question is uh what is most offensive about Christianity to the Chinese culture. Okay, and that's gonna be a cliffhanger. What's most offensive? If they ever listen to Faith Debate, you'll have your answer. Anyway, thank you for listening to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. We've been joined this week by Moses Fu. He's been very gracious with and patient with our questions. Uh we got a a uh cameo from Imran Raz Razby today, Daniel Razby, David Forcy on the show as well. Find us online at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We'll be back to uh Continue this conversation and learn more about the status of the church overseas. About 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.