This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Ah. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fake Debate. Master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big Big bridge builder John Soiser. No, I'm just getting longed up. The importance of godly leadership in local churches. How important really are godly leaders in churches? Not asking about the lead past. I'm asking about the other leaders, the elders, deacons, board members, committee chairs, paid office staff. Is your church careful and thoughtful And prayerful enough about filling these positions. What happens when we get this wrong? What happens when we get this right? On the panel today, we have Jonathan Schweitzer, the founder of Bridges, Connecting Needs and Resources and Fred. Frederick County and Pastor Ace Ray, longtime pastor, who has served in the Carolinas, D C and in Maryland. In fact, right now he started a new church in Frederick. So let's l let's start there. You got a a new start up going on, you gotta think about the Leadership questions and you know, who's gonna come up alongside you, who are you gonna trust uh hang on to some of the leadership, who are you gonna delegate to? So this is a good uh good topic for us. So First, uh what tell us about this new church is meeting at North Frederick Elementary. Okay. We'll call the River International. The River International. Yes. Yes. I love it. Yes. River international. Ever since E Ezekiel the river has been a uh pretty exciting uh spiritual idea. Yes Our scripture uh for our church is Revelation twenty-two. Mm. And so we the river of life. River life. Healing. Yes, sir. Both sides. And and when does the when does it get together for worship? What time? Eleven o'clock. Every Sunday. Every Sunday at eleven o'clock. Okay. At North Frederick. Here's North Frederick Elementary of Mata Avenue. Okay. Yeah. The new school of the colour. The building is new, yeah. And there was other churches that have kind of birthed out of that building in the past. So it's You know, it's got a good uh you know, history there. Praise it. Yeah. So what are the things that you're trying to keep in mind as you you you build this church and you try to, you know, establish You know, leadership and protocols and that sort of stuff. You know, you had experience in D C, you had experience in the Carolinas. You know, how have those experiences informed how you're trying to go about doing things the right way here in Frederick? Well I saw in DC when I took over the church there they were already in position and what I've learned sometimes that uh just You can't just look at a person's natural talent only and to put them in position. But I I feel that all positions must be prayed and and and you have to pray, you have to fast. You have to wait on the Lord. Uh, I think sometimes as pastors we can move too fast because we feel that if we can get people in position real fast the church will grow But I I I'm a believer that the church belongs to God and everything is on God's timing. So as a leader we have to be leaders that will stay before God and prayer. and fasting and hear from God. 'Cause that's how the leaders were were called in scripture. And you know, they you know, so we have to do that today. If we don't do that today then we have chaos. Um case where I mean the New Testament's pretty clear, right? To lay hands suddenly on no man. On no man. That's right. You know, so you wanna approach you know, when you're putting people into a leadership role, the reality is that they're gonna affect other people. You know, and so when you're putting them into into positions, right, you're you're recognizing that they're going to That that you will be responsible you know for how they handle uh certain things and yet at the same time you don't want to be like controlling, you know, and like Do it all yourself and keep people from from leader leadership roles. So there's you know, you gotta you gotta delegate if you're gonna grow. Mm-hmm So there's a little bit of a balance there, like that you gotta walk. And I believe you have to know them that labor among you. Um you spend time with the individual, you'll be able to pick up their body language, their character. What comes out of the mouth there? Some of the the the habits. You can't you can't watch everything. There's some things that you that God will give you. that you'll be able to to pick up on. But I j I just believe that you if we if we if we start the church in in prayer and stand before God As the church grows, God will show who is who to go in certain positions. And and I and I and and I've seen it also in my own experience years ago, 'cause I started pastoring in nineteen ninety seven. Okay. Well when I was young You were like three then, right? Probably about two. Um But I've learned that sometimes when you just put people in position over the years I've learned that it can become a total chaos in the church. Yeah. Because they they get in position they have influence right over people. Yeah. And and they can cause havoc. And when you try to come back and correct that Sometimes you don't it don't just move them, but it also move other people who may be babes in Christ. and maybe not understand the scripture is, you know, the way that you may understand the scripture. So what I've learned that, you know, you uh have to move slow, trust God Um wait on the Lord and and if you wait on him and be of good courage, he he'll make things uh work and the right people will come. Now a moment ago, a couple minutes ago, uh you were about to say case in point, but then we got diverted. related to your creation point or is there some other anecdote or something you were going to bring up there? Okay I just want to make sure that we didn't didn't miss that. So we want to be Thoughtful, prayerful, pray and fast, uh not rush, right? All that sort of stuff. So that kinda almost begs a follow-up question, which is can you wait too long? Yes, you can. I I I feel that um I don't think i i if if a person is spending time with God then you're not taking too long. Because he's gonna show you and as he showed you sometimes what I've learned is that I have to be careful before I s actually speak. That means tell an individual, I'm gonna make you a deacon. You know. Sometimes you you need to just start working with them and before you get it inside the head because sometimes people head will blow up, you know, and and think that they're more than what they are But um in ministry y you just have to be careful who's going to battle with you. You just have to make sure you get you careful in it. In fact in the passage where it talks about laying hands suddenly on no man it says that you gotta be careful because I'll fall under the devil's trap You know, and the the devil's trap seems to be this this pride that they start thinking you know that they can do it in their own strength instead of being at a place where they recognize what does it mean to you know, to do it in the Lord's strength, to give glory to the Lord, to walk in uh um a sense of submittedness to God at all times that that you know humility's a key part of that, yeah. Mm-hmm. Now we we started out talking because you have a a newer church, you're just getting it started in Frederick and so you're kind of bringing people along, identifying potential leaders, grooming them, getting them ready and then, you know, putting them in the right position at the right time as as God leads. Mm-hmm. That's different than what um your situation might have been in the Carolinas or in D C. I'm not sure about all the The experiences John's had as a pastor of a church, but I'm sure there's times when you walk in you've inherited the leadership Sure. You know, the i if it's uh if it's an elder led church, you know, the elders are already in place. Or if it's a board led church, the board members are already in place. And some of them you might be praising God that they're the ones who are in place, but in other cases they might not always be because maybe previous leadership wasn't as prayerful and mindful of these things. And so what do you do then when you don't feel like you've got a good godly leadership in place? How do you how how do you how do you do you change the culture and work around them? Do you figure out how to oust them? Like what what what what are some strategies that pastors who are listening right now might think about I'll let you go first. And then I come in. So your question is how do you um handle it when you come into a situation there's people that that are given to you in leadership roles. Um So I've I've always kind of worked off the mentality that the first thing that you gotta do is get back to business So, you know, whatever um whatever has been done in the past, you gotta make sure that that at least that's happening, you know, that that you get back to doing that. You know, you come into the leadership role, but you gotta make sure that You know, and I'm probably going to John Maxwell, you know, with some of my thoughts at this point, you know, and his John Maxwell, very well known uh author on leadership. Uh he's a Christian and uh his books are sometimes used as almost Bible studies, even though they're not really Bible studies, but he's a very influential writer and speaker when it comes to leadership questions in Christian circles, in case you don't know the the reference. And so, you know, he he describes four levels of leadership. You know, the first level is that you're just showing up. uh, you know, consistently. People need to know that that you can be relied upon. And the second level is that people need to know that you like 'em. Right. So so again you're you're just establishing uh a sense of of uh kind of kind of getting back to business. But then the third level is is where is where you're initiating changes that improve upon status quo, right? So the first things that you're getting back to status quo, two that people really feel like you enjoy being with them when you're around. Right. And so, you know, there's just that sense of camaraderie and building together. But then, you know, that's when you move into uh what is it that that would be a step forward, you know, for a group of people. And so if if there are people in place that aren't the right people Um Maxwell in some of the leadership uh gurus it seems like in the body of Christ. uh advocate for kind of cleaning house and starting from scratch. And I don't know that I'm fully on board with that kind of an approach just because um You mean cleaning house regardless of who the problem children might be and and and not? Meaning meaning that you come in in the right. And if there's any sense of of people uh being resistant that that you you move quickly and even negotiate on the front end, you know that that that you have the authority to I was going to say y you have to have negotiated that on the front end because if you don't have Mm-hmm. If you come in as a new pastor and you realize you've got maybe some ungodly people in leadership positions And you're gonna try to go after 'em. They're ungodly people in leadership positions. They're gonna fight back and they're not gonna fight fair. So like I heard of a uh uh you know, uh uh church in the area that is in a leadership change and they um like all of the other staff automatically in that moment will give in their their resignation. So there's no guarantee, you know, that they that they will be a part of the next that's a denominational thing, I think, right? possibly a denominational or or some groups, you know, that handle it that way. But that doesn't necessarily mean that the that the eldership is changing. That's a that's it that's a s the the staff. It also doesn't mean the staff's changing either necessarily. My understanding is they all turn in their resignation at a f it's a f it In some cases it's just a formality because the new pastor might decide to retain some of that staff. Right, but he has the choice in that Exactly. And it doesn't put him in the awkward position of needing to fire anyone because they've all resigned and so then he can hire them and then they're he his guy, they trust him, they know that he likes them, that he he trusts and likes them. It's an interesting uh I know um I had that experience when I went to the DC area uh they were already in position. What I've learned from that is And you didn't have permission or authority to change those that were in position. Don't have that. Were they staff or were they lay positions? Same with staff as well. Um and I had someone over me that I guess, um, allow that. What I've learned in that because I've you know um I feel that all things should be done decent and in order. But I also had to learn that that I had to pray Um get direction from God and because it's hard to go in and change a people that's been doing something doing something a certain way for thirty, forty years. Totally, right. Totally different. And then you come in and you see quite a few things that are wrong it it takes time to actually change some of that. If I was in that predicament ever again, which I d uh I I pray I'd never be. Um That's interesting. That's pretty telling. Yeah. Point is you don't want to go back to a scenario like that. You likely would negotiate a different option coming into a situation like that and say, look, I you know, you've learned a few lessons, you're not gonna let Yourself get stuck in a scenario where you don't have to do it. They can hear what you were going to tell them about now you're you find yourself in that situation, you're them, living vicariously through them. What what do you do different? Um like I say, if if I was in that situation now and people were in that in in different positions. I would basically, like I said, first of all pray You have to pray b o about everything and and I will have to fast 'cause some things come by praying and fasting and And this is a time that I have to trust God, I mean, really, to help me to make the right decisions. Well, my prayer would be is that Um this is something that I would do if if I could see someone in the congregation um that that I feel that the Lord actually has pressed upon my heart that, you know, their heart first of all is right. Because first thing in any position that anyone is in, their heart has to be right. And how do you discern that a person's heart is right? Because we have not yet uh technologically developed tools to examine uh heart spiritually. Well uh I I say in a individual's um Attitude, dedication, um, if they're faithful, um, and if they show general interest in what they're doing. It's not like they're just doing something because you asked them to do it, but they have a a passion for it. Okay? 'Cause we all know that no one's perfect None of us are perfect, but we're working towards perfection. But if that individual has a passion, and this is what I would do. Um I would basically Uh if the Lord showed me this individual, I would have them working with that individual for a little while. And you know where I'm going with that. Because eventually There's gonna come a time that that individual that's in that position that um really is bringing a divide within the the vision and the movement of the church. Eventually they're gonna have to be moved, but that that particular possession still has to go on if it makes if make sense. Right. What I'm saying. But you still risk Losing I think that's a key point. Whoever's in a role of leadership is a risk. It's a risk. responsibility then you know there's the potential. But I'm saying if they're already in that position when you get there, you didn't have anything to do with that. They they are already there you you still run a risk even at the time of moving them because they have some type of influence If they've been there fifteen, twenty, twenty-five years, they have influence in that church. So this raises a question that comes up uh uh that is a cultural uh distinction between different cultures, meaning like one culture's one way, one's another way, and that is do you promote somebody on the basis of seniority or do you promote somebody on the basis of effectiveness? Right? And uh and seniority means they've been around, you know, and so they put in their time. Uh in in and you know, they've been a they've been around long enough that they deserve a certain measure of respect or, you know, they've they've they've earned the right to a certain something and there's there's whole cultures that that are more oriented towards uh seniority, uh, you know, uh as opposed to in the United States we have an orientation towards effectiveness, meaning they can get the job done, kind of a thing, right? Uh both of which don't necessarily go to the heart questions. But um but approach the heart question from different directions. You know, and so uh like you know, should you should somebody that is that has been in the church for a long time and serving faithfully but but possibly doesn't have the the g gifting or the the ability should they be given uh a higher position of of respect and and responsibility Uh or should that only be reserved for somebody that maybe hasn't been around as long but but they're significantly more effective and are able to get the job done? Like which one You know, maybe they both even have have good hearts, but you know, do you promote the effective ahead of the the faithful? That's uh John Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Ace Ray. You're listening to Fake Debate on 930 WFMD. We just have a few minutes left on on this week's show. Um I guess I'll I'll take a stab at the responding to what you just threw up there and I'll give uh you a chance also, uh Ace. I think that Um the the first thing and most important thing is that they're godly. Mm-hmm. So you have to really believe that they really I mean no one knows the heart uh except God. But as best as we can discern If you're gonna put somebody in leadership, you've got to really feel like in your bones you know that they are really trusting in Jesus for their salvation. Uh, that they love God, that they love people. uh and that they want to serve. Like those things have the motivations. What were those three? Love God, really trust in God and Lo love people and wanna and willing to serve or want to serve. I think those things have to be there. And then if those things are there, then you can look at the effectiveness questions, like okay, do they have a gift for public speaking, do they have a gift for administration? Do they have a gift for uh delegation? Do they have a gift for uh uh communicating with with younger people in a way that they can relate to and understand what that comes secondary. So if you lead with the effectiveness part, I think that was what uh Ace was alluding to at the very beginning of today's show, saying, you know, he'd he he learned, or maybe he already knew, but it was reinforced for him that You don't bring people into leadership because they have lots of worldly skills and talents. Like, oh this person's a really You know, really fun guy. Let's make him the the the uh the youth group leader. But he doesn't believe in Jesus. Yeah, but We'll convert him. He's really good with kids. And I you know, and that's a kind of an exaggerated example, but I think that kinda happens. And I've been in churches where there are people in not just in leadership, but like significant leadership. Maybe not the senior pastor, but like the next level of leadership below that. And I scratch my head in wonder, like How do they ever get that role? Because I just I can't persuade myself that they're a believer. How are they leading a church? I don't think they believe in Jesus. How did that happen? Well I I I I think for me. What what I wanna promote is teamwork working together. Because You know, we talk about the different parts of the body and all um and this person may have a gift as uh a mover getting things done And then this person being faithful and put their time in and da da da da da da. Um I would probably put them together. And see how that works. And and the reason for that is because the one that's been there for a while can give a little wisdom to the one who's a sec and and mover because they may move too fast but that person has been with the ministry for a while and they know the the the vein of the people. If it makes sense. And the last word is gonna be a vein of the people phrase. Nice. Sorry to leave you with that image. I don't know. But anyway, uh Ace Ray, thank you, Pastor. Jonathan Sweitzer, thank you, my friend I'm Troy Seniors of the Faith Debate at 930 WFMD, see you next week, God bless