Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. When last I heard we were still on the FM at 99. 9 HD two. So if you want to those fancy expensive radios, you dirty, rotten capitalist view, then you can listen to us there. Because not everybody's got one of those kinds of radios. Uh and you can wa uh if you aren't listening to it live or you you catch us in the middle or you you want to well listen back so you can laugh at things we've said, uh it'll be available via podcast and it's already available on Facebook somewhere And it'll probably actually be on the Household of Faith in Christ set. You know what? It'll be on the Household of Faith in Christ YouTube channel So uh we're we're doing video of of this as we record the audio for this. So if you wanna watch the video, go to uh YouTube, find the Ho Household of Faith in Christ. I know it's a mouthful full, but that's the name of the church. So Household of Faith in Christ. We have a YouTube channel and all of our sermons are up there. Uh and now all of our faith debate shows that we happen to do via Facebook Live. We'll put those up there too. What the heck? That way you can follow along follow along with our madness and nonsense. Alright, so uh Raz Imran Raz Razvi is uh is not with us uh for this recording session. Maybe he'll join us before uh recording time is out, maybe he'll but uh unlikely. But I want to give him a shout-out because he's a part of this panel, a part of what we're we're doing here with the uh newly relaunched Faith Debate Show. His son here, uh Daniel, is here, and he's also involved with the same house church that Imran uh is involved with leading, and they have a Ministry of Concord by Love Ministries online at concordbylove. org. And uh David Forcy doesn't have a website, but he's uh he's cool nonetheless. You just look at it and you say, That man ooze is cool. Are you feeling particularly sexy today or what? I mean look at this guy. Feel the same as any other day, right? Maybe I mentioned at the very end of last week's show, why would a house church have a website? Why in the world would we have a website? There's a couple of reasons, at least a couple of reasons. One of the reasons uh is that there are people who want to kind of connect with and check out a house church, but how do you find them? So I wanted to lay some grreadcrumbs out there on the internet so that if somebody's actually researching and looking to find a house truth, they have a shot at finding at least one. And if they find me, I could help them to find another one if they don't want to be a part of what my church is all about and doing. ask around, you know, at the at the tables and I think you know, I think most people probably would do that, but for the one who won't So there's that. The other thing is we've talked about this either last week's show or the show before. I they've run together on my mind now. But talking about oh it was it was the very first uh show we did on this topic about house churches. Where Daniel said, the first thing most people probably think when they hear house church is cult. Uh and that is one of the weaknesses. What do these house churches stand for? What do they believe? What's their statement of faith? You know, what are they all about? And well having a website with uh clearly articulated belief statements out there and uh sermon messages and other blog postings and things out there for public consumption They can make a determination. Now you might see all the things that I'm putting out there on householdfaith in Christ dot com and be Yep, cult. Okay, fine, then don't be a part of what we're doing if you think we're a cult. But um the only way you would think that we're a cult is if you think that uh Bible believing, Bible following, Christ exulting, God honoring churches are cults. Uh and if that's the case, I would love to talk with you and uh and uh and to see you know where your thinking is on all of that. But anyway, so those are a couple of the reasons. The other thing is it um It provides a uh part of the mechanism, just like this show does, part of the mechanism for for having some sort of glue and stickiness for the network. Like right now I say network. There's three churches that are doing something together, and that something is mostly the faith debate. But it's also some mutual accountability, at least from my side of the fence, it's accountability for me with the people who are members in my church to def I go haywire, you know, they can contact uh David or Daniel or or Imran. And um and as other churches might join in with that level of re of relationship uh the website could provide more stickiness and more not more legitimacy, but it would feel like it's more real, like, oh yeah, we're actually doing something together. Look, we're all connected on this website thing. And maybe if we got more churches involved, maybe we start having them in as as participants and guests on occasion with the faith debate show or or something and deepen the relationship with that. So there's at least those three reasons why I wanted to do the website. Um one of the probably the primary, primary reason was I didn't think of it in terms of them thinking of a cult, but I wanted to have like a a really easy place to point people to when they start talking like and and You talk to somebody for a half hour and they get a beginning to sense of what you're about, but they don't know enough. Well it's it's good to have something down in writing. Yeah. So that uh you know, people know that you've this is this is what you believe. It's all laid out. And uh and so so they don't feel like you can dance around and Be constantly changing and so if I do uh do something that's if I say something, preach something, teach something that's in contrary to what's on the website as our official statement of Faith, beliefs. Like right they've got something to say, hey, you're not even agreeing with your own stuff here. What's going on? So So this is our third show on this topic. First show was mostly what are the disadvantages or potential pitfalls that house churches have to be aware of. Uh last show was mostly uh other than me spending about four s four to five hours about my dental appointment. Uh after that four or five hour story about my dental appointment, we talked about the advantages uh of built into doing a house church model thing. And now we've talked about the some of the reasons and that we're doing the specific expression of what we're doing. But now let's talk about What it looks and feels like. So I don't know which one uh maybe Danny you want to go first because I think last week uh I I had uh Uh I asked David to go first. So Daniel, maybe you can start. Somebody comes to your house church for the first time and they're going to experience what? What's going to happen? What are they going to see? So I I'm a big fan of not having anything rigid in stone, so it's not gonna look exactly the same every week. Um I don't think that the that there's really a lot of biblical precedent for Having a solid structure, this is what you must do. And uh I I've I've seen some churches, for example, where they have everything planned down to the second. We're going to spend forty-five seconds on that and then a minute twenty on this and then we're going to do thir uh you know thirteen minutes on like this is a little bit too much. Not in house churches. Okay. No, no, but I've I've seen that in for for uh mainstream churches. But Yeah, but that's because there's pressure on the having been in that role. There's pressure on the pastor to hit the to hit the post. It's a radio term, right? Yeah. There's pressure. So you have to allocate certain seconds, literally amount of seconds. House churches don't have that. No. And so you generally gather and when the there's enough people gathered that you feel like, okay, that's probably all who's coming now. Let's go ahead and get started and so we'll sing hymns. And I think singing uh singing hymns is important. I think it's important for the whole congregation to be singing. I'm I have some very Um you could say peculiar or dogmatic positions on music in church that we maybe can get into someday, but we don't have time for now. Um so we'll s I'll stick with the statement that in our church we have a strong stance on hymns only from a traditional hymnal and no other music and the only instruments that are used is piano. Um that's how we do it. Uh that's not to say it's the only way to do it, but it's it's within my uh pretty strong guidelines on music in church. So anyway we sing and anybody in the congregation can request any hymn they want in the hymnal, they just call out the number and we play it and sing it and we go on and on for you know at least half an hour or so. Uh by the way, having visited your your church one time, uh and Daniel's at least when I was there, you were the pianist. I'm assuming you might be the the guy who knows the piano all the time. And they're calling out the hymn numbers and he knows them all. He knows them all. By number. Like n they weren't saying like the hymn name. It's you know, hymn number two seventy-four. And he's like starts playing within two seconds. Like how in the world does he know all the hymns By number. It'd be impressive even by name. But by number? Well you hear him called out every week and there's a lot of favorites that keep getting uh you know yellowed at So you hear that. You know, e i when they just say him, you know what the number's gonna be. We had for one time one for a while we had a a a a little uh toddler who just learned how to speak and and and and she liked number sixty six to God be the glory. And so whenever it was time for the next kidney Sixty six you hear this little, you know, Tadwar me speaking and a asking for hymn number sixty six Um so anyway, so that's what we'll do for you know maybe half an hour or so. I I like to take it a little longer. We start with music. We may we may pray to open up You know, but uh one of the men may pray um to uh to start but then we'll do we'll start with music for at at least half an hour, which I I like to think is is probably longer than a lot of churches spend on um him singing at least in a in a set um together. But then and then we'll have time for any man and we make it very clear, any man or boy, or anybody, any male, no women um can s can speak as they're led. Um and we'll make a semblance of uh uh of a organization ahead of time trying to get somebody that has something prepared, at least, you know, fifteen, twenty minutes or longer, half an hour, forty five minutes, whatever they want to speak on about scripture. Um so that we I mean we're not all just sitting in silence until somebody gets a word. No, it it depends on the week. Gotcha. Uh so it can be any any man who uh has been led by something and if if you were assigned to, you know, biological man? Yes. Okay. Yes. Not a man who thinks that he's a woman. I'm sure at some point we'll have a discussion on the roles of men and women. Yeah, yeah. Maybe not tonight, as we record this, this morning as you're listening to it. So anyway, um so there'll be s there'll be somebody that's been assigned to speak and he could just read a chapter and say a few words about it. There's not nothing uh there, but it it may be forty-five minutes, an hour long of of discussion. But during that time, any other man who's there can r you know interject, not interrupt, but interject, you know, add a pause, whatever, a either ask a question, add something, make a comment, disagree. any of those things and that's not only accepted but strongly encouraged. Um and so it it begins to feel a little bit more like a Bible study. still more still more like a church in that only the men are speaking. It's not I mean in Bible study sometimes you may have women that that are also contributing. But in this in this case we we have it um st uh structured as a as a church service So that'll go on until people are done with that and i it could be fifteen minutes, it could be an hour and fifteen minutes, but it's a r it's around, you know, a decent amount of time and then we'll sing again. and and pray. We usually pray at the end of the at the end of the you could call it a sermon or, you know, discussion. We'll pray at the end of that. Any man who wants to add something to the prayer can do that as well. And then when it's it's done somebody closes. And then we sing another hymn and that's it. But then either after or before, depending on the time of day, we'll have the a meal together and during and after the meal and the whole rest of the day people are discussing deep scriptural topics about whatever's on their mind, in addition to anything else. It's not required to talk about scripture the whole time, but it ends up being very deep theological top topics. Um, you know, such as The Trinity, how do we define the Trinity? The word Trinity is not in the Bible, how do you how do you have oh you know so so all those different things. So that that's kind of part of it, even though that's not the church service. So We don't have any prohibitions on women speaking for, you know, felicity or anything like that. People can have a conversation. But I don't know if that gives you an idea of the thing. It's um it's like everybody comes over for the family Thanksgiving meal And during that there's a time set aside for singing hymns of of worship and hearing some sort of lesson uh right from or about the Bible and that that sort of a thing. That's right. Right. And it's a it's a long thing, right? From the time the first people show up to the time the last people leave is how long? Ten hours? Twelve twelve hours. I mean so it's long. You guys what you guys do is a long it's a day long it's a day of rest. You hear the Sabbath, you rest And uh I think that's uh it uh you can rejuvenate by having deep conversation with other believers. Okay. Now uh so that's what goes on with the uh The house that meets at Imran's house. What goes on at the uh the church that meets at uh David's house? Um well we uh we've a pretty pretty set sort of schedule or pattern I guess. Um we'll start off by uh by reading scripture. Um and uh it may be maybe the the same scripture for uh for a number of different weeks, sort of a uh a setting uh setting the tone of our time together. Um so so for the last last month or so I guess we've been uh reading Deuteronomy six. Uh and that's chosen ahead of time. Yes it is. Okay. Yeah yeah yeah. Um and uh and then uh then we have sort of a uh uh an orderly way of randomly selecting a a psalm that we'll read together. So uh we just sort of work our way way through the Psalms and uh so each Sunday we'll read the the Psalm that that is for that Sunday. Um and and we'll use the and then we'll then we'll go into a a time of prayer. together and uh using using the the psalm as our our pattern for prayer, our uh our guide, our help And when you're choosing what's going to be the focus of the teaching or choosing the psalm, uh Because you said we, it might have been more kind of the royal wecause it's pretty much you're kind of making the and driving those decisions, right? Yeah. That's good. Daniel's uh explanation of what happens at their church is different people kinda take turns on the set rotation or somebody feels like, Hey, I really have something I've been studying and I want to share, or maybe it's a combination. Right. If nobody's glad at the default, it's me. Gotcha. So it's it's a bit more I like to set things up to where their uh autopilot sounds bad. Uh to where a little bit more structured and to to to where there's um there's a there's a an ongoing pattern. um that uh that we can follow. Um and so so then after after our time of prayer, uh then we will um uh there'll be some some sort of pattern of moving through scripture that we'll be following. So when we first started, uh we did uh we just we worked our way through the Bible and we um Yeah, it would be uh roughly a book a week. Sometimes it would be a grouping of books if it's uh a number of epistles from the New Testament or That's ambitious. Uh well the the idea there was that we wanted to we wanted to say, okay, this is sort of be studying the same thing together during the week and then people would um it would it would be open for people to bring uh thoughts or or questions on that portion of scripture. Um and so And we say people is it anybody in the congregation? Sure. Yeah. Yep. And it's more of a sur when you were doing going through that uh phase of instruction, it was more of a survey. I mean you're you're spending weeks talking about um all of the epistles of John. Because that might have been a cluster you did, for example. First second to third John, you're not gonna get in the nitty-gritty of all of them necessarily. It's just kind of an overview of these or what the themes of these letters are and And people are going to have particular questions about or things that struck them um within those letters. And then your job is to job. But you take it upon yourself to have the responsibility and everybody else maybe defaults to your leadership on Corralling that and orchestrating the flow of the discussion and moderating things and offering correctives if they get off base from the Yeah. Um and uh I mean I I think this this gets into, you know, what is um on on what model are we are we basing our churches, right? 'Cause it you know, getting off of house church and talking about sort of churches in general, right? You have churches modeled on uh on Fortune 500 companies, right? Or you have churches modeled on um You know, whether it's whether it's business or government or any of, you know, twelve different types of government You know, uh there's uh you know, or whether it's uh, you know, concerts or you know, however it may be, there's there's some sort of model. that that uh any given church is going to follow and um and and I think that the that the model that is for the church is the family. And so uh so then you have so so so yes, so I as the as the the husband and as the father um of our family um and as the initiator of this gathering of believers at my house, I I take it upon myself to uh to to to lead, to guide, um, you know, and and to bear to bear the the responsibility for uh to making sure that truth is being spoken and uh you know anything that is um i you know and things are things are clarified and um and all that so Uh so so yeah, so then getting back to our our schedule, um if you will, um yeah you know now at this point we're we're going through uh through a a chapter at a time. And uh and so so I I I generally have uh you know in in my own studying I I've prepared to to teach, to explain, um, you know, to to answer uh questions. Um but it is you know there there's there's an open You don't make the distinction of only men contribute to that part of it like we do in our Yeah, because um based on the model of the family, right, my my children can ask questions. Okay. Um you know and so so certainly uh you know my you know children don't teach adults and so when we are together and having a discussion the children are not teaching. They may ask questions or and they can certainly have observations. Um, you know, say I I noticed I noticed this. Um and uh you know, and so then we'll you know we'll we'll talk through answers to questions or um you know what what is that that was observed you know and and explain it in context and all. Yeah, so it's it's very it's very conversational. As you draw to a close you end up having the uh The Lord's Supper is done every week, I believe. It is. And and we sing uh we sing every week as well. That um that may fall in in different places. Um and I'll I'll usually uh have a few songs prepared that we'll sing together. Um and maybe maybe closer to the beginning, maybe closer to the end. Um but then yes we we close everything with uh with communion together every week. Uh and then after that um we uh we share a meal. Together and then it yeah, and then it's uh it's a time of of of uh loose fellowship, if you will, after that. Right. Yeah, and so and and I've been to your uh church as well, um actually a little more often than I've been to what the Razvies do And the end ti the start times are ro about the same every time, give or take a little bit of minutes. But the end time uh It kinda just depends on what people sort of filter out. But I would say on uh the shorter ones everybody's together for at least three or four hours. It seems like those have been the shorter ones. Yeah, including the meal time and everything all together. Yeah. And then the longer ones might be eight, ten hours maybe if somebody really hangs out all day that could yeah. So right. We've got uh literally like sixty seconds. Could you uh give me a sixty second uh presentation of what we need to know from the Bible for the lost souls out there hearing your voice? Sure. Uh God is perfect. He is the ultimate perfection. He is in heaven. And in order for perfection to be maintained in heaven, nothing imperfect can be in heaven with him. You are not perfect. I am not perfect. Therefore we cannot be in heaven. So we're destined for hell. But we have the choice to have Jesus cover us with his blood and his perfection, because he did not sin And he died for our sins and he can cover those with his with his blood and and righteousness and we can trust him and that is the only way that we can be in heaven with the perfect God, the Creator. So the uh voice you just heard is that of uh Daniel Razby, the voice before that, uh dulcet tones of David Forresty. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. You can find the easiest way to connect with everything that's involved with those of us here is to go to household of faith in Christ dot com, Household of FaithinChrist. com. There you'll find links to this show and everything related to this show, plus all the other social media and sermons and blog posts and What have you? It's all there. It's a one-stop shop for you, baby. Thanks for listening till next week. 167. 5 hours from Set Your Watches. Right now. God bless