This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a three-for-all four. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but that would do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get it! Ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. I read these words recently written by a black man. Quote, I'm angry because the stories of injustice that have been passed down for generations seem to be continuing before our very eyes. I'm angry because white people don't get it. I'm angry because black people don't get it either. And he added that more than one hundred and fifty years since the abolition of shadow slavery in this country, that you'd think that by now we'd have reached real parity between people of different skin tones, and he continues saying, Quote, a lot of white people believe But that's actually where we are, that we've reached real parity. A lot of black people uh know that we aren't. End quote. What does the Biblical Christian Church say in response to this? That's part of what we're talking about on the faith debate today, and we have been the last couple of weeks. Uh John Schweitzer and I, joined this week again by Vaughn Thurman, a former lay leader within the Body of Christ, and he has proven to be particularly insightful and articulate. uh broadly and more specifically to uh the issues we're we're tackling here about um by the way the very first show you guys don't know this but on on social media the the titles uh and on the website the title of the shows we've recorded uh so far. And the timestamp, I didn't do it last week I forgot. The timestamp 'cause things are changing so fast. What we're talking about, as you hear my voice, I'm speaking in the first half of June But now you're hearing this in the last half of July. So things can change pretty fast. But the first show I I m I'm gonna title uh Getting Real About Race. Last week's was angry, fearful, embarrassed, sad, sympathetic, offended, confused, introspective, hopeless, hopeful, and encouraged. Try to cover everything there. Brevity is the soul of wit. And this and this show this show's title is Injustice Should Make Us Angry So, and I we agree, right? Injustice should make us angry. Yes. And we're angry about injustice Are we angry? Should we be angry? Should we even admit to the existence of social injustice? That's one of the labels. Last week we talked about the label of white privilege. Uh we spoke briefly about the uh the monikers race and gender. Um there's so many we we began to I think we might have just very lightly touched on the Black Lives uh matter movement or foundation and what that was between the shows, yes and what all and what all that stands for. So we want to get into I think it'd be helpful for us to talk about all these different things that are thrown out there that Devon's point last week. If you don't really want to own all of it all All that comes with those terms, you know, if you if you fully understand the definitions of those terms and you can agree with parts, but you don't want to own all of it You don't really want to say that out loud because people won't understand where you're coming from and all of a sudden you've got a wagging fing finger of accusation in your face. So let's take the time to define our interfancible culture. The terms that we're about to define, they they will use those terms all the time and they feel like those terms are accurate and very helpful. And you do that though, by the way. African American is one of those words. It's true. Right. People who are not From uh don't can Jamaicans don't like being called African American. On that phone call with all the pastors last last Thursday, um they actually asked the question should they be called black or African American and and it was a topic that had you know genuine uh you know, precise responses to But anyway, so that so but were they were they unified? Uh there was some nuance to it, for sure. So so but my point is is that all of those African American pastors and several uh that uh several white pastors that I know that I s that I spend a lot of time with here locally that are evangelical, Bible-believing uh pastors, uh also feel like that language is the right language, things like systemic racism, things like uh white privilege, uh Black Lives Matter. um uh police brutality, um all of the all of that language is language that that they agree with. And I just want to say as we go to define those terms and at some level to debate the rightness of those terms, that I I am 100% working closely with those pastors that I just described, and I have the highest respect for them. Uh and uh and when I hear them talk uh I hear their heart, not just the definitions that that the world uh in its polarized you know, meta-narratives have have put on those terms. I hear them pressing through all of that for a biblical idea of justice. And so so I just want to honor those guys and recognize that even though even though I disagree about the value of some of those terms uh and whether or not we should use those terms, um uh I'm gonna find every way that I can both to honor the fact that they Like those terms, use those terms and feel like they're they're biblical and the right way to go. Think like that will extend the same courtesy and generosity to you as you try to push back and define the five years. And he is leading through this issue with an even-handedness that is uncommon. I mean, I would venture to say there's an anointing like God's raised them up for just such a time as this. And uh and I'm grateful for that because it's time for for some things to be moved forward in a unified way. So having said that, okay, how do we get into the terms? Well I don't What is um you've been in some of these dialogues, so let's start with the Black Lives Matter. So one of the pastors locally, Paul Foss, preached an amazing message uh on his own journey through this. You know, he has grandchildren that are mixed race. He has uh son-in-laws uh that are mixed that that are um African American and so this has become an issue for him that he wants to make sure that his children will walk in the blessings of God, you know, in the full blessings of liberty. And in the context of him telling the story where he's led the Water Boys to to fix African American churches across Frederick and and uh to to be an instrument of of racial healing and servant with you know with the Towel over his over his arm has been amazing, right? And he uses the term Black Lives Matter in that message And afterwards he finds out something that he didn't realize, that Black Lives Matter is is in uh an organization that has um platforms that has you know stated beliefs that are clearly contrary description pro-abortion, pro homosexual marriage, uh anti-nuclear family, uh, you know, out for you know the uh kind of a Marxist you know approach to not just supporting people that don't have a nuclear family but actually Proactively anti nuclear thing. Yeah. But the way he defined Black Lives Matter and the way that Darren Gerald is defining it, I have no problem with. And and this is how they define the concern I have then though. Well so let's go there in a second, but but yeah, so that's a that's another issue that I think we need to address But the way that that they're defining it is they're saying this, look, if a house is burning down in your neighborhood, right You're not going to sit there and say, man, all these houses are important. You're going to say, man, let's make sure that that house gets gets gets saved and you're going to go help them. And the point is not that that That all those lives don't matter, but that for those people that don't know or doubt that their lives are important It's worth it like with if if if one of my children feels like there's something wrong with them and they're not any good then I'll for a couple of weeks, even months, you know, maybe even for the rest of their life if I feel like it's something that that that they struggle with personally. I'll look them in the eye and I'll be like, you know what? Stop the world back. Yeah, so you should give them attention, but you would never tell one of your children that, you know, you matter to me. And then they would respond by saying Well do my siblings matter to you too? No, you matter to me. You would never say that. The problem with that and I've heard that before, by the way, the one house is on fire, that denies the f the from a Christian perspective Which is my perspective. I feel like that denies the reality of the fall. We live in a broken world and what's wrong with because it's a meme too on social media, that house on fire thing. That's a meme. And what's wrong with that meme Is that in a broken, fallen, sin-filled, sin completely sin-riddled world, all of the houses are on fire. There's not a single house that's not burning Because sin is pervasive. It's everywhere. It infects everything. Every house is on fire. So the meme says this house is on fire, the rest are not, is a non-biblical starting point. And so I can't accept that. My house is on fire too. Okay. So your your blaze might be bigger than mine perhaps? I'm going to push back on that and I'm going to say this. That that Just about all of my African American friends feel that uh I'm not saying that they feel it more than everybody else feels the brokenness of sin like you just described for us. Vaughn in the last show, you know, feeling the brokenness of sin. But the way that my African American brothers feel that particular issue, I'm willing, when I'm with them, to recognize that that's an issue. And Darren Gerald, Paul Foss, all of those guys, they preface everything to say, look, the point is, is that we all matter. And we want to make it really clear But that's what you can't say. Everybody Yeah, but the that's what I'm saying though, is that these guys are so this brings up your next question. Can we really redefine these precisely because all lives matter You can't do that. And pr and then there's a meme, multiple memes on this point too, where they've got signs. One of them's just adorable, cutest button, one of the most beautiful young black girls you're ever gonna see. Right, right. And she's holding a sign that she's too young to have written herself, so some adult in her person in her life wrote this for and handed it to her and they took a picture and it's now I I've seen it flooding um Facebook and social media and it says we never said we we said all uh black lives matter. We never said all lives don't matter. That's not true. It is the case. Yes, it is the problem. There's a lot of people in the discussion. And he also hosts a uh a hot topic sports show out in Sacramento, you know, and there's an old phrase uh in in people who are in talk radio, particularly that kind of Sports Talk Radio. Right. You know what they're trained? Right. They're trained to go on the air and have a take, don't suck. That's their instructions for the program directors. When you go on the air and you open your mic, make sure you have a take, don't suck Which means bring the fight, man. Be ready to you know have your facts and your data and take it and have a a vigorous, you know, spirited, fun good hearted debate of the case. Don't be the guy that goes on and say, yeah, yeah, I agree with you. Right. So this guy's job is to have a take don't suck and yet and he's also the play by play announcer for the Sacramento Kings. Right. Well one of the guys he knows through the NBA, former NBA player tweeted at him and the he tweeted back say, Hey, what's your take on BLM, Black Lives Matter? And so this guy, you know, being true to his persona with his radio show, uh Because Twitter's part of that persona. He tweets back that hey it's great to hear from you. Haven't heard from you in a long time. Thought you forgot about me, kinda wink wink, you know, basically being friendly. We're friends. I know you, you know me. Yeah You know, part of that's part of the persona's name dropping, like, I want to make sure that my fans understand I'm tight with this guy, so that's part of the strick. I get it. Okay. And then he ends it with an all paths, hey man, about the BLM thing, all lives matter, every single one. Right. The NBA team and the radio station fired him. Right. Because he said all lives matter. So you can't say Black Lives Matter and all lives matter in the canceled culture in which we find ourselves. You can't do it. Well so so this is uh I said this to you guys when we were off the air. I should probably let you say something. I'll fight to get the last port. Yeah, you fight real quick the ones fighting over the words. Uh uh Jonathan Sweiss is going to speak here in just a second. Vaughn Thurman's on the show. I'm Twice against the Faith Debate on 930 WFM Date. I was just going to say that ever since the American Revolution There's been a tendency for those that feel like the American Revolution didn't really get the job done and bringing freedom to everybody, which were the Jewish people that couldn't worship according to conscience in Maryland until eighteen twenty five, fifty years after the Declaration of Independence. Right. And African Americans that, you know, was until the Civil War that that's a very important thing to do. That would be a Maryland problem, not a United States problem though, because George Washington famously addressed the Jewish question in a letter to people who asked him exactly about whether they'd be allowed to f worship freely and in his response he made it very clear that the federal government anyway was totally on board with them freeing the way they want. So it was there was something screwy about Maryland even then apparently Yeah, yeah, so for the record uh we uh we castigate it because we live in it, you know, because we can. Uh so the point is is that is that ever since then though there's been a sense that maybe we needed to be more like the French Revolution, you know, and Karl Marx's whole thing, you know, is is a is a child of the French Revolution. You know, the whole Marxism stick. Same thing with Nazism and communism, all of those are are the natural historical children of the French Revolution. And even today there's a sense that that there's a Marxist thrust on our college campuses. you know, and among different groups on the left. And and this is important. Not all of them are that way. Not everybody that is Democrat is that way. And not and and and and so there's a spectrum, but there are a few that are clearly that. And and so when we start talking about the cancel culture, um it honestly the cancel culture is a is is a representation of that kind of totalitarian French revolutionary uh uh mentality seems to be called out totally. Yeah and I don't think most of the people supporting it realize what they're being pulled into. I remember um a KGB general being interviewed in the late eighties on I think ABC. Uh he had defected, he spent a few years here, and he talked about the concept of the useful idiots that they had developed in a lot of countries they took over uh a a group of people who they believed were leading a revolution in which they would come to power, but as useful idiots their intention was to sweep them out of the way and use their ability to foment violence and and discord as a means to come in and actually create their revolution. And and how they had gotten to the point they were beginning to make progress. Clearly the communist revolution, the October Revolution was that. Leading to this double revolution that led into Marxism. Exactly. that we have decided are unfair so that the secondary revolution can come in which just smashes everybody's hope to control. Right? And and says, we have the plan. We will be the central planners. We'll address this for you. I I So but let me go back to this Black Lives Matter things for things for just a minute. Not just the organization, because I I was kind of shocked today as I went out and looked at their what we believe statement on the web and saw that it's not just anti-Christian, but it is very clear pro-communist, right? It is surprisingly well organized. Right. It's surprisingly well organized for an organic organization Um and and it's also it was also surprising to me how little of their focus was actually on what they want to do for the African American community. and how much they want to do to overthrow systems of government and bring in things that look like and feel like totalitarian communism on the backs of dissatisfaction with and by the way, this is an old line. I remember there's a story about a snake. uh talking to a lady out of a tree, right? He says you should have uh you know he's giving you limitations and I want to give you everything, right? But I I'm getting into a sidetrack here. Genesis chapter two for those of you. If black lives really matter, here's where I'm going to get in trouble, but I'm just going to say it. Yeah, chapter three. If black lives really matter, do they matter enough for the black community to be willing to change? Because because what I'm hearing is that there isn't a clear list of demands. I have not heard yet somebody saying here's what we want governments or white communities to do short of defunding the police, which is leading to anarchy. That's not a practical or realistic or pragmatic path forward. So in the absence of clear demands, right, and then I'm just hearing rage and I'm hearing no path forward, And I know the heart of many people, pastors, business people, community leaders alike, is we want to run into the fire and figure out how we can save these people that we see as our brothers and sisters in Christ. Or our brothers and sisters in the community, what do you want us to do? If we reach out our hand, will you take it? The the answer to that cannot be no And and the tough question that I'm going to ask is related to uh another one of my stories, right? I sat over lunch with a guy named Mark Greathouse and a friend of his named Lynn Pierce, and I told them that I needed them to help me find an investor for my business. I'm a tech CEO today. It's uh the fifth entrepreneurial endeavor I've been in in my life. But I was convinced at this point, having never had real investor backers, that that was all I needed to be successful And and Mark looked at me a bit smugly and said, Money is not your problem. This is 2008. And it took me until 2012, and I'll credit a guy also well known in town as Ken Gaznell. uh of having some influence and being able to challenge me nice and get me to see that that my worst enemy was not the banker who saw me as white trash. It it was not my competitor who was better funded because he had a better degree. It it was not the unfairness of the system which only treated people with college degrees well or people who had the relationships they built in college that I didn't have it was none of the thing. My worst enemy was me. Wow. Right And and when I began to see that my worst enemy was me, I began to go through some very difficult scenarios and play out that if I'm my worst enemy, the only way for me to get past this enemy is for me to change. And when I look at what the African American community is going for or going through right now, what what rips me apart and breaks my heart is that no one can be Mark Greathouse to them. No one can lean across the table and say, you may be right that more money would help. Okay, let me translate that. You may be right That white privilege is making it difficult for your child to get the same opportunity, but to be able to lean across and look them in the eye and say, but that is not your problem. And and don't get me wrong, I'm not saying these things aren't real or they may not be contributing factors. What I'm saying is that I I am I am disgusted with people who have a clear understanding of what God calls for and the benefits, the privilege that we can gain from having a right perspective about the way God designed us to live and to interact in communities. and then not being willing to hold people accountable to it when they say, I'm not getting those benefits. I I I see African American communities that aren't working to economically educate their their kids that they aren't challenging them, inspiring them, supporting them, financing them to start businesses. They're they in fact they're spending more time. Now I uh a story that I I went to a black church in a city near us. I was excited to go because I had developed a really close friendship with the pastor. I loved the man to death. He excited he invited me to a uh a Saturday morning men's breakfast and I was excited to go. I didn't care that I would probably be the only white guy there. I didn't think in those terms. They had a guest pastor who had come in from another town. There was probably eighty men in there. And I know that everybody felt uncomfortable for me when that pastor stood up and didn't have another message prepared, so he read through the one that he had. This happened just a handful of years ago, like I said, not far from here. And he read a message that basically ripped apart white people, and it was to make people feel better. about the adversity that they were dealing with being somebody else's fault. And I think somebody needs to lean lean across the table and say, maybe that's not your problem. Yeah, and that's gonna be a real good endpoint, particularly because Vaughn got the last word. I'm very excited about that. Should I say something here? Because they have the last word though. I tried to be quiet. Anyway. So the one Unsuccessful in his attempts to be quiet, Jonathan Swipes. Vaughn Thurman was the one we thought was going to get the last word. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Real quickly, because I weren't going to have time to uh to expand upon it because we've got some other things we want to talk about in next week's show. But one thing that's frustrating, Jonathan alluded to it when we talk about Black Lives Matter the the as an organization. They do not believe in the nuclear family and them undercutting that is exacerbating the problem they uh pretend to want to solve in my opinion. Anyway. Thanks for listening. We're online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith will get you there. The drop-down menu of radio shows will get you there too. Thanks for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.