This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. Debate is on the worldwide web at WFMD. com keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with the Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary. The Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh yeah. Troy Skinner. Thank you for listening to Faith Debate all these many years, 13 and a half years in counting. The Faith Debate is then on WFMD online at WFMD. com. Check us out there. And you can check out uh the snippets of the Faith Debate even when you don't expect to. Uh last weekend I had the opportunity to be a guest on Jennifer Charlton Show, which airs on Saturday mornings at nine o'clock. Uh success happens. And so So um you might have heard it because nine o'clock on Saturday is very similar to nine o'clock on Sunday. However, in case you missed it, you know it's rare that the the tables are turned for me and that I have an opportunity to um you know, be on the guest side of things. And so I thought I'd share with you what that whole experience was like. So here's last week, or at least the first half of last week's show that I uh had the privilege of sitting in on with Jennifer Charlton, right here on this very same radio station, WFMD. Hope you enjoy it. Integrity was something that was so um not being attended to that now we're starting to pay attention to it. You're hearing it in the conversation, the public dialogue. communication right now is talking about integrity. And that really makes me excited because we often say in in a lot of the training that I've done is that without integrity nothing works You know, Lamarck Education is a place where I've done a lot of training and and they they often say without integrity nothing works. And it is so true because if you don't maintain a a high demand for around you and within you integrity. You know, just things start to break down from relationships to I don't know, cars if you don't get your oil changed, you know. So Um so that was last year and I think I think we accomplished quite a a bit and there's a lot more to do. But I invite us all to really deal with where where can I up the game on my integrity so that I'm operating a high level of integrity. Because I promise you one thing, when you operate at a high level of integrity Miracles happen. Stuff happens. Things show up. Opportunities present themselves. People like you better. You know, there's some added Bennies, but really take that on and I and I promise you you're gonna you're gonna see uh some exciting new uh things open up for you. But that being said, that was last year and here we are this year and how do we build upon that? And I and I and I looked around and I said, wow The level of nastiness is profound. You know, the rhetoric, the um toxic environment in relationships in communities of people, between communities of different communities of people. And um I just happened to run into Roger Wilson, shout out to Roger, uh uh new alderman for the City of Frederick last night out at dinner and, you know, Roger's a Democrat, I'm a Republican, so what? We get along, I like him, he's a good guy. You know, there's no need for this v vitriol that's been going on to really um divide us. And um we uh you know, I learn from people who don't agree with me a lot. And frankly I think I can teach them a few things. Um so so with that being said, I wanted to set up this show as an opportunity for us to really take on what I teach my son, which is to be sweet and kind. At all times be sweet and kind. And if you're if you know, now there's opportunities to check in and say, I don't know, did I just do something that was sweet and kind or kinda nasty? I mean I'm when I'm driving I'm not the most sweet and kind, but but um you know, and we'll never get it right a hundred percent of the time. Um but I I have somebody who's gonna share a story in a minute uh about about this because I think i you know, we talk about paying it forward There was a movie about that. We talk about random acts of kindness. And uh so that's my thing for this year. We're taking on random acts of acts of kindness, being generous, being sweet and kind. And so I was thinking today uh you know, c preparing for the show today Who could I invite to have come on that would be an example of that for me? Somebody who I really admire and respect, who I've had the opportunity to work with. who I think is sweet and kind. And I invited Troy Skinner to be here. So welcome Troy. So you couldn't find anybody who would actually fit the bill. No, but you are such an example of that. Your lovely wife. And I Dina and I and I think, you know Um what an opportunity for us to be together. You know, we started many, many years ago here at the station and we've both grown and uh probably about ten years ago maybe. I think it was oh six. Oh wow. Yeah, right? So here we are all these years later and I could say that you were the person that gave me my opportunity to entree into radio I'm sorry. But thank you. You know, I love I love being able to contribute to the thousands of people who listen to this show with, you know, my my silly little thoughts of random acts of kindness or integrity or whatever we're talking about. But I but I really do think it's a great opportunity to bring you in and And I want to talk about your show and some of the things that you've done and but all in the context of creating a whole new vibe out there in our society. And I appreciate the invitation. It's uh it's good for me to have an opportunity at least once in a while to be on the other side of the microphone, so to speak. I'm usually the one that's kind of driving the bus when I do my show. Right So be on the the guest chair is kind of a neat experience. So thank you for it. You're welcome. Even though I had to fight the bitter cold to get here. But but but did your coffee freeze on it on contact? It didn't. But um So so what we let's step the step back because some people may know you, they may not know you. You're the host of Face Debate on Sunday mornings at 9 a. m. Um you are a uh are you you're ordained I am. Okay. So you're that makes you an expert on the subject of faith to a certain degree. Um But you know, it takes something to become ordained, so I admire that about you. And uh but I also think you're somebody who is an example of faith in action. Hmm Yeah, sometimes a negative example unfortunately. But um Well you're human and we're all sinners, so don't be so hard on yourself, Troy. Um I think that's a big part of trying to make a difference and and be a person of action in faith and to be a person of integrity and to try to go about with acts of kindness changing the world with what what did you say, uh sweetness and kindness. Yeah. Um, is being self-reflective and examining oneself and not just pointing at somebody else and saying, you know I sure wish that person had more integrity. Right, right. But looking at yourself and saying, boy, I sure wish I had more integrity in that moment. I c I know better, I should do better. And you know, that self-examination, being self-reflective, not to self-flatulate, not to beat yourself up unnecessarily. Right. But to be authentic with yourself. You know, know thyself. Right. Uh take the log out of your own eye before worrying about the splinters in somebody else's eye kind of idea. We all have plenty of logs in our eyes. Well, and I think y you know, your point of authentic is is something that is also fundamental to who I am. It wasn't always you know, years ago, you know, you I was a pam pom and I was a you know Miss Maryland and if somebody says, How are you doing? You say that's good and you just, you know, you muster it up, you know And y we we live this layer of inauthenticity in life. Particularly on Facebook these days. Oh. Well and maybe sometimes you wish people would be more inauthentic. Different uh parallel universes side by side. You've got the the one universe where everything is happy and pom-poms and it life is good and smiling pictures of family. as if they never have a care in the world. And then there's the others that don't really talk about themselves personally, but they'll talk about things in the news, politics, political figures, you know, uh famous Hollywood types or whatever and they're bashing them. So it seems like people are And that's interesting. So it's it's these parallel tracks and it's not healthy. No, it isn't. No, it isn't. And I and I think, you know, I was thinking about this whole idea of being authentic and when is and and I I have been known to say that I had one staff person a couple of times and she showed up like so morose every day. And I said, look, I need you to bring happy perky. Because I, you know, for the most part, I show up happy perky. Don't be authentic with me right now. Pretend you're happy. Pretend. Please, please try. But um, you know That that idea that um there are times when it's appropriate to, you know, put on our best face, if you will, and get through something. We do that with our children. If we're afraid, we never want our children to see that fear Right. Yeah. You know, but um but so so so let's step back and talk a little bit about this idea of of of kindness. I I have a a This idea of random acts of kindness. And I learned something yesterday that I thought was fascinating. So we're going to take a call right now from um Coller, are you there? I'm here. Okay. Um and this is Darlene and and Darlene, share with us your your experience yesterday. Uh that was a random act of kindness. Okay. Um I was getting in line to go to Starbucks and um there was a car on the side and she was had herself in a position that she really couldn't get in the line. I let her in I don't think she realized I was in line as well, so she pulled in and we went through, ordered. And when I went up to the counter, the the young girl at the the booth there said the lady before you paid for your coffee. And I was just so touched. I was like, Oh my goodness, that's so sweet. It made me feel so good. The feeling was amazing. So I said to the young girl, I said, What should I do? Should I pay for the lady behind me? Because that just felt so good. And at that point I had no idea what the lady had ordered, but it really didn't matter It was passing the feeling on, not the cost of whatever it was. And um so the girl just shook her head and said, Up to you So I did and I pulled away and I felt even better and just hoping all day that everybody kind of passed that on. So when everybody left to go do whatever they were doing for the day They just had the nice feeling that I did when I pulled away. Because it was just something so unexpected. And it really lifts you when people are kind like that. And um, you know, I passed it on in hopes that everyone passed it on through the line. Isn't that great? I love that story. That is such a great story and I invite everybody today who's listening to take on a random act of kindness. And let's see if we can pass it on. You know, if you're standing in the in a in a coffee line, buy the coffee for the next guy. And it reminds me of a story I heard recently, so it wasn't me. Thank you caller. Sadly it wasn't me who had it who who did this wonderful thing, but uh somebody that was telling the story. Oh I thought you were gonna say Oh that was me. They I mean I it could be, I suppose. I could follow this example. That's right. A person was in a restaurant and they saw a couple of police officers sitting down and dining and they asked the server, said, you know, by the way, do you guys have a policy with the the the the men in uniform? Do they get a discount or eat for free or anything like that? I said, Oh no, they don't. They don't eat for free. We'll give them sometimes like a ten percent discount or something like that. So you know what? Uh put it on my tab, I'm gonna pay for them. So that was that person's act of kindness. And didn't want any credit, didn't want any attention. Well Uh the as the person was finishing up their meal, the police officers came and approached the table and said, Hey, by the way, what you did, we really appreciate it. There's so many people who don't appreciate what we do. In fact, a lot of people hate the police these days and uh it really meant a lot. to us that you would do that, so thank you. And he's like, I didn't want any attention. I actually asked the server to be anonymous and the police officer, Well, we have our ways of getting information from people So there was somebody at the other end of the restaurant who overheard all of this, and so when it came time for the person to pay their own bill, paying for the police officers their bill was covered by somebody else who said they wanted to pay for the police officers and saw that somebody else beat them to it so they paid for theirs. So there was like and here's the kind of the clincher. The original person who paid for the police officers was white. and the person who paid for the white person was black. So you've got the civilian showing love to the civil servant. Yeah. So there's there's that dynamic. Yes. And then you've got somebody of one quote unquote race, I believe there's one race, the human race, but in our vernacular, uh showing love to somebody of another race. I mean there's so many dominoes in that story, it's a really cool Example of how those acts of kindness can roll over. And I love what you're saying, Troy, about one human race. I mean what happened? What happened that we all became so segmented. No, and I and I wanna say this, you know, I I'm Swedish. I'm half Swedish, which is, you know, explains a whole lot. Ask my husband. But um you know, I got part Viking in me. But um but This idea that um we can be um connected to a culture. Um an orientation to what co kind of composes us, if you will. But at the end of the day, we're all human. And I and I think that part of this conversation is to make sure that we're we're really tuned into humanity as a single entity, not um you over there and me over here. Yeah, well, uh where does it start? I mean I guess uh y uh if you wanted to find a anecdotal story, you could go to the Tower of Babel where things got split in uh in the book of Genesis in the Old Testament, but uh just in the human heart with jealousy Uh and so we life is hard. You know, we live in a broken, fallen world where life is hard. Things are people it's really, really hard. Yeah. All of us have our challenges. You know, uh uh there's somebody who used to work here at the radio station that uh uh I think you probably would know if she hasn't been here in a long time, but I think she might have still been here when you first And she had a medical condition that nobody knew about for a long time. And finally the medical condition began to overtake her and she started missing a lot of time at work. And so when she came back to work, she was still struggling with it. Eventually, by the way, it it killed her. She died about two or three years ago. And but at this time she was, you know, in a uh a bloom of healthiness And so she came back to work and I said, I never knew you had this challenge. It's amazing And she said, Well I want to tell you something. I didn't reali I have a special needs son. She said, I didn't realize that you had the challenges that you have with your special needs son until just like a couple of weeks ago. And so we had this really cool dialogue. We learned more about each other's story. And from that point point forward I really learned a valuable life lesson. And that is if you think somebody else doesn't have problems, that just means you don't know them well enough We need to take the time to get to know somebody and their story. Everybody has challenges. Somebody living in a big mansion on top of the hill who seems to have everything made. You get to know their story and they've got moments of misery. You just gotta take the time. And it goes the other way too, those that have what seems like a life of nothing but misery, get to know their story, you can maybe help them to find those nuggets where they can have hope and hang on to the positives and benefits that they have. Um it's a good reminder for us, you know, the Uh those that are among the poorest in this country would be in the upper probably one percent of wealth worldwide. So even those that really have it hard, we can find something at a toehold and say, you know, as bad as it is, I can hang on to hope because there are others that have it worse. And those of us who feel like we have it So great, can you know can uh knock down a peg or two when we need to by realizing hey we're not all that all the time either. So it's it's a mix. It is. And I and I you know, I look at um the opportunities to contribute to others. We're going to talk about that when we come back. You're listening to Success Happens on Free Talk 930 WFMD. We'll be right back And actually let me tell you that you're listening to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. But also a friend and somebody I as I said earlier I admire very much for being a a really good guy. And, you know, when we look at creating an environment and a culture of being sweet and kind to one another, you know, it will take something. to deal with ourselves repeatedly when we're not that. And and also to give ourselves some a break. You know, we're human and we're you know, we're gonna make mistakes, we're not perfect. And um and neither is the next guy So, you know, cut them some slack. But I want to go back to this idea that you said before the break of getting to know people. And I've often said you'd never know what people are dealing with. But you took it a so give them some room to be human because you don't know what happened to them that morning that made them react to you that afternoon, uh, in maybe a negative way. But You know, the other thing is get to know people. That's the piece you added. I've kind of always stepped back and said, Well, I'll just let people kinda be how they are, right? But you're suggesting, wait, let's get interested. Let's ask somebody. Let's see how are you, really? Yeah, pressing in, obviously you don't want to press in when you're uh you know, not welcomed to press in, that's kind of creepy. Uh but making the attempt to press in uh and seeing if it's received well and you can s begin to build a relationship. If someone's gonna give you advice Uh I'll I'll use you you and me as an example. If I'm gonna give you advice, if I'm gonna pretend that I have any sort of authority in your life to give you advice I better actually have some quote unquote authority in your life, meaning that you I I need to know that you're going to hear what I have to say and it's going to mean something to you. It's going to carry weight, that my voice has authority in your life And we used to say willing willing to want to. Yeah, and if yeah, I haven't developed any sort of rapport and relationship in a dialogue where you truly get to know me and I truly get to know you, why would you listen to me? And why should I expect that you're gonna listen to me? So how am I gonna be in a position to help you? If you won't even listen to me. And I had a wake up call with this a number of years ago. My sister was struggling with some choices she was making in her life and I had moved uh f farther away from her and our relationship wasn't as close as it as as it had once been. And I miscalculated the level of authority that my voice would carry and so I was trying to give her advice and she completely rejected it. And I was cold cough like What just happened? And a good pastor friend of mine reminded me about this idea of the authority of the voice. Does your voice carry any authority in her life anymore? And I thought, you know. I need to repair the breach in our relationship and build it back up to the place where I will hear her voice with authority and she'll hear my voice with authority so we can help each other and build each other up. And so yeah, we gotta know each other Yeah. Otherwise we're people on Facebook sniping at one another, making enemies. Yeah. Oh my goodness. Yeah, what a mess. So so when we look at this idea of um getting to know people, it also is incumbent, I think, on the person and I'm gonna take it to the other side of this idea of being able to help others pardon me, in need. And that is, if you are somebody in need, you may have to be willing to ask for help. Because you never know who can help you, who's sitting next to you. But you have to know who you can trust. Well, there's a trust thing. So that's why again building the relationship. So you said some nice things about me. I appreciate that. So that leads me to believe that if you were really in struggles and you couldn't find anybody else, you would at least feel like, well, my last desperate plea for help could maybe be Detroit 'cause I know that he's not going to try to take advantage. Yeah. But you're not going to call me if you don't have some sense that that would be true. Well let me let me take it to a slightly I I in that instance I agree with you. I want to give you a different scenario. Um, I'm sitting in we're down at the shore for holidays and uh Christmas and New Year. And I'm sitting in a restaurant with my mom having lunch and this woman kept kept chatting with me. Who's sitting next to us? How are you? She had a whole group at table with her and I thought, Well, I don't want to, you know, infringe on their dinner, right? But she kept you know, talking with me. I finally said, you know, God has a plan and we always uh there's a reason we got sat next to each other. I turned to her and I said, What do you do for a living? And she said, I'm a social worker. I'm I mean no, I'm a I'm a caregiver. I said, You're kidding me. I said, I work for the agency that works with this. you know, caregiving and I told her about the Commission on Caregiving, which is an amazing new organization. And uh the a new uh iteration, I should say But the point being, here she was somebody that was in the world of my work and she says, Oh, by the way, the other lady over there, she's a caregiver too I thought, Wow, that's why I got sat here You know, so I think sometimes, and I'm gonna leave it on this note, we're gonna go to a break, God has a plan. He puts us together with people. We have to be willing to understand what is the plan Why am I here? Why am I in this conversation right now? And we're gonna continue the conversation, not right now, but next week. Jennifer has a show that's an hour long. Mine's only a half hour long, so We'll have to finish up. I wanna again thank Jenna for having me on her show last weekend. If in case you missed it, I'm playing it this weekend and the last half of it next weekend. It was uh it was a joy to reconnect with her. Uh I still see you from time to time but not as often as we once did. And it was it was really good to to catch up. So anyway, you can visit us online at WFMD. com, uh keyword faith. If you caught part of the show and you want to hear the rest, you can hear the podcast, give it a day or two, and the podcast will be up on the website and um next week's show will be up there. And previous shows are up there. You can listen to previous podcasts and you get a a sense of what's coming up on the future agenda on the show by uh uh by checking us out on on um say Facebook. You can do that too. Go to W F M B's Facebook page and kinda see what's going on with the Faith Debate page. But also go to WFNB dot com, the Facebook page the the faith debate page. Too many F words, I'm getting confused. Thanks for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.