This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all for Kua, where faith community leaders run. Over the truth. Yabah do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor. Teacher and founder of Bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Diff people can tend to interpret the Bible differently. Noticed? This raises the question how different interpretive groups have emerged and whether this is a good or a bad thing. Is it unfortunate or is it full of potential for deeper understanding This month on the show we've been talking through some of the different approaches by various hermeneutical schools of thought. There's your word of the week. In other words, groups that seem to perceive the scriptures and interpret them differently, and how so? On the panel this week, Jonathan Schweitzer, founder of Bridges, Reconnect. needs and resources in Frederick County and Michelle Rader who is among other things pursuing a master of arts and theology degree from St. Mary's College. And she's got a book that she has assigned to her as part of her study and I think that she helped as a research assistant or so I don't know I can't get all the the detail together, but she she's smart and she knows a lot of stuff. And last week I cut her off in the middle of a really important thing she was saying. So before you get into your thought from last week, the the historical note that you were that you were sounding, uh the book again is scripture and it's Interpretation edited by Michael Gorman and you can find it on Amazon. You can find everything on Amazon. Ain't that true? So you were making a uh kind of a a point on history, so Yes, just uh you know, a lot of people don't know. I wasn't aware until I read a book um on this last year by Philip Jenkins, The Lost History of Christianity that you know, for the first eight hundred thousand years of the of Christian history, the church in the East was actually very vibrant and there were more Christians in in the Eastern um church than in the Western Church. We're so used in you know as uh inheritors of the Western tradition to just only thinking of that part of the church. And in fact A lot of people who just don't even remember or that there is an Eastern Church, that there is still Eastern Orthodox. So when they say that, do they uh is he s like how far east? Is he talking like into India, into China? Or is he saying uh like, you know, as far as like Pakistan and and uh Afghanistan, like Yeah, more of the Central Asia and Middle Eastern there were Christians going as far as India and China. Um but the the big centers would have been more like you know Armenia and you know Iraq and you know what today are more the Middle East and the other. I have uh somebody I talked to once who was doing missions work in Japan. And one of the big challenges is the the Japanese to understand that this wasn't a Western religion. And he made it a big port of his argument to say, no, no, no, the the the the church has roots in the East even more so as far as the roots go, uh g long more long lasting and and uh initially deeper than even in the West. And then he makes the point about how uh Christianity has influenced the faith traditions within Japan without Japan even realizing that they're Christian influence. And once he's able to make that point and find a common ground, then they'll kinda hear him out. 'Cause it's not some foreign invader philosophy. It's Oh, so this is Japanese? Okay, I guess I'll listen. So it's inter it's we I don't I don't think we do the church any favors by constantly thinking in terms of Western ideas and and traditions. Absolutely. And I mean that goes right back to Paul certainly, you know, in his sermon on on Mars Hill in Athens, you know, looking for something in their culture too relate to and and it's a very different sermon than what he preaches and then too. The Middle East, you know, and and up into Asia Um is it possible that the um interpretive approach of those people in the church was more susceptible to uh what's the word to uh Islam then uh then the other part of the church. And you know, I've I I've wondered this only because Islam ends up being such a major uh player in world religion and of course Christianity and Islam fighting so much through the years and it and it appears to me like right at you know this Constantinople this place where Uh it was the Antiochine approach which was more literalistic in its interpretive approach as opposed to the the uh the Eastern Orthodox groups that were more allegorical in their approach. And uh and there's so much more going on than just interpretive approach there uh that it's probably too much to boil that down. But I've wondered often if If that was, again, something that God chose that that the groups that were more allegorical, they're the ones that got wiped out and So what ended up happening historically is that the one that survived, was that God's choice that that the more literal approach would survive as opposed to uh not like they both haven't survived. But certainly the one seemed to become more representative of the church that survived. Yeah, I don't I I haven't thought about it. I don't know if I'd want to put too much weight in on that because of the recurring theme of the remnant I mean the prevailing majority overwhelming view in Jesus' day among the Jews was the wrong view. So just because it's the majority view doesn't mean it's the the right one. I d I don't know if I'd want to put a whole lot of rank in that argument if it were me, but Yeah, if it's not the remnant view, it can't be the red view. Yeah, I think, you know, when you're looking at at historical sweep and and trying to, you know, nail down what is the deciding factor as to why a particular group survives or thrives or not, there's so many things involved in that So and you know, including things beyond that group's control, you know, violence, wars, things like that. It can be really hard to But an angel came down and told me what happened to that particular person. So that's how I know. And I mean just from even in the Bible you can see certainly very godly people who got martyred and wiped out. So We're starting to lean into the wind a little bit on the uh you know the idea of uh focusing more on the different traditions within Christianity. Uh but I had a note to myself, so I want to make sure before I move in that direction, is there anything that you guys might want to say uh about the uh the move across time that we haven't already talked about. The idea of the the pre modern we've we've talked a lot, particularly ancient terms. Um we haven't done the immediately pre modern stuff very much. I don't know if you have anything you want to say there. The modern era, and I would argue we've now entered into postmodern era. So do you want to talk about that at all? We've t have we s touched enough on those in our various discussions over the last you know two plus shows. And we should move on or well it probably is worth just saying that the Enlightenment and and the shift from, you know, pre modern and medieval times into a modern and and then ultimately a postmodern period has been huge in terms of impact on the church and on biblical interpretation. Um, you know, with the Enlightenment, understanding that as the time when, you know, what counted as knowledge really got redefined. You know, before that time um everybody believed that there was a God and it didn't seem possible to believe otherwise. And the Enlightenment was when um uh from Christians studying science, studying the material world, there started to grow this idea of um the material world and what can be studied and measured is really the knowledge that counts for public discussion and things that can't be measured or proved are not as don't count for as much as knowledge. And of course, you know, where does that leave scripture? Because it's both I mean there are obviously historical things that you can measure and verify in scripture and then there's a lot that's about faith and the spirit, so Yeah, in fact Aquinas uh is a key player in that because he's credited with uh with kind of the revival in the church of uh uh uh through Plato and Aristotle, er Aristotle in particular, kind of r reencouraging the use of reason uh as a major tool for thinking through um theology and how we interpret the scriptures and then Was it Lorenzo Valla that that uh though I don't think he was Christian, but he was saying back to the sources, he was saying, you know, let's go back to what Aristotle and the original Greeks taught taught, and but then it's uh Luther that says the same thing in the Christian world, you know, that Aquinas went the wrong way and there's too much use of reason. We need to go back to scripture, sola scriptura. Right? And so that There there's kind of a move away from just the scriptures and then and then a move back to it. But when we move back to it, it feels to me like a lot of the Allegory was taken out in in in with Luther and then Calvin. You know, there's this emphasis on what exactly does it, you know, the literal sense, what does scripture say? And so again, we have a major shift in Theology, you know, in how we approach the scriptures that happens at at that time frame. And it's and it's brought all of that has brought us to where we are today. So it's helpful to to think in terms of these I mean they're broad brush strokes. When you're trying to talk about entire people groups over millennia I mean you're really being almost dangerously generalistic. But it it it It can help to see these broad sweeps in time and how it's brought us to where we are. So to to your point, at one point everybody pretty much is thinking there's a God. or multiple gods. If there are gods of the supernatural or somebody who's controlling the thunder and the lightning and the and the c the the crop yields or the hunt successes or the the the uh the the birth of children, all of those sorts of things. So maybe it's uh I have my God, you have yours, or you have your slate of gods, I have mine. Maybe it's Yeah, mythological gods or idols that have been constructed out of raw materials or or Mother Nature is God, kind of a pantheistic idea. All these sorts of things are the competing interests. And then Yeah, reason and science and this enlightenment period comes along. And I would argue that that's not a uh saying that there's we've opened up the possibility of there being no God. I think that I would argue that that's rejecting all of those other gods that I just alluded to and replacing them with me as God. And I'm the arbiter of what's right and true and I'm gonna measure it and figure it out because I'm gonna be the one who's all knowing. And so we put our our faith instead of this supernatural entity into the natural entity over which we f like pretend we have control. And that's the modern era. And there were great advances that take place technologically and innovatively and you know living conditions and all that sort of stuff. However, some really horrible things happened as a result. Because when I'm my God, you're your God, we disagree, well the gods can war with each other and millions of people can die. And so now we're in what I think is the the early stages of the postmodern. We we've exited Yeah, there are obviously some remnants, but we've pretty much exited now the modern where we don't trust anything. We don't trust that there's a supernatural and we don't trust the natural. We don't trust m other men and women to make decisions and and do the the morally right thing or even to come to grips with what is the morally right thing. We can't know. We can't know good from bad. We can't know right from wrong. And of course we can't live that philosophy, so I think that the postmodern era will be a relatively short era, but it's where we are right now. It's going to have to snap into something else because it's not livable. I can't know that if I step out into that traffic a s that semi-tractor trailer won't squash me like a bug. Well well yes you can. Just go step out in front of the semi-tractor trailer and see if it squash you like a bug. You can know what you think you can't know. So it's not livable. So that's where we are now, and the b people are grappling with the Bible with with this influence. I can't know if it's true. I can't know if there's even a God who wrote was involved in writing this. I can't trust my pastor. I can't or my my colleague who's telling me what to believe about it. So we end up not being able to trust anything and then ultimately even ourselves. So how might that influence the passing on of the faith tradition? How might that influence Bible translation? Will there be a postmodern Bible translation within 20 years? And what would that look like? Can we even imagine? It feels to me like we're at the end of a season of reason. That was a quote. If you write a book you gotta call it that. is all about recognizing the limits of reason and even some of the interpretive techniques in the uh emergent church you know, uh the uh the next generation millennial and X generation theologians that are uh that are postmodern in their approach, it seems to me like like what they're doing is they're the the service that they're giving to the church, let me put it that way, is a service that says, uh, reason is not as powerful as we think it is. You know, so let's let's question a whole bunch of things right now. Almost like it's a cleansing of you know the last couple hundred years of uh theological um hubris. You know, and and and it's a it's a time of cleansing all that out, helping us to come back to okay, what is it that that is really stable, you know, and reliable? In in that sense, that's a good thing, even though in this season uh a lot of people are throwing out a lot of stuff that shouldn't be thrown out and likely people uh will, you know, not make it to heaven, you know, that there's that that there's people that well I don't know how far I want to go with that. That was such a judgmental approach to go. But it but it just occurred it it's it's felt to me like we're in a very dangerous era. You know, where so much is getting thrown out that that we're we're losing our faith in and so now that I've found uh a positive way to look at all that, you know, maybe maybe it's not as much as I thought it was. Well I think every age has pluses and minuses. And it's very tempting to l you know look back at a different age and say, oh they had it better then. You know, C. S. Lewis says we should read old books not because people in a different time didn't make mistakes, that they didn't make the same mistakes that we make. And um You know, I think you can look at it each time period and you can see things that were maybe brighter than what we understand now and you can see blind spots. We undoubtedly have blind spots that other ages will look at and laugh at. But I think that's a good idea. But I don't know. I don't need to do it. This is the the hubris of our age, the evolution, you know, that We know better than every other age that has come before. But I think postmodernism has brought some good insights because like you said, it has you know it has really questioned this idea of modernism that if we can just assemble all the objective data we can know for sure. And postmodernism is really, you know, have the more humble insight of, you know, there's nobody, there's no individual person or individual group or individual culture that can ever um have an objective view from which to assemble all the data and know something completely. That's accelerator with a really generous uh way of of describing the postmodern view. And I appreciate that, Ashley. And and Jonathan Schweitzer is the one saying we're living it. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the fate debate on 930 WFMD. Yeah, because there is there is a humility in acknowledging that we can't figure it out, but there's also the hubris of saying that it can't be known You know, there is no absolute truth. Well, that's an absolute true claim. And so that's why I say it's not livable. It doesn't and if if we're not careful, if the if I think we can glean helpful insights if we borrow a postmodernist script for a while and examine our own faith through that lens. You know, reveal some things to us in surprising ways. But if we grab onto it too much, I think we'll rob ourselves of a language with which to explain, articulate, and defend our faith. Because you have no language left. Things don't mean anything anymore. We're seeing that in in the broader culture right now, right? Male and female don't really mean anything anymore. Uh it's it's whatever you decide you are in the moment sort of a thing. Well if if it's if things are are that fluid, you can't have any sustainable communication. Well, I think that um, you know, as a Christian we would say there is absolute truth, but I think the humble postmodern perspective as Christian is to say that no one person or one group can claim to arrive at a place where they know all that truth. Only God is the only one who is truth and knows all truth. And I think that's been the blind spot in a lot of previous generations and approaches is this idea of well me and my group can know all the truth. We do know all the truth. And that's what has caused a lot of the conflict or a lot of the oppression um over I think there are certain truths that any Christian can know with absolute certainty. Right? There are certain they're the foundational, fundamental truths of the faith. And we we could we all can and should, if we're Christians, agree on those things. It's the areas where we end up talking about on this show, where we have to agree to disagree. And and we have to be humble and say, you know what? I might I think I know, but I might not know the answer to that question. What do you think? And and and a allow my iron to sharpen iron, right? Allow my my fuse to be sharpened. uh the argument since we're the faith debate, you know, that, you know, the sound of freedom. Yeah, yeah. Thomas Jefferson, that great theologian, uh said back in the day. Uh but uh When we think about where reason in in Aristotle kind of kind of re It was Lady Berg Johnson, by the way, not developed Who said that phrase? Clash of ideas as sound of freedom was Lady Bird Johnson. It wasn't Thomas Jefferson. No, it's gotta be Thomas Jefferson. He had a lot of really good quotes with that. How is it that Aristotle and reason was brought back to to um Aquinas, right? It was brought back because the Muslim uh theologians had had kept it alive, right? M Muslim theologians, philosophers, uh uh uh educators. And then Aquinas grabbed a hold of it. But I feel like what happened then in the Western world is that we went ahead and tested the limits. I mean it's been a long thousand years of testing, you know, the limits of of reason. and where that could go, but but it's brought us to this, you know, place of postmodernism in a way that I think uh you know, kinda eats the meat and throws out the bones uh of Greek philosophy. I mean what Nietzsche w was so great at was that he uh he recognized that our attempt to use reason to analyze God had left them dead. You know, we cut them into so many parts that, you know, it it's it's unreasonable. It's it's it's no longer valuable. And so you know, the the rise of postmodernism, you know, really for the last century. It's not just something that's happening in, you know, in in this century. It's something that was really happening over the last century. That rise of postmodernism uh is is not the death of reason, but it's it's certainly the corralling of it in and recognizing that the goddess reason uh should not be a goddess, should not be worshipped. You know, there's a role for it, there's a place for it, but you know, that we need to put it in its place. And argument has allowed us to get there, you know, as a culture. I think that's a good thing. Yeah, what I understand, I think you know what we now think we understand about postmodernism, I think it you know, it really begins to take its current form following World War Two. Well, people were really baffled by what the heck just happened. Uh and then it gets a lot of momentum with the cultural revolution of the sixties Uh and by that point the seminaries had had gone off the deep end for in large measure. Uh and so it just gathered more and more momentum and by the By the late nineties it was a fait accompli that postmodernism would overtake modernism. And I think within the last fifteen years, I mean I can't peg it, but within the last fifteen years I think it's happened. Did it happen fifteen years ago, fourteen years ago, ten years ago, I don't know, but within the last fifteen years it's kinda happened where I think postmodernism is winning the day I guess modernism. There's still kind of a cultural clash going on, but that's that's my understanding. The world according to Troy. Yeah, and so I would take it back as far as Samuel Taylor Taylor Coleridge and um Uh who's the uh the poet from up in uh you know that's the thing. But I'm talking about a cultural movement that that's more than just the philosophical smart guys that we can't even understand when we read them. I'm talking about the Beatles Okay. Yeah. After about a hundred fifty, two hundred years of of it being uh thrown around by show number three is done. That was quick. I know, right? We barely I barely feel like this one got started. There's so much more I want to talk about. Maybe uh next week I'm gonna throw out there a couple of idea starters and then just say go And uh we'll see what happens. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, Michelle Rader, I'm Troy Skinner, you are you, and you're listening to the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. Visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith, or you can look at the drop down menu for There you'll find uh John's picture. Huh? Good looking guy. My picture, our bios, uh uh links to podcasts of previous shows, and uh it'll also tell you what next week's show is gonna be. Very nice. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless