Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local religious leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. In the spirit of Thomas Jefferson who said the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom, we hope to seriously wrestle with important ideas, even at the risk of disagreeing with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling we will come to a greater understanding and appreciation of each other and more importantly We hope that you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. This week we're going to talk about tolerance. Lots of stories in the news these days about uh intolerance and tolerance. For example, Duke University will allow same-sex commitments uh com uh commitment ceremonies in its famous Gothic chapel, a move cheered by some students and criticized by others Duke is affiliated with the United Methodist Church, which prohibits same-sex ceremonies, but the schools said the chapel is a university facility, not tied to any particular denomination. Emory, Harvard, and Stanford Universities all allow such ceremonies already. Wake Forest University allowed a lesbian couple to hold same-sex union in its chapel in September. Might have heard about this one. A jury made up of United Methodist Church clergy convicted a lesbian minister of violating church law by openly living with her partner in a committed relationship Methodist Law Bars self-avowed practicing homosexuals from ministry. Before the jury returned, Irene Eli Elizabeth Stroud That's the pastor's name, told reporters that whatever the verdict, this case has shown how divided we are over the role of gays in the church. Uh Stroud's supporter of Philadelphia Congregation has already agreed that she can continue doing her work as a lay employee. without clergy status. Two leading U. S. television networks angered gay rights groups by refusing to carry an ad by a church welcoming gays to their congregations, a message the networks found too controversial. The United Church of Christ said the commercials aimed at making gays feel included, and they were disappointed by CBS and NBC's decision to reject it. Jesus didn't turn people away, neither do we, apparently was the message of the ad. Of course the key issue of gay unions uh in last uh in the uh elections, I guess it was last month, right? November is last month When millions voted against same-sex unions and backed President Bush, who made opposition to gay marriage part of his election platform. Um The Reverend Albert Muller, president of the Southern Baptist Theological Seminary in Louisville, Kentucky, says, We are all sinners But we cannot remain in our sin and just bless a lifestyle that says we accept it when the scriptures clearly condemn it as sin, and by it he meant homosexuality. So here to talk about these issues I welcome back Jonathan Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel, and uh Khalil El Shazli, President of the Islamic Society of Frederick. Thank you for being with us again, both. Good to be here. So what's the matter with all these churches and their intolerance and their hate filled uh language, which by the way, uh you think it's a stretch, those listening who think it's a stretch to say that, in Canada The Bible, reading the Bible in public is uh in some places I understand considered to be hate speech. So what's wrong with us hate-filled, God-fearing individuals? Well, I just can't tolerate it. That's all I've got to say. Can't tolerate any of it You know, Troy, it's it's it's interesting to me because um the the question simply comes down to this. What do we tolerate and what do we not tolerate? 'Cause clearly Clearly there's some things that cannot be tolerated. You know, uh nobody's gonna recommend that we tolerate like Hitler doing what he did, or nobody's gonna recommend that we tolerate um uh somebody like um um like a killer, a serial killer, you know, or nobody nobody's gonna tolerate Enron and their white collar criminals or Martha Stewart getting away with insider training. I mean clearly at some point All of us have to draw the line and and I I think it all comes down to I it I think it all comes down to this, Troy. If I was going to be honest, Calypso, if I was going to be honest, I think the question is, what do we think Is going to cause society and our relationships with one another to break down and be less than healthy and what is not. And it seems to me that that's the point at which we we begin to quit tolerating things. You know, some people think that Well all of us think that getting away with killing your neighbor is intolerable, so we make it against the law. But When we when we uh break you you know come down to sex outside of marriage, when we come down to homosexual relationships, some people say homosexuality is intolerable and you just should not allow it in society. You shouldn't allow it in your religion. Other people say that it's intolerable to allow adultery outside of the mar uh outside of the marriage. You know, and then there's even some people that are gonna say that I don't I don't even tolerate you showing you know, your wife showing too much skin. in public. You know, and that's intolerable. The question is, at what point does something become unhealthy? And it seems to me like that's really the issue is health, you know, and different ones are going to draw that line in different places and the and Somewhere we have to ask ourselves the question, are are we destroying society by uh being too tolerant of too many things? Well we have to differentiate between tolerance and acceptance and what's what the scripture and what God asked us to do. Uh first of all, homosexuality is condemned By God, period. It's in the scripture, it's in the Quran. Uh the people of Lot, it's a story that we're told about in the Quran, the time of Prophet Abraham uh what happened to them and uh Khalil has wasted no time in saying exactly what he thinks and I think there's a bunch of people out there that are gonna claim that he's intolerant but we'll get to that. I'm sorry, this it's interesting to me that that we dive right in. It's good. I like it. So uh you know the stories we're told were told to uh it's not the bittime stories that were told in the scripture. It's it's uh for us uh to set an example of what to do and what not to do. Uh having said that, uh if people practice uh homosexuality or whatever, even though it is condemned We can't discriminate against them. But what rights do they have to impose their ideas on us? What do you think about the idea of the people who are not going to be able to do that? as a religion or Islam as a religion has clearly communicated from its that from its scriptures that that this is something that that is inappropriate. Why is it that Like this lesbian minister, Methodist minister, why is it that that she should claim that somehow we're being less than tolerant? if she wants to try to change our religion to accept these things all of a sudden after all these years. I mean who's being tolerant and who's being intolerant? Tolerance versus jump in too quick. They they are asking us to compromise on our religious values to uh accommodate their lifestyle. And and that is wrong. You cannot do that. Now John earlier when you were talking earlier, uh John Sweiser from Crossroad Valley Patton Chapel, you were saying that it's an issue of health and what's healthy, what's unhealthy for society, for us as individuals, whatever. Yeah Who decides what's unhealthy? And I'm guessing based on what Khalil just said that uh, you know, the scriptures who decides. What's that is that a is that a fair statement? Yeah, I would say both Khalil and I agree to this statement that that the scriptures that we choose, me, the Bible, him, the Quran. I don't know if I say that Quran. That for for both of us we believe very strongly that God Himself has inspired those scriptures And so therefore, I think both of us would say that God as the creator created us to live and to work a certain way. I like to use the uh the toaster analogy. I don't use a toaster to heat my coffee. Uh I'm uh I don't I'm gonna get sparked. I'm gonna get hurt. If I try to use a toaster I don't use the toaster to try to bang nails into the wall. A toaster was created to toast toast And I don't put eggs in it, I don't put cornflakes in it, I put my toast in it, and when I do funny thing it seems to work really well. And we have a cop aesthetic, nice, relaxed relationship. But You know, if so the point is simply this. God created us as human beings, man and woman, to to to uh to be in union with one another. And and a marriage would be between a man and a woman. Uh it would be for purpose of procreation. And I believe from scripture it would be for the purpose of of uh sexual pleasure uh that God intended for it to be a beautiful thing and he intended all of that uh in a righteous relationship he created us to be that way and and the bottom line is Uh from my experience the the homosexual relationships, gay relationships, they have uh Sure, I'm gonna come out and say it here on public radio. See what you got me into, Troy? I blame it all on you. Commercial radio. See what am I thinking? And by the way, just it has nothing to do with what we're talking about except that you don't put toast in a toaster. You take toast out of a toaster. You put bread in a toaster. Yep. See, some people just have to split hairs. Here I am trying to have a conversation. I think the question uh or your question should be How would they practice the lifestyle uh and the rights will be protected under the constitution? They could live the lifestyle as much as they want. They just don't have to shove it into our faces I th my my kid doesn't have to go to school and learn about homosexual and and and and their relationship, whether they should be married or not. They chose that. This is the lifestyle that they chose Okay, fine. Live it, live it privately, don't impose it on me. In fact, I'm not imposing my religious values on them then they should not impose their lifestyle and try to teach my kid that it is okay to be gay or homosexual. Now let me say that we did uh in invite someone to be on the show who uh we anticipated would have a more uh inclusive tradition in in their faith. uh and they were unable for whatever reason to make it. And so this is sounding like a lopsided one sided argument. So I'm gonna take up as best I can. Okay, you'd be the the the argument of the other side. Okay. All right. Sorry. Calilo said that. Calillo has called Troy Devil's Abbey. Yes, I'm I'm one of Satan's opinions. Um what's that growing out of your head, Shaw? So you said a second ago, Khalil, that they choose that lifestyle. Those who would argue would say that it's not a choice. You're born that way. And if Scrip and we've also said earlier in the show that Scripture says it's wrong, and there are those who will try to argue from Scripture saying that nowhere in the Bible, for example, does it explicitly say that So what do we say on those two points? How did this turn into a discussion only about homosexuality? Is it because all of your stories came out of uh homosexual Uh most of the thing. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, because tolerance doesn't just apply to that. I mean there's so many other points to that, but for now Starting here. All right, all right. I'm with you. I'm following this. Okay, anyway, back to your question. What was your question? Well the question is to those who are going to say, well wait a minute, you know. It's not a choice. two homosexuals to begin with, we wouldn't be here today. So the Adam and Eve, Adam and Steve obviously, right? Absolutely. Absolutely. Hey, you know what? I I worked for uh about uh two months back when I first started my career out of college at um as a temp uh I was sent to the uh Central National AIDS Data Clearinghouse and I worked there in this place that was the AIDS clearing house. uh for i if you wanted any information about anything having to do with AIDS, you would call this place and they had I mean they had videos, they had um uh articles, they had books, they had uh research, they had everything came in through this place. Right, and and as I was working there, there's one thing that I noticed very consistently that AIDS as a disease always was closely associated in its origination with gay communities. Now, there's a lot of people out there that try to say, okay, well this this is what they would say. Okay, you're just saying that it's only a disease that is attacking gay people. And I'm not saying that. I just want to make that very clear Clearly, anybody that's having sex with somebody that's had sex with somebody that's had sex with somebody that leads back to somebody that's had gay sex You know, it's not just something that affects homosexuals, it affects everybody that's in the sexual chain. All right, so clearly it doesn't just affect homosexuals, it affects everybody except for those in a committed married relationship. And so this this is the interesting thing to me. We deny that this is the case. And then we turn around and we wonder why it is that Africa or some of these other nations that that are less protected sexually end up reaping the benefits. I I my my sense is that that homosexual people here in the United States are wealthy. They're well off, they're very educated across the board. Uh they they tend to be uh pretty hard-working individuals, uh and yet By their claiming that this is only a gay d uh that that this is not only a gay disease but but that it's all these other things, the poorest people around the other side of the planet that don't have protection against sex and these kinds of things end up reaping the benefit or the curse or whatever you want to call it. Did I just use that word? End up reaping the the uh the pain the consequences of their choosing to to deny that there's a connection between these two. Yeah, I want to it's very unfortunate. You're painting with a pretty broad brush. First of all I am. I think that uh an awful lot of people who would come from your tradition are going to agree with the sentiment of what you said. However, we have to also concede that There is intraven intravenous drug use that causes the transition of vague. Exactly. There's drug transfus uh blood transfusions. Yes. There are other instances besides so somebody in a committed Uh marital union could end a woman without ever having sex with anybody other than their spouse. Absolutely. Absolutely. But You're not suggesting are you, Mr. Sweitzer, that uh somebody has aid that's well it's their fault and you know I I am suggesting this that God created mankind to work best Like the toaster, he intended us to work best in in married relationships and for kids to be raised in those kind of relationships. And when we step outside of that, whether it's through adultery, I mean how many STDs are there out there? They're everywhere. Nobody ever talks about those. Everybody talks about AIDS, but more people percentage wise are dying from other sexually transmitted diseases than they do from AIDS anyways. Why don't we have this major push for uh taking care of these these other people and helping them although they would claim that, you know, through condoms everybody's talking safe sex But the point is, is the safest sex is always found in a committed married relationship. And I would love to debate somebody on this show. I I I just say it again. We invite anybody from any religious, spiritual um uh direction that would like to disagree with us on the show because we need to debate these publicly. And if they don't come on, what's gonna end up happening is your viewpoint and other viewpoints like yours are will be the only viewpoint that will be represented and we'll have an opportunity to brainwash the masses. If people are unwilling. I mean who's intolerant in that case? Oh, yeah. A reminder, you're listening to the Frederick Face debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. My name is Troy Skinner. Our guests this week are John Sweitzer, the uh pastor of Prosper Valley Chapel And Khalil El Shazli, President of the Islamic Society of Frederick. And we're talking about intolerance, and we're going to drift from the homosexual intolerance question in just a second. But before we do that, uh Those who would be critical of what's been said so far are going to accuse you of being narrow-minded. Um your faith is exclusive, you're wanting to ostracize those who are different from you. Those are the kinds of charges that are gonna be levied against you. So is it a fair I mean, should they be ostracized? Let me ask you that. I'm the I'm from m my opinion, no, they should be ostracized. But I'll let you guys speak for yourself. Connelly, you wanna go first on that? How do we handle these guys? Well, if they want to live the life they should just leave us alone. Uh why do we have to bear uh the consequences of AIDS and and the money that we have to pay for the research. If the gay and the drug addict community pays for AIDS research and AIDS medication, fine. So be it. Uh but we always bear the consequences because of the if their life forbid uh you know But uh you know, these are the economic consequences. But on on their social lifestyle, they could live in this country they could live anywhere they want to. Just don't impose Your views on me. Don't say don't come to me and say, you know, we're a gay couple and we'll get married and we're gonna get all the benefits, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. No, okay. So see see this is part of the pr part of the the danger of having a society that is that is a lawsuit oriented society. 'Cause if I'm fat, I'm going to sue somebody else for for me ending up fat. If uh if for some reason I'm uh my marriage doesn't work out, then I'm I'm gonna I'm gonna sue other people for my marriage falling apart. If for some reason um the environment isn't what I what I want it to be, then I'm gonna sue somebody else. Th this this attempt to sue everybody else in order to make my life easy I I just think the legal mentality is an intolerant mentality. I would define in fact intolerance as those people that use legal means to uh to impose their views on other people. And clearly Christianity is no longer in any place allowed to even come close to uh to being advocated by government money. But all through the school system they're using government money, your taxes, my taxes in order to push the the homosexual agenda. They're doing the same thing to to push anti smoking. They're doing the s and I don't even like smoking. Uh they're they're doing the same thing to push uh, you know, um the uh the whole uh uh obesity uh legislation. And I don't even you know, I I would preach against overindulgence and and uh gluttony as a sin, but as soon as I use the law system to impose those views on other people then I've become intolerant. And I'm shutting down voices and I'm shutting down influence using government money to do that. And that's the point at which I think intolerance goes too far. See if this these people, do they have jobs? Yes. Do they live comfortably? Yes. Yeah, profoundly. Anybody discriminating against them because of their orientation? No. They need to go to court. Regardless of w you know what it is it discriminated against. But imposing their views On everybody else. That's what we're against. All right. Well, and they they would say that they're the ones having views imposed upon them. The three stories that we highlighted at the beginning of the show, let's go through those. One of those dealt with uh homosexual union. Uh the U University of uh Duke University gonna let their chapel be used for uh for gay marriages. And it sounds pretty clear like you guys will both say gay marriages shouldn't happen. Yes or no? Yes. I agree, yes. Other story was the uh United Methodist uh female uh pastor, congregational leader, I don't know if they call them pastors in the United Methodist denomination. Pastor. Pastor. Uh is in a committed homosexual union with an with a woman. She's she's an admi an an admitted lesbian. Should she be allowed to continue as a pastor? Yes or not? I'll plead the first. I'll let John handle this. Um I and I bet Khalia would say this if somebody in a uh more liberal uh Islam, Islamic synagogue or uh sorry, mosque were were to uh move this direction, I think you would say the same thing. The point is is that if Christianity clearly teaches that homosexuality is wrong, then it's clearly its leadership should not be in committed homosexual relationships. Absolutely. The point is is that that That is the definition of a religious worldview. Your religion is given the authority to tell you what you should and should not be doing. It's the it's the big should question, what what you should do and shouldn't do. And so anyways I um uh I would simply say that uh that a lesbian Christian minister is a contradiction in terms. Okay, but yeah but Homosexuality is a sin. According to the Bible. The Bible. Right. And according to the Quran. The Quran and the Quran. So it's a sin. Does the Quran use that language, sin? Yes, sir. Okay. Okay. I thought it did. And that's why you're saying that they shouldn't that uh that the pastors shouldn't because it's a sin, they're practicing it, they shouldn't then pastor a congregation. Not publicly practicing it. Now I'm not saying that there aren't pastors out there that sin occasionally. In fact, as a pastor, I would clearly say that there are times when I do the wrong thing. The question is my attitude. Whether or not whether or not I'm arrogant about it And preach to everybody that I should be allowed to keep doing it as much as I want, or whether or not I say, you know what? I need help I need somebody to help me to stop being this way and I need to stop being this way as quickly as possible. Okay, so so far, gay union is unhealthy, shouldn't be so shouldn't be recognized by by society as a whole and uh gay pastors, lesbian pastors is uh inconsistent with the the teachings of the religion uh religious tradition. Okay now let's talk about and maybe this is where you're headed. Well the third thing is those who aren't in a leadership position but want to attend the church You have a gay couple. They approach you, John, or they approach you, uh Khalil, and say, Hey, we want to come visit your congregation and maybe uh you know maybe visit every weekend and become a part of your your your your family of worshippers. What do you say to them? He tried to help them to uh go to go on the right path. Uh he tried to help them to repent, you try to advise them uh that uh what they're doing is wrong, what they're doing is a sin. Uh having Or being a homosexual and being in the place of worship uh contradicts the message of the Lord So you have to they have to understand that, you have to convey this message to them and you have to try to help them to uh break away from that. John? Yeah. Um I just gotta say this again. I I feel like this whole topic is such a complex topic, um, especially for those that are in the lifestyle that um that I you know, and and I even hear this in Khalil's voice as as he shares it. Uh it's not it's not something where you can just look him in the eye and simply say stop. There there's there's a process that that they've got to go through in terms of dealing with different things and Um it's crazy. Uh but I'm saying it, aren't I? I I I think that for any Christian that has accepted Christ and chosen Christ to be their Lord and Savior, uh, that if they want that commitment to have integrity, then they would have to deal with all those things that cause them to sin and cause them to live contrary to the clear teaching of Scripture. And homosexuality being one of those things, I would say that that is one of those areas that they would have to take the time to think through. And I've heard plenty of testimonies of people that have come out of the homosexual lifestyle with with major success and even gone back and identified uh what it is in their past that uh that even caused them to go down that road. In fact, why is it why is it in the homosexual uh uh world That it's it's just an ongoing joke. Everybody knows it that their relationship with their parents is not phenomenal. And that either their father, either the mother, or they're somewhere along the way, that there was just major brokenness uh in in hurt and pain. Now I'm not saying they're the only ones uh that homosexuals are the only ones out there with that kind of pain. I'm just saying that there's a pattern there that uh that I think that they can find peace in their heart for why it is that those things were the way that they were and and uh resolution to these issues that have that have uh chased them their whole life, you know, and uh I I think there's a measure of denial that uh uh that at some point I think they're gonna come to realize that they'd like to they'd like peace instead of just the pleasure. And I think they're chasing the pleasure at some level right now. But we're gonna let that be the last word for this uh episode. We're gonna pick up the tolerance question and we're gonna steer away in our in the in next week's show uh from the from focusing exclusively on homosexuality. But we did that this week for a reason. That is the centerpiece of the tolerance issue right now in today's modern American society. So we Wanted to tackle that head on and I really wish somebody who could speak to that view better than I could represent the other side, but maybe we'll be able to do that in a future show. Thank you again for listening to this week's edition of the Frederick Faith Debate. I'll be back again next week to talk about tolerance again and uh actually talk about tolerance's role on and an effect on the religious on the uh on the uh holiday of Christmas and and everything that happens during this holiday festive season. That's next time on Federal Faith Debate on WFM Day.