Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to us on your favorite radio station. Right? Your favorite radio station? Of course it is. You can find it online at uh WFMD. com. You can find uh us and the show uh at that website. You can also find us at Household of Faith in Christ dot com uh on the past of that church. I'm Troy Skinner. You heard the, of course it is, voice pop in there. That was Daniel Razby. He's on the panel again this week, along with Imron Razby, known as Raz to his friends. You can find them online at concordbylove. org. They co-pastor a church called the Church of ETH. at Imran's house. And we are joined yet again by Josiah Bonjoani. He wrote a book called The Head Covering. Encourage you to look that up online and learn more about arguments in favor of wearing a head covering for for women. and actually the argument against men wearing a head covering when uh praying and prophesying. That's what you'll find in that book. But we're not talking about that. Uh this week we're talking about irresistible grace. Or are we? Because last week we were supposed to talk about a limited atonement and we never really got there. Because the last couple of weeks before that we talked about total depravity and unconditional election and we didn't really have a chance to finish all our thoughts on that and so it's just become a mangled mess at this point. But I think that helps to illustrate the point that the what are called the five points of Calvinism. Uh they are intertwined in such a way that they're if not impossible, very, very hard to separate and s and and run through the strainer and and uh put put one in one pot and one in another pot. They are th the they're the the tentacles are so intertwined and and and and sticky to one another But if you talk about total depravity, you end up talking about the other four points in the discussion. If you're talking about unconditional election, you talk about the other four points in the discussion. And so even though we haven't specifically addressed limited atonement We kinda sort of have uh in theory, because the idea behind a limited summer, which is also called particular redemption or definite redemption, is that those totally depraved people upon which God places his unmerited favor, those are the ones for whom Christ has atoned their sin. So they're all inner interrelated and and irresistible grace is those that he has done that for, uh they will effectively be called by God. They can't help but uh uh obey I guess to to to God's will in these matters because God has known from the beginning of time uh you know who those people would be and his will cannot be thwarted. So they're all interrelated. So with all four of these now thrown into the mix a little bit, we can we can maybe build upon and expand upon the conversation around the acronym TULIP Uh the the the last one that we haven't mentioned uh at all this week is Perseverance of the Saints. That's the P in Tulip, also called the preservation of the Saints or Eternal Security, and we'll talk about that maybe more next time. We'll see Anyway, so we've uh we've got in the room somebody who used to be Arminian, who's now pretty staunchly reformed in his thinking. That would be me We've got somebody who seems to be pretty much uh I don't know about if he was ever Arminian, but as far as where he is now, pretty much in agreement with where I am, that's Imran Razvy. Uh Daniel Razvy hasn't said anything that's perked my ears as a as a on the show anyway, as something o about which we disagree, although he promises me there's more to come. And then Josiah Bonjoani, he has said absolutely nothing that's true and right I'm just getting uh Josiah Bonjourney is he he wouldn't uh he he wouldn't necessarily self-label as Arminian, but uh accidentally or n or on purpose or or whatever He kind of represents an Arminian uh view on the Bible in the conversations we've been having. Actually I don't know. I I think uh after hearing um Josiah, I think I would do it a little bit differently. I don't think he's Arminian. He believes in free will and he believes in the concepts of tulip, but not as an end all. They make some sense But I think it's r it's mixed in with free will. So think I only agree with the T and and to total depravity and only to a limited extent Um as I alluded to last week, if I took the time and took five, ten minutes to give a a a a full orbed definition of how I understand or how I rec think I recognize that other reformed thinkers understand total gravity and say so that's what's in view Do you agree with that? He would end up saying no, I think, based on what we've heard so far. But you could zero point. uh all three of the first points. For example, if if I would say, do you believe that man has a s has a sin nature and yes is is separated from God in his natural state? Yes. Okay. Do you believe that um uh th that you will not from birth, but works based salvation is is is not possible. You can't work your way to heaven. Yes. Do you believe that not everybody will be saved? Oh limited number of people. Like so the first three uh you can make a really, really narrow definition. Now I I hear these Calvinists listening to our show screaming at me right now. No, that's not what I believe Yeah, I know. I'm intentionally making a very, very narrow definition 'cause that's the basic gospel. Right? And where the Calvinists and Armenians differ is how they expand on those definitions But they do come back from those same place. Total priority comes from the core truth that we all agree with that we have a sin nature and and and and uh unconditional election comes from the core truth that You you can't work your way to heaven. God has to save you. And and then no and then limited atonement comes from the core truth that not everybody will ultimately be saved. how you define that, whether Jesus Jesus died for all but then he doesn't use the salvation for all, or did Jesus only die for the people that will ultimately be saved. the the bottom line is they won't all be saved. So that's the thing we agree on, right? And then the the irresistible grace, I don't think anybody denies that God is powerful and can can make whatever he wants to happen happen. The the Armenian would say, well God allows you to resist uh him, but uh obviously if you really wanted you to become saved and he made it happen, he would make it happen. We we agree that God is powerful enough to do that. And the Calvinists would say He is powerful enough and he always does that. Right? And then perseverance of the saints may be one w where it's a little harder to get a hundred percent agreement on if you believe you can lose your salvation, but I think there may be some very narrow po points that we can even come to agreement there. So that that's that's kind of been my and that's why you haven't you you haven't gotten a great read on me, Troy, 'cause it doesn't sound like I'm disagreeing with you necessarily. And when I talk with Uh Josiah, it may not even sound like I disagree with you that much, Josiah, because I I really try to find where is the common ground and what is very easy to all agree on biblically and yes the the rest of it's important but we want we want to understand this is what makes us in fellowship with each other. We are believers because we agree on these core things. So for you the listener There's a lot of arguments about different things and we've talked in this program about oh don't go to a church if they have a woman pastor, if they believe in LGBT or if they believe in killing babies or uh you know if they don't believe in the inerrancy of scripture If they disagree with you on the doctrines of grace, I think you could still worship together. That would be one where I say I I think there are some things, at at least to a certain extent, that does that should not prevent you from fellowship. Uh there are other things other doctrines that should prevent you from fellowship, deity of Christ and so on. So this is not one of those. It's very important the doctrines of grace and and tulip and so on. It's very important to understand and and hopefully c have some common ground in, but it is not something to break fellowship over. And I know there are some b people that might disagree with that statement. And it also just depends on how far you take it because there are even Calvinists who would say we can't agree with the hyper Calvinist To me, hyper Calvinists are just practical Calvinists. They take their theology and apply it to life, but I understand there'll be some differences of opinion here on on that matter. I'm not sure that that's how I would define hypercalvinism. But hypercalvinism would say, don't even go and preach the gospel because God already has everything determined. It doesn't make any difference. They would say, Don't pray. Because I I know people who were like, I don't even see the point of praying. I'm a Calvinist and God already has everything determined, why pray? So I don't think 'cause he commands us to pray. And if you love the word of God you will do his commands that he says that And that's what I was getting at earlier, Jesus that I knowing you, I think you agree with a lot of things, but unlimited definition, as Daniel was pointing out. Yeah, I see what you're pointing out. So so I think you could be a five point tulip, but very narrow. Uh, you don't want to expand the definition to include other things that you you disagree with, which I understand, but the the core of the gospel is there. Yeah. Tulip is essentially the core gospel, but when you really flesh it out and and expand the definition, there's some of those student expansions you might say, Well, that's taken a little too far. I I agree with the the core of it But not the extent of it. Yeah, and I uh I'm not giving you giving you grace for the for the perseverance of the saints, which I think you might have a little more uh John is disagreement on buttons. And uh he I've heard him say in different contexts uh over and over pretty much at least a couple of dozen times I've heard him say that Uh those Arminians, because those who don't know, James White is Calvinist, he's reformed. Um, the Armenians that he has good fellowship with that he you know he would count them as brothers, he intends he he expects to see them in heaven, all that sort of stuff, are inconsistent Arminians. And they usually will add, you know, and thank God, like literally I think he means it, like thank God for those those uh inconsistencies that the inconsistent Armenians and that's uh I'm thinking of that because of what Imran just said, you know, Josiah w would at some degree kind of sort of maybe try to find some elements of what the uh the Calvinists would argue. Say, well I can agree with that, but I don't like this. Uh and um He d and I'm one of them. So I'll say though instead of making about Josiah, the former me from twenty five, thirty years ago, I would have been arguing against some of these what are called the doctrines of grace uh while trying to hang on to the substance of what they're saying while throwing out the details that actually are definitional to what is actually being taught And I was being inconsistent in doing that. That's why I was saying a couple of weeks ago. Order and wiser now. Well I become well At the very least I've become more consistent. So I it's possible I've become more consistently wrong. But I've become more consistent uh in in my thinking. So for what that's worth. And the argument that would then be w Troy would it not be consistent with Calvinist theology just to not preach at all, not to witness, because God already knows and has decided who will be saved, so what's the point? Well, first of all but he like like my dad said, it's because it's commanded, but is there any other reason besides it's commanded? Yeah. Well is there a connection between means and ends? Exactly. God is God is a God who uh endeavors to accomplish his will. through means. He works through means. And so it's not so prayer and preaching, we we do it because we're commanded we should be obedient. For sure. But there are other logical reasons why you should obey. Uh also it's not um it's the understanding and the recognition that God works through means. Also there's great blessing in that obedience. And so if you want to experience the fullness of the blessing of God, you're gonna do these So there are more reasons than just mere obedience. But there are many who would say uh uh uh the to full on are many who would say, look I I have this d uh composure and I I must preach the gospel because if I don't, somebody's not gonna hear it, then they might not get saved. Like that's really, really important. And the and the Calvinist w uh in the Calvinist position we do have a little bit more of a danger of becoming complacent. It's like, oh well I didn't feel up to going out and witnessed it. That's okay. I mean God will still take care of it. You know, so y you don't have that urgency and stress level. But that can be a risk and that's why sometimes the Calvinists uh particularly those that lean in a hyper Calvinist direction would be referred to as the frozen chosen. Right. And and that's what Wesley, honestly, John Wesley was fighting a lot against when he started his his ministries of uh of sending out missionaries But in pr in history, practically speaking, if you examine church history Uh coming out of the Reformation, the overwhelming majority of missionaries that were going to all parts of the world, leaving Europe and going to other parts of the world, the overwhelming number of them came out of Geneva. They were Presbyterian Calvinists. They were doctrines of grace people So they weren't the frozen chosen. They were the exact opposite of the frozen chosen. So practically speaking in history we see at the very least that it the it it mustn't need be true uh that they are frozen They certainly can. Now you might argue they're being inconsistent, but in fairness, uh I I use all these labels kind of interchangeably and I probably shouldn't do that, 'cause these labels can really be over the last several shows I've used these labels interchangeably. And I probably shouldn't have in fairness. to those who that would identify as belonging to the reformed camp on these things. Because the five what are called the five points of Calvinism, the tulip that we've been talking about Sometimes Calvinism is reduced to that. Reformed theology is much larger than just these five points, and these five points are more s more Summary. More definition no, I'm not summary. Be there they're they're a subset within a much larger theology And these are the five doctrines of grace, but there are so many other doctrines that make up the fullness of John Calvin uh his teachings and the followers of Calvin, um and what is now under the umbrella of reformed theology. So reformed theology would talk about he's a God who works through means. He's a God who brings blessing through obedience. He's a God who expects obedience from his people, so when he gives you a command you do it. So all the other things are part of Calvinism. They're not necessarily part of tulip. But again, tulip didn't originate with John Calvin or his followers saying, here's what Calvinism is. There are are there were non-Calvinists in the Arminian camp, Jacob Arminius. uh was their leader. And in fairness, I don't know that even uh Arminius uh agreed exactly with what his followers articulated as well, by the way. I'm not sure that Arminius would be a a uh I think there was a lot more overlap between John Calvin and Jacob Arminius than uh than we like to think. Uh but their followers are the ones that kinda had these these battles and here we are left with That's still trying to suss it out even now. But the um the fullness of what the Bible teaches is what a good reformed theologian, a good quote unquote Calvinist, would advocate for And they w and they would argue that these five points of the tulip would be part of that. So it's not a summary of Calvinism. It might be a summary of what is distinct f in Calvinism from Arminianism. That might be more fair, but there's there's huge overall, which is why we can be brothers, right? And we can worship together, we can even do ministry together, we can do lots of things because Uh there's more to what the Bible has to say about things than just these five points that we're focusing on. Yeah, I want to take you back to what w why did the Reformation happen Okay. Why did Calvin go and and uh expound Luther, Luther, right? But w why did that happen? It's because they were trying to take power away from man that give back to God where it belongs. The the Catholic Church had had put onerous uh restrictions and things uh on man and try to control man and and you gotta do this work and you gotta do that, you can buy your way into heaven, you can d buy these things. So they were coming back to say this is not the gospel, this is a different gospel. Let's go back with a reform to what the original gospel was And this is what our belief system is. So the reformed gospel is really going back to the Bible and not to man and not to say, What what does a priest tell me And he tells me to do this. Okay, is it from the bib Bible or not? It doesn't matter. The priest told me to do this. The Pope said this. And that's what it was really for. And so The Reformation, the re Reformed theology came out of that to get away from and pull the power away from man. And these arguments, by the way, we've been using Jacobinius and John Calvin and the Reformers as kind of our starting point in history. These arguments actually predate that. It goes back to like Pelagianism and I mean it goes way, way back. Because the you know uh th um it was said probably two or three shows ago now. Um if it's a command from God, then we must be able to respond positively, otherwise it's unfair or doesn't make sense that God would give that command. That was kind of the core issue around the Pelagian uh controversy. Uh and so these issues they go way, way, way, way back. And they and they came back to the fore about five hundred years ago with the uh the Reformation and people trying to get back to articulating what the Bible says about these things. So Anyways, a whole bunch of people are wanting to say something now. Daniel, I guess. But maybe talk a little bit more maybe. Yeah, let's take a few minutes and talk about what's being said there. Irresistible grace. Let's do limited atonement first. Uh the the the argument from the reform camp Is that uh when Christ uh died on the cross and atoned for the sins, uh he was atoning for the sins of those particular people that had been foreordained unto salvation. And this becomes a c not necessarily would argue He did not die for everybody because not everybody will be saved and if he had died for everybody they would all be saved whether they wanted to be or not or whether he had rewritten them or not because that would be And a lot of people don't like that because they quote John three sixteen You know whosoever the world he died for the whole the the the the all the world. But whosoever Now first of all I don't want to get bogged down in John 316, but if you if you look at the Greek, the word whosoever isn't i isn't actually there. But even if it is there. That's a translational decision to try to have it make sense in English. But even if it is there, it doesn't answer the question of how the whosoevers come to believe. So it still doesn't solve the riddle. Uh because that's not what the reform the doctrines of race are really addressing. But anyway, sorry, how would you define limited or uh unlimited atonement if if whatever you you believe on that subject? So I definitely Do not hold to the doctrine of limited atonement. I would agree more with the Arminian camp who would say that it's unlimited, that Christ died for everybody in the whole world. And That doesn't mean that every single person's going to be saved, obviously. He just offer you know, he offered up his life as a public sacrifice to show that God was displeased with sin. He didn't pay individually for everybody's debt in the whole world. But it was a public act of you know and And the and a lot of times the re the reformed uh would sum it up in a sentence Jesus' death was sufficient for all, but was not efficacious for all. Meaning the Armenians would say that. Well it i i it I mean even the uh I've seen I've seen Calvinists say that. It was sufficient I if if all were going to be saved, he would only have to have died the one time. Right? But so It was sufficient to save the entire world if that had been its intention. It did not effectively save the entire world. And so this is where I think it's a semantic thing. Uh the limited atonement is the one that makes me laugh the most in their in in the uh arguments between Armenians and Calvinists because it sounds like we're saying exactly the same thing We both agree not everybody will be saved. However, Jesus was powerful enough by dying on the cross that it could have saved everybody. However, there is one major distinction, which is um Calvinists would say it's impossible for those who Christ didn't die for to be saved. However, as an Armenian, I would say it is possible for those people, and it's because of their unbelief and refusal to repent that they aren't saved. So as Jesus and God offered offers them salvation just like everybody else. But they're the ones who refuse it. Well that will be more on the in irresistible grace side, and then Troy's gonna jump in and say, well they're all the same thing. Philip is one Doctrine, not my doctrine. Um I would say it was his will that all would be saved. Because there is a verse to that effect um that God is not willing that any should perish but he comes. But how do you understand? How do you understand God's will? So God's will is perfectly benevolent, perfectly loving. He wants the best. However, he has given humans free choice, and so he sometimes limits his omnipotence, he has it, but he chooses not to always use all his power to cause everything just the way he wants it to be. Because he values human free will to human will. I wouldn't say he subjects it, he just sees in his wisdom that there is more virtue Now the the reform camp would would argue that though we need to understand different uh aspects or or definitional understandings of what is meant by God's will. So there's God's perfect will uh and uh and then there's God's uh you know, sovereign practical will or what have you. So he's got for example, I think you would agree, God doesn't will that anybody would sin. No. Yeah. And yet people do sin. So in those cases, if we have uh d uh a a a too narrowly undefined understanding of what God's will means, we would be in the awkward position of having to say that God's will has been thwarted. Like Imran just mentioned last week or two weeks ago that we're o almost his whole family his extent almost his whole extended family, um are are not Christians and he and many of them have probably gone to their graves not Christians. If if Christ died for all But they and he and his will was that Imran's entire Tinder family would be saved, we could say that God's will had been for his intention didn't come to pass, that he somehow is disappointed and he's like gnashing his teeth and chewing his fingernails in heaven right now because he failed to save those that he really, really, really intended and willed to save. That would be a the kind of argument a reform person uh would say. And so we would talk about the different aspects of God's will. There's the Some reformed, I mean, leaving out the hyper Calvinist, but I would say that most of the the people we term hyper Calvinist would be like, No, those people God intended to go to hell and Uh that's a really sad doctrine I believe and I was just watching a video um I just came across this YouTube channel. It's uh Soteriology one oh one By Leighton Flowers. But he actually debates James White, who you mentioned earlier on the subject of the thing. If you want to call it a debate, by the way. Leighton Flowers uh he doesn't argue for scripture, he argues by analogy, and he doesn't follow the rules of debate. And it's not really a debate. It's it's James White engaging in debate and Leighton Flowers engaging in story time with Leighton. So honestly I haven't I haven't watched that debate yet, and I'm very curious to watch it at some point, so I can't say yay or nay. But I did just listen to a different video that um he put out Which was basically testimonies from former Calvinists who had had turned atheist. They were like, um God And some of them were even arguing, you know, well, even if Christianity is true, it doesn't really matter because I'm one of the reprobates. One of them was like I can't be saved because Jesus didn't die for me, I'm not one of the elect. And that attitude would prove they're right, I guess. So they're like it's there would be like if I was going if I was trying to become a Christian, I would actually be working against God's will. And that would be simple. So that's that's the problem I see with limited atonement and the doctrines of Calvinism. It can lead to things like this and it's now Part of the atonement of Christ isn't just his death, but he also is a resurrected Lord and Savior, and he's in heaven right now interceding for those people that he died for. So is he up in heaven right now interceding for those who are going to go to hell? I would say he is. See that's the that that's where the logical inconsistencies start to cause problems for me. These are the kinds of questions that led me to be like, okay, that doesn't Well I would say God the Father does listen to his son and he sends his Holy Spirit to work on the hearts of those people. They still have a choice, but he's, you know, increasing the pressure to t You know, the um the persuasive work of the Holy Spirit. So if he is listening to Jesus. And that gets into the next topic, which is the irresistible grace, where the the Calvinists would say that when God does work in your heart with his grace to cause you to be drawn to him, that there that that will cause you to become saved. There's no at that point you you can't just say, Oh well actually I don't want to. You will you will want to. From a city forced to. You just are going to have that desire once you've got to be able to Well whether we want to or desire to or not we have to wrap this up. That's uh Daniel Razzi who I just cut off Uh you just heard uh chuckling a little bit there, Josiah Bongelani, I'm Troy Skinner, Imran Razley also on the show this week. Find us online at WFMD. com or Household of FaithInChrist. com. Thank you so much for making us part of your day today. We're going to continue this conversation on next week's show, 9 o'clock Sunday mornings every week here on News Radio 930 WFMD. Until that time, 167. 5 hours from right about now, God bless.