Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner joined this week by Elijah Dirksen. He's a seminary student. He's a He's traveled all around basically from like the Mississippi River ish region all the way over to Scotland and parts in between. Uh and he made a fifth stop here in in Frederick, Maryland. The big world traveler right here. Big world traveler. And um Daniel Rasby, uh he doesn't do as much world travel, I don't think, but uh uh he spends a lot of time in his car, I know that Enough time to take wrong turns on occasion, I understand. Um but we'll leave that story for another time. Uh you can find his ministry and his family's ministry at Concordby Love. org He's one of the pastors, Daniel is at the Church Meets at Imran's house. And I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We're going to be talking about cre cremation uh today. But real quickly just to put a button on a couple of things. I meant to ask this question last week and I didn't. We were talking last week about unspoken prayer requests. And I can't believe I forgot to ask this question It feels to me like that's a a newer thing. I don't think that Christians were going up to each other with unspoken prayer requests a hundred and fifty years ago. Maybe I'm wrong, but I don't get the sense. If I'm right, do you think it's a modern invention? Do you think and and what's the cause I think it has to do with the emergence of the mega churches where people don't really know the people to go to church with and then on top of that piggybacking on that the social media world where nobody knows anybody. Well I've got Thousands of friends apparently who I've never met and never will. To say it didn't exist before a certain period of time would for one require an an encyclopedic knowledge of Church history which I know I don't have. I do. But even then, not everything recorded too. Very hard to prove a negative. It's possible. I don't think it was a widespread movement like it maybe it is now. I do feel like you're you're on the right track. It probably has to do with the megaturches and and and more more than specifically megachurches, just a general idea of of not being in close fellowship with and and this is something I think even most smaller churches get wrong in the way they run church these days. Even if a pastor you're if you're a pastor and you only have a hundred people in your congregation, how many pastors are there, even if you're preaching the gospel Every Sunday, even if you're reading the Bible and you're and you're uh you're you believe in the innercy scripture and all that, you get great sound doctrine. How many of these pastors of and and if you're pastor listen to this, uh examine yourself Are you actually separating your flock? Do you actually intimately know the lives of every single one of the people that goes to your congregation? And if not, then what are you pastoring? And the answer is a clear note. You're not supposed to be just a preacher. If you're only a preacher, that's not a pastor. A pastor is a shepherd. You should be shepherding the flock. You need to know the flock in order to shepherd them. From my understanding, pastoring is about 90% shepherding and then ten percent preaching. But most people approach church very differently. And most seminaries are not teaching necessarily people to be shepherds, they're teaching them how to do great word studies and create good doctrinal arguments and then have a great sermon and then also maybe evangelize if you get around to it. But not Shepherding and discipling the flock, and there's really not a lot of discipling going on. They may assign somebody to disciple somebody. Oh yeah, you mentor this new believer Well, okay, that's that's fine, but you need to be the one leading and and everybody should know everybody in the congregation. If your church is big enough that everybody doesn't know everybody, like on a first name basis with everybody in the congregation then I would say it's probably too big. Yeah, and I don't know what that number is, but at some point you hit that number. I think churches up to a hundred, you you can probably know everybody by name and have some relationships. And maybe even two hundred big families count. I think anybody that's uh ev anybody that is professing to be saved, you need as a pastor, you need to intimately know them. I I would say I think the past was s should every member know all the kids' names like that. If there's a bunch of big family names, to some extent I'm a over time, yes. I was somewhat joking we have a lot of little kids in our church. I mean I think you know I don't want to put people on a guilt trip. So if you've got several big families in your church and you've only been going to that church for a relatively short amount of time, no pressure to remember their names forever. But Within a year or two, you really 'cause they should have been over to your house and you should have been over to their house and you should be praying for them. And if you don't know their name, you're not praying for them. So within a year you probably should know all the kids' names. But within a month or two, no. But also and and As far as discipling, it's not necessarily the pastor's job to be discipling the kids. That's the parents' job. But the pastor should have intimate knowledge of all the ins and outs of what's going on in the family through conversations with the parents And I I I'm very much in favor of that s uh structure where the pastor is discipling the the the men in the church and the men are still leading their individual families Um but that doesn't mean the pastor has no say or has no uh bit of advice to give uh you know, with the kids and all all that. I I am I'm against Sunday school and and teaching kids or discipline kids separately apart from their parents. Um but so just to kinda clarity c you know, clarifying. So be in in answer to your question then about kids, Elijah, i uh I would say at least you need to intimately know all the Uh adults in the congregation that that that are professing to be believers, and that's that's who you're going to be discipling, for sure. Yeah, at a minimum. But I I I agree with the spirit of where you're coming from that the you know, that the the parents need to be discipling their children, but I don't think to the exclusion of the pastor being involved in teaching and training up and discipling, they're they're shepherding the entire flock Everybody who's showing up for church is is theirs and the pastor should be at at the very least should know their names. Right? And the pastor doesn't have a year to learn the names. The pastor should learn the names of the kids very, very quickly, should make it a point You know their names like immediately so that the very next week when you see those kids again you can go to them and call them by name. It it needs it needs to be a purposeful action that the pastor takes because you want those kids to feel like they belong and they're welcome and that you care about them and you can't remember their name. So you've got to make yourself flashcard something but between one Sunday and the next or one Saturday and the next, whenever your church meets You've gotta you've gotta commit those things to memory. This is one th one reason I believe so strongly in the house church movement and I'm so against buildings. Not because I can point to a verse that says that building is unbiblical. And not because I think that there aren't any biblical churches that have buildings. There's plenty that don't mean houses that are very biblical churches. But uh I I believe that Once you start to focus on what we need a building 'cause we're too big to fit in the house, well maybe you're too big to be a church then too, right? There's a i in the there you we we just we we just mentioned there's probably a bleed over where you're too big to be in a house but not too big to be a church. But that's not a very large um not a very wide margin. Once you're too big to be in a house, it's gonna be very quickly if you keep growing that you're gonna be too big to adequately disciple the flock. Well I I think you could have a a church structure that could handle a lot of families a a large amount of people within it. It just needs more elders in my opinion. Yeah, it needs more elders but and and a c and accountability and and structure within that eldership. Sure. So it's it's possible and there are some very large churches that I think are are seem to be very run uh biblically inefficiently. But you do have d a danger once you get big to to have But to start treating it as a business and trying to grow the business rather than, you know, discipling and m giving building mature believers. thing from last week. We also ended last week's show. I uh asked uh the the two guest panelists uh to share really quickly their view on cessationism versus continuationism uh because it came up in between shows and I thought they did a really nice job of representing their views in a very succinct way. I thought, oh that might be f if we have time If we have like three minutes at the end of the show, I might have time to do that. And sure enough we did. But in fairness, I didn't have a chance to share it. I I'm not trying to put somebody on the spot and then not put myself on the spot. Not that anybody cares what I think about this. Uh I think that Uh I as I said last week, these guys are kinda waffling somewhere in the middle, neither full hardcore cessationist nor full hardcore Continuation is not a good idea. So I misrepresented what you were trying to say. I believe that the way that the gifts are practiced in most of the American churches that practice gifts specifically is unbiblical. So that that's what I would say. So here's here's m um broad brush strokes. I think that we would have a lot of help uh in in this uh discussion of among believers if we would uh use the word languages instead of tongues. That would make it clearer, I think, what the Bible's really talking about there. Because I think it's talking about languages. It's not talking about um guttural sound. But still a language. No, no, the the charismatic when they're It would still be intelligent. It would still be a language would have some sort of syntax, it would be intelligible at some level, even to the l to the angels. Now I'm not so sure I'd buy that argument, by the way. But it would still have to be a language, otherwise it's gibberish. I don't think they if I think most of them believe that it is a language. But if you hear the people who speak in tongues They don't all necessarily sound like they're speaking the same language. But also why why would we think that there is only one language, a s a spiritual language? Why couldn't there be more? I think that designating some gifts as like spiritual gifts generally versus sign gifts specifically I think is helpful because then you can start to make a biblical argument that leans in the direction that Elijah was going in last week, which is, okay, whenever these particular kinds of gifts show up They are attestations that the person speaking is truly representing God. This is an apostle. This person knows what they're talking about. This is somebody who can heal someone. Therefore what he says must be true. This is someone who can uh I speak Russian. I know he doesn't speak Russian all of a sudden he's speaking and I'm understanding him. Like Okay, that's supernatural. What this guy's saying has credibility behind it. And to your point, uh last week, Elijah, is before we had the what we consider to be now a full canon. So we we we get the authority and the proof of the authority from does it a accord with God's Revealed written word. Absolutely. But the the fullness of God's revealed written word wasn't available yet. And so what other proofs you got for me? Well how about if I speak in a language that I don't know that you can understand? What might that surprise you? You know, what if I heal your you know uh lame since birth child? Would that persuade you? Things like that Now I agree with Daniel that I can't there's no ironclaid argument as far as I can tell that says they've stopped. So here's what I think. Uh this is kind of where I am for the moment anyway. I've I've mushed around this issue for years. I think that if the Bible does isn't clear that they've stopped, we need to be open to them still being available. However If it seems true, and I think it is true, that the Bible has these gifts show up at key times for key individuals, for key moments in the historical narrative for the Church of God's people. then we shouldn't be expecting them as everyday normal run-of-the-mill occurrences. They should be special, rare, wow situations. And so if somebody's uh in the jungle of Africa And they all of a sudden can supernaturally speak Swahili or something, whatever they speak in the jungles of Africa. Um I'm open to that possibility and I would not automatically discount somebody's testimony as saying that they did that or they saw somebody do that I'd be open to that. I'd be a little bit suspicious for there's so many charlatans, but I would not discount it out of hand. But most of what passes for the gifts, the sign gifts, and the their usage in today's American church is highly problematic. It's um it it's akin to superstition and uh it's cultic and it really makes me nervous that people don't know their Bibles well enough. Uh so that's so anyway, in full disclosure, that that's all that. So now we've got about see uh about 15-ish minutes to talk about cremation. Is it a sin to have a body cremate? Right? Yeah, how long does it take? I don't know how long it's a little bit. A few minutes probably? I've never been cremated before. You don't say. Would you mind cremating yourself and then come back and report it? Let us know how long it took? Oh no. So So I I have a little I think it's I think my opinion on this is controversial among Christians. By the way, the answer to that question probably depends on the intensity of the heat. Probably. Right. I think my opinion on this may be controversial among Christians because I think most Christians Having not thought about the issue much would just assume, oh well, why not? It means cheaper than burial might as well do it. Well I actually do think that it matters And you know, there there's a there's a good case you can make to say, Well, the body doesn't matter. Once you're dead and your soul's not in it, who cares? It's not there. Well, to one on one extent on the one hand that's true, to some extent Yes, your spirit's no longer there once you've died. You're either in heaven or hell, right? Hopefully heaven, because you had a relationship with With with God. You were you were elect and you were chosen and predestinated. We talked about this a few weeks ago. There was a two-like discussion two weeks ago. You missed a lot of the But anyway, hopefully you would have loved it. You're in heaven. But even if you're in hell, wherever you are, you're not there in that body anymore, right? So what does it matter what you do with it? Well You could make that case except that the Bible talks about burial as a really important thing to respectfully deal with dead bodies. and not to just flippantly deal with their buddies. It does talk about that very specifically and it's it's shown that it was very good and honorable what was done to the body of Jesus and to make sure it was in you know uh prepared properly and and wrapped properly and placed in a good place and And and it's not just because he's our Lord. There's it's all throughout Scripture there's examples and you know, even they brought the bones of of uh of Joseph out of Egypt to bury them in the right place when we finally got there. Like they saved them Right? They didn't lose them. They want to make sure we bear it. It's not a superstitious thing. This is a godly thing. In fact, Ecclesiastes makes a really big deal. Remember that passage that says If you know, if a man has a hundred children and he lives many, many years, so this is people think, well, that's a great life. But these two things are not there. But he didn't live a his name his day is not filled with good So that's a that's a pretty bad thing. And also he wasn't buried properly. Well then it it might as well be in miscarriage. This this life was not worth anything. Right? So Yes, I I realized that one of the things that they were saying was bad about his life was that he didn't have good filled in his life. So that's that's definitely a big thing. But equally listed in there is that he wasn't buried properly. Like that's a that's how important it was to the writer of Ecclesiastes anyway And we I know that you don't necessarily gonna get all your doctrine out of Ecclesiastes, kinda like in Proverbs, you're not getting commandments necessarily out of Proverbs, uh like you do out of certain passages. But they're generally good like principles and and it it does seem that God does place importance on burial as opposed to other ways of treating dead bodies. So are you in agreement or disagreement? I would need to know what is the actual question that we're discussing. Is it Is cremation a sin or is it preferable to be buried? The specific question is is it a sin? I would say no. And then um and y are you saying it's a sin or you're just saying it's not preferable? I'm saying it's strongly unpreferable to the point where I wouldn't say it's a sin. I don't I bec and the reason I wouldn't say it's a sin is because I don't see any commandment in scripture that you must always bury but but Many cultures, many pagan cultures, have rituals in death having to do with fire and burning bodies. That is not the way that Israel was wa uh wa uh was uh uh practicing and it's not there's never example given of burning uh a body in scripture that is given in the good way. I don't even know if it's mentioned at all, uh but most uh ma many cultures around the world that have rituals with burning bodies and it's usually an occult type ritual. So it's a it is a um spiritual type of ritual And I think that's so I know there's there's a very strong Christian tradition and going back through Jewish tradition as well of burial of the bodies. Mm-hmm. To the point where when the Romans would capture the Christians, they would burn them. when they either before or either to kill them or after they've been killed and then cast their ashes in the Tiber to kind of thumb their nose at God, uh try being resurrected now type of thing. Um kind of like they did to uh create the n the name of the state of Palestine to thumb their nose at the Jews. Probably Probably. Yeah, you know. It it's one of those things where there was this tradition that the Romans were saying, Well, you can't be resurrected if you're burned. Kind of mis misunderstanding resurrection in in my opinion. But um Because God doesn't need all of your your ashes to be together or your entire body to be together or necessarily buried to be resurrected. Um I don't like you like Daniel said, I don't think there's any specific passages that said that dictates how you're supposed to be buried or how your dis remains are supposed to be disposed of. But that being said I think that burial does provide a great picture of our lives. We're buried with Christ. We're and then we'll be raised on the last day. The it it most closely aligns with that the picture of resurrection and and that most closely aligns with the picture of the burial, which is why that's what I want to be, 'cause I want to provide that that symbolic picture um of my life. And that might not happen. I I might get burned at the stake or I might get lost at sea or something like that. Um I'm still gonna be raised, hopeful um Lord willing. I I believe I'm a Christian. Um and so I I I'll be raised on the last day. regardless of whether I'm buried or not, but I want to provide that picture. See, so I don't think it's a sin and I'm not even sure that I'm convinced it's particularly preferable. Uh I do agree uh when Daniel's talking about we need to have respect uh for the body, respect for the the the the dead person. I don't buy into um Except if they're an evil king and kin and you can cut off their thumbs and their toes and hang them by their by their heads. he's not really there, she's not really there, it's just their shell. No, that's really them. It's not all that they were. It's not it's not fully them. They were where the w there's a spiritual component to us as well. So our spiritual uh aspects are really us. But our physical body is really us too. Spirit. Job said, I'm gonna see my Savior with my eyes, with my physical body. So I think that, um yeah, I so I think that To just discount the body doesn't mean anything. I agree. We we don't want to go there. We need to have respect and and honor and and and appreciation for I mean, I did it with my pet dog for crying out loud when my my my dog we had her for seventeen years and uh she finally breathed her last and it broke me up for I mean I was really emotional for weeks after that. And in that moment she's dead. I know that she's dead. And I'm still Petting her, caressing her, talking to her, kissing her, right? She's dead. Why? Because it's still her Like the the life force is gone, but the the body is still there. And so I think it's totally appropriate. If you're at the hospital, a loved one dies in their hospital bed or their h you know or If they die at home or whatever and you see them in the that is not a violation of the of the of the commandment that says don't talk to the dead or whatever. That's that's that's not what that's talking about. That's not creating witchcraft to try to bring and we're gonna talk about bringing back Samuel. So that's that might be a good sayway. I don't know if we have time on this show or not. Um we got like three minutes, four minutes, so maybe not. But That that's that definitely s something. But I I do think just as a general Christian principle, yes, you should you should have respect. Not respect for the dead in that sense necessarily, but respect for I I will say you brought up Ecclesiastes. I and I only know this because I just came back from a sermon workshop where we were focusing entirely on Ecclesiastes, but That passage talking about you're not gonna be buried. It's t I think it's more talking about you're not gonna be remembered, they're not gonna have that that marker Telling people about you. Um that was a point I was asking to get to. So like we don't have burning, uh but we do have other cultural burial practices in the Bible. We have embalming And that's not condemned. It wasn't in fact Joseph was embalmed. Right, exactly. So it wasn't the the stereotypical uh Israeli burial. Even burial as we do it today wasn't what they were doing even in Jesus' time. Jesus wasn't buried down in the ground who was buried into a tomb in in a wall. Right. Yeah. So that I was gonna you're stealing all my good material here. So we we got examples of people being buried in tombs, being buried in the dirt being embalmed before they're then buried somehow. On the other side we have cultures, pagan cultures, that will bury someone in the ground or dig a hole and put them in the hole, you know, all a lot of the uh the um natives to the American continent, uh pagan to the core and yet a lot of them had their ancient burial grounds and stuff. So We I don't know the capital part. Yeah, there's one story about them not having time to bury somebody and that ended up really working out well for that guy. Um he cast the moment to Elijah he just got thrown there and he came back to life. Was it Elijah or Elisha? Elisha. Elisha, yeah. Okay. Yeah, so uh if you don't know the story, look it up because it's a really cool story. Elisha had died and and his bones were there in the in in the air and then and then they were gonna bury somebody else years later and and they g there was a raiding party that came around, bandits or foreign army or whatever, so they didn't have time to bury him, they just threw him in the same tomb where Elisha was. As soon as he touched the bones of Elisha, he came back to life Now this is probably where a lot of people get their uh talisms and say, Oh, you see it just touch this we'll touch this you know. Iconography. Yeah. But uh That has how what do you do with that? That's that's like maybe a whole nother topic. We could talk about iconography because clearly God has worked in that way in the past, not only with Elisha, but with was it Peter Uh or Paul sending his handkerchief different places and people touched it and he got healed. Like I don't remember that story. It got uh that that is handkerchief. Let me let me let me put a uh uh uh a button on uh the cremation thing so we don't have to carry over our thoughts into next week's show because that's always a little bit awkward. Sometimes it's it's good to do it and it's I think appropriate and fun to do it. But in this case I think we're going to need all the time we can get to talk about Samuel being raised from the dead next week. So uh I think that for me it comes down to the the attitude and the approach. So if you're gonna be like, ah, he's dead, just throw some dirt on him, that's not an appropriate burial either. If it's uh uh they're not really it's just a shell, it's not really the person, let well who cares, let's just Let's just throw them in the oven and and cremate them, who cares? That's not the right approach. But if it's we're gonna do it honoring and respectfully and we're gonna do something uh honoring and respectful with the ashes, then we're we're paying homage to the person, remembering them. We're we're we're in step with what's being taught in Ecclesiastes. I think that's the important thing because ultimately You know, we come from dust, we return to dust. Cremation is just expediting that process and have and instead of it taking decades and decades and decades, it takes minutes So the process is saying and it also begs the question about the martyrs who were burned at the stake. Did they have a more cursed kind of uh situation because they didn't have a barrel because they were burned to ash uh at the stake? Um they had an honorable death. They were martyrs. And so I there's all sorts of ancillary things that swirl around the question. Uh if it's merely practical and I'm too cheap, I don't want to spend the money Yeah, your attitude might need to check, but if it's like, hey, was the person's wishes to be cremated and were to do something really special b special and honorable with the ashes afterwards I think that's a that's the same as a burial in my mind. Burial does. Um and so I I think it's a good tradition. I don't think it's a sin not to do it though. And that'll be the final word. Elijah Dirksen sneaks in at the end of the final buzzer And that wasn't me buzzing a rancher. That was getting the final buzzer. Anyway. Also Daniel Razby's on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening to Death and Resurrection, supposedly of Samuel. The O Lord Not Resurrection, the Conjury from the Dead is next week on the Faith Debate. 167. 5 hours from now, God bless