Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Grid Live. County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement, and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate, sponsored by BMC Insurance, Cruise Holidays, and Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The face debate is online at W FMB. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts and news items and the faith debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com I'll post everything you send me, pretty much. Forty-five blog posts go up every week nine per day, Monday through Friday I encourage you to pop in, even if you don't want to send me an email and just see what other people are sending me. That's on the uh Faith Debate blog, on the Faith Debate Show today, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Island Chapel. You can follow him on Twitter. It's at SweitzerJonathan. Is that correct? That's correct. Finally getting it right after all this time. At Sweitzer Jonathan, because apparently there's already an at Jonathan Sweitzer taken. I cannot believe it And uh our uh guest this week, Dr. Siccato Powell, you can find out about him at NewChurchbelievers. org. We're all so wired and connected these days. We don't even have to come together as people. We can just interface on the World Wide Web. That's right. We could we could do a Google hangout, chat hangout. Yeah. So that we're all on the same page. We could do uh you know, we could do Skype. You know? Or we could do it without having C. I was joking, by the way. Significant problem. Uh at the end of last week's show you heard me mention uh a book by Ted Decker, Heaven's Wager, and I don't know if we got the title of the nonfiction work on the air or if that came after the air, but Jonathan thought of it, and it was um Slumber of Christianity. So in case you were listening last week and you're like, what was that book that Troy was kind of recommending? Slumber of Christianity is is to my knowledge is one of two nonfiction books that Ted Decker has written the other one, uh Tea with Hezbollah I have not read yet. I own but I haven't gotten around to reading it yet. Tea with Hezbollah? Yeah. Really? Yeah. Decker wrote that? Yeah, he yeah, he co-wrote it with somebody. I forget who he told it with. It's his recommendation of how how the church could better interact with Islam, I believe. I don't know if it's good or bad. I have no idea. I know a guy that ministered in downtown Beirut, Lebanon among Hezbollah people. And uh he lives here in the United States now because they started coming after him to ki take his life. But uh, you know, I Fascinated to see what he says about that. While we're on the subject, what am I reading? Uh When Heaven Weeps, which is book two in the Martyrs Song series by Ted Decker. I read Heaven's Wager is the first book, When Heaven Weeps is the second book. Uh the second book reads better, feels more like what I've come to know as Ted Decker's style fiction than the first one. I th if I'm not mistaken, Heaven's Wager was his first book. Now now for those of you that don't know, Troy's been working his way through seminary and so he reads these other books because he needs a bring. He needs something that takes him out of reality. Just to enjoy it. So sure enough this is his cake. Well and the other thing too everything else and Decker's brilliant enough. He's a brilliant writer. And we still get a meal. And I think we need to learn how to be uh communicators. There's a book out there uh by Steve Brown called How to Talk So People Will Listen. And he's a he's a pastor. I think he's a seminary professor somewhere, I I think down in Florida Uh similar to how to win friends and influence people. Well sort. But the Holy Spirit works through means You know? So how are you gonna hope to per be persuasive and winsome if you can't put two words together in a way that make any sense to somebody or capture their imagination and hopefully then capture their heart. And for guys like Tech Decker help you learn how to say things or think about things in a different way, a a fresh, exciting way. So anyway. This is one of the reasons I love you so much because for such a Calvinist, thinking that it's all up to God You are so committed to doing your best to figure out how to do it better for you. I don't thwart God yet So good for you. Make it compelling. Do your best. God will use your efforts. Anyway, we're we're gonna be talking uh as we continue a little bit about the the power of the Holy Spirit and healing and that sort of stuff as we go, but we didn't really finish some things that I wanted to talk about from last week's show. Jonathan became the interloc uh locute how do you say that's the word? Yeah interlocutor, not me. Interlocutor? Is that how you say it? Interrogating our guests. And then you'll notice, John, that the uh Dr. Powell, when he had a chance to ask you a question, he'll ask you one Yes, but I talked and talked and I thought it was necessary, so he knew better for next time. Anyway, the gist of what we were talking about last week and we're gonna pick up and talk about this week is this idea of do we now live in an increasingly post denominational world? Uh ha have denominations outlived their usefulness? Were they ever useful? Is it a good or bad thing? I mean what those are some of the things I want to talk about and explore. We didn't get into that last week. The you two. Uh Jonathan, we I'm I'm afraid to start with you, although I uh I'm curious to hear what your quick take might be. Okay, quick take and then give uh stacado a chance to uh g uh to give us his So the question is whether or not I think we live in a post-denomination. Do you think that denominations are good, bad, indifference, a mix What do you think? I think that there's just simply no way to go back into history and appreciate fully all of the dynamics that led to the the formation of the structures that were we we we look back into history and we try to examine and understand them but but when I When I do, I I feel like there's always something more and I'm like, oh, that's why they did that. Oh, that's why they did that. And so um I think there's always been people in every generation trying to do their best to respond to what God was doing in that generation. And sometimes that meant building the structures more uh intensely and other times that meant tearing down and reforming the structures that are there. And so um reformation or building, I think that uh we tend to have a l a need for all of it. I I think that uh it's difficult as John has indicated. to say with any degree of certainty whether it's good, bad, or indifferent. However, I want to introduce another dynamic. Yeah. And I think that sometimes we limit what leads to things to just the natural what we see in the visible. But I think there it's another hand. I like this about your doctor. that there's a real spiritual dynamic and sometimes we miss it. I could point to one biblical example in terms of Job's situation. Yeah. No one saw the hand of God or the adversary at work. Right. But those of us who can read the text, we know what's happening behind the scenes, but those that were in the existential that moment did not know what was actually happening. Then when you read C. S. Lewis's stuff, the screw tape letters for example, I'm always amused at the letters that go back. between wormwood and screw tape as to how to handle people in the church and how to orchestrate and how to be a puppeteer if you will. and pull the strings to cause them. And so when we talk denominations and institutions, sometimes I think we raise institutions to the level of the divine. Hm and we begin to make them It'd be idolatry, wouldn't it? Uh yeah. And we begin to make them uh the God if you will, even though with the little G, as opposed to looking behind all of that and seeing it as a facilitation of what God is trying to do. I mean it it's amazing how people can even put up a a picture in a church. And if you go to try to move that picture, they literally think you're removing God from the church. And these things become sacred cows, if you will. And and so it's hard to say whether denominations are good. Whether they're bad or indifferent because we have to look beyond and see what's really the driving force. So the the example uh that you guys uh you both seem to agree, so I'm gonna see if I can uh yeah, properly understand what I think. Come on, Smeagle. So the problem isn't denominations. Neither one of you seems to want to say the problem is denominations. But the problem is what denominationalism can lead to, which might be a a pride in one's denomination. And once I have pride about my Methodism or Presbyterianism or Baptistism, uh and you have pride about your variant from mine, we're gonna have then divisiveness. So we have pride, which leads to divisiveness, and that's the problem with denominationalism, because then our focus is on fighting with each other, our focus is on the man-made aspects of the institution and we're not focusing on the power of God and and Christ's saving grace and all that sort of stuff. Is that what I'm hearing? So I've had the chance to work with uh messianic Jews that are in Israel that are planting churches and to work with those on the uh in the West Bank and the Palestinian world planting churches. And the two of them uh have some measure of difficulty connecting with one another because of doctrinal differences. And my experience, not just there, but everywhere that I've seen people really, really intense and even angry about their doctrinal differences is that somewhere along the way they got hurt by bad doctrine. And there is such a thing as bad doctrine. Paul warned us to go to watch our life and doctrine closely and to to make sure that we stay um that that we don't fall into bad doctrine. Why is bad doctrine bad? Because people get hurt when we start living according to bad doctrine. And when people have been hurt They go back to the Bible, they try to find the right way to do it, and then they solidify it because that is the one thing that gave them hope. that the church and God in the church was still the hope of mankind. And so then that part of their theology ends up taking on this dimension of absoluteness. that isn't so true to people that haven't been hurt in that way. And uh my experience is that over generations or or my perception, not my experience, my perception when I look at history is that over generations that happens. People get hurt, people get hurt, people get hurt for misunderstandings, different things. They're trying to work it out. And the result is that their doctrine calcifies into something to protect them from getting hurt. Now I I I wanna, if I may push the envelope a little toward the pragmatic. Mm-hmm because I think sometimes in church we become so focused. on the fundamentals of faith and doctrines that we overlook the pragmatic. If a parent has a child that is addicted to drugs. Right. That parent is not concerned whether the deliverance comes from a Baptist church, a Presbyterian church, a Pentecostal church, a Methodist church, or wherever. That parent wants that child delivered. And because we become so divided, the enemy has used that to conquer us and render us literally impotent. While we're fighting over the creeds and the doctrines, he's ravaging our children, our marriages, our homes, because his goal is to kill, steal, and destroy and destruction is being just wreaked throughout society. Has nothing to do with racial identity, has nothing to do with social economic class. It impacts everybody equally And so my push is that as believers, let's come together in this common war we're waging against the adversary. And say, we're going to take back those things that God has given and God has promised, and we're going to open ourselves up to be used in this way. for the good and upbuilding of the kingdom. Now I agree with that, but staying in a pragmatic vein, but on the other side of the coin maybe. Um Some would say that it's a pragmatic concern about how you baptize an individual. Can you baptize an infant? Do you baptize only an adult professing b uh confessing believer? Is it by immersion, by sprinkling? Uh how do you understand what's going on with the Lord's Supper? How many ordinances are there? Are there seven or are there two? Um You mean sacraments. Uh Uh sacraments, I'm sorry. Uh who does the ordaining, who does the sending, who's responsible for that? You know, when when push comes to shove, who's in charge? We don't have the Jerusalem Council anymore. So who So those are pragmatic concerns as well. And and a lot of times denominations are formed around those sorts of considerations. So how do we handle that part of it? There's almost a hierarchy of needs that you get into because in one community um there's gonna be certain needs that are like in their face that uh that are so significant that it drives action that breaks free from certain parts of of theological structures. But in another community they don't have those same needs and so they end up they end up finding themselves motivated to go for it in different ways. Uh and so when they go for it, they find that there's other parts of theology or doctrine that hold them back that they feel like aren't necessary. And so again, I feel like what happens is the doctrine created a place where everybody was safe. and people grew up inside of that safe zone, uh, and then they're looking out at those that are lost and they're saying, but not everybody's in the safe zone and the point of the church is not that we be stuck in our safe zone, but that we go out to where it's unsafe. to bring uh peace, to bring salvation to to those that aren't in that place. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross O'Shite Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Dr. Staccato Powell with New Church Believers You can visit his uh organization or his uh his movement online at newchurchbelievers. org. Um Did I say this is a faith debate on WFMD? I just did if I didn't. Nice. Um let me ask uh It's saying in the same vein what we were just talking about, and just trying to reframe it a little bit. How do we accomplish a uh post divisive church as opposed to post denominational 'cause actually I don't think that's what you're advocating because you still belong to So a post divisive church as opposed to a post denominational church Are you define redefining the man's movement? I'm I'm just I'm just re coining a movement. I'm just pointing a phrase. I don't know. But how do we become post-divisive? With uh without running the risk of being postdoctrinal, because I don't think you want to be postdoctrinal either. Well I don't think the issue here is doctrine. And if I go back to the first century as I read it, you had the issue of The distribution of arms among widows and orphans. Yeah, the Grecian widows were being overlooked. Absolutely. That's practical. Then you had the issue of do I have to be circumcised in order to be a follower of the way? Yeah. Okay. I think that tends to be more doctrinal, if you will. That looks practical. in a sense. But if I'm hungry and I need food, I'm not real sure if how many sacraments there are is going to make a difference for me. So you're saying there's two categories here of doctrine. One is a circumcision type issue and the other one is a food type issue? Or are you saying that they're both the same category? No, they're not both the same category. Those are the kind of the two categories. One's a little bit more Esoteric, if you will, theological, and the other is more pragmatic. I'm telling you If my child is on crack cocaine, I don't have time to spit hairs about the approach that I'm going to take. to the communion table, whether it's going to be the real presence, consubstantiation, or transubstantiation. My issue is how do I Help get this child that I love delivered from his addiction. And I'm saying, as believers, we can touch And agree. We can bind those things on earth that will be bound in heaven. We can loose those things on earth that will be loosed in heaven. And so my push is not just to get caught up with the doctrinal issue, because that's the Bissive. It can be, it doesn't have to be but. advocating one over the other. I think the common thing that keeps us is how do we negotiate this capricious channel that we call life and how God transforms us in that process. And what what about those who might respond, because I know people that would respond along these lines and say All the the physical needs, the felt needs, the uh here and now needs that people have are hugely important. They wouldn't want to minimize that in any way, but they would say that that as hugely important as they are, they take a backseat to our primary obligation as creatures of God and as followers of Christ, and that is to worship and glorify the Father. And so the Bible spells out how we're to go about worshiping and glorifying the Father and does so in some doctrinal kind of ways. And so they might argue and say, you can't throw the doctrine out with the the bathwater. Or else what do we have left? And what would you say to them? It's not a matter of throwing the doctrine out. But again, your question was, how do we get beyond this divisiveness? I think that's what you raised. Right. And my response is let's look at what keeps us together in common. Those things that we have shared as creatures of God, and recognizing that this is in fact a transcendentory journey. We're not here to stay. We're on our way someplace. But in the meantime, how about being transformative with the impact of what God has given us as the authority Based on us being believers. So what would be some of the things that um we ha that we do hold in common that we must hold in common? We must hold in common the fact that there is an inherent worth to humanity, regardless of who we are. Mean that Jesus, because I I believe that he is the way, holds up that worth, whether it's the Samaritan woman. Or the ruler of the synagogue, or the centurion, no matter the status or the rank We all have in common this human worth. And sometimes we can demonize the other based on our advid doctrinal position. Yeah, it does. So we're so we're all created in the image of God. Yes. And therefore we have worth that's inherent in being human. There's something special and unique and amazing about we are fearfully and wonderfully made. Yes. So we so that's something that we won't negotiate on. And so uh he said he also doesn't negotiate uh in a previous show on Christ. Christ is the way, the truth and the life. No man comes to the Father but by him. And included in that I would imagine that he died and he rose from the dead. Yes. Right. Uh that he now fills with his spirit those that uh walk in his purposes that that accept him as Lord and Savior. I guess right, these are pretty basic. That he's coming again. Yes. Uh that he has established a church. that is the expression of the of the uh body of Christ on earth, the expression of his uh purposes on earth. So for those that would disagree, I mean all Christians are then going to disagree with the Nazis, right, who devalued and said certain humans were subhuman and and and should all be put to death and that sort of thing. So we're all all church lords are gonna agree with that, but we're gonna still disagree on baptism questions, for example. So the solution to that is to coexist among our differences? Is that is that what you're saying? Like let's not make that the big deal and if you want to baptize one way, that's fine. You want to baptize a different way, that's fine, and we're not gonna pay any attention to that. Is that Kind of the advice here? That's one approach because what ends up happening is the divide and conquer strategy. that if we allow ourselves to become so preoccupied by those things, then we lose focus I believe on what is the real issue. And that is if in fact I can help my brother, my sister become a believer be saved, the soul that goes beyond the physical baptism, ultimately to take up residence in the eternal kingdom. Now as you've been talking to different people about this, are you finding that people are disagreeing or they agree but there's but we still collectively are just not doing what we should be doing to have unity. I don't know that people are disagreeing. I think it's uncomfortable. Uh John mentioned this business about uh kind of going beyond our comfort. I don't want to misquote you, John. Sure. Yeah. But but I think there's a there's a d d uh uneasiness, if you will. There's because people have become so comfortable in the way that they have operated over all of these years. And to talk about believing That's a trust issue. Believing in s the unseen, the invisible God, believing that he does in fact heal when the doctor says This is over, this is finished. There's nothing that can be done for you. And I'm gonna trust that wait, there's another option. There's another alternative. And I think there are people that get comfortable, but I think there's a lot of people also that are afraid to get outside of their box They might not even be comfortable in the box, but they're afraid to get out of it. Which again I think some of that fear was founded because there was a time when when they weren't in the box and they got wounded severely by bad doctrine or by just no doctrine at all. And so when they came to Christ, Christ represented um a a tower. The name of the Lord is like a strong tower. The righteous run into it and are in and are glad. It's a safe zone Right. And so I think that's true for a lot of people, that they're there for the safety and they found rest and and that's what what they want. But those people that start thinking about ministry and the expansion of the kingdom of God, they start thinking about what is it that God's still doing on the earth always find themselves running back up against, okay, well, uh you know, do we have to be limited or, you know, what are the opportunities in front of us? In Acts fifteen, at that council They said, no, we're not going to require him to be circumcised. We're not going to make it difficult for the Gentiles who are returning to God. And they say part of the reason for that is because Moses has preached in every city from the earliest times. And so if you have a church that is committed to the Word of God and has the basics clear, and then these other side issues they say, oh well we're gonna just gonna keep preaching the Word of God and and not make those those side issues the main issue. then we trust the preaching of the Word of God to bear its fruit in people's lives without having to somehow, you know, set these hard and fast boundaries that can end up limiting, which is what you're saying, the pragmatic expansion of the kingdom of God. Jonathan Swift The senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by Dr. Staccato Powell with New Church Believers. Visit them online at newchurchbelievers. org. You can follow Jonathan at That's hard to say. John Sweitzer Jonathan Follow him on Twitter at John at Sweitzer. I still have to say at Twice. What's the way around that? I don't know. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. It's been brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile? BMC Insurance and Cruise Holidays So we're not talking about blowing up the denominations, we're just talking about being more truly ecumenical with a spirit of unity in Christ, maybe is kind of what we're we're trying to get at here. Next week we're going to have the same panel. We're going to talk about uh the supernatural aspect of the church and how maybe we're by being focused on doctrine and divite divisiveness, we're missing out. Or are we missing out? Okay. We'll find out next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Till then, God bless.