This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from reform. Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Troy Skinner. If death is a cessation of life, what does the Bible say about a person's condition in death? Is it important? For Christians to understand biblical teachings about this. For that matter, does the Bible have anything to say about it? What, if anything, does the Bible teach about the soul and the state of humans in debt? Does it teach us where we go after death? We've been grappling with these. things for three weeks now here again to address these important questions our pastor, teacher, erstwhile school board candidate, fundraiser, 12-year co-star of the faith debate, Jonathan Sweizen, and lead pastor at Frederick Seventh Day Adventure. Church who loves picking up other people's lunch tab. Morgan Tokenauer. We gotta go have lunch. Yeah. So when Christians are wrestling through questions like the ones we've been tackling on now our fourth week, yeah um What are some of the key passages or considerations upon which a serious-minded student of the Bible somebody wants to be a good Christian, what should what what should we be meditating upon? So as you gather your thoughts on that I want to share uh why I mentioned uh the very first time I met Morgan in person, we went to a a local restaurant. And uh, you know, I I think I got a Greek salad or something like that. I can't remember what uh Morgan got. I think he got uh whatever he got, I think he got like a carbonated beverage with caffeine in it, if I'm not mistaken. And uh And then there was somebody uh caddy corner from us in a in a booth nearby and he picked up their tab and they without them knowing it, so when they came time for me to pay, they were they were surprised and they gave uh the him a chance to be introduced by the the waitress 'cause they said who paid? Well that that guy over there and so they they thanked him and gave him a chance to say, Hey don't thank me. You know, this is This is an example of what Christians are supposed to do. You know, Christ I don't care what his words were, but basically, you know, Christ died a horrible bloody death on a cross, the least I can do is buy you lunch. So words to that effect. So it was a pretty cool thing. So consider that your uh your assignment for the week. Go buy somebody lunch. So That's my pastoral advice. Your pastoral advice and Sony's contemplating these deep questions of how to understand what it is that what is death? What does that mean? We've talked about what you think your answers to that might be over the last three weeks, but what are some places where they could kind of kind of give the Holy Spirit a chance to speak to them directly and intimately on these kinds of questions? Yeah, I mean I I think the answer to that would be um uh second Corinthians fifteen. Um John 3. 16, you know, where we're uh you know Romans eight, where um Jesus and the apostles are uh assuring us that eternal life is available to us. And so, um, you know, so often this comes up in the context of of somebody passing away, and so you're at a memorial service, and so you talk about you know, what is the hope of heaven and and what is the the hope of eternal life, the the fact that death has been swallowed up in victory and is no longer uh something that we need to fear as the the end of of our story. And so, um, I mean I think that's the heart of of what the Bible points us in the direction of. There's a few passages that talk about like hell and torment and uh and I don't get the sense that that that's the main focus of the message of Christ, you know, he kind of opens the door and he's like, look, you know, there's there's that's there. But, you know, the important thing is that we recognize that he came that we would have life. And have it more abundantly, that this is available to us for eternity. And so I I'd say that that's the focus. What would you say? Yeah, I I I can agree with that. I think that As I understand life, you know, I've uh I've I I choose to believe the Bible. I I believe in Jesus Christ that Um he came and he died for our sins. I mean, I'm looking at Romans chapter five, uh starting verse six that says, For a while we were still helpless. I mean that that was our condition. I mean we we could not help ourselves. And that's you know there's the the the phrase that God doesn't help those who don't help themselves. Well listen, I mean God's already told us there you there's nothing you can do for yourself. The only thing you can do is trust in me. Put your faith in me. And he says You know, while we were still helpless at the right time Christ came and died for the ungodly. It goes on the same verse eight, but God demonstrates his own love toward us. Because some people believe that, you know, Jesus is the nice one and God's the really ticked off one up in heaven. But the Bible says in 2 Corinthians chapter 5 that God was in Christ reconciling the world to himself. And at the end of the day, everything comes down to a relationship. God says the greatest, single greatest commandment ever given was love God. Have a relationship with God. And the second one is just like it. Love each other. And everything that God says, every command, every word he speaks hinges on Man, it's all about a relationship and it's all about God doing everything he can to reconcile broken relationships. Because every time like you look in Romans 5, Romans 5 is a powerful chapter, and I agree with Romans 8. Romans 8 is another powerful chapter. One of the most powerful in the Bible But everything is it says through him, through Jesus, through Jesus, life through Jesus. Everything that God does to save humanity is done through Jesus and everything that we have is through Jesus as well. And so I would encourage anybody listening Man, look to Jesus. I would, man, look to Jesus. At the end of the day, the one the one common ground we have is that both of us believe that when you die, the next thing you're going to see is Jesus. So for me We believe that you're gonna be in an unconscious state for however long until the resurrection and then you're raised up and you meet Jesus in the clouds with everybody else who's alive at that time. Whereas your position is, I believe when you die you go to heaven. Okay. Well both of us believe that we're going to see Jesus when the a after we die. It's just that we believe it a little bit differently than uh than you do. So I I I I and as as we're saying off air At the end of the day, as Christians, we have to model reconciliation to the world. People should be coming to the church, figuring out, okay, how do I handle conflict resolution? The church has to model that because Jesus Christ in Scripture and in life models it reconciliation. Yeah. Billy Graham just passed away. Yeah. That was his message everywhere that he went. That uh God wants to have a relationship with us and our sin has separated us from him. God didn't intend that from the beginning. He wants to restore restore it in order to do so. He sent Christ. I appreciate you brought up uh you know God helps those who help themselves because that favorite Bible verse is not actually in the Bible. Well and that's a beautiful passage. No, I was just gonna say th I think uh Paul's a great model as well because he goes up on Mars Hill and says I mean he's looking at all these idols. He finds one and he says, you know what? I can see you guys are religious. I mean, what a what a statement. I mean finding the Dying said, at least you're not atheists. I know, and so whatever you think about my beliefs, whatever you think about your beliefs, it's it's it's the love of Jesus Christ that comes in and says, you know what? I can see you're religious. And then have a con be able to sit down and have a conversation. So we've had our pastoral moment with uh two pastors, uh Morgan and Jonathan. Um but From for those that are uh looking to actually dig in to try to study it out, uh And there are books out there, maybe there's some books you'd recommend. But if they want to study out from the pages of the Bible itself, uh I'm thinking of you know, the uh they might want to contemplate, for example, give you s give you some food for thought to see kinda on the direction going. Uh might want to consider the transfiguration. And what is what does that do to inform us about what we should think about life after death? Some of these passages in Ecclesiastes we talk about, chapter three, we spend a lot of time focusing on, but also chapter uh Chapter nine has a lot of verses uh along these lines as well. Uh going back to Genesis chapters uh one, two, and three, and what is that you know so that um the uh In in Revelation, those who are uh asking for you know when are our li the martyrs, when are our lives going to be avenged? How does that help to inform and shape it? You know, those are the kinds of things. What are some other key sections that we should be grappling with. Even those maybe especially those that disagree with where we currently are. Like, you know, if we're gonna be intellectually honest You know, we want to grapple with and understand the the the the most important arguments from those with whom we disagree. So if you were gonna instruct somebody to truly understand what Jonathan's position is Uh or Jonathan, you're going to truly try to get somebody to understand what Morgan's position is. You'd say, you know what, here's what I believe, here's why, here's where I go. But If you want to have a fuller orbed idea, also read these and think about it. And let's have lunch next week and pick up the tab for somebody while we're at it and hash these things out. What are the places you would point them to? Can you think of any off the top of your head? I haven't already stolen all the good ones. Well so Mark 9, y you gotta hit at least a couple passages that deal with with what is hell, right? and uh what does the Bible describe hell to be? And Mark nine says uh that if your right eye causes you to sin, pluck it out, it's better for you to enter the kingdom of God with one eye and have two eyes be thrown in hell. And then He quotes from Isaiah, where their worm does not die and the fire is not quenched. And uh that's pretty key passage that it sends us to. um in Isaiah, because it says, They will go and look upon the dead bodies of those who rebelled against me. Their worm will not die nor will their fire be quenched, and they will be loathsome to all mankind. Again, these these uh uh it's a it's an important, you know, passage to understand uh you know the the biblical understanding was that there was a hell. Jesus warned in in several places that you could be thrown into the fire of hell. Uh Peter talks about um uh the angels that have been sent to hell uh where they are in gloomy dungeon dungeons being held for judgment right and so um You know, this this this context of uh you know, is there a hell and uh who is in that place seems to indicate that the wicked are gonna go to hell. And that the angels go to hell. The question is whether or not when humans go to hell, they're burned up immediately in and no longer exist, or whether or not there's an ongoing existence in hell. And unfortunately, you know, we we come back to the the only glimpse that we get into that is this parable that Jesus tells, which is so irritating because it's just a parable. Right? And so we can't build too much on it, and yet you know, the descriptions of hell seem to indicate that that this is a place that that lasts for a long time. You know, even when when we're told, and I think you y again you disagree with this, in Revelation twenty, where Satan is thrown into hell. Uh the serpent is thrown into hell. Uh the phrase there again is that where they will, you know, be tormented forever and ever. Right? And I think you you're of the opinion that at some point Satan is going to cease to exist as well, you know, that that hell represents him ceasing to exist. And so I mean you gotta grapple with those passages and what exactly they mean. I don't think the medieval Dante's hell, you know, the mid medieval picture of hell that comes down to us through the church is accurate. I think we got to grapple with it in our day and age and ask what does the Bible really say? But I mean these are some pretty tough passages that, you know, we gotta grapple with what is the punishment for sin for those that reject Christ. Uh for me you when you look at the passages of it's it's not like there's a book or a chapter that really sets out to tackle like Okay, and here is a doctoral thesis by Paul to the church in Corinth on uh what it happens when you die, as much as it is it bring it's brought up here and there as he's addressing issues uh in the church. And and for me I mean I I go back to King Saul. I mean that guy walked into the Witch of Indor and says, I want to see Samuel, and she says, Here he is. And and that God said, Do not mess around with anybody who claims they can speak to the dead. And what we have today is a bunch of people who think, I can talk to my dead relatives and they can talk to me. And even if we if we validate that the parable of the rich man in Lazarus is historical fact that that is something you can base your theology on. This is an example. This is a God pulling back the curtains on what happens when you die and his understanding. I'm not saying that's historical fact. Well I'm saying it's a story Right, right. So I'm not saying it's historical fact. But what you're saying, though, is that it's a story that gives us a glimpse into what happens when you die. Like other parables that it speaks to a normative reality. Not to a fact, but to a normative reality. Right. So then the normative reality is that there's gonna be people burning in hell and can communicate with people in heaven. And so that's for me That undercuts God is love because punishment, there's not eternal eternal punishing, but there is an eternal punishment. There's an eternal result here to your choice that you've made in not accepting Jesus. All throughout Scripture eternal torment and eternal dance. Now for me, everything in Scripture, Romans 6. 23. Eternal life is always presented as something that is given to you by God. It is a gift. So the wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life. So everything is set up as something that is bestowed by God. onto us and not something that we inherently have within us that I can be immortal and live on without having any connection with Jesus whatsoever. So if if I believe I mean so then if I believe the scripture, and I'm not I'm so sorry, the way I'm setting this up is making it sound like you wouldn't, but we we believe scripture. But all the arguments in the Old Testament or in the Bible in Jesus' time between the Sanhedrin, the Pharisees, and the Sadducees is your interpretation of it And unfortunately it digressed into arguments and not really clear and thoughtful what let's seek the Lord on this. But when you look through the Bible, there is clear instances where everything is always set up. Eternal life is always set up as a gift from God. It's never set up as something that you already have. Because if I've already got eternal life Then God hasn't given me anything. The definition of that's what I was referencing early or uh a couple weeks ago. Because you know how do we define life? You know, when Jesus says he is the way, the truth, and the life um is those if he is the life, then those outside of Christ aren't even alive right now. So that's not what he means. So I'm you know, I I understand it to be like it's really living. Like you think you know what life is? You have too small an idea of life. I'm talking about life. There's no more abundantly. There's no more crying or death or pain. I mean, we're talking about life. And so If we understand it that way, uh it doesn't it's not quite as black and white in my mind to what you're just saying. Well i And I would I would di here's the thing. We can make we can make a definition a definition and an interpretation And and listen, I'm guilty of this as well. Uh do I think I'm correct on this? Well of course I do. And I and so and I think we would all have belief that we believe we're going to be able to do that. Grant one another the pride of of uh owning our own beliefs, yeah. Uh but I think that For us, yes, the Bible's clear that there's two lives. There's a life you live in the flesh and there's a life you live in the spirit. Right. And the life you get in the spirit is is something you get when you accept Jesus Christ, but you also die in the flesh. But then that the Bible says in Ephesians, and it says numerous times, that that spirit is a seal So at the time of the resurrection, God's going to raise those up in 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, starting at verse 13, it says, Hey, when Jesus Christ comes, the dead are going to be raised, and they will join those who are alive, and they will meet Christ in the air. So once again, I mean I guess my final thought is is that every time eternal life is mentioned, it's always mentioned as something that it that is in God and He bestows on us. John chapter one, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, the Word was God. And all things came into existence through him. And actually that would be, you know, the place where where we would like end the show in agreement. uh but the struggle is always in the definitions, right? So both of us would agree that all life is a gift from God Right, and that eternal life is a gift from God. Like like I I think everybody um that that that is, you know, I don't even know what the term is You know, th those that that take the Word of God to be authoritative and uh you know inspired by the Holy Spirit. Uh uh that that those would all agree that that all life is a gift from God. So then it comes down to the question of how we define what w what life is being referred to there. And and actually we would I think all agree that God intends a bigger, more abundant life than any of us could really even imagine. Right. More than all we could ask or imagine. Right. It's a pretty amazing eternal life that that he intends. And so the the question of of you know, the nuances that we're getting into uh I think really come down to definitions in these passages, which is which is what's so amazing to me that At the end of the day, intelligent people can can read it under the influence of the Holy Spirit and come away with what we need to come away with, and yet still have these areas where uh that that are peripheral that still kinda leave us um not exactly thinking the same way. And I'm okay with that. I think that we need to allow space for that in these areas that that like you're saying, there's no place that doctrinally defines these things. If there's not a space that doctrinally defines it, then we we end up defining it by picking up a little bit here, a little bit there, a little bit here, which is okay because it's not the central doctrine. You know, the central doctrine is that Christ died to give us eternal life. You know, to to save us from death. Yeah, it's not to say that these things are unimportant, but they're not the the core of the faith. They're not the non you know, the things that we we There are certain things w about which we cannot negotiate. But some of these things we can say, you know what? I kind of see where you're coming from there, but I'm not there because I'm I'm seeing it from this context or this threat. I mean so I I I'm appreciating the the kind of the ecumenical spirit here and the the the gracious attitude towards one another. I want to give you yeah, for th if you're listening and you're like, I want to kinda know more about this. These guys have spent you know decades studying this out and teaching others about it. Um I'm gonna give you like a baker's dozen or so of some passages, just a a small sampling to get you thinking and then go from there. Uh Anywhere in the Psalms probably is good. Psalm eighty-eight or some forty nine come to mind. Uh we talk about Ecclesiastes a lot. Also we mentioned chapters three and nine, but uh chapter twelve uh is is good as well. If you want to go to the New Testament, Luke chapter 23, verses 42 and 43, that's the thief on the cross. Uh Mark chapter twelve, verses twenty-six and twenty-seven. I mentioned earlier the uh the witnesses, uh the the martyrs asking for, you know, when they would be uh uh avenged that's uh revelation chapter six um philippians chapter one verse twenty three I'm going through these fast you might as well grab the podcast later and and get some of these yeah don't try to write while you're driving uh Daniel chapter twelve uh particularly verse thirteen, uh i is good. So um actually the whole the whole of chapter twelve, beginning you know with verses one, two and three, I guess. Uh first Peter chapter three, first Thessalonians chapter four. uh John chapter five, First Corinthians chapter fifteen. Anyway, there's a the point in me doing going through that b boring list like that That's just like the very beginnings of the iceberg. There's so much. And so read passages like this and more and try to get a feel for the context And as you're trying to study out what it means to be dead and alive, and immortal or not immortal, you're going to come to understand what's really more important, the real kernel of the truth that really matters to the men in this room anyway, and that is the gospel of Jesus Christ and his kingdom. Um and so if we do a good job of uh of studying God's word, the Spirit will work in all of that, I think. Congratulations to the uh Frederick Sabbath Day Adventist Church for a successful, glorious unfolding. It was a fantastic show on Friday and Saturday night. Uh I'm sure they'll be doing it again uh next year. Uh John Sweitzer, thank you my friend for being on the show again. Good morning. Morgan Kokenauer, he's the pastor at that Seventh day Adventist Church. Thank you so much. Thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Until next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.