Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMB. Brought to us by Footman, Fleming and Heating. How? Can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. I want you to email me. That's your job this week. Email me, Troy at WFMD. com. And then after you email me, go to WFMD. com and type in the keyword faith or just look for the faith debate page and see, test me on this, see if I don't take your email and post it up there because my blog is your blog. There you will find a Monday through Friday updated blog anywhere from one to nine entries uh a day. It depends on how much space how long your emails are to me. Now if you send me something X-rated or something horrible like that That's not gonna get posted. But or I might, but I'll edit it severely if that's the case. Anyway, the faith debate broadcasting to you today from the police state that is Frederick City, joined by Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And I want to say, is it Harvest Christian Fellowship? I didn't confirm that before we went on the air. It was Harvest. I wasn't sure if it was Harvest Church or Harvest Christian Fellowship. Justin Thomas Christian Fellowship. Uh senior pastor title, right? That'll work. That'll work. He doesn't get paid a lot so they give him a fancy title. That's right. That's right. Because we do it for the ego gratification, not for any ministerial purposes. Uh what am I reading these days? Well, to show you what kind of a knucklehead glutton for punishment I am, a New Testament Greek primer Uh. By S. M. Baugh. That's interesting. I've I've been reading Metaphysics by uh Aristotle. Okay. It's very interesting. That'll that'll put you to sleep at night. Yeah. Yeah. Um I'm beginning to drift off right now. Thinking about it. That's right. Oh, that's a nice tie you have on. Thank you very much. You want to describe it? Uh yeah, well it's kind of this uh green earth tone played off against his uh his light tan jacket with a dark brown, you know, like a mud brown shirt underneath of it and so it's uh it's white style with uh corduroy gray corduroy no less. I mean we're uh I I'm thinking that Dina put this one together for you because it is it is truly a a picture of, you know Really? You think it looks good? Uh oh here it goes. Oh yeah, well she should be proud of you. Most days she she takes care of it for me. So Uh this was surprised me. I'm talking to Justin before the show. I'm like, you know, how how the heck did this come about? Because, you know, a little behind the scenes, some of the people that joined us on the show come on the show because I end up getting into a dialogue or in a relationship with someone and say, hey, you know what? You should come on the show and we can talk about this. And sometimes it's Jonathan who gets into a dialogue or has a relationship with somebody. And this is one of those cases where Jonathan uh was talking to Justin, so I didn't really know much about what was happening. I always get surprised And so I said uh to Justin, So so what happened? How how how did this come to be? And he said, Well basically Jonathan picked a fight with me. I said, Oh, say no more. Yes. I know that that's true. So set the scene for me. What's the fight about? This is a discussion that has been discussions. He's good. He reframed fight to discussion. For some time with uh with people that I that I walk pretty closely with and uh Justin and I actually went to school together in uh ninety three, ninety four, ninety five time frame for two years. And um during that time frame we've shared a lot. Probably Justin. I don't know. I did well. Clearly Justin was the better student. But it was a rhetorical question that I asked. Yes it was. And I answered it Uh uh and so these people that are you know that are close to me in ministry have been I've been getting into this discussion about what is What is the current status of the wrath of God? That's a good question, yeah. Do do we is God still a God of wrath? Has he changed from the Old Testament to the New Testament is what he's done in Christ mean that he is no longer a God who brings judgment uh on the earth. Is is it changed something? And is this because of the Aristotle stuff you've been reading? Or what No. What what plants these thoughts in your head? Well it because it has to do with Um you hear teaching in some parts of the body of Christ that um about the forgiveness of God and and about how God interacts with the world and even on believers. And it's just started to to hit me wrong, uh, coming from a different couple of different places. Well anyways, one of Justin's um Parishioners goes to a uh Water Boys table that I go to each week. And uh and one of the other gentlemen for the uninitiated Water Boys table. ten to twelve men that come together each week. This particular table has like twenty men that come together. And uh and they break into two groups. So there's a small group and you go around and you soap it up. Scripture, observation, application, prayer. And everybody writes, you know, you read the passage together and everybody picks a a scripture and m and and makes an observation about it and application and then writes down what their prayer is for that week. And then everybody goes around and shares it. And it's surprisingly effective at building a s an intimate sense of vulnerability with men uh in a one hour time frame. You're in and out, the tables are are one hour. And and these tables happen all over the county. They're they're it's Waterboys is led by Paul Foss. And it's a different group of guys every time you get together, maybe? No, mostly it's the same guys. Okay. Um and uh and there's got to be some thirty-six different churches represented at Water Boys tables all over the county, down into Montgomery County, different places. Uh and it's been a real source of both unity and action. These guys were super involved with the convoy of hope and and they go around and they serve at uh uh Building and and helping people, you know, in in servant countries. It creates a lot of good dialogue with brothers afterwards and there's op there's an openness to talk and have differences on the Say what do you mean by that and explain things? Yeah, and so so this one guy opened up about something and so uh so Justin's um uh Friend from church spoke up in response to it and he gave the impression that that God doesn't have wrath anymore. since Christ, that there is no more wrath. You know, that that that the world no longer sits under the wrath of God. And uh and I I felt like I had an issue with that and so I talked to them a little bit about it. We got in a couple discussions and and I was able to perceive some um some of the teachers across the United States that teach these kinds of things, some of the language of that that I've heard in other places And uh and so I brought it up with Justin because I've had the same conversation with people that are close to me in ministry uh with people that disagree with me and I I I don't like this question that's important this is a good chance for us to hear what Justin has to say and hear sound of his voice. You said to Jonathan on this issue what? Well I I think honestly I do feel like this is a crucial issue because the terms wrath of God um are s ha have such strong feeling and meaning to them. Yeah. And obviously it's biblical, but have things changed in the sense of I mean, God doesn't change his attributes, his character, his nature doesn't change, but maybe the way he relates to Earth has changed since Jesus Christ. So I and I think it's important to look at how did Jesus deal with wrath or judgments of God and the rest of the New Testament. And I think there is uh To say that there is no wrath is just a fallacy because the scripture said there is wrath. It's just what is your definition of wrath? It's like I could say I n I believe I know what sovereignty is, but you could think but sovereignty means something totally different. And usually in different schools of thoughts it does mean something different. So I could say, is there wrath? Yes, you could say yes, but my definition of wrath could be something totally different than Jonathan's. And I think it's just breaking that down and what it means and what it doesn't mean and giving context then we begin to go deeper and I think it touches on a lot of aspects of life. So you get to see, you look at the news and you say, well maybe that's God's wrath. And then somebody goes of course that's not God's wrath because of such and such hurricanes. The anger of God? Is it the judgment of God? Is it the ign indignation of God? I can get the Greek and Hebrew words. Ooh. The Greek word is My Bible doesn't ha I guess you have a a computer there to do that, don't you? Yeah, I do. The the uh the Greek word is orge. Oh my goodness. For wrath. And it properly means desire. Uh but by analogy it means violent passion or by implication judgment. And so the King James translates it as anger, indignation, vengeance, or wrath. Okay, so it has to do with some kind of an intense almost like a strong emotion or something. Right? Okay. Yes. But also I remember your father, Thrill Schweitzer, taught that wrath is not full of emotion. It's it's a he he said a calculated coolness. I remember that. So we're both recovering from the same school and I'm actually c recalling something from your dad taught. Because he's part of the problem here. It does seem like a calculated coolness would not fit with some of those keyword definitions though, right? Some of those glosses. you know, that there's an anger of God but then there's the wrath of God and that the wrath of God is the conclusion. It should not be um thought of as God's out of control. Right. I was just gonna say that would be the difference. where he is executing w uh hi the righteous um uh implications of people's actions upon those people Yeah. Not in an out of control way, but in a way that is. I think I can appreciate your dad's uh spin and his his his care to to not have a key too out of balance but I wonder but I wonder if he hasn't swung the pendulum too far the other way because it it it does calculate a cool does seem to lose that idea of intensity. That is a word I mean if you look at any wrath in the Old Testament, it it definitely has I mean A lot of stuff happened when God said it's done and I'm gonna do these things and The Day of the Lord. Yeah. There's always the wrath was in the day of the Lord. The Hebrew Old Testament is af And it's properly the nose or nostril, meaning when the nose wrinkles up and there's rapid breathing when somebody's angry It describes his ire. And so King James uh def uh translates it as anger or um wrath. uh or also suffering, uh countenance that that these are the things that that cause this consternation in the face and the heavy breathing. So who feels most equipped to answer For somebody who's not in the room, unfortunately. Somebody who's going to say, Hey, you know what? The wrath of God, that's taken care of at the cross. We don't live under wrath anymore. God isn't a wrathful God anymore. What are the merits of their argument? What are they gonna point to to support this? I I think there's there's two issues here. I mean on the earth you have believers and unbelievers And uh Jesus the Bible says my the way I look at it is first John two two Jesus died for the sins of the world, the propitiation for the sins of the world. So I I'm on that side of the camp that Jesus dealt with the sins. But I I think it's important. Yes. That he's dealt with it. It doesn't mean everybody's saved and going to heaven. But there it has to be a faith response obviously from people. So this will be part of our discussion though, I I think it goes de I think it goes deep. For instance, Jesus um I can read this here. Isaiah sixty-one, a familiar verse, verse one says, The Spirit of the Lord God is on me, because the Lord has anointed me to bring good news to the afflicted. He has sent me to bind up the brokenhearted Proclaim liberty to captives and freedom to the prisoners, to proclaim the favorable year of the Lord and the day of vengeance Of our God he can consider that wrath and to comfort all who mourn. Jesus comes, Luke chapter four, he goes to his local synagogue in Nazareth We know the story. He opens up the book of the prophet Isaiah. He opens it, he finds it. He says, The Spirit of the Lord is on me. He has annoying me to preach good news to the poor. He has sent me to proclaim release to the captives. Recover your sight to the blind to set free those who are oppressed, to proclaim the favorable the year of the Lord, and then he stops. He doesn't and he says this scripture is fulfilled in your hearing. And i i so I I believe in the last days That all these this is I think since Acts chapter two we're in the last days plural, but the last day is when the wrath of God eternally comes. There is an abiding wrath that is present today. And I think that men's spirits are dead. That is the wrath of God against men. Their spirits are dead. They're not in fellowship with God. They are under the wrath of God. It doesn't mean God is volitionally angry and against them, because he's reaching out to them, and there's more verses to talk about that. But it's that God was effective in his wrath, that men are under the condemnation Breaking the laws of God, but cr in Christ, God is reaching out, be reconciled to me. Okay, so so this is the w the the hot topic that that raises it. Katrina, tsunamis, you know, Japan, uh the the big tsunami over in uh in India that killed so many people. You know uh Is there any sense pre-Christ that things like that were attributed to the punishment of God? And and I see in numerous places in the Old Testament that that's the case, that God in his interaction with mankind that he was always reaching out to them, he was always appealing to them to to return to him. He never stopped doing that. He's never changed. But that to when when people walked away from him and uh and uh and rejected the revelation of God. You know, the whole Romans 118 where the wrath of God is being revealed against all the godlessness and wickedness of men who suppress the truth. you know, by their ungodliness, you know, that even though they knew God they didn't give glory to him and they didn't give thanks to him, you know, th and then it walks through how they how they move all the way down several levels to this place of being totally depraved. Right? And that's happened all through history and it hasn't stopped happening. I mean y you still see levels of depravity in in the earth today. And and so if God interacted with people like that by volcanoes, uh by storms, by earthquakes, you know, these kinds of things to to express himself. Where does it say that he stopped doing that? I know that for those that are repentant, that the blood of Christ has come upon us so that we walk in the favor of God. And that we're no longer under the wrath of God, and more than that, that the Spirit of God has come upon us. Right? And that's huge, you know, in and my sense of the movement of God through history, but I don't get the sense for those that are not under the wrath of God, that are not under the forgiveness of God, that somehow God has stopped interacting in those ways with fallen mankind. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads July Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Excuse me, Justin Thomas, who is senior pastor, or a title even better than that that I don't know about at Harvest Christian Fellowship. Uh this is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Now, I want you to explain maybe some of these disasters you have in mind because it's possible I'm forgetting some stories, but I can't think of any of them. I can't think of a volcano story in the Bible. in the Old Testament. I mean obviously there are judgments on the nations. Uh Sodom and Gomorrah is destroyed, you know, fire from the sky or you know whatever. There's there are things like that, but I'm trying to think of there is not I mean is there a major earthquake in the Old Testament You that swallowed up three thousand people. Look at God is within his covenantal I mean that happened in uh when they came out of uh Egypt. Yeah, yeah. I think it God is with his within his covenantal rights If God lays out Deuteronomy twenty eight, if you follow me, you're blessed and all these wonderful things will happen to you. If you don't follow me, all these awful, wicked things will happen to you. And then men's sin, God has already said, I'm going to do these things to you if you disobey. In the Old Testament, sickness was a curse, famine was a curse. uh war against them was a curse. So God was within his legal rights to do it. The question is, let's go into the new covenant. Where where is an angel of the Lord coming and killing every first newborn in the in the the last two thousand years Where is an angel coming killing 187,000 enemies of the people of God? Where are these things that these are the judgments of God? uh that are depicted in the old uh in the the older covenants. I feel like the new covenant is a superior covenant and God gee and through Jesus Christ He was fully man. I mean either he was the son of God, he was the son of man, he was a hundred percent God, a hundred percent man, and when he died on the cross, he took the curse of God, Galatians three thirteen, upon himself. Those who trust in him, obviously you're in Christ. you receive the covenantal blessings of God. But if you're outside of Christ, you're not within the blessings of God. But God, I still have an issue with God volitionally, again I say volitionally, he's got a personality to squish people. I mean the whole disaster thing, I there's plenty of examples how that that just to me doesn't make sense. When does it become a disaster and a judgment from God? And when does it become a tree just falling on three kids and and they die? We go, that's not God But if our T NATO comes and and does something we go, Is that God? But if a hurricane comes, we go, Well, that's probably God. Well if it's in New Orleans, that's God. What about all the bib and b Bible believing churches that are reaching out and preaching the gospel and people are getting saved? Why isn't if God is wrath is coming against Japan in a tsunami, w what about these other countries in America, I mean other cities in America that are just the Hollywood situation and the the gay rights situation and the sex trafficking in other countries. Where's the wrath of God on them? Okay, so my answer to that is several things. First I'm going to show you a couple of places in the Old Testament where storms, earthquake, uh these kinds of things are said to be a direct act of God. To Israel. Uh to well to Israel and the surrounding nations. It always happens with the surrounding nations. Secondly, um uh the just because we have a hard time explaining those things, uh in that it's difficult that we're in a difficult position by a world that wants to mock the idea of a God that that that is is a judge doesn't necessarily mean that we shouldn't go ahead and do so. Right? And so yeah, I would agree it's difficult to deal with these questions. Uh and I wouldn't go so far as to say that I know prophetically that Katrina was this or that that Russia uh had forty years of bad harvest because they kicked God out of the country. Though when I look at those things, I feel like the Bible gives us the the indication It leads us in the direction, both Old and New Testament, that we should perceive these things as an active God involving himself in human affairs. And using those things to draw men back to himself, that he's always done that, but that men has r have refused to respond and instead have hardened their hearts and chosen to go farther away from God. So And so so what are some examples of that in the Old Testament? Some examples in the Old Testament are um it says that in Isaiah 29, 6 The Lord Almighty will come with thunder and earthquake and great noise, with windstorm and tempest and flames of a devouring fire. The hordes of all the nations that fight against Ariel, that attack her in her fortress and besiege her will be as it is with a dream with a vision in the night. All right, and so it's describing how God's gonna come and uh and accomplish his purpose. It says in Ezekiel thirty-eight, nineteen, in my zeal declares, but that's a prophecy that he's gonna come. Did he actually come that way yet? Is that is that you know what I mean? Is there anything else? Well the Isaiah the Isaiah prophecy is referring to how God's going to destroy Israel through um Assyria and then through Babylon. And so he's within his fundamental rights to do that because he said, if you disobey, I will bring these things upon you. I do believe in sowing and reaping. I mean definitely men are reaping the consequences of sin. But to say that God is thrusting upon this judgment I believe in judgment, so I d I mean obviously I think it's biblical, but to t I I I think it's hard to discern though I think it's a good we need to discern those things. Where is something a judgment from God There were something is just an you know, it says submit to God and resist the devil. If things are from God, when do you ever resist the devil? Right. This is a big part of the question. How much of this is from the devil and how much of it is from God? Let's save that. And this is a big part of the theory. Let's save that question because that would be a good place to start. Sure. We're going to have this panel back for next week's show. We'll start with that question or something close to that question. But what are some other examples? And I'll try not to jump in and interrupt someone. This one is a is a specific one in the time of Uzziah, king of Judah Uh he's prophesying again, he's saying, You will flee by my mountain valley, it will extend to Azel, you will flee as you fled from the earthquake in the days of Uzziah, king of Judah, then my Lord uh the Lord my God will come. Right? And then Uh Matthew 27, 54. Um there was an earthquake at the time of Jesus. uh crucifixion. And five hundred people were raised to from life. Sure. No, I'll give you that. Nevertheless it was a uh significant earthquake. Yes. Um and Then we have um storm that uh you know all through the Psalms he talks about you know the Lord using the storm But then again in Isaiah he says the storm of the Lord will burst out in wrath, a whirling, swirling down. See the storm of the Lord in Jeremiah will burst out in wrath. Uh Thebes will be taken by storm. Memphis will be in constant distress. Um let's see. Yeah, and I'm not meaning to argue that you know God isn't the God of of his way is in the world of his creation. Uh he rebukes the sea and it dries it up, makes all the rivers w run dry. The mountains quake before him, the hills melt away. So you be obviously you're you're reading these things to say there's biblical precedence that maybe today that there what God has done in the old older covenant that God can do that today. Is that that's why you're reading these things? Yeah. Yeah. God has always done this. And so what makes us think that God does not now? Where's the change? Where where does it say that God will no longer act in these ways once Christ comes? Okay. We know that that when Christ comes, that he he interacts differently with those who respond, but within f 30 years, forty year forty years of when Christ came Uh there was such a severe destruction of of Jerusalem that Christ himself prophesied was going to happen, and that is after Christ was here. Yes. And um in fact w I I I don't have 'em with me, but there's um stories of whole towns not a hundred years ago here in the United States. that when they experienced drought or they experienced some kind of major storms, that they all went back to God and repented and said, You know what? The Lord is calling us to repentance. Um, God will receive people back regardless of why they're coming back. If they want to attribute, you know, these things are happening because God is displeased with us and here's some Old Testament, Old Covenant verses, and I'm not trying to diminish Old Covenant or the New Covenant, but there is a superiority that the writer of Hebrews mentions. But I I feel like um God will take anybody back, but it doesn't justify, hey, God did these things in this this new covenant based upon I'm not there's plenty of things If if I can say something here in Luke chapter nine, it's uh verse fifty-one to fifty-six, it says, When the days were approaching for his ascension, he has determined Jesus determined to go to Jerusalem. And he sent messengers ahead of him, and they went and entered a village of the Samaritans to make a ram arrangements for him. But they did not receive him. Because he was traveling toward Jerusalem. When his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, do you want us to command fire to come down from heaven and consume them? But he turned and rebuked them and said, You do not know what kind of spirit you're of For the Son of Man did not come to destroy men's life, but to save them, and they went on to another village. And I to me the essence of that is Jesus comes to save people. He's trying to get people into heaven. Obviously not trying to destroy people and keep them out of heaven. Now obviously God is good and just because someone dies, you know, we were not saying it's the Lord or anything, but The I just when does it come to the point where when can you discern and resist the enemy and rebuke the storms um like Jesus did and where we just say well this is God's that always means we can never resist something I love how this is going to end because Jonathan was just asked a question and he's not allowed to answer. Too bad. Isn't that great? Love that. Jonathan Sweiss, their senior pastor of Crossville July Chapel. Thank you, my friend. Justin Thomas, Harvest Christian Fellowship. Thank you, my friend. Uh my friends at Putmin Plumbing and Heating, thank you. How can we make you smile? In such a grateful mood. Yeah, I know. That's just me. I'm a grateful kind of guy I'm Troy Skinner. This has been the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And again, I encourage you to visit us online at wfmd. com keywordfaith. Email me Troy at WFMD. com and we didn't get to talk about it much, but don't forget Frederick forty eight coming up uh in September, just a few months away We'll uh we'll talk maybe a little bit more about that uh in next week's show. Um Jonathan talked about the last few weeks, but if you missed those, you know, catch up to speed next week, all right? Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Pop and plumbing, how can we make you smile