Licenses were found not to have met the requirements of the Real ID Act. Diana Gibson, WFMD News. Good morning to nine thirty WFMD Weatherblood forecast for Frederick and the surrounding counties. Today is going to be mostly. Sunny day and high in 93. Do have a slight chance of some showers and thunderstorms in the afternoon. Tonight partly cloudy low 73. Tomorrow Monday mostly sunny day high ninety-four. Slight chance of showers and thunderstorms Monday night, partly cloudy, chance of showers, low 73. No service, contact the best, ThompsonBest at bestheatac. com. I'm Jim Tice. This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Hula! We're Faith Community Leaders. Leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba In less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the face-to-bate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner. Weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Switzer. When the Bible speaks. of the elect, what is it talking about? Maybe we'll touch on that today. Does the answer do anything regarding feelings of isolation from God? Doubts about the presence of God, the provision of God, even doubts about one's faith itself. There's some other issues we've teased last couple of weeks that we haven't gotten to. I'm thinking we might do a some lightning round uh stuff today. We'll do ask the pastor, ask the Christian, and see how quickly and how picky we can be in our responses. That'll be a goal for the Faith of Fade show. I'm Troy Skinnery. This is the Faith Debate. And uh on the panel again today, we have Jonathan Sweitzer, co-founder of Cross Bridges in Frederick, and Jerry Gilbert, a professing Protestant Christian and a friend of the show. So, some things we teased a couple this is our third show with this panel together and uh we teased a couple of weeks ago and then we teased again last week. We never got to it So, you know, in ninety seconds, is God transcendent or is God imminent? How was how do you answer that question? I me personally, I think it's it's definitely a both hand. Um I see a a large pendulum in the church that tends to uh want to swing toward a transcendent god, the God that's out there, distant, the God of all and wonder. Um but you know, it's very clearly in you know stated all over the New Testament. You know, Jesus di his name is Emmanuel, God with us. You know, it God is is much more imminent than I think a lot of people um uh think uh a lot of people um grow up believing, especially me. I mean I grew up uh brethren in Christ and it was much more the transcendent God. And to simplify as a language, I mean this isn't the uh this isn't the kind of definition you'll find in a textbook, but generally, you know, transcendent God is far. You know, imminent God is near. You know, so think of like Sesame Street. Near? Far. Near far. And this is and we feel like the discussion went up a couple of steps there. So raise our We all three of us I think would agree because we all have a similar uh take on what the Bible teaches on this sort of a question. But it has been a significant issue well for the church over the years and the church has gotten itself in trouble when it's overemphasized one at the exclusion of the other. And so we've on this show many times we've talked about the founding fathers and there was a strong deist influence and deism is kind of a God who's out there, he's not really connected, he's not particularly imminent, you know, the great watchmaker in the sky, kind of wound everything up and then sat back and watched the you know the clockwork kind of a thing. And that's not a biblical picture of God. And then you've got the hyperiminence where God is is uh merely imminent or he's so present, he's in and of everything. And You know, that rock on the ground is God and uh he's in there somewhere and you know, and so we get ourselves in trouble when you don't recognize the otherness of God and make him too imminent, but we also get ourselves in trouble when we don't recognize the intimate presence of God and make him too transcendent. And so I think the biblical, I would agree with you guys, the biblical answer is yes. God is transcendent and imminent. And we are not. We are only imminent. We're only here now, right? There's nothing that we're not. And and I would say that I think I think we we need him to be both. And to the extent that right in your upgr upbringing he was so transcendent. Well, it's like the opposite for me. So my high school years were the charismatic renewal and it's all about God's here with us now, touching us, you know, and and these worship experiences that are that are, you know, very emotional and very um, you know, about the the immediate presence of God. Whereas when I when I then moved into my college and seminary, you know, and beyond, I've uh appreciated taking the time to really think about how transcendent he is and how holy and how how how other he is that that that helps for me, you know, there's even a a I don't know, is it a balancing, but I But I find myself grateful for that and uh inclined to to spend time there though recognizing that I still need the other, but I can tap into the imminent because it was so much a part of my my upbringing that I almost don't need to spend much of any time s you know, reading the Bible that way because I know all the passages and I can go there right away. And so Anyways, it's I I I wonder how that plays out for people. And related to it would be the something we teased a couple of weeks ago. Uh is God angry or is God pleased? Because we have a tendency to to put those together. There's this distant angry. He couldn't be happy and distant. Right. And then there's the imminent. Well, that's your Bet Middler. I mean God is watching us. From a distance. From Jonathan Sweitzer. Yeah. And yeah, and eminence because that's what made me think of that too was you talking about the the charismatic experience where God is near and he's with us and He he loves us. He's here right now. He can feel never is it well, almost never is it God is near us and he's really angry. Well actually In my experience, actually that was not the case. A lot of the holiness Pentecostal guys, God is near and it's his holy presence. And so there are many times where where like we move into a holy moment where we're all, you know, some are like like on their faces before God, you know, just like it's he's holy and you know, it's it's a moment of of dealing with sin and and that kind of thing. Well well can yeah, I mean Sure. In the sense that right, if I've got sin and it's not confessed, then his holiness, you know, is something that I'm gonna try to get away from, you know, that I run from. And so then then uh you know, is it God or is it me? But it still drives and I guess that's part of what you're saying that that the anger drives the distance. Whereas if we want to stay close, then it means that we that we're in an attitude of repentance and humility. And so for me those things were tied together. tend to think about holiness is otherness, separateness, differentness. There's some there's something that's special and unique and uh um not uh doesn't tolerate sin. Yeah, but that anger? But it can't abide sin. Can't can't can't can't be in the presence of there's something so other than the other. For example, Aaron's sons, when they offered the strange fire in the tabernacle, and fire comes out of the tabernacle and destroys them Right, can't abide meant that they died in the But here's the thing, this holiness is a is an attribute of God, right? God is always holy. Yeah. God is not always angry So he can be holy and not angry. So I think that try and I think that anger this is we're getting into the nuance of my theological outlook. I think the anger is actually rooted in God's love because that's also an attribute of God. God is love. He's never not love. So how can he be love and angry? Well I think Holiness fits into this. Because he's other, because he's special, he's unique, he's can't abide sin. Sin can't reside with a holy God. Like they cannot be in the same place, space. uh together and God desires to have us in relationship with him and so our sin is keeping us from being with him because of his holiness and he's angry at the separation that our sin is bringing and so he's angry at the sin. He's angry with the existence of the separation that is there He's angry because his holiness won't abide the sin. So I don't think that holy and anger are the same thing. I think we get ourselves in trouble when we mix those words. I think we I think we as Christians should do a good job of carefully defining our terms because God can be holy and love and angry all at the same time without any sort of contradiction. Always yeah, so I mean you can't be a student of scripture I don't think you can be a student of scripture and disagree with what you just said. Of course not. He is able to be all of those things. Couldn't agree with you more. So yeah. So I mean my big thing is how are you purple now? How on a daily basis do I wrap my head around you know I I'm I'm following the the the the God of the whole universe. Spun the thing into existence. Right. Yet Yet pray like Jesus did. Abba, Daddy. That's th to go from that mental picture of I mean, look outside at night. You know, and then to to to to come back in and and and pray daddy. That just wrapping my head around that is is you know I got a finite brain. You know, that's hard to do some days when you really, really try to take a deep dive into it. um uh trying to wrestle with the transcendence and immanence, you know, without the you know benefit of you know seminary like you guys have. And well one of the challenges that we have is that, you know, uh we are creatures You know, we are rooted in the universe, the created order. And so it's really kind of unfathomable to think in terms of outside of space, outside of time. Like we don't have a paradigm for truly understanding what that means. And so it's not just that God is is the God of the universe and he's everywhere in the universe, but he's outside of the universe. Like there was no universe before God made the universe. And so therefore in some conceptual way there is a quote unquote place because we don't even have the language for it, right? There is a place where there is no place and God is there. You know? How do you even do that? You know, he created everything th this is something I've said uh a number of times over the years, you know. God not only created everything out of nothing. He created the space within which to place it. Out of nothing. Yeah, there was no space before he created the space to create places. I mean we don't go we don't have categories of language for that, right? Yeah we don't. By the way this is the faith debate on uh nine thirty WFMD. Jerry Gilbert, John Sweitzer and Troy Skinner are talking at you Um we had teased, uh I think it was last week's show, uh the the nature of uh of the church in relation to itself over time. So, lightning round. Uh in what ways do you think the church is exactly like, nearly like, not at all like uh the first century church compared to today? How are the how is the first how is the church from two thousand years ago different? Andor the same as today. I think it's the same in that there are a whole lot of people coming into it at all times that are brand new. to uh what holiness and uh love and glory are all about. Uh and I think it's um different in the sense that Uh when they come in, there's the the instruction about Jesus is now two hundred two thousand years old. And so uh it comes with with a baggage that's two thousand years old, though it's the same that they still had baggage defining who God was. It was, you know, a couple thousand years old, but but the definitions of Jesus, um, that people confront now are m very matured. definitions of of who he is that have been thought through and discussed extensively. you know, disagreement you know in the first century church with you know on who or what Jesus was. That's what started a lot of the the initial, you know, back and forth and heresies in the church and You know, Jesus really wasn't, you know, both man and and the son of God, you know, all those things. Um you're talking about first century, you talking about the book of Acts? 'Cause you moved into three hundred years later. Yeah. Well although True. Yeah, well y yes and I mean yeah, uh technically true, but there were precursors to what he's talking about that came you know, came in into f flourishing. in a negative sort of flourishing way, a couple of hundred years later, that uh the Apostle John writes against in the New Testament, you know, kind of this proto Gnostic Let me use a theological term for you. You know, that Gnosticism that you you're saved by knowledge, a heightened experience, that you know this way, this this this this avenue to God that that others don't know the secret. And so that is the root of your salvation. That's the magic potion, if you will. Okay, but you're a lot more negative than that than he was describing those other like like he's a lot more open to those divergence. Potion, if you will. Okay, but you're a lot more negative than that than he was describing those other like like he's a lot more open to those Divergent. Not necessarily open just just in comparison with the with the with the church today. Yeah. But there's I mean, if you if you take a dive into the church today, you're gonna get You're gonna get the Jesus of the the gospels. You're gonna get Jesus who some say didn't exist, you know, the Jesus seminars. The you're gonna get some who uh bits and pieces in between depending on Maybe there's some churches in Appalachia where the Jesus is gonna come save you from the stomach. Yeah, well see that I guess that's where I would have to I w I would take exception because again John is is hugely helpful in this regard. He goes out of his way. In first John chapter one, the whole opening paragraph is this salvo reinforcing the idea that Jesus really existed. We touched him, we saw him, we felt him, we heard him. There's all these tangible feel you know these these downright scientific he's making a scientific sensual case for Jesus is real guys And anybody who tells you otherwise is the Antichrist. So there were people even in the Apostle John's time that he felt the need to speak against, to address, that were denying that Jesus really existed. Or we talk about, you know, is there no resurrection? Well, if there's no resurrection, then I mean we're to be pitied more than anybody else. Paul writes against that. So there's no I mean, uh Ecclesiastes tells us there's really nothing new under the sun. It takes on kinda different forms and different contexts. But I would say any heretical view that we have today in the church existed two thousand years ago. I was I I I feel confident in in saying that. I I would definitely agree. I I think the the biggest difference that I see in my in my opinion anyway is We've had 2,000 years of a church bureaucracy to take hold, the baggage that like you that you talked about. Not all bad. I mean there needs to be an organizational structure. You're you're you're sending this this God's word through the nations, through the entire world. There has to be an organizational structure. With that comes problems sometimes. And I think the church has done s uh a a a great job of of stumbling and tripping over itself and falling on its face. in some of those through the centuries, um, you know, but by the same token, um, you know, has has But even that, even I mean yes, there's there have been there have been uh there are huge populational differences. You know, there are what seven billion people on the planet. Uh there were, I don't know, maybe. Tens of millions on the planet back? I don't know what to do. Christians are a much larger percentage of the population of the planet. And there's more people in general and as a percentage there's a larger percentage that are Christian or at least professing Christian. Let's let's put a caveat out there. I'm not sure that all professing Christians are necessarily truly uh Christian, but you know, God God knows. Uh that's not for me that to determine or decide. And technology has has changed. Um and so there's a there's kind of a it's weird there's a distance created by the technology, but a connect connected connectedness through the technology as well that wasn't there before. However, there were structural, hierarchical, you know, bureaucratic, if you want to say, questions even then. I mean that's Um there was a division of labor. That's why we you know different roles within the church, that's why the the the aconite, you know the deacons were uh came into being. There were the uh the Gentile Greek believers uh who were uh a little upset um about what was going on with the uh the the Jewish believers and who was being taken care of and who wasn't being taken care of with the orphans and widows and there were and they had to address that they had a church council in Jerusalem to address some issues. I mean, so I don't again I don't think there's anything new. There might be new in the matter of scale. Uh and and and the context would be different. We have a uh pot modern and postmodern context in our current times, but I don't think I think it's so much the same, which is why it's relevant to study the Bible to see what it has to say to our day. Because that's one of my dangers. What I'm advocating so hard for this is there are too many people that will say things like, Well, it's this old dusty book about bygone ages. It has no relevance for us today. And it's just It is plainly not true. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, um I I think you could argue that in the West there's a lot less um confidence in miracles. than there was uh in the book of Acts and uh the apostles and what was going on, though the culture at large I'm sure had a lower tolerance for, you know, belief in miracles. Though I don't know. No, I don't even think I think a lot of times we just think they promote them. Yeah. Yeah, well w i i in w in the scientific naturalist world views is uh a lot more sophisticated response you know, against miracles then I feel like the old fashioned Platoism, Plato Platonism or something. I don't think that the Egyptians and Pharaoh uh embraced the nature of the miraculous very well during the plagues. They they were trying to explain those away and and if they truly But their magicians produced some Well yeah, but they they well they were magicians producing magic tricks, perhaps, right? And so they were trying to explain away these miracles of God. Right? You know, like like the the the magicians were still holy people that you know, that were whether you were cynical towards what they did or not, there was still kind of this sense that they were the leaders of the nation. I mean, you wouldn't have magicians leading our nation. No, but there's cynicism towards those leading our nation for sure. But even that, I mean look at the at our current c context. There are people that are reading their horoscope every day as though there's some sort of magic in in that you know, having their astrological charts read or their poems read or those sort or doing the Ouija board thing or people are still involved in it. Are people still believing and practice voodoo? Right? Sure. It it it but it feels to me like like it's uh it's it's I don't know, pushed more to the edges than it than it would have been in a culture that worships Zeus and worships, you know, the emperor as a god and, you know, worships Yeah, I would agree. There's a goddess diet. But they're still always present. Yeah, yeah. There's always a supernatural So maybe it's just the flow, the ebb and flow. Looks like you were gonna lean forward and say something I didn't mean to do. Oh okay. Not this. Really good. It is a good chair. Yeah, you feel smarter for sitting in it? Absolutely. Yeah. Yeah, I must say this one is a lot less comfortable, so I don't know if we did that on purpose to other guests or not, or uh maybe uh after the show I'll go see if there's another chair that can be crabbed instead. I'm gonna stand up in a minute and give you guys for planning purposes, we're gonna do some show prep right here in the middle of the show. Okay. How do you feel? This was Pr I felt pretty good as a lightning round, right? We covered three, four, or five topics and so quick. Yeah, that was pretty good though, right? Maybe we'll try to do a couple more uh lightning round things uh next week and uh and then if we have some time we can go deep on for you know, as much as time as we have to go deep on something that catches your fancy. Yeah, I mean we need we need a place where we can, you know, like really disagree with one another about something. Hmm. A few of those over the years, just a lot of people. I'm sure there's gonna be some, but you know, uh truth be told, this panel is uh three professing uh evangelical Protestant Christians, right? I mean we're not gonna have a a whole lot of Well you and I have plenty of major disagreements. All right, he's Jonathan Schweitzer. Uh the website again is Frederick Goes Purple. What is that again? Frederick County GoesPurple. com. Frederick County GoesPurple dot com. You can learn all about uh what's going on with that and you should be wearing purple throughout the whole month of the donated website. The guy that did it did an amazing job. He also has his Cross Bridges uh website as well, so uh go there and learn more about what John's doing. Uh Jerry Gilbert uh he might have a website but we're not gonna plug that right now because I'm out of time. We have a website, WFMD. com. Uh I'm Froy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right about right now. God bless Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. A service of clustered spires. Maryland's golf at its finest. From the 930 WFMB Roy Rogers Restaurant News Center. This is WFMB News. One of the occupants of a vehicle involved in a fiery crash earlier this month has died. The Frederick County Sheriff's Office says 23-year-old Alexander Denia Frederick succumbed to his injuries on Thursday at Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center in Baltimore, where he was admitted after the crash. Denny was a passenger in a Volkswagen golf that ran off of Elmer Dur Road during the early morning hours of Thursday, august eighth. The vehicle struck a drainage culvert and came to rest on Elmer Road. One of the passengers was partially ejected. The Volkswagen Gulf burst into flames. The Sheriff's Office said the investigation is continuing and charges are pending. A Hagerstown woman is charged with setting fire to her motel room. Sixty-six-year-old Diane Webster was arrested early Friday morning near the Motel 6 at 1321 Massey Boulevard in Hagerstown. She's charged with first-degree felony arson and reckless endangerment. The Maryland State Fire Marshal's office has firefighters responded to the motel shortly after 2 30 a. m. and spent five minutes putting out the flames. Damage is estimated at $2,000. Authorities say Webster is accused of setting fire to her room by igniting paper and cardboard. The fire spread across the carpet and along the sides of the doorway. The other guests in the motel saw smoke coming from the room and a woman fleeing the scene. Webster was located outside of the motel among trees and weeds. She was taken to Meredith Medical Center for an evaluation before being transported to the Washington County Detention Center. Kevin McManus, WFMD News To read more on this and other local stories, go to our website at WFMD. com. And now you can text your news and traffic tips into the station at 301-694-9363. I'm Diana Gibson on the Maryland News Station, 930 WFMD. Fox News, I'm Evan Brown, another day of protesting in Hong Kong. Tens of thousands of demonstrators are spending Sunday in the rain marching against moves by China to extradite criminal suspects for prosecution. Hong Kong has long enjoyed a separate justice system. Marchers in Portland, Oregon grew violent at Times Saturday as left-wing antifa groups challenged right-wing proud boys. Almost immediately, officers began to seize weapons. Over the course of the day Those seizures included chemical spray, bear spray, metal and wooden poles, knives, shields, and a sun gun. Portland Police Chief Danielle Outlaw 13 people are now under arrest. NFL preseason continues this afternoon. The New Orleans Saints are in Los Angeles to face the Chargers. This is Fox News. Good morning to 9 30 WFM. The Weather Bud Fort Cast for Frederick and the surrounding counties. Today is going to be mostly sunny day and high in ninety-three. Do have a slight chance of some showers and thunderstorms in the afternoon. Tonight partly cloudy low seventy-three Tomorrow Monday, Mosty Sunny Day, High Ninety Four, Slight Chance of Showers and Thunder