This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Did I mention last week that I'd been reading uh Greek grammar beyond the basics? Huh? Did I have yeah? Yeah, I love it. It's got a studying Arabic and you're studying Greek. It's got a great Storyline, nice plot, character development, some text. Oh, wait a minute. You and I should go something else to the Mediterranean on a trip. Did I mention that I'm reading uh New Testament Exegesis by Gordon D. C. When you're reading S. M. Baugh, Daniel B. Wallace, and Gordon D. Fee, you know you've got problems. My question is, are my problems my fault? Or are they God's fault? Is he actively involved in my problems or am I solely responsible for my problems and God is just, you know, allowing them in some passive way to happen? That's the question for today. Excellent. Today's show is brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating, How the Way Make You Smile. Uh Jonathan Sweiser is the senior pastor of Cross and Joy Chapel and Justin Thomas. Say hello, Justin Thomas. Hello. He is the senior pastor at Harvest Christian Fellowship. We've been talking for the last, I don't know, three weeks worth of shows now. Um by the way, we are broadcasting from the police state that is Frederick City. Haven't mentioned that in a few weeks, but But I drive the speed limit in all those spaces where there is cameras watching me. They have disciplined me into submission. Yeah, but have they righteously done so? This is my question. Oh my goodness, I love it. That is the question. Yeah. Anyway, so Are those speed cameras all about Frederick City because God allowed them passively to happen, or are they there by God's active design? No, that's a good I think there's been a point behind that. If if they put a word is given to the government to restrain the law in place And it's still going on, but when you disob when you disobey and you get the ticket or you get the fine or whatever, right, it's happening. So in the sense that it's not like there's a police it can be a police officer stand out there But these laws are in effect and you know about 'em and then you reap those things. Yeah. I'm I'm not afraid of that. I'm afraid if they're watching what I'm saying and how I'm saying it, and so they're trying to control my thoughts. But they made a law a long time ago about the speed limit and they just haven't been able to uh uh consistently apply that law. So I feel like they're just finally have a tool by which they can consistently apply the law for speed limit. I've I have no problem with that. It's a money grab though. It has nothing to do with them applying the law. They don't care. If you go forty five and a thirty five, they don't really care, but they do pee hear ching in the background. That's what they care about. You wonder. The neighbors that live in those in those neighborhoods. Yeah care very deeply about the fact that so many of us blow through their neighborhoods with their kids walking around and they are very happy that finally somebody has slowed down uh the wild drivers like you and I. I'm telling you, it's not the money grab. These speed cameras aren't in the neighborhoods. Yeah. They're in the thoroughfares. There's so many kids walking down through there all the time. And those that are trying to get out onto the road from Fort Dietrich. I bet they are praising God that everybody's been slowed down, that they can get in and out of there. It's always everything's fine until it comes against you. So according to Jonathan Schweitzer, just in case you everybody's not paying attention, uh the ends justify the means. So it's okay to keep the kids safe by enforcing a police state mentality on our society. I hope you feel good about knocking that straw man down. I feel good about that very much. bad things happen to good people as though there are such things. And why do good things happen to uh to bad people or why do bad things happen at all? And is God allowing those things? Is he making those things happen? Is he active? Is he passive? Is he anywhere to be found on the scene of the crime? That's the question we're asking. Jonathan has mostly been saying, yeah, God's involved actively. In fact, we should read something from that. We should be asking, why is God uh actively having this happen. That's right at all times. And Justin's saying, uh I'm not comfortable with that. Where is the enemy in all these things? Is it just a I think we should ask that question as well. I think we should be asking where's God And where is the enemy? And we should be saying, is it possible that we have opened ourselves up to the judgment of God and that God has allowed the enemy to have his way in our lives? I think the enemy to a degree, but I I say it this way. The enemy doesn't give a rip what God thinks and he'll come in there and he'll rip He'll rape and pillage and destroy families' lives. And I don't think necessarily God is involved in that in the sense that he's permitting or allowing or anything. He doesn't want any of those things happen. But we as mankind Have you been given authority back from Christ? But if you're not in Christ, you're not walking in the authority and resisting the enemy and calling things as they should be, and saying the devil is a liar and he's an accuser of the brother. Revelation chapter twelve, maybe we're gonna open something up here, is that when the enemy is not accusing God, he's accusing us, and he's speaking to us, and he's trying to condemn us. And men get ripped off and they're not standing up against enemy. Obviously sin's an issue and not rebuking those things and resisting them and binding and loosing and God is looking for a people to stand up. and to walk in his covenant promises. Okay, so But is he just standing on the sideline in the meantime? No, God God in the sovereign freedom established his covenant, worked it through Christ. It's the finished work of Christ. So he did do the work and obviously by the Holy Spirit he's involved in all these things. He's our joint authority and joint partner and I'm his submitted partner And he's put these promises before me that I may walk in the authority of God, so that things that are on heaven should come to earth, and I don't see these storms and these devastations on earth. So when they do come, obviously we've allowed that through our sin or through not rebuking the enemy or whatever it is. But God couldn't stop. Because I can show places where God's actively involved. Can you show me any place in scripture where where where it shows God active uh passively doing it? Like we were talking about the the situation with Abraham, which I think is very instructive. Yeah. Right? Abraham is the beginning of the lineage of faith, the father of all who have faith. Right, against all hope, Abraham in hope believed, and so he became the father of all who have faith. Right? That being the case, God goes to Abraham the first. Righteous man, righteous by faith. I guess Noah was the first righteous man, but Abraham the first one, righteous by faith. Sure. And when he goes to him, he says, Should I not tell Abraham what I'm going to do with Sodom and Gomorrah. And then they have this this fascinating discussion. So first of all, it's God's active when he does it. Yes. Second of all, these are not covenant people. With Abraham? Of course he's in c oh you mean Sodom and Gomorrah. Sodom and Gomorrah, not covenant people, but God is wanting to share with his covenant people, Abraham, what he's doing and why he's doing it. And Abraham is like, God, what are you thinking? You don't know how many right you know. What if there's fifty righteous people there? And he walks all the way down, and and God's willing to not do it down to ten righteous people. And this is my point, is that we just don't know. We are most often like Abraham, and we think there's a lot more righteous people around than there are. Now in fairness though, J Justin has uh made the point in previous shows that he thinks that there's a distinction made between what was going on in the Old Testament and the New. So we need to look at, okay Since the cross, since the resurrection of Christ. Well, first of all, we need to establish if there's any active or passive judgment divine, right? Stephen is stoned. Okay, but do you understand is God active in that or is he kind of just allowing that to happen and that's the enemy attacking the church? So how should we understand Stephen Stoning? Yeah, th that is that is clearly that that's what I've been saying about Job. The righteous suffer so that wickedness can be exposed and Saul is right there watching it and we all teach that somehow Saul saw what was going on set that up and he changed his mind. Did God set it up when Christ was crucified? No, no, no. Cr Stephen is walking in Christ's footsteps. Jesus said if they did it to me they're going to do it to you. John chapter 17 persecuting him and they're killing him. If they hated me, they're going to hate you. If they killed me, they're going to kill you. Jesus warned them that this was going to happen They they said, Can we sit at your right hand? Can Jesus said, Can you drink the cup that I'm drinking from? They said yes. And Jesus said, You're right, you can. God knows. So it was in God's plan. No God knows men's hearts that they're evil all the time and they want to oppose the things of Christ. He's telling his disciples, these things can happen to you and they will happen to you. They will oppose as they're opposing me. It doesn't mean God is setting up for men to be persecuted and to be martyred and to be tortured. He's just telling them these things are going to happen. But where does God's control begin and end? Because he certain he uh we never answered. God control I here's a thing. If I said in innocence, God controls everything, but what does that mean? If God is meticulous is in his sovereignty, he meticulously controls everything, to me I think it's just totally fallows. There's plenty of things. God wants all men to be saved But we know that not all men are to be saved. God doesn't always get what he wants. There's a basis. I think there's a plan. I think there's a master plan. I think there's parameters. There are all possibilities, but some things are still open to, you know, things shifting left and right within the parameters of God. So I don't have a problem with that. But God oversees all that. I yeah, I do think you're like Jesus. Like as a parent sometimes. Sometimes I'm actively disciplining my kids, but other times I see what they're doing and I let it happen and I know that they're gonna get hurt, but I let it happen 'cause I'm like, you know what, they just need to learn their lesson. It's okay. I'm gonna let it happen. Right. I don't do that in the street. I don't do that when they're playing around a fire. Especially in the you know, area where there aren't speed cameras that keep the drivers. Yeah, precisely In fact my neighborhood's a good example of that. They blow through there. It's like fifteen mile an hour speed limit and they do like forty all the time. And I got kids playing out there. Anyways, my point is is that is that it's in smaller areas where I know that they can't get hurt too bad. I I actively allow them to do something that I know that's probably gonna hurt you know, they're probably gonna get hurt. So that they can learn the lesson that That's how things are. Other times to me, but then God's seeing you he's gonna allow you to sin so that he can teach you a lesson. Yeah. A y you're telling me that that you you control I'm actually making your point. You're telling me that you control everything about your kids' lives? No, I'm not saying that, but I I'm just saying what I'm saying that sometimes when your kids get in a fight, do you always insert yourself into the middle of the fight or sometimes you say okay they're in a fight, they're not handling it great, but I'm gonna let them work it out Because I've taught them enough and and this is a situation where I'm gonna actively not insert myself and I'm gonna let them work it out because I think it'll be more instructive to them. if they work it out themselves. Yeah, I I I I can understand, but I guess when I come back to it and I s I specifically seeded that my comment with the word sin. Yeah. So if you God will allow us to sin if it's gonna teach us something. That to me opens up to anything. I don't want my kids to sin Right. But I can't well that's well it's funny because now you're arguing my what what I was ostensibly arguing before. I'm saying God maybe n isn't in control of everything. Yeah. Maybe God does allow some things to happen But he does it intentionally because he recognizes that if he's controlling everything then we're robots. I understand that. And so he's allowing the space for us to work things out. even, you know, when it means we miss the mark sometimes, because he knows that that that his grace, where where sin abounds, grace abounds all the more, that that principle uh is in play and so So the believer will fail, but in failing, he knows that we're far enough along that that failure is going to help us to see, oh You know what? That's what I need to do. I need to do the righteous thing. He's not going to sit there the whole time saying, Justin, don't do that. Justin, stop that right now. Justin, stop that right now. He doesn't do that. That's not the kind of Nag. God's not a nag. You know, and so I think there are times when he's passive, but it's intentional, and I'm saying that he's aware at all times of what's going on. He's counting the hairs on our head. You know, he knows he knows what's going on. He knows when a sparrow falls to the ground and he's actively paying attention every step of the way and sometimes uh allowing things to happen precisely because you know uh he thinks it's the best way for us to grow and learn. Jonathan Sweiss is senior pastor at Cross Ros Valley Chapel. Justin Thomas is senior pastor at Harvest Christian Fellowship. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. I kinda like that uh what Jonathan was just saying because of uh uh the pastoral uh sensitivity it allows. Somebody's going through a really rough time You know, you're talking to a wife whose husband just lost their job. They've got a thirteen year old with cancer. The dog got run over by a car. They're like, ugh I can't make my mortgage and get kicked out of my house. What is going on? My life is out of control and I'm trying to do the right thing. I'm trying to live the the principled life, but the principles aren't giving me back what I've been sewing And as a pastor you can say, well, I'm not exactly sure why God is allowing this I totally disagree. But he is superseding and he is in control. I totally disagree. So God can't to the person like that. I'd say there's an enemy And he's evil and he hates you and we need to resist him and stand against him and that there's you have g been given authority. Obviously I might But when there's an enemy, does that mean God's out of control? Can't He be in control despite the people who are not going to be able to do that? I think God's given us control. He's given us joint authority with Christ. He it says uh Psalm one fifteen sixteen The heavens are the heavens of the Lord, but the earth is given to the sons of men. That God in Christ has took the keys of the enemy and is given it in joint authority, Matthew 16, back to the church, and that we allow things by basically by ignorance or by convenience and we say, well, if God's allow if g it's this false doctrine of sovereignty where if something bad happens, we go, well then God must allow it. And it makes me feel better. Therefore I have no responsibility. I advocate responsibility versus before the time practicing, walking in divine health, talking about cancer. Walking and pleading the blood is I'm I'm not saying that just it's a magic word that you just say that, but it's an active, resolute. We're in a spiritual warfare. God is faithful to us, but there's an enemy who's looking to take advantage of us. at any time and that is so it comes back to our responsibility. So obviously if somebody's going through a hell on earth that they feel, I'm going to be compassionate and loving them. Let me give you an example Maybe about eight years ago, I don't want to get too specific, but there's somebody that we were familiar with and s close to our congregation and her son died and when he died he hung himself. So, and there were some mental issues that were going on. And uh it it was a great temptation for me to sit across from her and say, you know, God is faithful and just and he in his goodness, you know, took your son, allowed that to happen so that he could save you and him from, you know, future uh calamities and ch maybe choices he would make. And that's that that makes that would make you bring a false comfort to her, say, you know, God's bigger than this and I just don't understand, therefore versus me say, you know, the enemy is uh a defeated devil, uh but he has his way and he presses and he presses and he presses and you know there should I wish we I wish we prayed more. I wish we fasted more. I wish we stood against those things more And to say, you know, the devil is bringing destruction and God is bringing goodness and trying to you know speak his goodness into our lives and give us the authority to to speak against the enemy So I feel like in this doctrine of sovereignty you're kinda mentioning that God is in control, I say, no, God has given us in joint control a measure of authority to speak against the enemy, against the natural things. I say the storms and those things, and I believe it's an evidence of in Christ. And that w Things happen because we permit them. That sounds harsh though, if I heard you right. Like if we've had prayed more and been more obedient to God then her her son wouldn't have hung himself? See, that's the thing. I didn't say I wish I actually I I would have said something a little bit different, but in her life, uh my point is it's easier to say God just allowed that and then you close the door and you say it's let's just put it in the mystery box and you say I don't understand but I have peace and therefore God allowed it versus saying, you know, maybe that there was the devil trying to put cancer and this is a Christian family upon your son and it I wasn't involved at the very beginning of this. This was like more towards the end of it. Um, and saying, you know, I wish by the grace of God that we would have pressed in and prayed 'cause I know it is God's will to heal. I mean I'm on that side of the camp. And that to persist in those things. Yeah, but how do you persist and have uh joy always unless you're hoping in God and Him having a a plan, a plan to prosper you, not to harm you? Paul prays multiple times that the thorn be removed. And it's not. And he's like, All right, God, you're allowing this thorn, this attack from the devil, and ask me to release me from it. And you're not so But I'm still going to maintain my joy and sing praises to you because I'm trusting that you are in control and you are ultimately sovereign over this. Uh so I you can still fight and have joy. And you're still fighting against the destruction that is destroying children and destroying men and women and ravishing on bodies and and killing people, bringing suffering. You still in the midst of, hey this world I've got joy but there's people who's suffering all the time around me. So I d but I don't chalk it up as God has allowed it. I come down to the church needs to stand up and persist to be strong. God works all things together. for the good of those who are his. God doesn't cause all things All things work together for good for those who love. I think one translation says that. But God isn't causing all things. All things work together for the good. Yeah, no that that's true. Uh which comes back to the to the point is that when we when we go to examine Any one of these situations, uh whether it's cancer, I think, whether it's a hurricane, I think whatever it is uh whether it's a thorn in the flesh, I think that it's appropriate for us to to in our worldview say, okay, God has some kind of an overarching role that he he is he is going to work all things together for the good uh that Satan is somehow has some kind of a role in in things that are going on and that maybe he's the he's God allowed him to have the thorn in the flesh, maybe he's the one that God allowed to come to Job. Maybe maybe he's the one uh that that God has allowed to to rule over Haiti for a period of time. Well Genesis there's a role with forty-nine or whatever. Yeah, Joseph talking to his brothers. But listen, and then there's and then there's the role that God calls for the saints. And then for those that are uh that ha refuse to be saints. And so I see four key elements in there I see God's role, Satan's role, the role that the saints should be playing, that we need to step into with authority, and then the role that that is played by those that are under the control of the evil one. And I think that all four of those things are involved in significant ways and that whatever our final algorithm is for what happened in any given situation that all those are coming into play, that we need to play our role, we need to resist the devil, we need to stand on the authority of God. We need to recognize that unbelievers are a beast, you know, working as as a beast government, you know, working together as groups that reject and resist the purposes of God, that Satan is working to do his thing, that we can resist, you know, what Satan's doing, but that God ultimately is in control of all those things. And the in and and that all of those are at play. Somehow we gotta bring all those into play. Now in the midst of uh some chatting and I was kinda talking over Jonathan a little bit there, so I wasn't exactly sure, I wasn't looking at you, but y you chuckled at something, but I'm not sure what you were chuckling at. I was chuckling at the way I I guess I I like Paul's Thorne's specific thing. Somebody just had a conversation with me about this today. You know I I I personally believe Paul's Thorn was persecution. That's my feeling. Um, and God allows persecution on the earth. I don't believe it's a sickness. I mean I obviously I I believe that and I've studied that. That's that's my stance. Uh so yeah god I mean here's another thing with if somebody gets these says the reason he received these revelations is that he was receiving surpassing great me received these persecution because he's receiving surpassing great revelation in the heavens It might become conceited. Yeah, so there's a pride issue of the glories that he's experiencing. Okay, there's one thing. Job, how long was Job sick? It doesn't tell us. I'm I'm trying to figure that out. They make these things out to be months. Yeah. So If somebody's going through a Job experience and chalk it up to let's say call it sickness, hey, that means in six months, praise God, you're gonna have double your wealth when this thing's hold on and you're gonna learn a mighty lesson. Sure. I think we kinda job is the one that we kinda throw to that say, well, how do bad things happen to good people? And there's great truth to it, and you mentioned to this earlier in other shows. But I feel like Job has suffered more since the book was written than he was writ than happened when he was going through. That's very good rhetorical device. It seems like we run the risk if if if we want to agree with uh what what you're advocating, Justin, that we would have kind of a wimpy god A God who really wishes he could enforce his world on his creation, but he just can't. I think he is so strong and sovereign He put it into the people of God that he uh he's taking this calculator risk. Uh Jonathan talked about robots That that's how one he's in step with us, in sequence with us, walking hand in hand with us. Timmy shows his the greatness of what he can handle and all the possibilities versus having a preordained plan all the way laid out for every meticulous control and everything laid out. What fun is that for God? What I mean that sounds you know, anthropomorphic that I would say that God has having fun. But the issue is how much more greater is that for God to walk step in step and take risks with us that certain countries and nations might might not get saved because we're not being obedient to the call. What do you make of the foreknowledge of God then? Yeah, it doesn't change that some things aren't known yet. I'm gonna get in trouble with my open theology. Um but I I believe in free will thinking, not classical thinking, in foredains and foreknowledge. But I believe that God does not control everything and some things God doesn't know oh my gosh because they haven't been they haven't happened yet. Some things aren't known yet in time, but uh uh would you say that God is bound by time like we are? No, I think No, not at all. 'Cause I've heard her explain that, you know, god for to God time is like an eternal instant. Like for us there's this passage, but for him it just is And he sees it all in in one. Yeah, I've I've heard that too, but I have not seen that in the Bible. Yeah, and I feel like I feel like that particular discussion about how much God does know or doesn't know, I feel like uh delves into an area that the Bible just does not clearly say one way or the other. Yeah. And so I feel like it's a healthy discussion that it is, but but that it's not it's it's not the ultimate issue. Though it it w the reason why it's so important to us is that it drives out this question of What is our role? That's why I think the sovereignty thing and covenant thing is huge. It that is so huge because again back to I call it a doctrine of convenience If things happen, th whatever wills, whatever happens, whatever happens, happens. And you're just like, well, therefore I have no responsibility to either be resisting the enemy or coming against things. That means if all things are from God, then abortion is God's will. And that's just should make you stick in your stomach. God has controlled all things. God has brought all things. He's you having this plan. I would say, no way. And the God we have allowed man has allowed those things through sin. through letting the devil come and not resisting the devil and say, Well maybe it's God teaching us a lesson versus saying, That's crazy. That's the devil bringing death and disease and harm. Let's resist the devil. Okay. Yes, preach righteousness. Yes men to be saved. But to bring those things, the enemy is just has a field day. Jesus said, Satan has come and there's no, he's found nothing inside of me. So so when we it was less than two minutes when we were talking wrap it up Jonathan. We were talking earlier about parenting and sometimes a parent parents actively, sometimes he parents best. passively. And there comes a time when you're a pastor, you know, there's a measure of doing that of handling things with with discipleship. Sometimes you disciple actively, sometimes it's with a looser hand, and sometimes people reject counsel and you have to release them. You give them over to what it is that the doll says that you give them over to the to the enemy possibly. And that is the language that Paul uses in Romans 1 that God is doing with the world. He gave them over to greed, then he gave them over to sexual immorality. Then he gave them over to perverse immorality and then he gave them over to a depraved mind to do what ought not to be done. And that's my point is I think God actively gives over He's not he's not just passing with that language. But but but there there's moments when he actively gives people over to the result of what they do and that in the context of that that ultimately we have to recognize that God thinks it's righteous for you to be uh to to receive uh the the um fruit the uh of what you've sown, to reap what you've sown in that situation. And so God is actively working in all of it. That's that's how I put it. And the way John puts it is the way we're going to end the show. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Justin Taller, senior pastor at Harvest Christian Fellowship. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsor has been putman Polyman Heating. How can we make you smile? Please visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you will find a Daily Monday through Friday blog. My blog is your blog, so please email me, Troy at WFMD. com. That's T-R-O-Y at W-F-M-D. That's how you spell W-F M D. com Not DOT com, but the little period sign com. Till next week. Thanks for listening. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Pub and plumbing, how can we make you smile?