Welcome to July and welcome to the first time. Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, your affable, lovable, humble faith of the Frederick Faith Debate. Joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Israeli Chapel. He's none of those things I just mentioned by myself. And Justin Thomas, senior pastor at Harvest Christian Fellowship, and he's I don't know, all the good things I said about myself times ten. Thank you. I want to encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find a blog Monday through Friday updated by me. Actually it's updated by you. You email me, Troy at WFMD. com, and I take what you email me and I post it. Up to nine select postings a day. Number nine. Not uh never more than nine, 'cause that's the most that'll work a job. Huh? What do you mean by what? How do you spend all that time posting things on the internet? Are you Facebooking all day long too? How hard is it to take that's why you email me and I take what you send me and just just Copy and paste. Bang! Done. That posting took like three seconds. Oh really? You like Twitter it onto your account or how do you get it there? Huh? You just email it on your computer and you do that? Yeah, it's on the computer and go to the administration section of the website and uh open up the little window I have to open up and I say, put this here please. Thank you very much. Move on, next one, put this here, please I will say when people email me uh stuff that has lots of pictures, that takes a little longer because I have to take each picture individually and save it and then move it in there. And that thing that but if it's just text, I can pop that in there in like five seconds Uh-huh. You are brilliant. I used to try to do the blog myself and like come up with something interesting to say every day. And you realize it's just not puff. And I realized that I'm not sure I have anything interesting to say every year. So every day was certainly a challenge. So but you all have plenty to say, so keep email emailing me. That's right. Troy at WFMB dot com. Downright Democratic. All right If you were listening last week, we've been talking about the wrath of God and does God execute his wrath today the same way he did in the Old Testament. We're talking about the covenant of God and what role that plays and that sort of thing. And that's all fine and well and good and and really good, but we're not going to rehash it because we've already done two shows on that, so uh we're gonna move forward. And we're gonna move forward with how we ended last week's show 'cause it kinda gets to the crux of the matter. When bad things are happening, uh when tsunamis hit or earthquakes come along or you know, uh uh hurricanes wiped out entire cities or whatever Jonathan is arguing that you know we might want to see that as a judgment of God. And Justin's not calling it. No, no, no, no. All right. Let me let me let me be precise. I think we should ask the question. Is God doing something? Okay. And I'm going to ask you a question to that question in a second. The question if you can think about it. The question is going to be How do we know the answer when we ask the question? And then Justin the My answer to that when you ask me is going to be we go to the Bible. We look at the Bible. So John's not sure he liked it. And he's saying, look, it's it's like you're saying, you know, God's making these things happen and John says, Well, God's in control, of course he's making or allowing those things to happen. And then Justin had the very provocative statement at the end that's just saying, Well, God's not in control. Which is interesting. But I want to go there in a second because I'm gonna follow up now on my question to you, John. Okay. Okay, I go to the Bible. We've already had this discussion. Do we need to rehab it? No, I'm gonna go to the Bible and say, okay, gee, wait a minute. A bunch of tornadoes this spring, like hundreds of them, ripped through the Midwest, leaving thousands of people homeless, killing people. Parents lost children, children lost parents, right? Right. Life savings gone in an instant. And I'm gonna say, wow I wonder if that's a judgment of God. Let me open up my Bible. Look here. I'm in uh Judges, that seems appropriate. Judges chapter three. And it says, Oh, so now I know what the answer is. Do I? When when we study the Bible, this is obviously uh well, I don't know if it's obvious, but it's one of the bigger questions of Uh study of scripture. Right? What is what is God doing on the earth? It's the question of his justice and of his righteousness. Is it righteous for God to allow this kind of thing to happen on the earth. And the sense that we get is that God gave the authority to mankind. Mankind uh abdicated its authority and handed control over to the devil because he submitted to the devil's purposes, but that God still oversees what the devil's allowed to do or not allowed to do. The devil's not allowed to do whatever he wants or he would have destroyed the whole earth. God is restraining the devil from doing that and he gives the sword to government to restrain evil because he knows that people for the most part are living under under the influence of the devil, uh which is the great story of Job. Job wanted to know why if God's in control the righteous are not blessed and the wicked are not cursed. Job wanted to know why it seems like the wicked are actually cursed and the righteous are are uh no that the wicked are actually blessed and and the righteous are cursed. He wanted to know why everything seemed to be upside down. Well the answer was that God alone contained Leviathan, who is the devil, and the beast That is, those groups of mankind that reject the purposes of God. And we've se we see beasts in every generation. Hitler was a beast. Um uh Saddam Hussein was a beast. It's not for you to know. I mean that's the real answer. Right. That's not the answer. If you put Job where he says, Can you tame Leviathan? Can you tame Beamath? That's his question to Job. And Job says I can't. Right. The point there is you're not God. You're not me. Right, but he's not saying you can't know. He's saying or he's not saying you can't understand. He's saying you're not righteous enough and powerful enough in your own strength to bring down Leviathan. Because Leviathan is too powerful for any one human to conquer. And so God is going to have to come himself. We're told in Isaiah that he will clothe himself with righteousness, he'll put zeal on and he'll work righteousness with himself. That doesn't answer that question. Yes it does. Satan's the one that's doing it. The Leviathan's the one that's doing it. God gave Leviathan I mean that's the the answer to the book of Job. Satan did it. God didn't do it. God gave Satan permission to do it. And Satan did it. God didn't do it. Satan did it, but God granted the permission to do it. And granting the permission to do it, that means that God somehow has a plan that He wants us to understand. And this is the plan. This is the plan in Christ. That somehow the righteous Somehow God thinks it's righteous for the righteous, i. e. Christ, to come under curse so that Satan can be exposed. as being truly wicked. And after Satan is exposed and the day of the Lord comes, then what happens is that God destroys Satan, destroys the work of Satan, and re-establishes righteousness. That still doesn't answer my point. That still doesn't answer Job's question in his life. Why are these things bad things happening to me now in my life? Then why does Job at the end of it say, You're right, Lord, I was wrong, I I uh comfort myself in dust and ashes. Job said that because he got it. He can't tame the Leviathan. He said he can't. He's talking about a lot of things. You're picking out the Leviathan part. Have you read what cr what God says to Job at the end? Yes. He says, Job, you're not powerful enough to deal with the problem of evil I am, I created everything. You are not able to do it because you didn't create everything. I'm God. I'm righteous enough to deal with this problem of evil. You are not. Right. And but Job is saying, why are you allowing this problem of evil to infect my life when I'm righteous And to that the answer is, hey, I'm God. I don't have to answer you. God's saying trust me. God's saying trust me that Job is a precursor of what? Christ. And who is Christ? Christ is the righteous man who suffers at the hand of Satan, just like the book of Job is all about. Where righteousness is cursed and wickedness seems to be. Yeah, but those of us reading know the answer to the question. Joseph didn't know. Right, but we do. And Job didn't get it, but everybody after Job got it. Couldn't God have m made the universe in such a way that rising people wouldn't suffer? Couldn't He have chosen. Of course, in his sovereign freedom he could have done that. Right. Nonsense. No no no he could have done it, but he didn't do it. That's the point. Right. And then saying that he couldn't, that his right of course he could his holy character No, if God could do whatever he wants, he's got no would he violate his holy character No, of course not. I agree with you there. Of course, look at no look it. He could have done it so that when men come to sin, they don't sin. But he didn't do that. That's the point. Right, because we'd be robots at that day. That that's the point. He lets us risk so. Of course. And he takes the risk and that's right. Yes. In the case of Job, Job is a righteous man. Right. He's not reaping what he sowed. Precisely. The answer is that Satan was granted permission. And why would God grant that grant that permission? That's what Satan had the permission. And the answer is Christ. Why would God do that to Christ? If Job hadn't come We would have looked at Christ and said, Oh, well, clearly Christ must have sinned because he suffered. But because of what happened with Job, we're prepared. Isaiah knows, oh, the servant is going to suffer when he comes. And he and he will he he will uh be you know he'll be have lashes and by his stripes will be healed. Because of Job, the prophets read it and they were like, Oh, when God finally deals with with wickedness on the earth There's going to be a righteous man that's going to have to suffer in order to destroy the works of Satan, but that righteous man is going to prevail. And then when that righteous man prevails and it's all pointing to Christ. So you're the one that tells me all we need to go to Christ. So when Hurricane Katrina wipes through uh uh New Orleans and surrounding areas, I guess now I should understand that those people were righteous Because that God gave permission for the righteous to be afflicted. No, I'm saying that when we go to the Bible we see Well how do I know the difference? We see two things. Right. And that's why I'm saying that it's our obligation to ask And to see what happens as reason for us to turn to the Lord and say, Lord, maybe we deserve that. Show us if we have been sinful and and and deserve what you have allowed. Job even did that. Job it turned out had not been sinful, but that is certainly not the case about the rest of us. And so the right thing for us to do when that happens is to quiet our hearts and to go before the Lord and say, Lord, we trust you And if you have allowed Satan to do this, I disagree. I think Jesus and dealt with Satan at the cross and humiliated him, made him a public s spectacle, Colossians chapter 2. And and that through it says Jesus has uh Matthew chapter sixteen. I mean I understand some of the things. So can you explain to me what happened in Haiti? They made a hundred years ago. Everybody talks about this, yes. You don't believe that you don't believe that that has an impact on my on their innability To to rise into any level of of prosperity or effectiveness? For over a hundred and fifty years ever since they did that? I mean it's it's it's so clear. Let me answer the question. Yes. Sorry. Yeah. I get it. Um yes, it definitely does have a connection. They've given themselves over to their god Satan. They're giving them over themselves. They they re we they relinquish them s what Christ has paid and given authority back to mankind. And in Christ you have right authority. They are not those who aren't following Christ have basically are getting ripped off by the enemy and the enemy's coming in year after year and and pillaging them and hurting them and causing damage. So they are allowing the in the authority of man. God has given Matthew sixteen. Jesus, I give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you have bound in or sub and bound in and whatever you lose so in other words, binding and loosing, uh permitting and uh uh uh allowing and resisting. Yeah. Well I I I see it that way too. But I'm with you too. Okay. Sorry, so I'm in agreement with all that. I really feel like God allows what we allow, because he's given us authority. If we are open to it Sure, and we read what we saw, but God's act all I'm saying is God's actively involved in that. He's not passive about all that. He's active about it. Well I think he's active when he created the world and its order in that sense. But I I I I guess when it comes down to God is Um his personality, again I don't know the best way to say, but he's volitionally out and he's killing people. I think he there's an enforcement by the spirit. I don't know how that all works, but we do reap what we sow. Right. So well this this is what we're getting at to. When I w w w When I say the wrath of God, I'm saying that that God actively causes us to reap what we sow. He actively gives us Yeah. It's our fault, our responsibility, but there's a spiritual law in have ha is happening And that we reap the things that we sow. But we're not saying God, you're obviously unrighteous and we we'd never say that. Okay, so let me ask you another question. Do you or do you not preach that if our nation turns away from God and embraces instead increasingly um uh paganism and atheism. Do not preach that that will result in our nation walking out from underneath blessing and that we will come under an increasing level of curse as a nation. I think I do. I think the the enemies the enemy comes in. So so the point is you're really teaching the same thing that I'm teaching then? You know, we should probably just thought the Broadcast would probably agree. No, I no I no I this is I this this is what th this is the crux of the matter. We preach this all the time. If my people that are called by my name will humble themselves, I don't think that we pray, seek my faith. Hold on a second, we could wait. Let me reset. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Hills Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by Justin Thomas, Senior Pastor at Harvest Christian Fellowship. I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick. News radio 930 WFMD. Where does should we, as modern day Americans, where do we get off opening the Bible and taking those promises as promises to America? Okay, now when is America chosen God? You just said do we preach that if America would turn, God would bless it? Because it says if my people would turn to me, I would bl Where does it say that America is God's people? Where does it say that? I felt the shift in God's people are God's people. His elect, his chosen, those in Christ, those that he has foreknown and foreordained from the beginning of time are his people America is not his people. No, you I can I answer that. I yes I agree. So I I wouldn't say God made a covenant with uh with um America But the Christians, says the God makes covenant with Christians and since we're in Christ. And if if Christians are influencing their governance and they're following God, then there is a a general blessing that comes to the household, to the family, to the to the to the communities, our structures, our thoughts that are important to us. So I don't agree, it's not like God makes a covenant. I I don't even know what our founding fathers we don't know if they you know, some were born again, some were not, but they had a general fear of God. And they say, God, we want you involved in the Constitution. We want you involved in these moral laws. And the censors that General Lord, we want your blessing, because these are the righteous things. So we're Making a general covenant with God. And then when we pull away from God and begin to serve the blessings of God over uh you know God Himself, I do believe the hand of God comes off it. And again, you because we if you sow to the spirit, you reap the spirit and the benefits and the blessings of the covenant. If you sow to the flesh, you reap the benefits of the flesh. And that's when generally the people of America, I don't know if it's like ethnos and God says preach to the nations and it's we are our culture, but it's I think it's the Christians in America that are So when good things happen or we do good things, we respond the way we're supposed to as as a a people group and then uh get blessed because of that. Is God actively blessing? Like do you believe that God is active in blessing but is passive or not involved in the in the bad things that happen? I'm trying to figure out where where you draw that line. Okay. Christians or unchristians? Say it again, I'm sorry. Um when anybody Yes, thank you. When anyone re s does what they're supposed to do They reap the positive consequences of having sowed something positive. They live a good moral life, they get blessed because they they've whether they knew it or not. But there are times when Christians do what they're supposed to do, and so God's going to reach out and and actively bless his people. Is that what you're saying? I do think well, I think there is a the there's the general blessing in the earth that God has spoken that you You basically you reap what you sow and you s obviously, but when there comes down to God's covenant blessings, we've we have covenant blessings. The earth has these general blessings. I think I think if you it's common grace versus specific grace in the case. of promises of God upon us and we can call upon God and say, God, your word has said this and God is bound to his word. Right. And so I'm c I'm I'm definitely comfortable with that and I'm saying that God actively is involved with the curse and the punishment and God's actively involved with the blessing at all times. And that that being the case, that God Blesses and curses the same way that he's always blessed and cursed. No, I just I don't I think he's not a big thing. Do you think he actively blesses? Yeah, you're about to say. Okay, because h Jesus comes for just say for I don't know how long he's thirty years old, he he lived three, three and a half years, whatever what do you believe, okay? So I'll say three years. So he lived for three years as a son. He walked in perfect covenant loyalty unto the Father. He obeyed God as if Adam in the way that Adam never did. And he received the covenant blessings, he received the authority back He walked in what sonship was really supposed to be. At the end of his life, again gets somebody he takes the curse and as it gets progressively worse, eventually he feels forsaken of God. He's sin and I say sickness, physical atonement. He receives those things. And that's when those who trust in him receive the covenant blessings of God and the curse in the sense of Deuteronomy 28. Those things are the enemy wants to bring, I call them false judgments. Sickness, harm, disease, discouragement, whatever it is. And those are things that we can actively re the word resist means actively oppose. If I'm there's sin in my life And there's a pattern of sin, that's one thing. If there's my little sin does not trump the finished work of Christ, because I'm in the blessing of God. If I'm saying no to God consistently, that's a different thing. But yes, the blessings of God are active in the sense of does God bring you talking about the church, I would say no way in hell is the curse coming on the church. Okay, but but that's a significant switch from what we've been talking about. Because I'm in agreement with you. When you're when we're dealing with those that are in Christ, those that are dealing in Christ were told that the wrath of God has been removed from them. They no longer live under the wrath of God. And so they live under the blessing of God. And so that that is the uh the the area of the government of the kingdom of God. Yes. But the rest of the world that doesn't live under that is dealing in the context of of common grace And and uh there's still a sense that those nations that that do what is right and live by by by righteous laws, uh that God's going to uh in fact I think that he's actively that's why he's he Said to Daniel, you know, that there's going to be these beasts. God is actively building up those that are the beast nations. You know, I I think he's the one that sent Plato and Socrates to lay the foundations. for the Greco uh world view so that it could be raised up so that God could use it for his purpose. Who raised them? Plato, who'd you say? I think God raised up Plato and Socrates. He sent them because he was preparing the Greco Roman world as a beast that he was going to destroy, you know, for the whole world to see his glory. You know, and so that's why he told Daniel there's going to be these beasts. And what did Daniel get most upset about when he saw the visions? What did he ask the angel about? He asked the angel about the one horn that was blasphemous that was given authority to make war on the saints. Mm-hmm. This is the big question is when Satan is even given authority to make war on the saints and overcome them. And there's a season when that's the same. Exactly. To me, tribulation is you know probably similar as yours, but I My eschatology is that it's happened many times through history and it's gonna continue to do so. The little horn has happened many times? Yeah I've said I've you go through history, it happened in Rome plenty of times. Uh it happened for that matter it happened in France, you know, it happened in Germany. Uh it's happening right now, uh, in the context of uh those nations that reject the power of God. I'm talking about the Great Tribulation. Yeah, and I'm saying that there's many tribulations that have been happening throughout the centuries where where little horns Pe people that are given authority by God in a beast are given authority to make war on the saints and to defeat them. And that we've seen that many times throughout history. And that that's part of what God has chosen to to allow. I have to choose I feel I I think that's an argument from silence and there is some you can From silence? No, no, biblical from silence. I mean there's no s you to have a three I'm applying to history the teaching of revelation. Yeah and that God has raising up little f and here's my point God is what you're uh if I understand what you're saying. I'm saying that I've got to be able to do that. God is raising up some an evil person to show his grace so so in other words he matches up against you know, the enemy, a little horn, somebody in France, whatever you're talking about, in Adolf Hitler or Osama bin Laden or whatever these things and he's he's raising these people to show himself and people are dying and going to hell because of that. I just that's where I kind of See something a little different. Right, but the point is is that when they die and go to hell, like the up until that point just like now, if if uh if Somebody that you know dies and they don't come to Christ before they die, they still die and go to hell. The point is, is when does God decide that their time is up And God's been making that decision all through history. Some people die younger, some people die older. God's in control and he decides. He says, you know what? I've given that person we don't know how many chances. Hundreds, thousands of chances to respond to the children. When bad things happen to good people we go, what the heck? When bad things happen to bad people we go, eh hey, we really don't know what God was really up to. Thank you. But that's my point. But we're not going to do that. Let me continue. The question is why do bad things happen? Yeah. Not to good people or to bad people, why do bad things happen? And it to me, I guess I'm simplistic Joe, but I feel like God is good, um the devil is bad, and we submit to God and we resist the devil, and where there's a people of God who are basically saying, I mean when there's a a people out there who are saying no to God, they open themselves up to the wicked one, to sin, to the reaping of the flesh and the wrath of God. In the sense of yeah, in the sense of but again I you call it an act of wrath where I would not say the wrath is that men's spirits are dead and they're open anyway They're just bringing it on quicker with the enemy. So let me tell you a couple of places. Fir First Thessalonians two sixteen it says, and their effort to keep us from speaking to the Gentiles so that they may be saved. They always heap up their sins to the limit. The wrath of God has come upon them at last. That means currently acting. The wrath of God has come upon them at the end. brought judgment on the cross. No, no, has come upon them at last. It's happening to them, not to Christ, to the people that are refusing to allow the gospel to be preached. In Ephesians chapter 5, 6, it says, let no one. In Thessalonians it's it's major judgment. It's the day of the Lord. W like like what what was it? Help me understand. Well we can go back in the Thessalonians and see how the Thessalonians uh in the book of Acts had persecuted Paul. Paul experienced major persecution there in Thessalonians. Sure. Um some places less so than others. Uh it was so bad in Thessalonica. All men deserve outside the grace of Christ, the wrath of God, in the sense that we're not going to be able to do that. It has and again the definition of wrath to me is that men's spirits are already dead and they're re they're rejecting Christ at those moments and their uh their s and their spirit again the wrath of God is that spirits are dead. Where in scripture does it say from the Old Testament to the New Testament? I feel like Jesus fulfilled, but there's no scripture that says that. I've been quoting scripture this whole time. Second Corinthians chapter 5 is not counting their sins against him. Right, right. Yeah, it says that in Romans two. What does that mean that it doesn't count men's sins against them? It means that that uh that he hasn't He hasn't sent them to hell. He's giving them the chance to respond. And so he didn't count men's sins against them for thousands of years, from from Adam until the time of Christ. He didn't count men's sins against them. Though many of them died, Sodom and Gomorrah was destroyed, they still experienced punishment, but he didn't count the sins against them in terms of eternal punishment. Not in terms of temporal wrath. We're gonna have to stop there. Jonathan gets the last word. I'm sorry, Justin. That's okay. Jonathan Spicer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Light Chapel, Justin Thomas, who is a senior pastor at Harvard's Christian Fellowship. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. Until next week, about 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?