Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me at Household of Faith in Christ. That's because I'm the pastor of that church. You can find Daniel Razvy at conqueredbylove. org That's not the name of the church that he's one of the pastors at, but that's the website they have. He's one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house And Elijah Dirksen is on. He's becoming kind of a irregular regular. He's like the the the Jay Leno of the tonight's show back when Carson was still hosting. It was mostly like Carson But then there were those rare special moments when Jay Lena would come in. I think I'm too young to get that reference. Yeah. Oh, okay. That's like two recording sessions in a row now that I've had a cultural reference that went right past The audience. Yeah. You know, it occurs to me, uh as this show airs, I'm now in my fortieth year in the uh television radio broadcast world, if you can believe it. And the fate debate has now been on the air for over twenty years. So you were like a baby probably back then. I don't even know how old you are, but uh you didn't get the Jay Leno Johnny Carson reference. I know who Jay Leno is. So at least at least there's that much. I I I I have a vague re I would recognize him if I saw a picture. So the one who doesn't know who Jay Leno is like at all is Elijah Dirksen. And uh okay. And the big chin, right? Yes. And uh the other voice you heard was that of Daniel Rasby. And Elijah is a uh seminary student. How close are you to graduating? About halfway through. Okay. So well depending on the pace he's going, he might be done in five years. We don't know. Halfway through doesn't tell me much. He's probably got at least another year. At least another year. At least another year. Probably probably two. All right, so pray for him. All right, so today we're talking about uh Harry Potter, and it's interesting this topic was brought up by somebody who said, We were here to talk about this, and then he decided not to be part of this week's show. Uh so I'm gonna have to t play the role of David Forcy. If you're a fan of this show, then you might know the voice of David Forcy. Uh but the the quasi it came up as an aside in one of our other shows. I can't remember why, to be honest with you, but basically is I think Daniel actually says something about like you know like Christians shouldn't do this, shouldn't do that, and of course they shouldn't be reading Harry Potter or watching the movie, something like that. And David said, Oh, I'm not so sure I agree with that. We should talk about that on the show one day. So here we are. So I'm gonna do my best. Deep in the force. I can't get that deep. David for C and first. Are you also of the opinion that it's not necessarily uh always always in the what David's opinion would be. So I'm not sure if we're in agreement, but um based on what you said in that quick aside, I'm not sure I'm in agreement 100% with that. So we'll have some, right? Some fodder. So Uh you're the one who brought it up initially kind of by accident. Harry Father Christians shouldn't watch the movies, shouldn't read the books. Is that is is is that well I mean that's Yes. But is that is there any nuance there or it's just a flat stay away? It's a it's a stay away but I have a reason why it's specific and and it's because It is a story that glorifies witchcraft. It's put witchcraft is presented in a good light, as in the good guys are doing it. Um and the w uh you know, there's a lot of Christians in America who ha especially America, who have uh no real understanding of the demonic world and how that it really works and interact and And and it is real. Ghosts are real, witches are real, wizards are real, um, demonic activity and and possessions and witchcraft. All that is real stuff. The Bible talks about it extensively. says not to do it. Come we're commanded not to do it, not to communion with the dead, not to practice witchcraft or sorcery and all that. And so I think a lot of Christians instinctively say, Oh, it's just a funny story. I mean that's not real anyway. Well who cares? But it's not, it's extremely serious. And so I guess I mean the question w would you want to watch a movie where the good guys are going around murdering everybody or, you know, raping everybody or whatever. Um as a Christian you might say, Well, maybe not. Maybe it's not a good idea to have the good guy be a rapist in the movie. Okay, well then why should the good guy be practicing witchcraft? Because that is also one of the capital punishment sins in the Bible. I now have to rewrite the screenplay that I was working on, by the way. Thank you very much. I do think there's some nuance in it as well. I I generally agree with what you're saying, but also I think that there is room for if there's a main character who does these bad things to realize oh you you do this this bad thing and then there's consequences. You you grow from it. Right, you can have character arcs, but the but if the point of the writer of the story is to show that this is actually not a bad thing You know, or maybe it's even a neutral thing. In in the in case of Harry Potter, uh from my understanding, having uh full disclosure I haven't actually read the books. I know slight amounts of some of the story plot points, but I know enough to know that magic is presented as somewhat of a neutral idea there. There's there are good guys that do magic and there are bad guys that do magic in Harry Potter. It's kind of an escape from this kid's bad life. This is how he escapes from his abusive step parents or whoever is taking care of it. But there are bad guy wizards in Harry Potter and there are good guy wizards. The idea they're they're both doing magic but there's white magic and there's black magic and there's this and that And and I all magic, all all sorcery is is evil in real life. And I would say you don't want to be, as a Christian, um watching or reading stories that glorify sin. Um it's one thing if that's a minor plot point, right? Maybe you have and this is maybe some point of disagreement with m I have with Elijah something that you know somebody might say, Well what about movies that have adultery in them? You know Uh maybe there's a there's a James Bond and you know he goes and he does all these spy things and uh and stuff that's not necessarily sinful to to fight for his country and and and all this, but then he also sweeps around in the movie. Well Are you is that a minor plot point that's not actually part of the story? Is it possible to skip? Is it possible to not be consuming that part of the media and still get the story? Maybe that maybe it is, and so maybe it's not necessarily the entire movie is wrong, but I think when the when the main point of the movie It's for the same reason I don't watch heist movies. Something like Oceans Eleven or or whatever, for example. If the whole point of the story is theft, larceny, uh something that is wrong, if this it's sinful Now that's different than the Joe Annie uh stories where you're they're stealing something back that was stolen from them and there's getting justice done when the government or the police is not doing anything, that that's a different type of story. But if if the whole point of the story is to glorify or uh a sin or to say that sin uh is is good or okay, then I think that's not something Christians should be involved in So you y y you've made it clear now you were joking before we started the show uh about Harry Potter being some sort of frolically challenged uh Cup and bowl maker or something like that. But you've you've demonstrated that that is not the case. You know more about it than that, but you have not read the books, any of them and you haven't watched any of the movies. Correct. Have you read Elijah, any of the books? I haven't watched the movies, but I I've seen like other people reacting to some parts of it. Um I I have a limited knowledge of it. Okay. And uh So the people know where I'm coming from on on my exposure to it. I haven't read any a single page of a Harry Potter book. Uh I was way too old before it became popular. It was more of a kids series er early on. I know a lot of adults like it too still, but uh and my my daughter wouldn't have been interested and she wasn't interested in that sort of thing. So our family was not a Harry Potter family, so I have no exposure to the books. I feel like there's gonna be a lot of people who are Uh concerned about three people who have not read Harry Potter talking about Harry Potter. But the movies uh I've seen possibly all of them. Maybe I've missed one. I don't know. They were such a pop culture phenomenon. Uh I think I possibly movies. I think I've possibly seen one in the theater and the rest of them at home, like streaming or BHS back in the day or something, I don't know. Um it's been a while. I haven't seen anything very very and to be honest This is gonna make Harry Potter fans probably mad at me because I have to I'm not a huge fan of the movies. Not for religious reasons necessarily, but they're far too long The storyline takes way too much. No. But Lurings is a lot. There's just I don't know. They stretch. A couple of the movies anyway. Literally has three movies also. So I feel the same way about the uh Hobbit Hobbit has three movies also, so I feel I feel the same way about the uh uh director's cuts of Lord of the Rings. Far too long. Yeah, yeah. You d it doesn't need to be that long. I I was super into Lord of the Rings so I loved watching the extended cuts, but yeah I agree. Theatrical edition is is definitely superior. So so maybe we can contrast that. So for somebody who's and that's a good segue because somebody who's thinking, well You just s put Lord of the Rings in a positive light and the good guys do magic there. Yeah. So what about it? Yeah. So So so before we get to that, have you read those books and watch those movies? I have read the books that have actually not watched the Word of the Rings movies, but I would not be opposed to doing so necessarily Um I just haven't gotten to it. But the uh I like the Hobbit much more than I liked the the trilogy, The Lord of the Rings. Um but in any case um well since you brought it up what is the difference well the why do you want to but I wanna I wanna know if if you can argue against what I said before about why do you think as a Christian It was okay for you to watch the Harry Potter movies or maybe you don't think so now that now that you've watched them. Well yeah, uh I mean I think I liked some of those hours back to be honest with you, but uh i if it if it's a sin question ver or a wisdom question, I might give a different answer. I don't think it's a sin to read a Harry Potter book or watch a Harry Potter movie. Is it wise to read the books or watch or let your children read the books or watch the movies? I think that that's probably case by case, you gotta make a judgment call. Uh uh, for me, clearly it's in the category of fantasy. Um it's not dramatically different than a Lord of the Rings uh trilogy kind of a thing or some of the if you're familiar with Ted Decker, he's a Christian author who does a lot of fantasy writing. It's not horribly different than some of that And so as long as you're considering fantasy But where do you draw the line of fantasy? And then pornography is the fantasy world also. You watch pornography, none of that stuff happens in real life the those th the the things that go on in pornography are not real life scenarios. So you could just justify it by saying, Well, these women aren't real. They're not actually doing this and therefore there's nothing wrong with watching this So but I I would venture to say uh as a Christian you would have a different answer on pornography. Yeah well the pornography the main the the main primary reason for watching that would be titillation, right? That would be like the only reason really to watch it Unless you're into the avant-garde arts and you're going to you know oh the human body or whatever. But um but the the positives of Harry Potter, this would be the reasons why somebody might be like, no, Christians it's uh it's a classic good versus evil conflict. The Harry Potter character is, accidentally or on purpose, I don't know, but is in some sense a Christ figure. is a messiah figure in the storyline. So you would look at it as a s as a very allegorical. So yeah, and you could make connections, uh like if your children did watch the movie or read the books, you could make the point like okay, we know that all of this And magic stuff is frowned upon. God doesn't like that. However, we can look at the hero, the bravery, the the fighting for your friends, the trying your darndest to do the right thing in a world where it's not a sin to use magic so so we all agree that if someone was acting like Harry Potter, they doing magic sin, correct? Doing magic of witchcraft. They're not really evil and and wicked and And all that stuff. Yeah, and we have to clarify that's what I was going to say, what do you mean doing what Harry Potter does? Yeah, the magic part, yes, but fighting for his friends, trying to defend righteousness, trying to overcome evil We should definitely try to be like Harry Potter in that regard. But like Psalm 101, verse 3 says, I have set nothing wicked before my eyes. I hate the work of those who fall away. It shall not cling to me. So how how would that factor in there? You i in my opinion, watching witchcraft portrayed in a in a positive light is setting something wicked before my eyes. Well, one of the topics that we're intending to get to um uh in about four shows from now, I believe, um, is a biblical example that like how how is that in the Bible? You know, um 1 Samuel chapter 28, necromancy and uh a a a witch. Uh definitely portrayed in a bad light though So uh and and that's that's something that that's I think super important to my position on it is is it being portrayed in a good light A positive light where it's glorifying this this witchcraft or is it being portrayed in a negative light? So now maybe time for a segue to the Lord of the Rings also has But people that are called wizards has has wizards and that are called good guys. Gandalf calls himself a wizard, does magic. And so consider the good the main difference I would say between a Lord of the Rings and I would throw Narnia in there as well. Both written by Christian authors. Um or at least professing Christians. Professing Christians. There's some debate about their salvation, I think. They have men. They've created worlds that have parallels to our own where they have higher powers. In Narnia it's Aslan, in uh Lord of the Rings I I believe it's Aluvatar Um which you wouldn't know unless you read the Silmarillion. But but even Gandalf is is very much of a Christ type uh figure. And this but this is what you're saying about But Gandalf him himself as a wizard within the story is given the authority by the the stand in for God. He's and i if we're going to say, well, that that use of supernatural power is evil Then we'd also have to say, like, Moses party of the Red Sea is also evil, 'cause he's been given this authority by a higher power or by God to do this supernatural act or the biblical Elijah or Anyone who does supernatural acts. They've been empowered by by God to do them and I think that's Gandalf that's good. Yeah. It's clear in Lord of the Rings that he's empowered by God to do these things? Maybe not the movies, but certainly in the books. Um and Narnia of course the i Narnia is even more explicit with his its allegory. Aslan is Jesus. He the deeper magic resurrection and all that. From the dawn of time. It's God's authority, God's power to resurrect Aslam. Yeah, I I will say this. Uh you know, it it would be good probably to have David Forcy here who brought up who brought up well D uh Daniel brought up a topic, but David was the one who was like, Hey, that we should talk about that 'cause I I'm not sure I agree with you. He would probably be stronger uh in advocating for it because I'm guessing that he reacted the way he did because he has a bunch of kids in his house and they've probably all read Harry Potter. That's my guess. I don't know, but the way he reacted makes me feel like they probably have. And maybe they've watched all the movies and they're a Harry Potter family and they're all about it. And um I can that wasn't us. But I will say that um If I did have a daughter who was you know, when she was ten or whenever Harry Potter was becoming popular and she wanted to read the Harry Potter books, I probably would have read them or allowed her to read them, but I would have been reading them with her. I think it's important for any books uh to be to be com proofreading them all with your kids. Don't And this is this I would say, regardless of what you think about what what we're saying about Harry Potter or the Rings or anything, something you as parents listening to this show can take to heart is Do not buy a book or get a movie for your kids and let them read it or watch it without you first knowing exactly what's in it. I know that's time consuming. But do not let them consume any media at all, book or TV or or or movie, without either you watching it at the same time to immediately stop any bad things that you see, or watching it ahead of time. front to back at fur beginning to end to be one hundred percent sure what's going on there. It is not worth it. It's better not to have it consumed at all They will not die if they don't see the newest hot movie or read the great new uh young adult book you know. In fairness in the w I mean, and I'm not saying that this is an excuse, but in fairness Uh taking a hard line stance on it or taking something that's very close to a hardline stance is very difficult. Oh for sure. Because it's everywhere. You can't watch old sitcoms of Bewitched. Uh you can't watch it watch Cinderella. El Elmo Saves Christmas. Uh you you right? You can't watch Cinderella. A lot of old Disney movies. You can't watch Fantasia. And I really like a lot of them. I I think they're great, but I'm not gonna give them to my daughter to watch because Little Mermaid Beauty and the Beast. I mean, right down the line, right? D all these Disney movies. But it's not just Disney, it's it's I'm trying to think of things, but they happen almost accidentally. Like you're watching a show and like one episode. Like for example Okay, do you know the Waltons? Okay, Elasia knows the Waltons. I don't know I don't know about the Waltons. Well the Waltons are a there's supposedly like this wholesome All American, you know, comfort food drama program that aired back in the you know, nineteen seventies. And it kinda started that way. The first couple of seasons were per particularly wholesome. It's a church going family. They prayed before meals. A lot of things that Christians would applaud. I guess we didn't get to the bad parts. However, they have um during their run their that show was on the air for like ten years or something. And there were two or three years where they did Halloween episodes And one of them features what we would call a Ouija board. I think it's called a spirit board on the T V show. Uh they have uh ghost apparitions uh in one episode where and and and then And it's not a they think it might be a ghost. You're left with the impression as if you were at the end that it was actually a ghost because things are left on 'cause a lot of Vitcoms have Oh, you know, prank ghosts or or uh people pretending that they're ghosts or thinking that they're ghosts and then they turn out oh it's not really it's not really. So my point is you're watching the wall pitch, thinking, Oh, this is safe. And we watch the Waltons all the time. We've watched thirty Waltons episodes. It's always safe and good, wholesome stuff and then boom, the Halloween episode comes on. And you're like, whoa, didn't see that coming. And that will be one where, see, my standard for my kids is They don't watch anything, even a single episode of something that I haven't watched already. So so they well it's easy well, I I don't know if um it's come up on the show in the past, uh your father has said there's no TV in the house. No So that's a little easier. You guys have said T V's dangerous. But we I mean I do. I do have subscriptions to streaming services. I do have online access to movies and TV shows and things like that and I do watch them. But and and I have I have very, very limited access to what my kids would would see. Um but it but they will i i what if and when they ever see anything it's not gonna be something that I haven't already seen. So that won't happen. That we've watched a whole bunch of episodes of something and think it's pretty good and then we turn on the next one, Oh I didn't know about this It doesn't happen because I've already proofed it. I like that it's really counter cultural, right? That's very that's a very cool thing. But uh as I was saying, it's really hard to be counter cultural because sometimes you're surprised. Um So wh where would your line be if if you have a line with consuming media. Where where would you say I'm not gonna do that? Well we know we know pornography is a line you just mentioned. No and and I I'm not saying it to be funny. I I I Uh uh uh there are people who that's not a line for, so and you have a line there. And along th those lines, by the way, a lot of people a lot of people that profess to be Christians uh were big fans uh ten years ago when it was pop or five whatever years ago when it was popular of um games of Game of Thrones. Mm-hmm. I've never seen Game of Thrones because I think it was an HBO show and I didn't have HBO. So I've never seen I think I've seen an advertisement for it or something like that. I haven't either. But I my understanding is that there is quite a bit of new understanding. It's like it basically It it's not even opening credits, ending credits. Well, okay, I don't need to see that. So I had no interest in seeing it, even though it was popular enough. Let me break it down. Why is it, Troy? that seeing frontal nudity is wrong for you as a believer, but watching witchcraft is not wrong. It's kind of like the discussion I had uh with your father and your mother one time about uh drugs and sugar. And your parents were taking I don't know if they still hold this position, they probably do, but they did back then that sugar is a drug. Uh I uh but anyway Uh it's similar to that. So the the the nudity, the sensuality, even if it's not nudity, if it's highly sensual, um That has an effect i almost at the subconscious level. It it seeps into into your brain and into your soul in a way in a way that other sinners don't. Well the well the fantasy entertainment stuff is like I You can check a box in your friend. This is clearly fantasy. He's not really waving that wand and and co and and sending C look into the abyss. Talk about Harry Potter though, because that kinda was a a worldwide phenomenon where everyone got this interest in the occult and and casting spells and all that 'cause it was so popular. It kind of pushed people in that direction and it it just kinda the occult is a lot more open now than it was before the Harry Potter phenomenon started. people that do practice the cult uh d uh do it much more openly now. And So you think it's because of Harry Potter? It that's one of the contributing factors. I think it made people think that whistraphs would be a fun and good thing to do. And it was something that was openly Talked about. And so that's why I would say there's danger in glorifying sin is be is that it makes sin fun and popular and like Think of things about both public schools do. They glorify being in a homosexual relationship or being trans. And guess what? We have a lot of more homosexual relationships and peop and teens saying, Well, I'm trans now. Now I since I haven't read the books and the movies always short cir circuit these things you can't know. It's possible that some God presence, higher power kind of presence, is responsible for the magic powers that Harry has in Harry Potter. If that were the case, would it fall in the same category as Lord of the Rings? It would. I to my knowledge that's not what Harry Potter is. But yeah. I I guess we're kinda arguing for ignorance. Yeah. And welcome to my world. uh di differentiate that easily between different types of sins. Certainly s different sins have different consequences, but sin is sin and I don't think it's it's right to be um glorifying sin in any way. So just as you should not uh consume content that is putting adultery in a good light in in pornography would be one example of that. Um but you mentioned it could be sensual content that doesn't have nudity in it. Um would also be in that Same that's the same reason I think s uh watching or looking at a heist uh movie is is not not a good thing because Christians should not be involved in larceny and and robberies. Um And just like rape and just like murder and and and anything else. So and the thing is, well almo it's it's interesting to me because almost any of those other sins I can get somebody a Christian to say, Hey, you know what? That makes sense. That makes sense. But as soon as I say witchcraft, oh no, that's fine, that's just a fantasy world. That I hear that time and time again from people And for whatever reason, it's only the witchcraft, it's only the occult that's okay. Everything else, so yeah, you know and and they might they may not follow the rules, right? They may say, Well Yeah, I don't want to glorify adults. But it's i I mean, it's not that much of just a tiny bit of the movie. They are. A lot of foul mouthed drunks in movies end up being the hero. Like there's you know, there's there's lots of So so would you watch something where it's like for crying out loud, that's nothing but a show filled with sinners. I mean seriously, every single they're so narcissistic. The whole show is about sin on display and it was hor and people watched that and made excuses for it. In sin and the e the consequences of those of sin has has consequences, it's a sitcom. They had no consequences on Seinfeld I haven't watched much Seinfeld, so maybe. Santa murders his wife and gets away with it. Come on. I don't know, in that one episode they didn't get any soup, so that was a concert. No soup for you. That was a concert. Alright, no more show for you. We have to uh wrap this up again. We got like thirty seconds. Elijah Dirksen, Daniel Razby, I'm Troy Skinner. Uh find us online at WFMD. com and Household of Faithinchrist. com. That's kind of the one-stop shop for everything to connect with me, get my contact information, everything Household of Faith in Christ. com. WFMD. com is fine too. I'm not going to tell you not to go there for sure, okay? We'll be back with another Faith Debate show next week to talk about um I don't even remember now. Oh yeah, casting lots That's next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. Until then, Doug West