Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate. I'm Troy Skinner, the moderator of this program on News Radio Fi uh boy, that was an uh An old radio station used to work four years ago which came out of my mouth. News radio nine thirty, WFMD. That's early. Or it's late, or it depends on your perspective, I suppose. Anyway, we're gonna pick up this week where we left off last week and surprise Surprise after about 30 minutes of discussing uh the world's ills, we didn't solve them. Uh we're close. We're closer than we were anyway, I hope. Uh our expert panel this week, John Sweitzer, is back from Crossroad Valley Chapel Uh Rabbi Morris Cosman from Best Shalom Congregation and Khalil El Shazli, the president of the Islamic Society of Frederick. Thank you all for being with us. And uh in the last uh episode, the last version of this show, uh things started to get a little bit heated uh toward the end and we started to take uh a few little rabbit trails here and there. We're gonna try to bring it all back together with the main thrust uh here is supposed to be. And that is to try to determine what is the truth, meaning what is a truthful, honest to goodness uh view that that we each hold. So not that uh Pastor John Sweiss from Crossroad Valley Chapel speaks for all Christianity. And and not that uh you know Rabbi uh Cosman speaks for all of uh Jerusalem and Judaism and for the other rabbis right. Right. And and not that Khalil speaks for all of Islam. However, you all bring a pretty healthy perspective. You've thought these issues through obviously and And you you bring, I think, a representative view for a lot of people that would call themselves in John's case Christians, or in the rabbi's case, Jews, or in Khalil's case, uh Muslims. So uh That is kind of the the tenor of how we begin this. So we're not going to solve the world's ills. We understand that. But if the three of us or three of you and me, if I throw myself in there, the four of us can all have an honest dialogue about the things that we agree on and perhaps more importantly the things we disagree on. Uh that's a healthy thing because we'll come to appreciate the other's perspective. and grow personally and hopefully corporately as well through that whole process. A couple of things that came up in the last show, we never came back around to it. We didn't have a chance, but anybody who was listening last week might remember that uh Khalil threw out a name Daniel Pipes. Um which I'm not real familiar with myself. I'm going to uh admit that. However, I can't help but remember that the rabbi immediately said, Well I agree with Daniel Python. To which Khalil said, Ooh, really? So Uh I'm gonna need somebody to explain to me in thirty seconds or less what Daniel Pipes should mean to me and then I wanna hear why the rabbi uh agrees with him. So who who is well equipped to explain who Daniel Pipes is? Daniel Pipes was the he was supposed to be on a committee. I forgot the name of the committee, but the Democrats didn't want him. And so the president appointed him to a special kind of uh like a private consultant on the uh on the Middle East The uh Daniel Daniel Pipes gives a very realistic view of the dangers of uh what is taking place. in the uh the Islam effort to uh I'm I'm not gonna quote some uh I mean like controlling the world The Islam have a whole different kind of perspective. And again, I'm only I'm a product of what I read, I'm a product of what I see on television. And I have my own gut reactions because the uh um as I said before, we we represent point zero two percent of the world population. Moslems nineteen percent, Christianity thirty-three percent. And uh therefore the when a Jewish person uh dies, it's a very important part of the of our whole being. It's not to say that it's any less when a Christian dies or when a a uh Moslem dies. The uh the uh I just taught him my Hebrew Hebrew class today. Uh, when one saves one soul, he saves the whole. It's like saving the whole world. Yeah. 'Cause God created God created thousands of animals, thousands of birds, but he only created one man and the purpose, the teaching of that is to tell you that the whole world is worth You know, I I think it it would bear saying that uh Christians in the United States uh often lament the fact that nobody pays attention to the persecution of Christians in China or in Africa and other places in the basic Arab countries. or in Arab countries and again it's a supply and demand. Uh even even yeah or in Israel, by the way. Uh I've got a couple buddies over there that are victims of that. And uh but the bottom line is is that I think again that there is a supply and demand that because there's fewer Jews, when one of them dies, it's a bigger deal. Islamic people, when one of them dies though, it still seems to be a bigger deal than than when a Christian gets persecuted and uh I think it bears out you know the facts uh in the media. God bless uh R uh Rachel Corey Saul, who was ran Bible dozer and uh in the Israeli occupied territory by the Israeli government bulldozer. Anyway, uh uh going back to uh Daniel Pipes, uh Daniel Pipes is paid very well by our tax dollars. He's appointed by the president to the Middle Eastern uh Institute for Peace. Uh he promotes hatred. He promotes hatred. Uh he promotes anti-Islamic views. He claims proclaims himself as an expert in Islam. uh where his knowledge in Islam is uh basically uh zero. He promotes a lot of uh misconceptions and mistruth and uh he also created uh a website called Campus Watch to defame any Arab, uh Christian or Muslim, uh professor and any uh college and university in the United States that have critical views of the state of Israel and he defames them and and uh I wish what you were saying is true. I truly wish that. Go to care. But the problem is search for Daniel Pribes. They have all his history there The problem is, Khalil, is that at the same time you have terrorist activities all over the world. So he may be able to do that. What is terrorism has to do with Islam? Yeah. Because clearly, uh Khalil, the the perspective on Islam that you're advocating right now, uh you're you're claiming that that it would not take up the sword except to defend its own its own nation, if you will, you know, in in just a regular defensive war, self defense. And um and you're claiming that that uh well, I let me ask it this way, let me ask this question. Uh I I made the attempt in my s minute study of the face of the planet uh to tie together the religious perspectives of those nations with their uh the respective uh success or failure as a nation like India, why is it that it's so divided? Why is it that there's so much poverty? Why is it you know these kinds of things? Uh uh China, why is there such a rich culture and yet there's you know there's a major uh difference between those who are in power and those who are just the common man. And in the United States the sense of equality that is there. And then of course I come around to the world that that calls itself Islamic And across the board I find and again in every nation that there's major division and warfare. And Um just from a from a far out perspective, you know, I'm I'm a on a telescope, I'm looking through and I'm seeing the moon. From a far out perspective, there is a an immense amount of warfare in that part of the world. And I need somebody to help me to understand why it is that that's the case. Why is it uh clearly in the Europe, European world, there's been wars through the years, consistently. I mean uh uh World War Two's massive one, you know, other ones. But the this this you know, these little skirmishes that are so consistent in every single nation and the lack of democracy and um, you know, the the sense of authoritarian rule and and when I look at it from a distance I just can't get past all those things. And how am I supposed to disassociate those things from The Islamic worldview. That's very easily explained. Number one, the gentleman who killed Ethak Rabin He's a Jew, but nobody dared to call him a Jewish terrorist. But he killed the Prime Minister of Israel because he was promoting peace with the Palestinian. And he was killed by a gentleman and that gentleman killed Itzak Rabin in the name of religion. He thinks he was defending the Jewish religion and the Jewish land by killing its acrobin. But nobody dared to call him a terrorist. Uh the gentleman in Florida who had a listener. No, he was in jail. He th they po they they they prosecuted him. But they didn't even call him No no no I'm talking about labeling one whatever they labeling one no no no labeling labeling one group as a terrorist and associating one religion with the terrorism versus others. This is the differences. Call it terrorism, call it murder. I mean in my mind they're the same thing. No, but you you know, the way you explained it is like Every Muslim nation, wherever Muslims are, there's terrorism. But I'm focusing now on Actually I'm I'm not referring to just terrorism, I'm referring to even factions that that fight against each other that have even been a little bit more politically honest about it and saying okay we're gonna be at war with you. Which factions? Um I wanna e even in I in Iraq the the clear example is is the um the Kurds versus uh Saddams. guys. Uh and then, you know, uh now you have the Shiites. The Kurds are very strongly the Kurds are not religious movements. Yeah but the Kurds are trying to fight for their own country. They have two parts, one in Turkey, one in uh Iraq, and a little bit of Syria. They want to form their own country. So it's a separatist uh uh uh using labels again, it's a separatist uh group. They want to have their own country. But we support the Kurds the United States our government supports the Kurds in Iraq for their freedom. But they're not supporting the Kurds in Turkey for the freedom because the Turks are our friends and allies. In all fairness, I need to admit that even in the European world that the the greatest wars have always happened between what was perceived as being the more religious world and what was perceived as being the more atheistic world. Hitler clearly represented a a non-Christian atheistic worldview And uh and the United States when it came into rescue them clearly seemed to represent a more religious overall moral uh worldview. And so I would say that there is a there is an atheistic versus religious war that's going on around the world. Communism represented that. Uh I I'd I'd have to agree with you that that that's a legitimate perspective that we need to keep in mind. Yeah. Defending the uh the the actions at your very tough job. No, I'm gonna have a tough job, you know. Uh I'm responsible about what I do. The only thing that I could do is make myself a better Muslim, understand my religion better, and explain it to everybody. And uh you know are you responsible about the gentleman who killed Rabin? Do you support him? Do you support his views? No, I don't see. Do you have to apologize for what he did? Yes. Yes. Did you apologize? Okay. And he's wrong. But could everybody hold you responsible for what you did? So this is exactly the view of a Moslem person with what is going on around the world That's that's because of the media and lack of understanding. For the most part, you know, I I Muslims carry Muslims carry part of the blame also because When you grow up in a Muslim country, you really keep the religion for yourself. So when Muslims came to this country, they really isolated themselves. They very rarely talk about Islam I vr prior to up to like five years ago, I have never talked about my religion. Just like Jews, just like the Irishmen that came over. I mean they don't have to section off to their own. keep to myself because if I talk about my religion openly, the thinking is I'll be intruding uh on your right. I mean make you feel uncomfortable. Yeah, I just we're about halfway through uh or not quite halfway through this portion. I just want to re identify what's going on. You're listening to the uh the Frederick Faith debate. Yeah uh re-identify uh who's on the show. John Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel is representing the Christian view in in this discussion. Rabbi Morris Cosman representing from Beth Shalom Congregation representing uh the uh view of Judaism and Khalil el Shazli, uh president of the Islamic Society of Frederick, representing uh the the view of Islam. Uh and we launched into this uh ten or twelve, thirteen minute uh uh discussion, this little mini discussion here, by bringing up the name of uh Daniel Pipes. Um and Who might like? The rabbi thinks that Daniel Pipes is on to something. And Khalil doesn't like it. And John Schweitzer from uh the the the from the Christian perspective is saying, Oh, I'm not sure that I'm going to discount everything that Daniel Pipes has to say. He might not be, but it sounds like John would maybe be putting his money more on Daniel Pipe's side than not, I think. No, he doesn't know who he is. He's gonna look at the if my understanding of it. Right. Well if well what I mean by that is okay, I should rephrase that a little bit. I'm trying to just reset here a little bit. Okay, I'm alerting the country to what is going on. Most of America is like asleep They don't remember three years ago with the uh the nine eleven. And uh the further you go away from Washington, uh I have a daughter living in Lancaster. I mean they're like, you know, la la time, everything is wonderful, everything is fine. And I think we need to be alerted to the dangers of what is taking place. Uh the different cells in our country Daniel Pipes makes it seem that every Muslim is a danger. If he doesn't want any Muslims in this country, uh he wants to kick them all out, not to bring any Muslims in this is a very hatred of you. You you hear his speeches and and and articles and and uh I mean he is forewarning us. Uh don't forget who pays for his research also does. I know I agree with that. There's a lot of corruption out there in general. And uh uh let me share a perspective about uh Judaism that that's that's pretty common. There's a sense among most of the world that Jewish people tend to be wealthy and powerful and influential uh in the things that they do. That's true, says Rabbi Cosman. I took his mic But for those that can't see. Yeah, my car is. And and uh and so there's a perception out there that people that people deal with. My part of my concern with the Jewish perspective is um it comes down in this whole forgiveness thing. And I and I've actually heard Dr. Moore say this, that there are certain people that should never be forgiven. And from a Christian perspective, as a human, I gotta forgive. And I have to be willing to forgive. And Christ in fact forgave the the the thief that was dying next to him on the cross in the in the famous story. And the question is if Arafat on his deathbed had a genuine confession and and denunciation of everything that he'd done and really came around Should he or shouldn't should he not be forgiven? And my my perspective on Judaism is that there's a little bit of a of an elephant never forgets and uh and would never forgive there that I think can tend to serve the Jewish people very poorly and end up making it look like the Jews are powerful and they're kind of unmerciful at times towards other people. And my point in saying that is that is that with with the uh with the Palestinians, that's their perception at some level. You know, th the the Jews are gonna get theirs And they're you know, if they leave us out they could care less. And uh my concern is whether or not there is built into Judaism that additional perspective that that not only forgives but wants to give grace too. And I'm not saying that I've never seen it, but I but I m my point is is that Khalil is kind of to to illustrate that I think all of our religious perspectives end up creating perceptions out there for the rest of the world that are somewhat based in fact and somewhat based in in this larger perception that people just develop. And my concern is that that we need to deal honestly with with what those perceptions are that have developed based on what we actually believe. And in in the Jew Muslim world there are some strong perceptions that have been developed. But with the idea of of uh of forgiveness. Yeah. What leads to that first is usually repentance. Genuine repentance. And and part of what I'm hearing, I think, in the discussion is maybe there's a sense that and and again Khalil doesn't speak for all of Islam But I think there's a general sense that from a layman's perspective, I hear people who aren't deeply involved in their religion necessarily who feel like Islam hasn't repented, hasn't disassociated themselves with those who would claim to be fighting a lot of the things that we're going to do. Islam has nothing to do with the actions of whoever calls himself a Muslim or called the Muslim. Islam as a religion has nothing to do with what people do Like any Christian could commit a crime, Christianity has nothing to do with it. Just as any Jewish commits a crime, Judaism has nothing to do with it. So we need to make that distinction very clear. So for example, like Osama bin Laden. He claims to be a good Muslim and he claims to be at war with the infidels. And there are a lot of street people uh Arabs that believe him. I mean why is it that the Palestinians grabbed Arafat's coffin, you know, and shouting in the streets? What why is it that the that the average person on the street What is it in his gut that that makes him you know, even though Arafat has been so terrorist oriented that the average person on the street will still say, man, we like him. Who's the average person? You mean a Palestinian? Yes, the average Palestinian. They're only leader that they've ever had Yeah. There's no such thing as Palestinian if you look up the history. People in general look up to their leaders and and support them and sometimes they turn blind eyes. That's true. But let me let me tell you something about Islam to summarize it, uh to those who don't know anything about Islam. Uh there's a verse in Quran that says, Oh people, doesn't address Muslim Christians, Buddhists. Jews, whatever, all people. Oh people, we have created you from a single male and female, which is Adam and Eve, and made and made you nations and tribes, so you meet one another. Meeting one another means interact with one another, uh trade with one another, live peacefully with one another. Uh not despise one another. And in the eyes of God The most honorable amongst you are those who are pious. Pies being just, pious being peaceful, pious means tolerance. If you're a Muslim. No, it says oh people. That's general statement. That's why I'm gonna stress on it again. Oh people. So it's talk it talks to Muslim. It talks to Christian, talks to Jews, talks to Buddhists, it talks to atheists, everyone. I can't determine how good of a Jew you are, how good a Christian you are, or how good a Muslim I am. That's between you and God All I could say is, let's live in peace. The one who is honorable amongst us, but the one who fears God the most. Fearing God is practicing your faith into action. The problem say one thing and do the other point uh from from the Quran Uh the beliefs because some people think that Muslims uh believe in the moon god or whatever. Uh God is telling Prophet Muhammad in Quran, uh, or say Prophet Muhammad, we believe in God And all the books that was revealed before you, uh meaning Torah, uh, uh King David's book, uh, uh the Bible and the Quran, and all the prophets who believe in Abraham, the offsprings of Abraham, Ishmael, Isaac, and the offsprings of Isaac, Moses, Jesus, and all the other prophets that were sent before you. And there's no distinction between any of the prophets. And to God we submit. This is basically explains what Islam is. I just gotta say I really want to believe you. I really do. And and my hope is that if if you are right that you will win over all of your Islamic brothers. That that you'll really live I mean, I know you. We play on a soccer team together, indoor soccer team together, by the way, for those of you out there. Uh he plays uh midfield. I don't know what I play. I'm too big to play soccer. But the point is is that I if if that's true, I really want to believe that. Unfortunately, there's enough Islamic people out there right now that disagree with you or that let me put it this way, that claim to be Islamic, that disagree with you, that they're winning the day. And I hope that you, if if you're if if you're being straight up with me, and I gotta take it, you know, for granted that you are, I mean, I like you I like shopping at your restaurant, by the way, that's Lily's on Rosemont Avenue. Anyways, that they deliver, by the way. Um they've got a great gyro. I haven't had it yet, but I heard it's great. But my point is is they're good Euros too. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But my point is is that I want you to be true. I in fact I think Rabbi Cosman really wants that to be the case. Unfortunately, you've got a big job ahead of you You got a lot of people to win over. And I think one of the things that makes it difficult is there aren't no there isn't a groundswell of of Muslims who are denouncing those who claim to be Muslims and acting on behalf of Islam There are, but the media intentionally uh choose to ignore them. Uh I I send press releases all the time. And none of them is published. Is there is there a law in Islam and in Christianity that tells you you're supposed to proselytize somebody? Uh law law's a good question. The the Great Commission uh w we gotta define proselytizing. That's that's a tough term. Certainly not. Would you like me to be Christian? Would you like me to be Muslim? It is yeah, Christianity is an evangelistic religion, absolutely. Christ clearly commissioned his followers to make disciples. In fact he claimed to be the only way to God, you know, the way, the truth, and the life. Yes, and I think that Islam is the same. Okay. Yeah Perception. You you don't you don't think that Islam really is a proselytizing religion? All you can do is explain. yourself. Explain your religion. Explain what the truth is all about. Your interpretation is a very moderate one. If you yeah No it's not moderate. You see anyone could take anything and interpret it any way they want to. Why do you think that's a good idea? I I study I study my religion Very well. Uh and I tried to Are there anything to violence in the Koran? Violence, what do you mean by violence? You would say defensively yes. What do you mean by violence? I mean Uh if someone doesn't agree with you, if someone uh someone I uh that's a that's an Islamic right. You have the right to speak your mind. And I will do anything to defend your right to speak your mind. Oh good, okay. And I'd like you to extend me the same uh courtesy. Am I in danger as a Jew? From what? From Islam. Let me tell you something. Uh I was born in Egypt. Uh my my oldest brother, my oldest sister, and my oldest the two all three of my family members were born in Cairo, in a predominantly Jewish neighborhood. When my mom was pregnant, uh my pregn uh pregnant, uh that was me uh that house was about to collapse so we moved to another area. Or my parents moved to another area. And that area was predominantly Christian area, even it's called Dir Malek, which is the church of angels. That's the neighborhood that I grew up in. And we still have the apartment there over forty-four years. And most of my friends are Jews and Christians in Egypt and religion is never, ever, ever an issue. So the end of the qu Rabbi just Just look at yes. Just look at uh Palestine for example. It was under the Islamic rule for over over a thousand years. There was never conflict. Everybody lived peacefully until the crusaders came in and tried started killing everybody. But under the Islamic law, Islamic law guarantees each one the right to worship God the way they want to, guarantees your right uh to own anything you want to gonna guarantees you right to speak your mind. That's what true Islam is about. True Islam is not what people try to betray Islam the way they see it or through their own eyes. Well that's gonna end up having to be the final word for this this show. These shows just aren't long enough. This is uh there there's so much uh you know, there was a deluge of water we were trying to grab a drop of it. And I'm not sure if we succeeded, but uh I hope that this uh three of you yeah uh I hope that the three of you would be willing to come on again at some point so we can continue this. This has been thoroughly enjoyable and educational to some degree. And you couldn't hear that but the Rabbi said, No way Well I hope he's just kidding. Thank you for listening to the uh Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD.