This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master. Divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh yeah. Troy Skinner. Pastors such as Robert Jefferis, a frequent contributor on the Fox News Talking Head shows. Recently contended that the Bible condones wall building as a solution to illegal immigration. A main piece of the argument being that the Bible includes walls in its narrative. Critics of this view, they cry foul! They say it's a stretch of biblical truth. They say sure we Need border security, but not at the expense of the gospel of Jesus, which they say strives to tear down barriers. Who's right? I'm Troy Skinner, and here to help us answer the questions about Trump's wall, our Morgan Coconut. Pastor of Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church and Tim May, Pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren, and half of the Mid-Marylland live show with Tim and Frank right here on 930 WFMD. And so I don't get any hate mail. I'm part Irish, okay, so don't hate on me. Just because I forgot to wish you a happy St. Patrick's Day last week doesn't mean I don't love you. All right, but we're fully recuperated from the drunken stupor that this past week held for us all, and here we are for the faith debate. So last week we started to talk about the whole immigration issue focusing on the wall. And we're not going to be able to steer completely away from the wall. It's going to come up, but I wanted to broaden it out this week and talk a little bit more about uh immigration on a whole So here's a story. I'm gonna just read a couple of sentences here from this story. The United States perpetuates great violence and disruption upon Central America. pressuring people to immigrate and then profiting off their detention when they do. As people flee the violence and poverty that's exacerbated by U. S. imperialism and neoliberal trade We must defend their freedom of movement because if anyone owes anyone, the federal government owes immigrants Legislators share blame for mass deportations, raids, drug wars, mass incarceration, and summary executions in the desert. The U. S. has long violated its international human rights obligations regarding the treatment of vulnerable migrant populations as the southern border uh at the southern border, and an expanded wall will only make a bad situation worse. When border security increases, so do border deaths. It's been shown that barriers only push migrants to travel by more dangerous routes. So there they're talking about the wall And they're talking about immigration, but boy, you can see there's some geopolitical stuff going on there. There's anti-colonialism, right? The U. S. imperialism, the uh maybe even some some dissatisfaction with a free market uh uh uh uh uh economic principles at work. This is bigger than a wall is what you alluded to at the toward the end of last week's show, Tim. So would you like to pontificate a little bit more on that I do. I I uh I I think and and Morgan and I think you Troy agreed that uh the the wall issue is just the uh is is the subject matter that is that is taken away from the actual issue, which is uh the emotion and the the law regarding immigration. And uh I think as as you asked the question last week rather uh would we have been confronted or are we asked about uh illegal immigration or immigration in general. And this comes up much more than uh the question of the term wall. And it it comes down to Uh as we preach or as I preach, uh the good news is that you know we love everyone. We we want to take care of everyone, widows, orphans, whomever, whatever But we also we also have to be cognizant of the laws of the land. And and I'm not so sure that they conflict. with uh uh the good news, uh the gospel. And and uh you know, you said Sarah Sanders quoted uh Romans, probably Romans thirteen. And that that is interesting. It basically says that you listen to the government, the government makes laws and we listen to 'em. And if you don't, you're wrong and you're going against God Uh o other biblical verses that could bring it a little bit different is whether you go to Galatians, uh whether you go to James, wherein th we talk about taking care of others, that we have to reach out, that this is our obligations. And I I believe that. But That's not the issue. I think the issue is a lot cleaner and a lot for some uh to the point more pungent. Why, how do we support someone breaking the law? Let's not call them immigrants or illegal aliens or Lawbreakers, is it our job as Christians or as believers to uh promote criminal activity? And as nice as I'd like to say, well it's just coming into the United States, not a big deal. In fact I think it still says in maybe a misdemeanor. But do we support illegal acts and where does that place us with the Well they push back a little bit because you know full disclosure you know the three of us in this room have a lot of commonality. If we what are those uh those little graphs that have the circles, you know, the overlapping circles. You know what w what do you call it? Link analysis. Oh, is that what it's called? Oh okay. Well whatever they're called. Yeah we have a lot of shared area in our circles. You know, our circles would overlap a lot. But I'm gonna put I'm gonna do my best to push back for for anybody who's you know thinking you guys are wrong. So an argument that occurs to me that could be said is look, I hear what you're saying, they're lawbreakers, but they're breaking civic law And God's law supersedes civic law. And so if I'm persuaded that God's law is being violated, then I need to push back against the law of the authorities. Uh so if I believe that a wall is an immorality, um And it's not who we're supposed to be as a nation. Those are words from Nancy Pelosi. Or uh Representative uh Lois Frankel in Florida said the wall is a political metaphor for bigotry and waste, and it's Uh immoral. That's what it is. It's the president playing to his base. So there they're saying that. Could I ask you this question? Would you be a as uh as passionate or compassionate or passionate about other laws, civil laws like abortion Would you be sitting there and saying, you know, this is God's law and this is civil law? What takes place here? Do we allow abortion? Uh because that's civil law. That's No, just the opposite. But most Christians that I know would be opposed to I think all Christians would be opposed to abortion. Okay. Most professing Christians would be but there might be some profess I'm sure I in fact I know some professing Christians who would say that they believe in the freedom of choice, a woman's right to choose, and she can do what she wants with her body, and I don't think they've thought the issue through well enough is my view on that. But they would say that um, you know uh that uh they're agreeing with the the civic authority. But those like you who disagree with the civic authority, you're working against it. Right? You're trying to change that. Because God's law is different. Same thing you're trying to do with saying that We should support illegal activities. I'm seeing it one way, you know, obviously you're seeing it another. I don't even know what you just said. Well that's good. Morgan, help me. Help me. You can translate. I'm at a disadvantage. I think we all are to a certain degree because we're we're we are subject to what's being reported, who's reporting it, and the biases of those who are reporting it. And I think that's what's tough on this because You know, I I may have my personal views. What it what's actually happening behind the scenes and at the border. You know, I have no idea 'cause I've never seen it. I've never been a part of it. If you look back at America though, if you look at world history All throughout history there have been governments that have that have uh that have had top-down abuses. They have taken advantage of their citizens, uh m any d any which way. Uh you look in American history and there's been abuses that ta that have taken place, but when you look at American history And you watched, let's say, the Olympics and you see the people who are representing our nation, they are from every nation from the face of the earth. And so Probably we set the tone and and we are an example of what immigration can look like and how it can benefit a country. Now in saying that It means we have to be a sustainable country. And the whole reason we exist I shouldn't say the whole reason, but a lot of the reason why we exist is because we had a lot of people that immigrated here from Europe. And they came over here for their reasons and there's a reason why we have the Bill of Rights and there's a reason why we have the Constitution, which you could argue is another one of the walls that is being torn down in this process because you're bringing a whole nother ideology into this country. That's not from uh that d maybe doesn't jive with why we even exist as a country to begin with. So from i I know you're kinda having a conversation on does the moral law Trump civil law? I think we serve a God Who realizes he's working with a a very messed up situation where we have a predisposition to sin and really not know what's right or wrong in a given situation. That's why the Bible says Do not lean on your own understanding, because your own understanding has gotten you into a whole load of junk that was not my will. And then we have the zealots during the time of Jesus. who would kill Romans thinking that was God's will. And then you have Christians who would kill people thinking it was God's will. And you have a whole lot of people and politicians misusing scripture thinking it's God's will. And it seems like everybody's just trying to get more support for an argument. Uh but if we're looking at this conversation, does God's will always trump civil? Of course. But We will all answer before God and how we interpreted his law and his and and ultimately at the at and I guess the baseline of this is it's how do you interpret What do you think God's love is? Like what do you what is that not necessarily definition, but what does God's love look like? And for some people, God's love looks like we don't build a wall. Other people think, you know what, we build a wall Because if you co-sign with someone who doesn't know how to manage money on their rent, you're on the hook and they're gonna take you down into debt and then you will not be able to help them You won't be able to help yourself, you won't be able to help anybody. So America always has the right to position itself in a way to in which we can sustain and we're not actually set up to sustain this kind of a model of just, you know what, bring the walls down. If you want to cross the border, have at it. That's not a a long-term solution. Yeah. By the way, before you uh you you started uh giving your response there, I was kind of joking. I just to just to be s I you know, I I put a Joker's hat on and sometimes I get myself in trouble. Just to be clear, for you know, uh in case you're a little confused about what I might really think or what I think you should think. We're not saved by being right on all the issues. Uh Christians are saved by the grace and mercy of of God. And so we can be wrong. I know I'm wrong on certain things. I mean I don't know what they are. I would change them. But I mean I I I know with certainty I'll go to my grave having been wrong on some important things. But that's not going to affect my salvation. So I believe that somebody who um does not support the uh the the pro-life position uh is on really weak biblical ground, is theologically mistaken Um but they could still be saved. Oh without question. Little tongue in cheek there, because that's not the same thing. Right. That's amazing he knew that. That's true. None of us can know. God knows those who are his. Church of the Brethren in Jefferson. Uh Morgan Kokenauer is the pastor at the Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church uh in Frederick. And uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So these are some of the arguments that we'll hear from those who want to talk about the the broader issue. They'll say things like, immigrants are humans made in God's image. So Christians need to be more focused about the human question, the human condition, humanity as a whole. And not be so focused on issues that might seem like isolationist uh perspectives. We need to we need to protect what's ours 'Cause that's one of the charges. You know, the people are afraid that America's becoming less white and less evangelical and less European, and so uh th they they couch it in those terms. They'll say that uh You know, migr remind us that migration is an unmistakable theme in the Old Testament for God's people. Um they say that Jesus was a refugee, that he suffered discrimination. Uh we could also think about Jesus as as identifying with the sojourner in his very incarnation that he that uh you know he became man and uh and uh a as a foreigner among humans, I guess, uh walk the earth. Uh so they're trying to say, look, let's look bigger picture. You want to go bigger picture and and say let's not make it about the wall let's talk about immigration? Well I'll see you, bigger picture, and raise you, make it even bigger yet. So where where would that sort of thinking begin to break down, do you think, where um Okay. The parts that you live at l we leave out as as with speaking uh uh religiously or uh as theologians What about the impact on the lives of the individuals already in country, already living here, already established here, uh uh whatever, whether they work for it or not, they're here uh and that we open the borders and then as as Morgan said earlier, we you know if we can't take care of ourselves, how are we gonna take care of someone else? And and people that think that we have all this money and all this wealth, it's God bless them for thinking that. But at some point when there's nothing more to take, there's nothing more to give, then then how do you take care of yourself? So so it the y you you place us in a position do we take care of our ours being the people that are living here Uh do we love them less than we love the i the people coming the soldier soldier's coming in soldiers. It's hard for me to say. Or do we take care of the the be where? Well, I don't think it should ever have to come down to that And w the way it doesn't come down to that is because you you have a border and you have a right of entry. And the right of entry is through a legal process. I think by the open borders you you you lose control. I mean it it's it it's y there's so many um analogies of you know the hole in the boat. You know, it's alright to have a little hole in the boat, but if you make it bigger and a lot of water comes in the boat sinks. And that's that's exactly what will happen in this country. Because we've seen what has h where what and how things have happened throughout the rest of the world. We're we're not new into this. This is maybe something that people never thought about, but this is nothing new in the world. There are borders, there are walls, and there are restrictions And as much as uh as God's people, we love everyone and I want to take care of everyone to the to the fullest and to the most that I can. But it comes down to the point when I can't feed my own or feed myself What good I what good am I then to someone else? So some similar things that are said, and then I'll get Morgan's uh response uh on the on this theme. People of God are described as sojourners and exiles on earth who have their true citizenship in heaven. God's blessing results in a diversity of ethnicities and nations and not a global melting pot, some would say. God's people are wrong to oppress foreigners. So these, along with the things I said just a second ago before Tim spoke, are some of the arguments that those who would speak against a wall, speak against a more restrictive immigration policy, or perhaps even speak against having an immigration policy. I'm not sure how far they want to take it. Um where do you think they might be going astray and missing the boat and how they're thinking about it? As far as the open border concept, I mean what do you mean going astray with what? They're saying that uh The entire Christ came to save the whole world. There's no distinction. No more male, female, Greek, Jew, you know, there's there's no there there's no distinction among human anymore. All people are united in Christ. And so Christians should have that attitude. So we shouldn't have nationalist ideas. We shouldn't think in terms of a United States border or a Mexico border. You know, there there shouldn't be borders. Because Christ wouldn't want there to be borders. What do you think they're missing there? Uh well I I guess for me, I and I don't know how much this term is used nowadays, but I'll I'll just use it stewardship We have a twenty-two trillion national debt. That word has not been used in quite some time. How do you spell that That's right. Stewardship? Yeah, that's right. That's a new one. See, yeah. That's right. I think I went back to the the the old King James version for that one. But ultimately that's how God set up Adam and Eve. You are to be stewards of this world. Take care of it. And taking care of it means sustain it and don't abuse it. And I think y now obviously sin came into the picture and you've got people that Whether they realize listen, there's times where where I I abuse things. Like I and and I don't do it either I realize it if I uh or I don't realize it. Uh but that's the world we live in. And so uh for me it it is about stewardship and being able to have something sustainable and take care of it. Now as far as Jesus being a s a sojourner, we're sojourners, yes, of course our citizenship is in heaven In a th in a in a relationship with Jesus Christ sense, our citizenship is in heaven. But until then, we live on this earth and we're supposed to manage it. And I guess you could say We have not shown that we have been cons we have been consistent in being good stewards or managers. But at the end of the day, we gotta do the best we can and at least have a a practical conversation about it that is that is productive. What about Christians should still care for their immigrant neighbors, regardless of whether or not they have legal status? So what about the this is what some people will argue. So what about those that are already here? They don't have the legal documentation, they haven't been given a visa or green card or have been made a citizen. They snuck in, whatever, they overstayed their visa, they have no legal grounds for remaining in the United States. Should Christians support should Christians support their removal, their deportation? I personally don't believe they should. I I believe if they're here that I'm going to do everything I can to make their life as as as good as I can uh uh th and that may be far different than conservatives or whomever. But as a Christian I cannot not help someone that I have direct contact with or could have contact with. And I never have asked someone, are you legal or illegal? I wouldn't, because you're I see you as God's people. And yes, I love those that are trying to get in the country, but I still uh I'm gonna still go back to the fact that there's a right way and a wrong way. So the question was, would I uh want them deported? No. Absolutely not. Let me ask you this question. Because I I I can agree I can agree with that and I respect that. So if somebody is in your house illegally. And they're e and there's there's two types of people that are crossing the border. There is the one who has malicious intent and there's the one who has good intent. They are seeking a better life. So let's say you have someone I'll I'll give you both. You find the guy with a malicious intent in his family are living in your house. Do you support the right to remove them from your house? Without question. You have someone who's fleeing from a Um you're fleeing from whatever. There's a robber's coming after him, someone's coming after uh uh do you support them living in your house? Yes. For how long? Until they can uh until I can find them somewhere else to live. So so what is and and I think because deportation is a great question you're asking. Because one is we you know and the president made this perfectly clear. He says, you know, a lot or at least a percentage of those coming in are the people that are here to hurt us. But how do you know I can't differentiate then until something happens to me I uh you have a worldview, I have a worldview. We we all have that and I speak from a uh a younger perspective um and I have I have little I say little little life experience I I I see America has has changed to a certain degree and how it takes has how it approaches stewardship and taking care of people. And the fundamental shift, and you can really see it in our tax code, I guess you could say, where churches are are nonprofits And the reason they're tax exempt is because the assumption is they're investing in the community and taking care of people. Correct. Now you can make the argument that churches are taking advantage of their tax exemption because they are using the majority of that money on themselves and they're not using it on the community. And so now you see a lot of community needs and people are wondering, and you saw this down with the floods with uh what's that guy? Joe Olstein. I mean he's collecting uh Just some serious bucku dollar. There's a flood and and he tried to help, but okay, if that's the amount of money that's flowing through your church, with great financial wealth comes great financial maybe responsibility. And there's a lot of in these mega churches, there's And I don't want to get sidetracked with pastor's salaries, but in saying that, the shift has gone from churches investing and taking care of its people in a government having a tax code of citizens getting tax deductions for charitable donations. to now shifting to people not necessarily spending money to take care of other people, churches spending money to take care of other people, to now the government commandeering the responsibility of taking other people and now we're just gonna tax you so we can take care of everybody. So really the government has shifted to we are gonna manage all this because either the citizens are not fulfilling that responsibility or we don't think they should have that responsibility. So we're just gonna control everything. The government is not set up in the least bit to get into case by case immigration situations I'm not saying we privatize it by any means. I am not a political expert. I do not I do not work in those fields or know much about that. As much as I can see that Working in working on this in Congress is not where it's going to take take place, but that's where people are trying to grab it to dictate the terms on how this is going to happen. And I do believe Sorry, go ahead. No, no, no. I was just I was gonna it looked like Tim was getting to lean in and I was motioning to him that he's not gonna have time to so if you can store away your thoughts. I'm happily married, so anyway, next week maybe if you had a thought, Virginia, we can get to that. Echoes a point I was I was gonna make or kinda throw out there and see what you guys had to say is when the um when the state becomes a welfare state, yes, it's a game changer. Yes. That changes everything. And so all these arguments from about what life was like a thousand years ago, two thousand years ago, three thousand years, four thousand years ago, those weren't welfare states talked about in the Bible. And so that changes like the whole game changes. Yeah, and is and it's a mixing of responsibilities. Should the b state be doing that or should the church we've done shows on that. Trust me, you've you've touched a source subject for me. I'm very passionate about that one So I'm going to stop myself. Anyway, Morgan Kokenauer, touch my touch my hot button there. He's the uh the pastor at um uh 37th day Adventist Church. You've got a Uh a big event coming up in a couple of weeks in like ten seconds. Esther play April twelve and thirteenth, Friday and Saturday night. We'd love to guys have you guys come out. So if you want to go see the Esther play at their church on the twelfth or thirteenth of uh of April uh ariseforgod. org is the website, ariseforgod. org. Uh Tim May, pastor of Pleasant View, Church of the Brethren, also on the show. Thank you, my friend. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Abate. Find us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.