This is a Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's news. News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. Encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith Email me, Troy at WFMD. com. If you do that, you might just see your email stuff posted on the blog because my blog is your blog. Every day, Monday through Friday, you can uh go to the website, wfmd. com Seaword Base, and you'll find updated information. And shockingly, every once in a while the information is based on something religious in nature. Uh and I say that one kind of half joking because a lot of times it's it's political or Uh people, you know, talk about how great it was in the good old days as opposed to now or you know, pie recipes or it's It's all sorts of interesting stuff. And I will say it has gotten increasingly interesting, so thank you for your emails. Jonathan Sweisser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you for being on the show again, Mice. Fren, co founder of the show, and also uh we'll talk about um the the feeding the Our other guest, the area chair for the C twelve group in the DC area, which would include uh the Frederick County uh and surrounding areas. Glad to be with you. And he's also pastor at uh Restoration Point Christian Church or the Restoration Point. That's what the hit people call it. That's right. Where do you go? I go to the point, man. I I don't think I mentioned last week what are my readings. I don't have to make up for that. I'm gonna give a one now and one at the end of the show. They want to know what I'm reading. They're coming in. They want to read what I read. Uh God Search and Rescue Plan by David V. Edling. No. No? It's a missions. God Search and Rescue. You're going to have to read it to find out. Yeah, I just read like the table of contents. You know, and in in uh once I can know the table of contents, I know what's in there. Um, so let's talk about Frederick Forty Eight. Frederick Forty Eight, just like last year, this is a two day all Frederick event. to see if we can raise more money than ever before for those charitable organizations in Frederick that are taking care of those that are most in need in Frederick. Did you know that last summer they did a community assessment of the needs that there are in Frederick and they uh they came out with with uh clarification of needs in the area of homelessness which you'd be amazed how many homeless people there are in Frederick. Uh and then uh the issue of youth that are in situations that because of poverty and parents working all the time they are vulnerable to the wrong kinds of influences. And then finally uh people that because of health care situations that they face, uh poverty is uh is breathing down their neck and about to make them homeless. And so those three areas is the big three. And so Uh we are gonna go we're we're gonna see if we can raise more money than has ever been raised in Frederick in a two-day period of time. Uh uh it's gonna be September 27th and 28th is when this is gonna happen So that'll be coming up uh this fall. We're very excited about it. It's gonna raise more money than you can shake a stick at. That's right. Is that hard to do or something? I mean, where do you come from? Shake a stick at it. Shake a stick at that money. Pick up one end of the stick, you pick up the other end. So uh Ken, you're uh the area chair for C twelve. We spent uh quite a bit of time last week's show talking about what C twelve is. But real quickly it's an organization where um leaders of companies, either the owner or CEO or some big shot bigwig with a company comes together to meet with other big shot big wigs from other companies on a regular basis. Yeah, but if they're a part of this, they can't be Big Shock Big Wig because it's all about Christ-like leadership. So they gotta be humble about it, right? So not a member. So uh they come together to learn uh how they could better run their business like Christ would run their business if he were running it, right? That's right. They come together for uh for encouragement and support. Uh because you know, it's very tough to run a business. And a lot of times we find that our CEOs are very isolated and alone. Right lonely at the top. I don't hear that to be true. I hear that it's really easy and these guys are just, you know, swimming in more money than they can take a stick at. And they're hoarding the money and they don't want to give their fair share. That's what I understand. Right. Are these guys in the one percent? We just gotta ask that question. Is this the one percent the one percent Christians? Of the one percent. I mean our news has shown a lot of CEOs and right rightly so. Yeah. Oh man, that's a great question. Is it my my brother I at Christmas time this year I sat with my dad and my three brothers and we debated whether or not it is it is immoral for CEOs to get such high bonuses or not. And uh I had one brother in particular, the one that is the most involved with business, he's he's got the best business mind of all of us And he argued that it was not immoral because it's it's just a a measure of the market. And so if the market demands that that you pay for a quality CEO that amount of money, then you get what you pay for. And and so there's nothing, you know, inappropriate about it. How would you answer that question? That's a great qu let's put you on the spot right out of the gate. That's a great question. Uh I d I think we I would have a hard time making a judgment for every CEO in America. Okay. But I would say that for the most part, um, you know, when you have to think about your Uh what you're gifted, whether it's a Rick Warren or whether it's the CEO that runs a company, it's really about the stewardship that that's been given to you. Rick Warren, by the way, America's pastor. So it's really not about the murder that was a nice tone of voice y you used when you said that. It's really not about the the money that they make. It's really about the money that they spend. And my suggestion and encouragement would really be looking at what are they doing with that particular money. So if they're making that money like Rick Warren, your your upside down tithing, you're giving ninety percent of it away and only living on the ten percent Then it's okay to it's okay to get that money, it's not immoral. Absolutely. Why not? But if you're spending it so so what percentage are you allowed to spend If it's four, it's immoral. Well, I I think that's one of those questions that you really th we we chase that rabbit down that hole when we're really we're looking at the wrong perspective. I mean when we look at our congregations, Jonathan, maybe in your congregation. I mean, what do you tell people that's immoral? What percentage of spending should they spend before they're being immoral? Yeah, I mean in m in my congregation, uh we have a few people that are How do I say it? You know, fit nicely into maybe the upper middle class. But the large majority of them are Uh they are the w you know uh closer to a widow's mic kind of end of the spectrum where they're living hand to mouth and they're doing the best to but can't their spending be immoral too? I mean if you've got a widow's mic person And they're going out and spending ninety percent of their income on lottery tickets or alcohol or something. Yeah, yeah. That's definitely has the potential to be immoral. Yeah. Huge potential. Whenever anybody's spending it on drugs, you You heard it here first. If you're blowing your entire paycheck on lottery tickets, alcohol, and drugs, it has the potential to be immoral. So it's so you telling me that it's how you spend it. Not what you're buying. Is there a difference? Well, let's see I don't think he's a Christian, at least I don't have it I we don't have any uh well known reason to say he's a Christian. A guy like Bill Gates. Right, he makes billions of dollars every year. Yeah. Does he still make money or is he he retired. What does he do now? He uh he still has a lot of money coming in. Yeah. Somehow. Sure. You know, Warren Buffett, all these all these really, really, really, really, really rich guys. Uh they're not giving ninety percent of their money away. Right. But do they have more moral obligation to give it away? Is that the question? The question is when you have that kind of money right if we're gonna have a have a show like this on the Frederick Faith debate, we've got to deal with this question. Sure. If you have that kind of money and it's money that That puts you uh at a at a standard of living that is way above most of you know, the people that live in America significantly above uh then do you have an oblig what w what are your obligations with those resources In terms of how you spend them. Well why are you limiting against America? Is there okay, around the world. Yeah. Well this is the big question. In the upper one percent of the world precisely. So should we give away ninety percent of what we make? And I think that's feed children in Kenya. That's the real issue because you look at the Bible and you see Solomon, for example. Yeah, Kenya's actually not doing so bad there. Solomon, do you know how much gold he got every year? I don't. Twenty five tons of gold every year that he got. That's a lot of earrings. The dude had twelve thousand horses and then a thousand wives. Right. But some people claim that w 'cause 'cause the Bible says in the law, it says that your kings are three things they're not supposed to do. They're not supposed to go down to Egypt to get horses. And he had twelve thousand horses. They were not supposed to accumulate great amounts of of money and then they were, you know, not supposed to have too many wives. It actually said that uh those three things in the law and Solomon did all of it. So So it would appear that the Torah, the law, says that you're not supposed to accumulate large amounts of wealth. But you tell me. Like what was Solomon correct or did that lead him astray? Well I think obviously somewhere. But I think the wr my my point is I think it's the wrong question to say if I think it goes back to the people thinking money is evil. And you know the reality is that if you develop a good product, whatever it is, if you develop a widget, computers, whatever you sell, and everybody in the world needs it, yeah. And they pay you for it, right, you're gonna make a lot of money. And so it's not the the question isn't whether you should receive that money. Right. The question is what kind of stewardship are you doing once you receive the money? So let's define stewardship. But let me go back to this point I want to make earlier. CEOs that we deal with uh that are CEOs in this company uh this country are not the multimillion dollar CEOs that are reported in the news. Most of the CEOs that I've dealt with and that our uh C twelve deals with in reality most small business owners The last few years haven't taken much of a salary. They've gone without living off their reserves so that they can keep their companies afloat. And I think that that needs to be the perspective that when we think about CEOs and business owners, it it is tough to own a business. Some people who listen to this show know, some people who listen to this show don't, but you know, what I do to make money is I sell advertising for this and uh this is this radio station or sister station WFRE And a lot of the local business owner people these last couple of years that I'm dealing with that are trying to grow their business. Uh they're either not taking a salary or they're taking Way, way less salary than you know they get accused of taking. So you think oh they make a million dollars. No they don't. They gotta pay rent, they gotta pay for their vehicle maintenance and their gas and their insurance and they gotta pay their employees and they gotta buy materials and they gotta deal with with the the the problems of not getting paid, getting stiffed by customers. Right. You know they do a big twenty thousand dollar job that costs them maybe twelve thousand dollars in hard costs and they don't get paid, they get stiffed. And they gotta eat that and if all these challenges that they're facing and before you know it, maybe they had enough to carve out for themselves in a regular year a hundred thousand dollars for them to live on. But now it's not a a regular year and they're like They're living on twenty thousand dollars. Right, exactly. The proverb says if you find a man skilled at what he d does you'll note that he serves before kings, not before obscure men. So this idea that that whatever you do, you do it with all your heart is under the Lord. You do it with skill and with excellence. Is and that you would get compensated for that, I think, is a very godly and biblical idea. You know, that's that's the whole Protestant work ethic. You know, that you work hard, you work smart. And you end up producing something that adds value, you know, to society in general in a significant way and that that that you would you know, the the the workers worth his wages that you would benefit from that. Um and so you know, there's definitely a sense that that that's the case. However, I I guess I was gonna say along those lines that there's Even those CEOs that don't spend their money righteously, um, the reality is that you you you can't work at that level if you're not working hard. Right. If you're not if you're not really bust in your tail to to get things done. Right. And that's why you know and why we stress the importance of accountability. Yeah. Because many CEOs don't have accountability. There's nobody to tell the CEO sometimes what they're not doing what they should be doing. I mean they can't go to their employees. The employees aren't because they're afraid they're gonna get fired. They can't go to their friends, sometimes their friends aren't courageous enough to do it. So who's gonna be honest with them? Well another business owner that's lived that lifestyle that's made those mistakes called together in accountability with the Christian perspective to keep each other accountability. Uh oh now I'm gonna call you out pastor. Churches need that Absolutely. Right? You gotta be in some kind of a network of accountability. Absolutely. So that you you uh you make those connections. Which is what this group is about because we're iron sharpens iron and that's why we need accountability and support. And by the way, there are people that have As a general proverbial type of a rule, it's true that people in those positions are working hard and they deserve and earn the money they have coming to them. But there are people that are slackers that are in positions of authority. That phone it in literally if that, like you know, they mem maybe never show up to work the way they do they They cause problems for their employees. Sure, and yet they they rake it in. I mean a classic example of this would be somebody who inherited the company from dad, right? Right. Dad and Mom built that thing up from the s from scratch, turned it into this really profitable and then they hand the business over to Sonny. Yeah. And Sonny just like lives off of sh Mom and Dad's hard work and twenty years later that business doesn't exist anymore 'cause he throve it into the ground, but he made a lot of money in the meantime. Sure, sure. But that's the point that if the company is growing uh at any level whatsoever, it's because You know, those guys are w somebody's worked hard. Yeah. I'm just saying that 'cause there are Yeah, no, you're making a good point. There's gonna be somebody listening to say, Well, the person who owns my company is a jerk and that Schweitzer guy and no there are So how much is the exception you think in that sense and how much is the fallen world, so it's a lot higher than I'd even care to try to contemplate uh, I think. Yeah, I mean of companies that that increase in profitability you think that are led by slackers? I mean companies that are decreasing in profitability You know, yeah there's gonna be a measure of slacker at the top somewhere. Well look at all the graft that it takes place. You have companies that make a ton of money because the gov they've got a relationship with somebody like on the inside of the White House or some congressman or something. And they get a lot of government money. funneled their way. They're not working hard for that. But their company's turning a huge quote unquote profit every year. Yeah. And they're not doing it honestly through hard work. They're doing it through deception and lies, right? So and look what happened with the GSA Right. The people uh running the GSA go off on this million nearly million dollar party over in Vegas. Man, was that embarrassing and who knows all the other money they've wasted and they're making a lot of money. They can't even be fired apparently. It's ridiculous, the things that you hear. Right. And they didn't work hard for what they m made w what money they made. And then that whole prostitute scandal down in wherever, you know, again where people have responsibility and they're phoning it in or their you know, letting their their selfishness get in the way of their job, their their their own desires. But you know, I think I think from those two stories an important biblical value that we talk about, and that is what you reap, what you sow. Right. Here was two examples of these uh flawed characters that were reaping those flaws now. I mean they thought they were getting away with it But eventually it's going to come to the light. Everything we do is going to come to the light eventually. Okay. So all right, so let's drive down to but sometimes only at the judgment seat. Right. But isn't that the case. Absolutely. And so this drives down to a to a worldview that drives um a significant number of people that that we would uh identify as being on the left of the political stream. And that is that those people that have money, every single one of them, got it uh in a immoral manner. They didn't get it by working hard. That the United States the fact that the United States is wealthy is because we oppressed people in order to get here. And so therefore all um uh prosperity flows from injustice. And so so how do you answer that? Is that the case that all prosperity flows from injustice? Absolutely not. But why not? Like how how would you prove that? Well I would I would prove it in the fact that, you know the When we talk about the best businesses and the people that make a significant impact really are ones that have we we would call it having an internal perspective. I mean if you think about the fruits of the Spirit in Galatians chapter five, Paul writes to the church there and he says, you know, we should live by the fruits of the Spirit. Love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness. Faithfulness, you know, self-control. Against these things there is no law. Right. Right? Come on, man. We've got to make it happen. We've got to get things done around here. How do you be patient in that kind of environment Well, I think that's self controlled. That's that's the there's a there's a sense of having a higher perspective. It isn't being a a slave driver, it isn't beating the whip. But it's having a a a challenge and encouraging people. I mean all the best books tell us that uh you know, e i business books that are not Christian tell us that people are motivated they're not necessarily always motivated by money. Money is Usually second or third or fourth on the list. They're motivated by higher deeper moral values. And I would suggest and say to any business owner or company or as we look at it, That what what company that's driven by love, that's driven by goodness, by self control, by patience or peace wouldn't succeed. I mean if you developed a company like that, your employees couldn't wait to get to work because they'd want to be in that kind of environment. Company cultures that have that have modeled that, even that are not Christian, companies like Zappos and Amazon, some of these that have modeled that higher level of values that are really building. Except for in China where they're building all those things. Sorry. And so uh it's that higher level of value. So I would say that Yes, there are some companies that are immoral. Yes, there are some CEOs that are immoral. Yes, there's companies that are going to be built in immoral ways. But I don't think our country was founded in that and I don't think the bulk of companies across the country are are trying to live immorally. I would say that if they are eventually What they sow will they will reap. This is the thing. I've uh my my sense when I look at history is that Marxism arose uh communism arose in a portion of the world whose capitalism was the most greedy. And that here in the United States there was greed and we had problems with greed, but it was of a whole different nature compared to what they had in Eastern Europe where communism and and and Marxism arose. And that when when when people give themselves over to greed as opposed to what you're describing What happens is you lose any hope whatsoever that prosperity can be used for good for good. No, because you have generations of people that have lived under oppression and tyranny and greed and as a result they lose any memory of of of a vision of a higher way to live. And the fact that you're even describing this to me, I I can you know, I bet there's a bunch of people out there that are cynical that are like, you know, it's nice to talk about But you know, it's just not happening. Right. You know. But this is the hope for any kind of a prosperous society is leaders of those companies that really understand that the best way, the most prosperous way to live is in a way that is human, humanizing to the people that live there, in a way that treats them with gentleness, respect, you know, with dignity, with you know, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, you know that The fruit of the spirit. Absolutely. I mean the vision for that is huge, and if you can walk that out in business, you know, how many people would rather work for you than work somewhere else? No, the real test of of that is maintain that eternal perspective that you related to a a bunch of times, Kevin, right? Because Ecclesiastes teaches us that things don't always work out the way that you know the proverbs tell us that they should. Yeah. The counterbalance to proverbs. Job is as well. So these businesses, they're gonna do the right thing because proverbally Speaking, if they do the right thing, they'll get that back. You reap what you show so good things come back to those who who give, right? Oprah told us about that. Givers get. However, sometimes givers don't. Sometimes givers get taken advantage of. Sometimes givers lose. And so the temptation is to well, the other guy's getting by because he's cheating. So I oh it's my employees, I'm just gonna have to cheat too because I I don't want them to be, you know, unable to feed their families. And to fight against that and say, you know what, whether we all starve to death or not, we're gonna honor God. Right that and have that eternal perspective. That's exactly right. We call it the Racing towards the Bhima seat, the judgment seat of God. You know, it tells us in the Bible that at at the Bhima, we're gonna be judged from the works that we've done since we've been saved. And having that perspective as a business owner, we believe that God has placed that person, gifted that individual with leadership t skills, abilities to run an organization, and that they should be focusing on that return of investment at the BEMA. So what they face temporarily here, maybe they'll have m great wealth, maybe they won't. But what's their eternal return on investment? And if you have to f have faith to live like that as a family Imagine what kind of faith you have to have to live like that as a business owner as well. I mean it's a significant level of faith. And I think you're serious about it. And I alluded to it before the end of last week's show and I'm gonna do it again. It's the same thing you guys as pastors have to deal with There's lots of times when you're tempted to cut corners and try to do things that are pragmatic. Yeah. Because it'll be good you trick yourself or try to talk yourself and think it'll be what's best for the church, even though I'm not sure the scriptures gonna support this decision I'm making. I just it's the practical, pragmatic decision to make. I'm gonna make you face this we all face those same struggles, right? Every time you go to do any kind of marketing You're tempted to fall back into doing it just to build your church instead of building the kingdom. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, joined this week by Ken Gosnell, area chair of the C Twelve Group, also pastor the Restoration Point Church here in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsors Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading in addition to God's Search and Rescue Plan? Judging Others, a little booklet by uh Ken Sand or Sandy. I'm not sure how he pronounces his last name. I think it's Sandy. Hey Jonathan, I'm going to send you a book that you should add to your list. It's called The Light Shines in Babylon by Buck Jacobson. I'm going to read that. All right. Thanks so much for listening. God bless Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, and Honest answers an amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Povin plumbing, how can we make you smile?