This is the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty W WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I'm Troy Skinner. I want to encourage you to visit us online, wfmd. com, keywordface, wfmd. com. Easy enough. Keyword faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page. And uh once there you'll read blogs uh stuff that's been sent by you or your neighbors. 'Cause I don't really post anything anymore. I used to, but it got too time consuming. So you email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, and if it's loosely related to the things we talk about on the show, I will post it Pretty much without without exception, Monday through Friday, nine fresh blog postings every day. Good or bad? Nine a day. Nine a day. Some of them I think are pretty good. You guys do a good job and some of them I gotta say what you send me is crap. But I put it up there anyway. So you can start before you go to work and every hour at work you could read one and then get home at the end of the day and be full. The Faith Debate page is the most popular blog page on the entire site. The average person spends twelve and a half minutes on the site. On the on the page. Every time you visit. That's crazy. You're very slow readers, apparently. That's like you can eat your breakfast in twelve and a half minutes. Maybe that's what it is. People like read during launch or dinner. Anyway, I'm a very slow reader, but what have I been reading fast? What have I been reading lately? I've been reading a lot of snippets, a lot of articles, journal articles, things like that. I know I'm weird, I'm strange, I guess. Yeah. On hermeneutics and exegesis, trying to understand how to understand just a little bit better. So I've been reading stuff by uh Vern Poithrus. You know Vern Poithrus? I do not. Oh, you should know Vern Poithrus. A C thistleton easy for me to say Thistleton? Yes. Uh RB Dillard, uh C G uh Bartholomew, W. G. Goen Goein, anything? No. Goen, yeah, read him, yeah. Uh Richard Gaffin. I do read Gaffin. Okay. D uh DJ McCartney, uh Peter Cotterell, Max Turner, Gerhard Voss. You got to know Gerhard Voss. Uh I've heard the name. I don't think I've read any of that. Bill Baldwin? No, no. Anyway. That's the kind of insane stuff I've been reading lately. Um I've read a bunch of their stuff I love Brad McLaren. McLaren is a uh is a uh uh emergent emergent emergent church, emergent church emerging. He's he's a very uh I have to be careful to not let him become a caricature because of the circles I run in. Uh he gets caricatured and so absolutely but he definitely would be on the left end of the theological spectrum with within Christianity. Well he was and then he Yeah. He's just not willing to take stands on things and I don't know how you can I mean, if if you're going to define yourself as evangelical, then you define yourself as something because there's certain things that you believe. But if you're unwilling to define yourself as something, then you have to let go of the labels And Well he would fight you on that. He wouldn't say you you're accusing him of not standing for anything and just sort of being all over the place and not having clear beliefs and values based on Jesus Christ and based on the gospels? Yeah, I'd I'd say that on the things that define evangelicalism. Yeah, yeah, yeah. By the way, the voices you're hearing, Badger Back and Forth about Brian McLaren of all things, is Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Valley Chapel, and Mark Braverman, the author of Fatal Embrace. And here's a word from the foreword by Walter Bergemann. At the bottom of his argument is the thesis so well considered here that is Israel's elemental conviction about being God's one chosen people and the ensuing social-political exceptionalism that is the root cause of the conflict. It is that most elemental conviction on the part of the Jews that he holds up to scrutiny. and about which he insists upon a radical revision. The claim for exceptionalism held commonly by Israel's most one-dimensional advocates and by Israel's most urbane Jewish critics makes serious, realistic political thinking impossible and gives warrant for brutalizing policies carried out by the Israeli government that are destructive self-destructive, and finally, irresponsible. Braverman's primary criticism concerns the defenders of Israel's exceptionalism through which the faith claims of Judaism have been wedded to unbridled military policy. So multiple times we have the word exceptionalism showing up here in uh Bergman's forward to the book, and we were talking about exceptional exceptionalism uh at the end of last week's show when we had the same panel together. So I'm wondering if we have different definitions perhaps of what we're meaning by exceptionalism. So I'd be curious how you're understanding it or mean for the reader to understand exceptionalism. And then I'd like to hear what Jonathan's take is. before we get into that, I feel like I feel I I'm so excited about about your book uh in that you're you're right at the center of raising such vital issues for the world to consider. for Christianity to consider, for Judaism to consider, you know, in terms of justice, that that I'm hesitant to spend a lot of time like disagreeing with you just because I I I wanna I I I want more people to read what you're what you're writing about and to grapple with it. Uh but at the same time, if I'm gonna have an honest discussion with you, I feel like there's there's quite a few questions that I have that that It would benefit me, I'm very selfish about this, to hear how you get certain places, you know, and how you come to certain conclusions. And so I kind of feel like I gotta apologize, you know, while at the same time Thanking you just for taking the time to have this discussion with us because I'd I love this. Well let me let me just address that because I think you're raising a really important issue, Jonathan. Here's here's the thing. My strategy, my whole mission, my whole sort of political program, if you will, has to do with helping the church, and I mean particularly the American church, okay take on this cause and liberate both the Palestinians and the Jews in Israel from the sinful self-discussive policies that Israel is is involved in. And yet you write your book to the progressive Christians. Okay, but let's talk about that for a second. I'm not that Nevertheless, I end up being where you're at on this. Right. Which is what crazy. Very interesting. But here's the thing. Given that I think that the only hope for Israel, for my people, and for the human rights of the Palestinians Is that the p basic policies of the state of Israel should change, which means that the basic policies of the United States government toward Israel have to change. Sure. is that the church takes this on the same way that the churches took on apartheid in South America. The same way that the Black Baptist churches took on Jim Crow in America. Okay. That's the faith th those were grassroots movements Started in the churches. The churches took them over. The leaders were pastors and they took it forward and it was about being Christian and following the church. Well exactly. I want to help with that. how we disagree. Because there are theological barriers in the way. People believe things that say to them, we can't go there. Right. Because here's what it says in Revelation. Yeah. Here's what Paul says about. Right. If we don't grapple with those theological issues, those barriers will stay there and the church will remain stuck. I want the church to get unstuck. Yeah, that's good. And I'm in agreement with that. So exceptionalism. Okay. Exceptionalism. You got Muslim exceptionalism, you got Christian exceptionalism, you got Jewish exceptionalism, you got what you got American exceptionalism, like Crazy. Okay It's very very Russian exceptionalism. I'm sure there is. I think there is. Okay. Yeah. So God wants us to do this, you know. God has selected us as special. Christianity was all about Christians Christians were all about that. When they threw in with Rome was Constantinianism. The Islamic Caliphate thing is the same deal. Right. And now Zionism, you know, hasn't we've we've become empowered. We've become invested with the sense that God wants us to do this and then you guys are helping us do it, which is what I'm saying. You you're s you're involved in our sin. So by exceptionalism, you're talking about having this this the idea that the providence of God is you know he's on our side. We are God's chosen vehicle Kind of right. Manifest destiny is all about that. Get rid of the savages. This is our land is the same thing. Because I I would say because I'm a a different understanding of the liberate the Holy Land from the infection deal. I think that you know America is exceptional Absolut right? I would agree with you. I don't think that we are the new promised land. I think that that's a mistake that Christianity brought over to North America and and and said, Oh, this new continent is the new promised land. I disagree with that. I think that that's wrong, but that doesn't mean that I don't think America is still exceptional because we have great freedoms here. We have freedom of expression, freedom of religion ostensibly, even though we are broadcasting right now from the police state that is Frederick City, uh on high lockdown I just got another ticket. See? But I'm telling you It's because they want me to do the speed limit in places where kids could be running around. Come on. Yes you do. Very much so. Yeah, there's cameras in every corner. Yeah, and you can't you can't have open alcohol containers uh on city streets. Uh it's it's a police state. But anyway, um we in Idaho or what? But that but that's not to say that there's still not something exceptional about um otherwise Exceptional is not exceptionalism. Exceptionalism is more of a really kind of technical term and it means i i it's religiously tinged. Okay. It means that we have the right to do whatever we want in our relations, with the planet, with the environment, because we are the people who Now what do you think of that? Yeah, this is helpful to me because because I kept reading the exceptionalism. I'm like, you know what, I I believe that the Jewish people are God's chosen people. uh and are exceptionally set apart in that sense. I believe that Christians are God's people. I'm not a supersessionist. I believe that that somehow God has maintained that with both of them. You know, the firstborn doesn't cease being the firstborn uh just because the the others were born. Uh he continues to have a role and uh to the extent that he is returned back to his Lord in humility um then his uh his sense of being chosen by God isn't played out with pride, but it's played out with humility and servanthood. But but I I I saw again and again in your book that that you returned back to a concern that anybody would believe that the Jewish people are chosen by God to be teachers of the the simple and and and those that are bringing a message of something better to the world. And and s and so that definition of exceptionalism is a little bit different. from what you're describing. Like just now you described something that has specific political and imperialistic orientation to it, which is different from an exceptionalism that says that God sent us here to be priests that are serving everyone so that they can be better um uh humans and and and care for one another, be more patient with one another, be be be more uh educated and and hardworking in their endeavors to be more uh fruitful and productive, that that kind of an exceptionalism, that priest orientation, for that matter, I feel like that's what you're doing. I mean the reason why you want your book to sell is because you have an i a message that you feel like everybody needs to hear so that they can get along better with one another and and part of what makes you so effective at that is is the work ethic, the the educational um uh vigor rigor that you were raised underneath of, to see the issues, to zero in even your your your emphasis on the pro prophetic which comes from your rabbinic background that you recognize that somebody needs to be a prophet and say something here. And so so I kept wanting to say to myself, well wait a second, he's calling for something exceptional. And so is he really against exceptionalism? Like how do you balance all that? Because 'cause you're setting up a standard that you're saying, well, we need to quit feeling like we have a standard and we all just need to be Equal. But you don't really believe that on a whole thing. I don't know. So where do where do people who where do Muslims fit in? Where do people who don't wouldn't identify themselves as Jews or Christians fit in? I mean are the Jews and the Christians supposed to sort of team up and take and and and and and and bring God to the world? I I don't buy that. I just don't buy that. Yeah, I've done a lot of study of Islamic theology, is Islamic teaching and the Quran and the the Hadith and and uh I just gotta tell you that Um their God encourages a temper that that isn't isn't doesn't rise to a to a to a proper level of what the divine should should should talk about. It it it encourages a Does that make sense in terms of the Muslims that you know? Do you find them people who think that they are uh who follow a God that wants them to, you know, take over the world and you know, every single Muslim that we've had on this show says yes, they'd like to see Sharia law set up around the world. How is that any different than you talking about the end days and Jesus being the Messiah? How is that different? Well it's not different. Except in the sense that then we have to ask ourselves, okay, is there some kind of a righteous standard to which religions and religious visions, the the vision that our religion brings to us can be held to some kind of an objective standard that says Okay, and and I I feel like you appealed to this. When you appeal to the prophets, when you appeal to the progressive Christians that that have walked in the tradition of the prophets, you know, with apartheid and different things, you're appealing to something that that I think God has put inside each of us that when we see it miss that then we s then we have to speak, we have to say something. And what I'm saying is that is that when I s when I study Islamic theology as opposed to the Torah and the prophets and the gospels and the gospels and uh the epistles, uh I see I see uh a glory, I see a a level of of teaching. Even your even you've mentioned that at the end of the day you feel like Christ is a model and a guide for how to walk things out. uh there in the Middle East. Well, it's interesting that you didn't say Muhammad. And I and and I'm just saying that that you're choosing of the of the options. You didn't say Buddha and you didn't say Confucius, you didn't say, um, you know, and I'll tell you why. Yeah. Because when you look at Jesus in the historical context in which he was operating And the kind of empire and the kind of tyranny that he uh his ministry happened in and was really about. Yeah. It speaks directly to us today. We're talking about empire. We're talking about But I would argue that that Confucius ministered in those kinds of times. I mean that kind of empire is everywhere. But why is it that Christ stands out I think it's because there's a level of light that comes forth in the context of his ministry that we see things more clearly. I wasn't supposed to step into a church. You guys were dangerous. Sure. You're going to steal our souls, you're going to kill us, you're going to try to convert us. It was worse than death. Okay? I come from a similar background in that we were we were um We were the general association of regular Baptists. That meant all the other Baptists were irregular and we were the only right guys. We've come from there. Exactly. And so I'm I am in full scale I mean I feel liberated. Yeah. And when I opened up the gospels and I met the Palestinian Christians who were talking about following Jesus as a way to resist occupation, That liberation theology, that to me spoke through I mean I opened up the gospels, that's what I see. I see liberation theology, I see the option for the poor. I see Jesus talking about the widow, the orphan, the dispossessed. You know? Okay, and I I see a danger in liberation theology that you get at in a in a in a backhanded kind of way that that really excited me. And you argue that that the victimization that the Jews hang on to from the Holocaust has has created in them along with their sense of being chosenness, the chosenness and the victimization has has allowed a narcissism in them. Actually you quoted somebody else as saying that it allows a narcissism in them that that blinds them to being able to see and the suffering of others. And I gotta tell you, I feel like everywhere that I see liberation theology is the main theology, the main diet for churches, whether it's African American churches or whether it's um uh people down in uh down in Latin America, I see a blindness that you describe as being in the Jewish people that I think is the Achilles heel of liberation theology and its weakness that it so emphasizes that we've been victimized And and it and it s centers its entire theology on that victimization and freedom from it, that it's no longer centered on God and righteousness, but it's centered on being free from something and so it ends up being uh having a limited value. It has a value up until the time it helps them to be free. And what's the antidote to that? How do you avoid that? The antido well the antidote to the I can't even say it. The antidote to that is to have a vision of righteousness that drives you. Not a vision of of what you're trying to be set free from, but a vision of what you're going to, which ultimately is Um you find it in the Torah, you find it in Christ, you know, you find it in different places as a vision of this is what we're attaining to. And we're not just about being victims, but we're about walking into some kind of victory as individuals, but I want to give a caveat to that because I I don't by saying that want to imply manifest destiny, you know, that that somehow we have attained some kind of special something. But Well, I've got ideas that I want to get into, but I I don't know that now's the time. So anyways, well let me jump in and reset a little bit. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosswood's Valley Chapel. We're uh joined this week by Mark Braverman, author of Fatal Embrace. It's available on Amazon and all the fine bookstores throughout the area, I'm sure, right? I haven't gone looking for it on bookstore shelves, but I'm sure it's there. You'll find it on Amazon. Okay. You also find it on my website I'm gonna pitch my website. What's the what's the markbraverman. org. That's easy enough. MarkBraverman dot org. That's easy. Braver. Braver than braver. Braver man. He's a braver man than I. That's right. In his books. There's a lot of cruise there. Anyway, I'm Ferriss Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Um one of the things that would be different from what I think is biblical Christianity and uh liberation theology is the focus. The focus of biblical Christianity is the person, character, and finished work of Jesus Christ. And liberation theology is focused on social justice issues. Mm-hmm. And so it's focusing free. Yeah, so it's focusing on the and we need to be focused on those things. We can't somehow Throw that person of Jesus, whether or not his character and and and part of his work is setting people free and he he does care about social issues. But the core, the the focal point of the Christian of biblical Christianity would not be the social issues. It's the person of Christ and then by extension we then care about And and I think that the liberation theology s guys have a tendency to forget Christ. It becomes all about their social mission. I would say that they have forgotten that w Christ was not about personal salvation and the w the the the direct road to heaven. Christ was about bringing the kingdom now here in the world today about social justice. Yeah, see this this is where I'm in agreement with you. When I w there there's the language of kingdom in conservative circles in the body of Christ. that that talks about these kinds of issues that say that it's not just about where we're gonna go when we get to heaven, but it's about making a difference here and being a professional. of the written record in the gospels because it seemed like the disciples were expecting exactly that. When are you going to rise up and you're going to fight the thing? They were clueless about everything all the time And gospel the the disciples went w w right through to the end of of of the la of the f of the of the fourth gospel. A clueless About what's happened. Jesus has to keep telling him over and over again. He comes back is right into right into exactly telling them you don't get it. Exactly. But why do we know that? Because those same disciples figured it out after he rose from the dead and appeared to them and taught them for forty days before his ascension into heaven. They're like now We get it. Jesus showed to them how the Old Testament was pointed to exactly this way. Paul still didn't understand it. Paul was still sitting around waiting, waiting for Jesus to come back. He didn't understand what Jesus was telling them. Oh man, I so disagree. Paul Paul grappled with how it is that we Gentiles could understand what is centuries of training for the Jewish people, how it is that we could come into and walk in things that that are natural to you guys because of your your centuries of of the diet. of the Torah and the and the the Psalms and Proverbs and and uh the the the prophets, Jeremiah, Isaiah, Habakkuk, all of them. You know, and there's no way that we Gentiles born second. See, I'm I'm a third born. I'm not a firstborn. And so I appreciate trying to keep up with my two old brothers and never being smart enough, never being fast enough, never being strong enough, and never being cool enough. I get that. And as Christians, that's always been the case about us, you Jews get something by by by the nature Wh whenever I interact with a lot of people. All I said was that you were first and you're a little bit older. I'll be there and a descendant. of an eighth century Caucasian pagan tribe that was converted. I you know, by the way. What that was in that was in Kazakhstan. Fascinating. Okay. You want to find a direct descendant of uh of the Jews of Jesus Assyria. Sure. Go to Palestine and talk to some of the Christians and the Muslims who are living there today, indigenous to the land. If you want to get into that. What I'm saying is that it's pointless. It's pointless. We all come from Africa, man. And then we all get distributed in different places throughout Europe. You know, I am not a descendant of Abraham any more than you are or Muhammad who lives, you know, in Geneva. Okay, okay. It is appropriate. and humble for you to d to say all that and to mean it with all the sincerity of the world. But the reality is that the end of the day all the rest of us are looking at the Jewish people around us. And we're seeing the fact that that um that fifty percent of the doctors and lawyers out there are Jewish and they're really good at what they do. And they're very influential in Hollywood, they're very influential everywhere that they go, and that it just seems to come natural to them. So you can go on uh being humble about that and you should. That's that's the point. That's That's what makes you the right person. That's cultural, it doesn't have to do with modern history. It doesn't have to do with the Bible. The Bible is is is from two thousand years ago. Well more than that It's an incredible document. It's given it it's it's the it's the basis. If we understand it correctly, it's the basis of everything that's re that can be read about Western civilization. Okay, a particular ethnicity You know, genetically we are all being a firm. Jews are very, very intellectual born. They weren't on two thousand years of history, they weren't allowed to be farmers. And they weren't allowed to be in the tree. And so they did we we did this. Okay? And so genetically we developed in a particular way. It has nothing to do with the Bible. It has nothing to do with the Bible. and saying, I'm giving this to your people. We are not connected or related to those particular people. That is a story and it's a powerful story. But I am not an Israelite From the Bible. All right, that's going to be the last word. Jonathan Sweiss is senior pastor of Crossford Valley Temple. Mark Braverman, author of Fatal Embrace. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by a Uh Putman Plumbing Heating, how can we make you smile? Thanks so much for listening until next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. Putman Plumbing and Goulds Pumps share the same values, pride, ethics, and extra mile service. Goulds Pumps and Putman Plumbing Way because you deserve it. It's a great day, Putman Plumbing. How can we make you smile?