Program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome to Faith Debate. on News Radio 930, WFMD, online at WFMD. com and on the FM at 99. 9 HD2. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner Joined this week again by the Razvis, Imran Razby and Daniel Razby, the three of us are pastors of house churches in the area. And our partner in crime, another pastor of a house church, uh Dan um could not be with us. He's uh I guess uh he wasn't the one under the weather. I guess uh family member is under the weather and he could not be with us, David Forcy. But uh he he hopefully will be with us on our next show. And we can give him a hard time for uh you know clearly his family didn't wear a mask and get the shots and he would be fine otherwise. So because they you know that is the that is the truth because we always tell the truth You know, I think it's on our minds I'm gonna bring it up and if we don't get to the prepared subjects, but I jokingly said last week or week before Uh I I said something playfully and it wasn't it was clearly not a true thing, whatever it was I said, and I said, It's not a lie to s uh it's not a sin to lie, is it? And then we just moved on with the show. But uh after the show was over, Daniel Rasby said to me, You know, I I I I I should have retorted because I was thinking it and didn't have time to say it in the context of what was going on in the show, but it's not really a sin to lie. Right, not necessarily. So why don't we in the spirit of the things we've been talking about in recent weeks, where it's hard to figure out the truth and, you know, from the lies and the importance of the truth and stuff Let's let's talk about that a little bit. Why don't you explain because I, by the way, there won't be a whole lot of debate, I don't think, because I agree with you. But um why would you say that it's not necessarily a lie? I mean a sin to lie. Well I th I think uh Christians have this idea that, oh, you should be truthful and and yes, you should be truthful. And s many people assume that it's a bad thing or it's a sin to tell a lie, and in many cases, in fact probably the majority of lies are in fact sinful. Um, but the Bible never actually says that it is a sin to lie in that kind of a blatant type of statement. There's a commandment, one of the Ten Commandments is thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. And that's conflated a lot of times when people try to simplify the Ten Commandments. They say, Oh, well that commandment says, Don't lie. Now it's not what it says. It says don't bear false witness. Don't go around telling people that so-and-so did something and therefore I'm trying to get them punished for it legally in in the court system That's what it's talking about. Now, there's other passages that says the Lord hates a lying tongue, somebody who's a hab habitual liar, that you know they're not trustworthy, that type of thing. But there's a lot of examples in the Bible of a lie actually being a a uh honorable thing. For example, Rahab. Rahab lied. Blatantly. She said to the uh people in her city of Jericho, Hey, these men came, they left, they went that way, and they were right behind her or above her For the uninitiated there were uh spies from Israel because they were gonna conquer Jericho And they went there and she was part of the enemy city. And yes, she protected them and she misdirected the uh the forces from Jericho, so she she lied to them and in effect she lied to her king by uh by by doing so. And yet she's held up as uh a as as a wonderful example for for Christians. Yeah, a and a case uh the the the passage in uh Joshua about Israel winning the the the ensuing battle was not enough for us to understand that what she did was right. Hebrews goes on in great detail about A Rahab was a righteous person. Right, she's in the hall of faith. Yeah, she's a faithful person and this is great a great thing that she did. Um another example is which is maybe a little bit more controversial is is when David went and he was uh fleeing from Saul and he lied to the priest actually and said, I'm here um because I'm on a mission from Saul and can I have the the holy bread and can I have this uh you know, all sorts of things. And And Jesus gave that as an example of something, oh well of course David could have done that. Was that wrong? Meaning it wasn't, to do what whatever David did there. So there are examples throughout the Bible of somebody telling a falsehood. Yeah, well the Egyptian midwives are an example too, right? They give birth before we get a chance to kill the babies. They they spit those babies out like they're nothing. Like has dispensers for crying out loud. Although to be fair, the Bible doesn't say that that was a lie. So, you know, may maybe they were doing No. But it does say it does say the midwives were saving the men children alive. Right. And then Pharaoh's like, Why why do you do that? And they made up this story. Now so that you don't misunderstand, the Bible does give us examples where lying was not appropriate, you know, Abraham famously twice. misrepresents his relationship with his wife. And he was even telling the truth. She was a sister. Right. But but yeah, what he wasn't saying was oh s Yeah, so so there's an example the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth is. Yeah, because she was his sister, his half sister. Uh so he wasn't lying, but also his wife, and that's what he was really lying about, and he was doing it out of fear. And he was putting his wife in jeopardy. We were talking a couple of weeks ago about you know we have freedoms and liberties so that we can fulfill our responsibilities before God. Talk about a not so chivalrous way to act as you're it's beyond not chivalrous, right? I mean his His responsi his probably his primary responsibility as the husband is to protect his wife. That's like the first rule. Protect your wife. And he violated the first rule. That's why David, you know, his first rule with his troops is they'll make sure they can eat, not starve to death. So what's more important? Tell a little, you know, fib to uh to the to the priest or feeding new troops so they don't starve to death. So I mean yeah, some of it And Abraham's faith was counted as righteousness. So even th him counting as righteousness, he was doing this And it's not situation ethics. So we want to clarify that. It's not like the situation determines what your ethics are. God's truth is what God's truth is. So you apply God's truth to the situation, you don't apply the situation to what what is allowed to be the truth. You know, that's that there's a difference there. So I don't want to I don't want to be misunderstood because situational ethics is a So I got a question for you when we're talking about Abraham. Why is it that when Abraham didn't tell the whole truth, why did God punish the king instead of Abraham? Hmm. I haven't thought about that question. You have an answer, I hope? I'm I was asking for your opinion. Oh. Um Because should the king have known, should he have been more diligent in asking? I don't know. Well that's what and that's why God said, Well, I didn't that's why I kept you from actually sinning and committing adultery with this woman that you thought wasn't married. Um so he did protect him. That otherwise and and God said otherwise I would have just killed you if you'd done that. I have loved whom I have loved. Did that ring a bell? You know, God chooses and he chose Abraham and even though Abraham did something that was not on um that was not godly, God still protected him. And one of the things that I wanted to bring this to the table here is you could have committed a lot of sins. But God has a purpose for you. And if you come to God and repent and ask for his forgiveness, you will be relieved of that sin and you will be holy and be able to be with Him. So This is an example in the Bible that should really give you hope that God has a purpose for you. Seek Him and give Him your life. And you're not relieved of that sin because God, you know, uh winks at his own justice and his righteous standard. Uh that sin, whatever sin you're wrestling with, listener, um, it's paid for. In full. Yeah, just not by you. If you're willing to allow you know that payment. If you're willing to repent and allow that payment. Right. And God doesn't you know, suspend his justice laws just because of, you know, uh uh you're one of the good people. Uh you know, pe the another good example which is a little bit unrelated but along the same vein is the woman taking an adultery A lot of people say, Oh, this is an example of Jesus changing the law saying, We're no longer gonna kill adulterers. Well, no, what what de Jesus said is okay uh first well first of all there's a lot of procedural issues with that. The guy wasn't there. They said he was in the a taken in the act but the guy wasn't there and and it was an illegitimate right uh legal proceedings. Jesus made a couple of comments about procedure and he's like, oh okay, yeah fine, we can still under, but you know, whoever is sinless you you start and they're like, oh whoa, you know, I'm I'm not gonna do and they all left. Then the woman's like Well so uh um uh you know sh or Jesus says to the woman, you know, where are your accusers? She's like, Well nobody's here anymore. He's like, Okay, well I'm not accusing you either then. And not that sh she didn't commit the sin or that she wasn't guilty of it Yeah, sh you go go into no more but but also there even within the law of God you couldn't stone an adulterer with no witnesses. Right. And so Jesus was God. He's he's And even if you had a witness, that wasn't enough either. Right. And the sin is gonna separate us from God eternally, and so that's why he said go and sin no more And her sins will be forgiven in the eternal life if she trusts on Christ. Um but the actual punishment on earth, you know, that wasn't gonna happen because there's no witnesses anymore. You know, I don't know that we've ever done a show on the a topic of the question I'm going to ask you in a second, and it certainly wasn't on my mind, on my radar to to get into on this show, but you mentioned Corey Tenboom. And this question popped up. You mentioned that before the show, by the way. Oh, was it before the show? Yeah, in case in case anybody's listening like I didn't hear Corey. Yeah, you didn't miss it. Oh, right before the show he mentioned Cory Tenboom and now it's popped back into my head and I'm thinking of the the idea of you know, righteous lies. Right? You know, if you're hiding a Jew who you know that if they if they find the Jews that you're hiding they're gonna kill them. Y yeah, it's totally appropriate. And I had this conversation before I get to my my question I want to throw you out. I had a conversation similar to this with somebody in my family who was, you know, wrestling with all the strangeness in the world and like when is is it ever appropriate and okay to misrepresent things because Uh you're trying to stay away from something that's wrong and bad and evil or whatever. Like what's the way to handle this? I mean we have to tell the truth all the time, right? Lying is a sin, right? And I said, well no, lying, the Bible does not say that lying is necessarily a sin. To your point, uh Daniel, you know, but generally Christians should be truthful and good to our word and all this, but there is such a thing as a righteous mistruth. And um one way of thinking about this, it's not the part of uh Romans thirteen that has been uh bandied about a lot in the year uh last year and a half. Uh but right after the verses, or actually it's part of the same passage, but there's a few verses that are talking about you know you have to do whatever the government tells you that you know that misapplication of Romans thirteen. Right after that, uh, I forget exactly which verse number it is in in uh Romans 13, but it's basically saying that you are to give uh honor uh that's due to the one whom honor is due. And I said, you know, telling somebody the truth is an honorable thing to do. So you honor someone by telling them the truth. But if they don't deserve the truth. If they're dishonorable and their intentions are dishonorable, then they don't deserve the truth from you. And so there's no dishonor. They've already dishonored themselves. And so in that case it's totally okay to misrepresent because it's for a a better, higher good. They don't they haven't uh deserved the truth from you. And sometimes telling the mistruth Brings honor to the one who honor whom honor is due. I mean there's been times I can't think of an example off the top of my head, but I do know on rare occasion I've been chivalrous and a a decent fellow. And there's been times when um somebody didn't do something that was all that becoming and nobody knew for sure what the situation was and so you know what to save the person the shame to have them be dishonored I just took the heat Yeah. You know what? That was my fault. You know what? And in some sense maybe there was some small element where maybe I had but usually no. It was usually like, you know what, I I'm thinking in terms of like when I was in management and one of my one of my team would do something wrong and they're getting a lot of heat. Well ultimately the buck stops with me as the manager. You know, so I didn't wasn't directly involved, but you know what? I obviously didn't train them well enough, I didn't prepare them well enough, I didn't you know there's something wasn't right there, so they made a mistake. I mean technically it was their fault, I get it. Right. But to spare them the heat and the embarrassment, it was like, you know what? That's my fault and I'll make it right to you. So th that was a lie, technically, right? But it was an honorable kind of a lie. At least I think so. You guys agree, I hope. Otherwise you gotta go repent. So here's my question as we uh enter into a hot topic now on the faith debate here on News Radio 930 WFMB. World War II, going to ten goons what made me think of this. Uh Dietrich Bahnhofer participates in a conspiracy to assassinate the leader of his country. Yep. And he's almost universally held up as a hero for having done so. Should he be held up as a hero. I am not necessarily saying he should be held out as a villain, although that's open for discussion too, if you think he should be held up as a villain. So there's many people that hold to a very strict interpretation of Romans thirteen that would say that of course he was a sin forever lifting a hand against anyone in his legal government authority. At the same time, there's a lot of examples throughout Scripture where God commands a certain person to overthrow a government. You know, a good example is Ehud. Ehud, um was the king, right? The very fat man. Mm-hmm. And whoever one of the funniest stories in the Bible. Oh yeah. He might be sleeping. He might be a sleeping. Yeah. I don't know though. Go back to it. Anyway, yeah. So Ehud was it was this evil king and God commands what was the guy's name? Um Anyway, some god very godly individual who was commanded by God to go and assassinate him. This wasn't even in war or self-defense, this was in cold blood. He walked into the king's house, stabbed him, and that's why it's the funny part is since the dirt came out of his uh b uh bowels and all that. Um in the king's house. And he is so fat, like his fat swallows up the whole sword and he couldn't pull the sword back out. So yeah, it's it it we are laughing at some poor guys demanding. Very very uh very gory passage in fact. But the point I'm making is clearly God commanded him to go assassinate and so this that's actually a very similar situation to Bonhoeffer. Now, did God command Dietrich Bahofer to do that? I think if God commanded him to do that, he probably would have succeeded um if God got a specific c command. But God also commands people to do things that have impact on other w ways and maybe the thing that they're working on doesn't work out the way that they expect based on what they thought God told them. So it could be something that that he was led and he was a godly person that was doing this. But I think there is room in the Bible for um removing authority. God does place people in authority, but he also removes the authority when it's no longer deserving or allowed by God to be there. Um, you know, a lot of people talk in America about, oh, will we ever have a r a revolution again someday? Or was the original revolution right? Because we we should have been still uh under England. And, you know, that there there are some interesting theological questions. I've heard some very good arguments on both sides, but I think there are enough examples in the Bible where God says, you know, enough is enough. This kingdom is overthrown and I'm putting up this other one in its place. And there's nothing uh necessarily inherently wrong with kingdoms being overthrown and taken over. Um just i it's it just has to be done with the leading of God and uh I will say. Closer to our neck of the woods, uh, there's something that just down the road from Frederick, in Harper's Ferry, uh John Brown Famously or infamously, depending on how you want to view what he did. He was a you know abolitionist, wanted to end slavery like yesterday. And it wasn't happening and he was lied to by the politicians of his day, which I I can't understand 'cause that just doesn't happen anymore. But apparently back then there was some of that going on and and uh wrongs were not being righted and he decided to take some things into his own hand and hands and he got himself, you know, armed and a bunch of guys had going it on it with him. And there was a big showdown in Harbour's Ferry and it went very badly and people died and all that sort of stuff. And some people to this day argue that John Brown was a hero because he was on the side of right, because he wanted to end slavery. You know, shadow slavery was a horrible blight in human history and in this in this country's history. Uh but there are others who are saying, no, no, no, that's not the way you do things. He was horrible he was an evil man for taking up arms in such a way. So there's this p story more recently, I don't remember the exact names or details, but there was some professing Christian that went and killed an an abortionist and blew up the clinic or burned down the clinic and or whatever where they were killing milli uh thousands of babies. And I forget the guy's name of the story I'm thinking of. It wasn't just any abortionist. It was like a uh like a big time abortionist. And a late term like one of the only guys in the country that would basically murdered the baby uh baby as it was coming out of the vaginal thing. He was almost universally condemned by other professing Christians in this country for, oh, this is not the way you do things. But in his mind, uh whether he believed this truthfully from God, whether God told him this or not, he believed that his mandate from God was to protect these people and save lives and he was saving lives by stopping this guy from killing more. So that that actually is a I think a very close parallel to what uh uh John Brown did. Um And I don't know what the correct answer is. I think uh God does give people specific directives to do things. Yeah, I think we hi for the most part we have lanes, you know, that maybe that's the b best way to think of it. We have lanes that we're supposed to stay in You know, there's the you know, we first of all we start with ourselves. We ought to have authority over ourselves, have self demonstrate self control. It starts there. But then beyond that there's the three institutions that God describes for us and gives us in the Bible. You know, one is the family And there's a structure there, and the husband is supposed to do what husbands are supposed to do, and wives are supposed to do what wives are supposed to do, and children are supposed to do what And the same thing within the church, you know, there's there's uh there are leaders in the church that are supposed to do what leaders are and they're supposed to look a certain way and behave a certain way and And the faithful uh congregants are supposed to do what faithful congregants are supposed to do and all that sort of thing. And then in and then in government, you know, there are things the government's supposed to do. And we've so lost sight of what the government's supposed to do because the government really does a whole bunch of things it's not supposed to do. It's doing things that the family should be doing, for example, or the individual should be doing, for example, or maybe even the church should be doing, for example. And so we've lost sight of what the government's really s what is the government primarily supposed to do though? Right? This the government's not given the sword to to affect change to conquer evil, to punish evil and protect the good. And so that's the government's lane. So as I'm thinking this through now, Dietrich Bonhoeffer was recognizing the government's not doing what they're supposed to do in their lane. In fact, not only are they not protecting the good and dis destroying the evil. But they are the evil. They n they must be overthrown. With the the counter argument for that is po what with the abortionist though And if you don't like that, then you need to overthrow the government, not murder an abortionist. But if the government is not protecting those innocent lives. Then you overthrow the government. You don't murder people because the government won't won't act. But is it but is it murder if if i it is you're say you're doing it in defense? Yeah. In defe w in defense of the babies? Yeah. Is that what you're saying? That was his defense of the people. Well the government's supposed to do that. But the why they're doing it. Why aren't why aren't we supposed to defend the uh the innocent? Why aren't we as a as a Christian, as a person, as a human, to supposed to defend the the defenseless. Well we are we are to defend them but not not with the sword. That's the g that's the government's role. You don't agree? I I agree that the government's role is there, but the government has given up that role because they are um wholesale behind the murder of of babies. No, I'm not advocating if you're definitely living listening to this. I'm not advocating just run down to the street and go start do you know doing all all these types of things. We're just trying to explain where these people are coming from. If somebody is is in the act, let's say, you know, y you see somebody on the street and they're going to, you know, shoot a pregnant woman in the stomach or something or stab them in the stomach or something like that. and you happen to be carrying s a pistol or you have a baseball bat and you're quick on your feet and you can get there fast enough and you bash your skull in, that's totally fine because, you know It's in the moment. But when it's a systemic institutional kind of a thing The government should be doing their job and we should be holding them up. Now I agree with you a thousand percent the government is absolutely derelict in their responsibility. Even worse than that, they're participating in the evil. They're paying for it. So there'd be a better argument for, you know, a January sixth insurrection. If that was even an insurrection, which I don't believe that it was. If there was any insurrection that took place it it it was something that was done to those people. The people didn't Seriously. But it was armed. Everybody had two arms. They came with both of their arms and it was on. So I think there's a 'cause I've wrestled with that wrestled I've had the thought go through my head, like, man, if I'm gonna be a good, faithful Christian and stand for what's right and defend the innocent lives Maybe I should go kill all the abortionists. Like maybe that's the godly thing to do. But it's it's not. Because it's not up to you or you or me or anybody who's hearing our voices. It's not up to us. to do that. It's up to the government to do that. And it's up to us to hold that government to account, to change that government, primarily through the media available to us and if those means available don't work, well then yeah, you have a civil war like we had in the 1800s or you have a revolutionary war like you had in the 1700s. Or yeah, I mean that's what we're left with. I think. I think I think that's I'm I'm reasonably confident. I'm not a hundred percent, but I'm reasonably confident that that's a a pretty strong biblical take on the phone. Taking somebody's life Uh unless you can legitimately say God told you and not not some voices and you're some you know s psychopath and these demons or whatever s speaking to you. If God does tell you, which not gonna be that often today. Absolutely have to be consistent with scripture. Then you don't have that right. So see even in even in the Old Testament, you know, a lot of people say, Oh, there's some really brutal commands in the Old Testament, you know, you're supposed to kill the adulterer and and and so on. Well w Yeah, the government was supposed to do that. Exactly. Yeah. You don't just w go around killing adulterers. First of all you get two witnesses, you have a whole trial and witnesses say on penalty of death that I saw this happen And then the government says, Okay, now you execute them. And then maybe all the townspeople join in as to be to be the executioners en masse, but it's the government that's doing that. So that is that is the biblical way. You know, the counter argument though is is that, you know, Paul wrote Romans thirteen and said, you know, the gov obey the government at the time when what was Nero was wasn't Nero the The Caesar? Yeah, but he wasn't he wasn't the Nero we know. Not yet. Not yet. Romans was was written before uh the thing before Nero lost his freaking mind. So it's not exactly different. Anyway. We're going to wrap up on that note. Thank you so much, uh Daniel and Imran Razvy. I'm Froy Skinner. You can find this show online at WFMD. com and if you would visit Household of Faith in Christ dot com and that'll connect you with this show and everything else that we're involved with. Household of Faith in Christ dot com. If you don't have faith in Christ, what are you waiting for, man? Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right about now, God bless.