Broadcasting live from the center of Big Brother City in the heart of the city. of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB. It's brought to us by Flipman's Plumbing Eating. How can we make them smile? BMC Accounting and insurance, crowd supporters of New Life Christian Academy, and Cruz Holidays, who's sending Bob Miller on a big old cruise to the Bonas. They should send you an eye on the case. They should, of course. They wouldn't that would be a one-way ticket on shore. Yes. No round trip. That cruise. Just not right. Uh that's Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're also joined this week in this live in the street edition of the Frederick Bay debate. We are in the in the street festival right now. Helen Tasker, who is the clerk of the Frederick Monthly meet monthly meeting and the religious society of friends otherwise known as Quakers. Visit us online by the way, WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find the all sorts of links to different religious traditions and and and faith perspectives also. face to face blog and my blog is your blog so email me troiskinner at clearchannel. com troyskinner at clearchannel dot com nine times a day Monday through Friday that blog is updated so there are forty five blog posts that go up every week. What have I been reading? I forgot to mention last week. Or no, I did mention. Did I mention two last week? No, no, you didn't you just blew it up. Yeah, too quick. You might have read this one. Tim Keller? Tim Keller? Yeah, Ministries of Mercy. You read that one? I have not. The Call of the Jericho Road? Nope. I gotta say that's two Yeah? Yeah, you should definitely read that. Yeah. But reading some articles and stuff too, like uh Pastoral Ministry at Union with Christ by Philip Riken, familiar with him? No. Alright, well anyway. So if you want to read along at home you're welcome to do so. Nice. So we're here to talk about peace. Yeah. That's a narrow topic. I'm glad we selected it. Peace. It's just assume the lotus position. I think we're talking about that because Quakerism is for those who know a Quakers believe in, they're relatively well known as being pacifists. Right. Right. They want to be peacemakers. Right. And Jonathan wants to be a peacemaker, but he's not a pacifist, and so we probably will talk about defining what we mean by peace and how we define ways in which we try to get there. That's not to say that we approach peace from a violent direction. Right. It's just that we approach it from a you know, a non passable direction. So If you're gonna head to Syria to help the rebels in Assad to come to peace, what would be some key steps to how you're gonna work that out that that would be like uh essence of Quakerism. Well, I guess at the core of our faith and um at the core of all of our beliefs is there is that of God in every person. Okay? So there is what of God? That's that of God The Christ within, the light within, the inner light. You'll hear a lot of those. Okay, I just want to each have that within the right. All Quakers or all people? All everybody. Okay. Everybody. Okay. And it doesn't matter um Jonathan and I both said okay, but neither one of us would accept that problem, right. Right, right. Okay. So just for clarity, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Um so I like to think um that if we were to go to Syria. And there are um different organizations of course, make our every every faith group has its own social justice kind of organizations or um missions or whatever. Sure. And I think um we are all moving from the same spirit, that of what what Christ had, which was this love, this amazing love for uh those you know, um Don't generate need. Those the the least of us, right? Um and so I guess going to Syria Um one of the let me let me back up and say one of the best phrases I know to understand um Quaker's idea that we should all live and this is from like William Penn or George Fox, I forget which one, um that we should all live and practice the ways of life that the ways of life that take away the occasion for war or take away the occasion for injustice. So we should all live these lives of um you know integrity. These lives of integrity that if I am saying that I believe thus and so, then I need to try to live that. So now the hist historical moment of that I feel like is very important because the historical moment when there was speaking was just coming out of the thirty years' war, you know, in Europe, coming out of uh even here in the United States they were defining, you know, what it means for uh for us to have religious freedom. Right. And so wars that were driven by uh Catholic versus Protestant, right, you know, you know, England versus France, you know, or or or France versus Germany, all of those wars were really ugly for a long time. And and so their whole perspective was that Jesus is the foundation of truth. And so the moment where they spoke was was really grounded right significantly, you know, in this historical moment. And the question that I always come back to is can we apply that same truth uh to conflicts that we're having with a Muslim world that defines truth and God, uh there there's significant enough differences that those that are strong Muslims would say, I'm not a strong Christian. Okay. I think at the same thing with booth Buddhism, you know, for that matter the same thing with with Russia, you know, when they were um openly communist, which was meaning they tried to kick God out of the nation. Right. Like these kinds of things mean that there's there's more to the historical moment. now than there was at the time of Fox and Well well we just we just know. We know we know a lot more. I mean with the media we know about all the conflicts around the world that are happening. Um I think We have more information available to us but I'm not so sure we know more. Right, maybe it is harder to get at that and on that hand. And that is a lot. A lot harder. So I guess um the thing about could we apply Yeah. The major one of the major things is we're i when for instance on a Sunday at meeting for worship, Quakers sit in silence and wait upon the Lord. So there's this individual yet corporate kind of waiting. Right. Okay. And actually that's where the things are. Right. And ours goes on for an hour and a few people might speak. Well well Actually there are there are other branches of Friends. Sure. Evangelical Friends in Kenya is one of the uh fastest growing um parts of the Quaker worldwide Quaker community. So people um Um but I won't go there now. Oh thank you. Thank you so much. Um so it's about the listening. It's about the listening. So if you're going to the table um in uh uh in a place no matter if there are world leaders who a lot of people are are fear And revering at the same time, you know, oh I can't speak 'cause I'm not on that. We don't believe that. Historically, we haven't believed um, you know, George Fox wouldn't take his hat off to the King of England. He would only take his hat off in the presence of God. And so that idea that no matter what our social status, political status that we are all kind of like part of this. Yeah and you know, but we're we're listening to Syria and what we're hearing is we kill our people with chemical weapons, so there. So I heard heard ya. I'm listening, I heard you. Well now what do I do? It because the philosophy works like Jonathan and I interpersonally or you and I interpersonally, if we're coming in t coming to the table to to listen to one another and to hear one another and be respectful and not try to lead to a war between the two of us, that will work if we're both on that page. But all it takes is for one of us America is truth to be off of that page and then what happens? Right, right. And that's you know, disaster happens. I will tell you this that But um lately in this past week the there are a couple of friends organizations that have really pushed for friends to write their um congress people and their people in charge to say let's try deployment So as a citizen of the United States, I can do that in this country and um and and whether or not we did make a difference, our la uh the Friends Committee on National Legislation, which is a Quaker lobby organization has very close relationships and talks and engages in conversation and says, Hey, wait a second, what about you know, and can go to the fake talk, can go to that and say, What about this? And um other organizations have done the same and I'm not saying I Obviously every faith most faith communities have a a a a mission, a justice, a let's help the people kind of organization. Um getting back to what we would do, Quakers different Quakers have gone in um two different places. There's a group called, and I don't know if you've heard of it, the Christian Peacemaker Teams. I've heard of similar stuff. Yes teams. Exactly. Exactly. And there was a quake from this area, Tom Fox who went he's he was from Virginia. He's related to the original Fox? No, no. Although aren't we all related in God's eyes. I mean and so um he went over to Baghdad in two thousand five. and um with the Christian peacemaker teams this one group and so what they were doing there was witnessing with their neighbors and just trying to provide a presence like a conflict resolution um i is to witness. Just witness, not judge, not say anything, but witness and know things um might change just for having witnessed. Now you're listening to what they say and watching what they do so that so that they They know that there's accountability to what's going on. Somebody's watching, somebody's writing down, somebody's paying attention. Well and and just living a month. Right. Living amongst. Right. And saying we're all human and this is it. And sadly he was one he was one of the hostages that was taken back in uh it was right after Thanksgiving two thousand five, but there were four. And he was the one who ended up um getting killed. Um which was very sad. But he He he is one of the people that local friends, a lot of local friends know I encountered it and so is it in a Quaker mindset that somebody that goes in to make peace is putting his life on the line and that it's appropriate for Like in a Christian world where you say take up your cross daily, there comes a time where you stand against for righteousness against wickedness and some you know, sometimes it means your life goes. So there isn't a limitation There have been Quakers, right. But you're trying to do what's right sometimes in the line of duty. Right. And and sometimes it's um personal sacrifice although you know, and different p people in in Quakerdom would do different things. There are still some Quakers who will resist paying that portion of their taxes that go toward war. And they do this in various ways. They'd like to you know um and so that's an old historical but well and and then the who I And who of us today can do that or some of the This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. It's the live in the street edition. We're uh uh at Frederick's uh City Festival, in the street, uh recording live on the streets of Frederick. Jonathan Schweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossers Valley Church. We're joined this week by Helen Tasker, who is the clerk of the Frederick Monthly Meeting to the Religious Society of Friends, also known as Pakistr. I'm Troy Skinner. And uh for those walking by, the faith debate is hers Sunday mornings, eight thirty on nine. nine thirty WFNB AM nine thirty on your dial. So how long should the process of diplomacy, the process of listening, the process of let's see if we can all just kind of make this work, should that last? Or should it last in an interminable amount of time you just say, you know what? If the bad guys end up killing everybody, then the bad guys end up killing everybody. Is there a point of which the bad guys doing enough bad things that you gotta use force to stop him? Because other people are getting kicked. That's a that's a real hard can you have a com can a basic policeman that wears a gun, you know, when he's faced with criminals that he can use his gun to bring them down. You mean do I believe that, do Quakers believe that? We'd say, um I don't know if we'd say anything as a group we'd all agree Because there are different levels of different people's comfort and because there's that of God and everyone. And we also don't have like a creed this is what you must believe. We have our book of guidance is called the Faith and Practice. And we guide our worship not every Sunday do we do this but we'll have a set of queries like how do you live a life of peace? How how do you answer to um those when people are speaking against what you're thinking how do you answer uh you know, those kinds of things. So it's it just moves. So I don't have like the the quick answer to Pizza No nobody's been listening to us for years. Um but it goes back to that idea of how can we be um in relationship to each other because if we sit down with each other on the grassroots, on on a level where I haven't met a person like you before and we continue the dialogue then it can happen. So it could take years. It could take years. I mean Quakers exactly. When when Barack Obama was elected uh back in uh what what was that two thousand and eight Um one of the first things he made part of and a lot of conservatives were really up in arms over it, but I'm imagining the Quakers are probably very supportive of his Well not all Quakers you know, going around and saying, Look, America's in a lot of bad things. We we want to take responsibility for that. We want to hear you. Uh he said famously in one of the presidential debates that he would want to sit down with the leader of Iran and and and and have a diplom uh diplomatic negotiation and see if we can figure this out. And here we are, you know, five plus years later or whatever right two thousand eight, yeah, five eight years later. And that approach, after five years, has us was facing Syria. Right, so five years wasn't enough. You know, and now Barack Obama has decided that well, as of now, I mean as the We're gonna hold our horses for a minute. I'm asking you to wait for a minute, but in the end we're probably gonna have to use some so force and I want you guys to support that when that time comes. That's a shift Same out here he said, Why don't you guys talk about it? You guys talk about it and come to let's have some real dialogue about this and see what we can muster up. And by the way, go home and talk to your constituents about this and boy have the constituents all over the map from left to right to center to whoever have been doing that. So he has asked for support of f of force. He's asked Congress that when the time could come after a pause that they would support and that's a shift from where he was five years ago. Yeah, I did. I did because I think y you know, one of the things it's a lifelong Quaker from I think it's in my blood now 'cause I've had Quakers in my family for, you know, three hundred years or so. Um I think it's I've always thought from the time I was a little kid, if we are the greatest nation in the world, huh, and we have this ability, why can't we take that leadership and instead of showing our brute force love Be the model of love. Be the model of love. And I'm not talking um you know ooh um being tough and being honest and being truthful, but listening. And I and and it's from a personal perspective. But the witnessing that we can make as humans can be quite powerful and I've always wondered I've always wondered that about that. How come we um we don't do that? How what What is it? You know, is it that the war the the war industry, the what the military action is? I'm not advocating that we take uh military action in Syria, by the way. Right. But uh, yeah, the perspective of the Can I ask a leading question? Oh boy. Yeah. Um would you say generally that Jesus is an example to you to to Quakers about how to do things? I I would say in many ways he is. Okay, so I I'm totally trying to nip my little trap. Okay. Jesus is the one that said to the disciples, uh he said if they hated me, they're gonna hate you. 'Cause no student is above his master. And he says the Holy Spirit, when I leave, is going to come and fill you and he's going to convict the world of sin and righteousness and judgment and they're going to hate you and they're going to kill you. Right. And my point is is that it seems like Jesus had in his orientation, right, the greatest, you know, moral teacher of history, had in his orientation a limit where he said, You know what? Time's up. And in fact, you know, when it w in Matthew twenty four when he's talking about how there's going to be a final judgment, you know, and all these things are gonna happen, but the day of the Lord is gonna come, and it appears that it happened. I mean it's one of the biggest fulfillments of prophecy that the fall of Jerusalem happened in pretty direct concordance with what he described about you know what would happen in the end times. And all that being the case, Jesus has a clear boundary that in today's language is a lot like enabling. You know, we don't want to enable bad behavior. So there's bad behavior and we're trying to talk, we're trying to talk, but there's a point at which we say they're refusing to listen and so us trying to act like we're in a good communication with them or somehow they're responding is us enabling them and we gotta stop it. We have to stop enabling them and we got to draw some kind of a firm line that says, No farther until you do this, this, and this. And then I'll know that you sincerely want to communicate. Well Christ seemed to to to define some pretty clear lines. along those lines along those lines. My question is, is that in alignment well teaching? I no no if that is quite okay. Would you agree that the Bible seems to present Christ as being? Let me let me tell you, um because Quakers believe in continuing revelation. Sure. Okay. So um which opens up a I guess you could say a can of worms. It's not so easy Yeah, yeah, it would. You know, like aggregation. How do you you know how do you discern that something that you now is revealed contradicts something previously that you don't right. So it is tough. I guess I can only go back to because I can't I I just hesitate to speak for all Quakers but the the best of us I don't feel like you need to understand the reason. Um the p the pacifists um it's it's it can be hard for some of us to take that view. Um but pacifists The pacifism comes from what the love. Jesus loving everyone. And and I think that's where it gets you know, do we turn that love into, well I've got the only version of that and so my way is the right way and this is loving and I think even if it's on the diplomatic level about listening to each other I think it helps. I mean this has been sort of miraculous um so far that even Putin can't came up with it that Carrie made what appeared to be an offhand comment and then like, okay, let's go with that and it's like, whoa, what is happening? Makes me think that there's certain people that just aren't being sincere in the communication process. Well and you know how do we being sincere when they're not means that we gotta draw some lines, otherwise they're gonna take advantage of it and use it in such a way that it brings, you know, mockery. I I do want to say to those that the when we talk about peace, most of us tend to think of the world the global scale or let's not bully each other, that kind of thing. You know, in our daily lives we might the the whole bullying thing that bullying isn't bad. But what it takes is going back to love. And I you know, my own story is uh uh about a year and a half ago my daughter said to me I I said something, Oh, you know, that 'cause it's driving me crazy, I'm a teacher and I said, I know, I just love everybody. My daughter said, That's right, mom, you love everybody and I thought, I do. I I do. That is that is people I don't meet, I do. That is I guess it was almost like a born-again experience for me because Yeah. And I guess I okay. There's there's a lot of people that define the love that Jesus represents one way and then there's those that define it another way. Right? And so when you take the totality of of what what Jesus taught like I would include in his love that that there that because he so loved the world that there are certain people that will be judged and and in being judged that they will um that they will face punishment. And that they're facing that punishment is precisely because God so loved the world. And so it's a reflection not of like his love and his justice, and those are kind of two things to keep in balance, but that his love represents justice and kindness. the bigger term is love and that it includes justice which means violence against those that refuse to change in order to stop them from doing what they're doing. And Quakers would disagree with that. I or okay, all you Quakers out there Um you know, many of us would disagree that that's that's the interpretation to use. Um that Christ um really was about. Well No, no, no, because I don't I I don't know. I don't know about that. We interpret differently and that's I think like what we were hearing earlier um with the Imam. We were hearing on the earlier show about the different sex and different versions. I think that's where we as whatever faith community we're a part of, most of them have had splits and splinters all over and a lot of it has to do with the words. Um I'm talking about I'm talking about every face and everything. There are, you know, breaks and splits and movements or actions that split us off. And Quakers my branch of Quakerism again does go to silence and does Feel the power of the light within each person. And and uh I invite you to come to Friends meetings sometime on a Sunday morning. Um apparently early in Quakerism there was an individual who thought that you should go around naked. Oh, I think there was. I was just reading a history like our and there were women. I think there were women who were like, the life within him was, you know, you know into Quakerism. said we have to draw a line that's not true and and we gotta be something different from that. Right. So my point is is that is that it appears to me that historical Quakerism recognizes that there are lines and so then it doesn't come back to to question of whether or not there's a line, it comes about comes down to the question of how do you define which line you're gonna go to. Right. Right. And if it's a moving target, meaning well it feels like it feels like the moving target when you're saying that there's ongoing revelation that work so that somehow uh over supersedes previous uh revelation. The question is, you know, how do you know which revelation to trust or not trust? Right. Because anybody can come up with that. question that we wrestle with in our own Quaker communities as well. And maybe we'll wrestle with it next week on the show. I don't know. Yeah, I know it's probably Christmas time right now as you're listening. I have no idea. But come on, ring those. But it's a beautiful day, it's like seventy degrees. It's a nice guy. People smiling, waving hands, shaking hands. Yes. He obviously doesn't know you very well, he wouldn't have shaken hands so regularly, John. I know. Scare 'em off. Thank our sponsors, Footman Plumbing and Heating, How Can Make You Smile, BMC Accounting and Insurance, the Proud Support of New Life Christian Academy and Cruise Holidays of Frederick. I'm Freud Skinner, thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church and Ellen Tasker, the clerk of Frederick monthly meeting and the Religious Society of Uh Friends representing Quakerism as best as she can. She doesn't want to speak for all Quakers, but you know. Uh Jonathan speaks for all Christians though. For the record, right? Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. Anyway, visit us online. W keyboard faith until next week. God bless.