Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the hearts of Gridlock County, we're preaching with impact. is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Project Faith Debate sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith There you'll find links to all sorts of stuff, including a podcast of this very show. If you go right this second, you won't hear a podcast of this very show, but in a couple days you will. But if you go there right this second, you'll find podcasts of shows just like it, maybe even better. Was that a shot at our guest this week? I hope not. Anyway, and uh also you'll find the Faith of Eight blog on the Faith of Eight page and our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Troy Skinner T R O Y S K I N N E R at Clearchannel all one word dot com. I post what you send me after we remove all those darned cursed words. Um 18 times a day, Monday through Friday, that's 90 blog postings a week. Don't feel any pressure to read them all. Heck, I don't even read them all. That's not true. I kinda have to make sure I'm not putting up something up there that's completely obtuse. Um you'll find their recipes, political views, news items Uh some religious stuff. Uh what else will you find up there? Um public service stuff. Um Funny things, serious things, sad things, it's uh reading recommendations, all sorts. It's a popurya stuff. So I I I'm pretty convinced that if you were to go there every single day, Monday through Friday You would find something every day. At least one out of the eighteen things would see. So that's kind of interesting. So anyway, so check it out. Um WFMD. com keyword faith. On the Faith Debate Show today, we do not have Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, because Jonathan Sweitzer is busy with family matters. He's apparently coaching one of his youth uh uh young boy's sports thing or something. No, he's not doing that on Sunday morning. We tape this show in advance. Uh at this exact moment he's busy preparing his sermon or worship service or something over there. But we are joined this week by Arm Björndahl, who uh has been on the show I think one other time. Is that correct? Yeah, that's it Yeah, oh we I get a microphone in front of you, don't we? All right, how's that? Oh that that's better. I think uh we recorded with you it was about a uh almost a year ago. Is that does that sound about right Could have been a little more than that, but that's okay. Okay, anyway. Um Youth for Christ in Central Maryland. That's me. Uh how long have you been doing that? Uh twenty six years. Twenty and before that you were a radio star. No. You were sharing with me. Are you ready? Tell me about this. I had uh I worked at a um a summer camp up in New Milford, Connecticut, and I was a uh an audio engineer uh supposedly. Uh that was the title, but I helped kids to give you business cards? Yeah, actually and and teachers. Wow. But we uh we train kids on how to uh operate a radio station and uh we helped them get back in those days a third class radio telephone license. Wow. And that's how I got to be where I am today. Arn trained me. No No. Okay. But it was a Jewish camp, you said? Yes it was. Wow. And we had um uh were you Jewish? No. Oh, I just I was employed by them and it was it was an outstanding camp. It was uh it was marked by excellence. Everything they did was excellent. Yeah, back in the day, uh when I first started in this business, uh to be a DJ or somebody who was responsible for the transmitter Uh the rules used to be that radio stations always had to have at least one person on duty uh at any given time, at least one person who was qualified to handle transmitter issues, keeping you on the air, that sort of thing. Uh and a lot of the small mom and pop radio stations, you know, you have to have at least one person. Well the only person in the building a lot of times would be the DJ. And I started out as a DJ and so I had to get my broadcaster's license. There's no requirement for that anymore. I know. Um it was kind of silly to have that requirement back then to be honest because I had this license, but the truth of the matter is I barely knew how to be a DJ, much less put the station back on the air. Well it's just funny the the paths that God takes you through from your for your career because that was just one of the oddball jobs that I had along the way. And everybody seems to have an oddball job in their past somewhere. Yeah. Now the last time you were on, I believe we talked about meet you at the poll. Yep. And and things like that. Mm-hmm. Uh and that still happens every year, correct? Yeah, it's coming up. Yeah. September. So uh what are other things that happen throughout the year? that we should know about. Like is there anything else like that? This is a signature signature event we should mark our calendars? Well the um Youth for Christ sponsors two conferences in the state of Maryland and they're both held in Ocean City. One is for middle schoolers and that's uh Toward the uh this year uh it's in November. It every year it's in November, but it's either this third or second or third weekend in November. And then the other one's a high school conference, which is in March. Okay. And that those happen every year. Yep. Okay. All right. Well the thing we decided we were going to talk about, I can't remember how we ended up connecting and saying let's get on the air and do the show, but that doesn't matter at this stage. We ended up striking on a couple of different uh subjects that we wanted to talk about and school stuff makes sense. You're doing a lot of stuff with the youth. Yes. And so schools make sense. And Jonathan ran Jonathan was going to be on this panel originally. John Sweitzer was uh a candidate for um school board two or three elections ago uh now. He didn't win. He got past the first wave, but couldn't make it past the second wave. And I think the main reason he didn't make it past the second wave is people figured out, wait a minute, he's a pastor. Yeah. And pastors, they hate school. Uh they hate curriculums. You know, they want to change everything. They want to get rid of science and talk about intelligent design and creationism and We don't want that, and that wasn't John's platform, and that wasn't going to be his mission or goal, but uh he got pigeonholed in that way and uh and and didn't stand a chance at that point. So, but talking about those sorts of things Is the public school curriculum a problem? Is it designed from a Christian perspective, is the curriculum designed to keep students from believing in God? And w if simple yes or no at this stage it will unpack from there, but do you think that it's designed to keep people from believing in God? My answer is no. What? No. No. Are you crazy? Okay. Now that fr from a a uh Christian perspective, that is a min minority opinion, I think. It could be Um at least those who are vocal. Those who are vocal would take the other position. Right. So why do you say no? Well, first of all, I uh I have to add uh you know public disclosure I'm also employed by the schools occasionally to uh tutor students. Okay. So I have I have direct exposure to the curriculum. Okay. And in in tutoring, the curriculum seems to me to be entirely neutral on the subject of God. It neither promotes it nor uh prevents it. They uh uh they don't take a stand to uh try to draw students away from God or do they try to push them uh towards God, at least from a curricular standpoint of view Okay. And you don't think that it's uh there's an insidious aspect of that rather than an obvious? Um no, but I think there's an insidious problem. Okay. That problem is that I don't think our you know, uh in the we in the Christian community uh are seeing kids and I I experienced this by working with kids who say they were growing up in a Christian home and they say they feel drawn away from God and they're public school students. But I th I sense that it's more that they are not prepared to enter public school properly. Okay. And whose fault is that? Ooh. I'm going to say it's the parents' fault. Uh and possibly a little bit of the church, but primarily parents need to prepare their kids well. to handle uh what they're gonna be uh learning in school. Yeah, I think that uh I would agree with you, and the reason I would be so quick to say I agree with you is I think the Bible agrees with you. I think the primary responsibility according to the Bible for the uh spiritual growth and development of our children are the parents. Yeah. You know, I believe in the the idea of, you know, the father being the spiritual head of the home. Mm-hmm. And the mother and father having responsibility for training them up in the way they shall go, so they will not depart from it. Mm-hmm. You know, uh there is no place that I can find in Scripture. Uh old or new testament really that puts that onus on the church. Mm-hmm. Uh yeah, the the the church certainly should be a support in that. Yes uh and should be a resource for that and should be encouraging and exhorting along those lines. And obviously if this if the the children are sitting in the pews during service with the parents, they're gonna hear the the sermon just like the parents are, and so there's a direct connection there. And obviously the Holy Spirit being the most direct connection there. As far as uh in a human perspective, I would agree with you. That's not very popular though these days, at least in practice. No, and here's the problem. Uh what's going on with uh with the students is that they they will go through a class and they'll uh be presented with facts. A class meeting in the public schools. Yeah, public school. And they they'll be presented with facts. And the the problem that they uh they contend with is they come home and they compare that with what they have learned, which is oftentimes insufficient to handle some of the the the challenges. You've mentioned evolution before. Well let's just look at that for a second. They they are insufficiently trained in knowing uh what evolution uh theory is all about. And they believe that uh because they're again immature, they're not complete yet uh in their knowledge base, they they take what they've heard as as the first bit of information that they're learning about something uh uh and instead of having first heard uh a different world view from their parents who who might have a better understanding of how evolution might fit into um the whole situation. For example, uh I'll use this as uh I'm not a big evolutionist, okay, just so you know, but I'm not afraid of facts Facts, uh when facts are presented in a public school, that that's a uh I believe it. I have never heard a fact that has contradicted God. Never. And when you have w what what I fear is that people will uh kids will he will get a fact and then they all of a sudden fear that it somehow contradicts God in some way. And it that's not the case. Facts usually, uh uh not usually, they always prove God Always. There are uh a couple of things that you've said in the last couple of minutes that I uh before we get too far along, we should probably make sure we we touch on them a little more deeply. The first thing we're talking about the curriculum in general. Yeah. And then evolution. So remind me, if we don't swing back to evolution, that we should probably spend a little bit of time there specifically since that's the that's the third rail of curriculum. Uh intelligent design theory versus evolution theory. Uh but the curriculum as a whole, and you said you feel like it's benign because it doesn't take a side one way or the other. Mm-hmm. There's an argument out there among those who are concerned even about the benignness saying that trying to take a neutral stance on God is to be anti-Christian in of itself because you're trying to give the idea that you can live apart from God, that God's irrelevant. You can com compartmentalize your life. And this part of our life needs to have God with this other part of our life, i. e. the curriculum doesn't need to have God involved. And so what would you what is your what are your thoughts about that? Okay. I if you're gonna take it uh that that approach, the answer is yes uh you probably n uh would have to look at the entire system of education and say, should education even be under the the guise of a government? Because, you know, the anything that it's under the guise of is is likely to add its perspective to um and i is is the government Perspective always benign, always neutral? And the answer is no, they're they're always guarding and protecting themselves from all the different forces that are out there. They have to guard and you in today's society you have to understand that. You have to recognize it. Now ideally, sure, we would love to send them to a um a school that would portray our worldview, whatever our worldview might be. And you know, if you take any given person, it's probably gonna be a little bit different for each one of us. Yeah, it's interesting 'cause we can take a real strong bent in the political direction and I'm not sure I'm interested in doing that on this show, but boy, uh if you were to ask the average person Uh what are your thoughts about state controlled media? And people will say, Oh, that sounds bad. Yeah. Because you think about all the propaganda like during World War Two, for example, with the Hitler regime or Or even stuff that even happens today, I'm sure, in Cuba or the w the the Soviet Union or even present day Russia with uh you know, the way that Putin uh kinda controls things through his KGB connections to make sure that the the state messages and messages put out. So state controlled media is not necessarily a good thing. And yet those same people that might recoil almost instinctively against state-run media have no problem with state-run schools And it's sh it it there's a there's a disconnect as far as I'm concerned. Yeah. Okay, if you're if you do not like state controlled schools, you have choices out there, but you're gonna have to pay for 'em. And not everybody can afford to pay for them. Not everybody can afford it. In fact, most people can't afford to pay for them is the reality of that. So now if you want to discuss, you know, vouchers and some other kind of uh programs that let let's do that on another show. I I'm talking about public school and I I'm I'm a coach in the public school. I I uh do teaching in it. So I'm I'm biased in that sense, in the sense that I I have participated in it and I've seen that overall i they're not trying to promote God but nor are they trying to prevent God. He's Arm Björndal with uh Youth for Christ of Central Maryland. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. So let's Let's talk a minute about uh we'll we'll get back to the evolution thing. And if we don't do it this week, we'll do it on next week's show. But I want to continue this thread for a minute. Uh Whether th whether the uh curriculum is a problem, as some would say, or it's basically benign, which could be its own problem in a sense because you know there's a void there. There's a spiritual religious void there at least you could say. What should parents be doing? You mentioned it's the parents' fault, and I agree with you because I think the Bible uses you. So what should parents be doing to better prepare their kids to deal with the void at the very least that's that's facing them in the curriculum in schools. Well that that is the ultimate good question. I really believe that Wow he just gave me a huge compliment right there. It it's it's fantastic. The problem is I can't ask any other questions, it's all downhill because that was the ultimate good question. Everything else will be seconds fiddle to that question. Right, exactly. But uh we need to you know uh we need to prepare kids by giving them uh knowledge and giving them facts about God. Um I came up with before I came here I decided what what literature should every kid know before they go to school? Let's say high school. Because I work with mostly high school uh I came up with a few texts that they should read. Okay. What are they one of them is uh uh by R. C. Sprohl called Not a Chance. And what it does what that book does is talks about the some basic rules of uh logic and rule rules of physics. And if you understand the rules of logic and physics, when you walk into a class and someone starts spouting off a theory or an opinion uh you can very quickly move into a position of recognizing this is not facts. This is l this is opinion Uh and this is theory. And most students are not equipped to to come they they hear something for the first time and they're immediately overwhelmed by Well, my teacher said this. Therefore it must be a fact. They may the teacher may have even been good about it and said this is a theory, but they didn't he the student doesn't hear that. In their mind they immediately jump to the conclusion that God doesn't exist or this isn't consistent with God and what I've learned. And um you know, R. C. Sproul does an outstanding job in not a chance. by explaining some of the basic rules of logic and physics which help people discern what they're listening to And R. C. Sperrow is great. He's got a number of books uh uh that have done very well and he's got his uh audio and video uh ministry as well through ligioneer ministries. Yeah. He's got a radio ministry, he's got uh a television and uh D V D series ministry and online stuff and all that sort of thing. I don't typically think of R. C. Sproul though as like a middle school. You think the middle schoolers can kinda hang with what R. C. Sprawl is talking about? But I think parents should be reading these things and then expl and uh explaining them to their middle schoolers so that when they hear these kinds of things they're equipped to basically discern, is this is this a fact? Or is this a theory? And uh i is it something I need to, you know, grab onto or not? What else did you d did you have as a suggestion for reading? Okay. Uh now that that's because a lot of times uh the story of Jesus uh comes suspect not not necessarily through the um uh curriculum or uh whatever, but through discussions with their friends, they need to have confidence in their understanding of who Jesus is and his the evidence for Jesus So I, you know, well we as Christians w I'm very confident about who Christ is in my life and it's not just my personal experience that is Gives me faith. It's the it's the historical facts about Jesus that I can look to and say I have confidence because I there's so much evidence for his death and resurrection. And those who uh uh work to explain the faith and defend the faith are called apologists and Josh McGigal is one of the great apologists for the Christian faith, uh probably best known for more than a carpenter. I think, right? But this one was called what again? Evidence that demands a verdict. Okay. Uh again, maybe not something the typical sixth grader could totally hang out with, but the parents could help them. Sixth grader Uh mom and dad, you need to read it first and explain it. Take excerpt it for for your uh sixth grader and um You know, give them the confidence that they need walking into uh a public school. Okay. You have more or those are your two biggies? Those are the two biggies, but then Those uh those who are uh you know, this evolution thing is a is a biggie because a lot of kids think that evolution basically contradicts God in some way. It just you know, God and evolution can't So um there's uh uh a book by a a gentleman who is not a Christian, and it's called The Edge of Evolution by Michael Behey. And um again It the good news about this book is that it is uh it scientifically analyzes the evidence of evolution and it's basically um insufficient to be categorized as fact. So uh kids need to hear this kind of stuff and understand when they when they go down to a um let's say a display uh at some museum, let's say I don't know, natural history, and they see six uh six levels of man evolved. They first of all half of those are not uh uh true because they have no evidence at all. Right. And the other half they have a fragment of of bone that's so small that uh it's hard to imagine that they they could create an entire um structure of a man from just one fragment of a bone to tell us exactly what they look like. And there's uh there's a lot more than just that kind of evidence in the in that kind of a book. But Parents need to have this kind of equipment when they they speak with their kids because if they don't have this equipment You're sending your kid not into a school that's gonna teach 'em differently, but they're going to perceive what they hear incorrectly because they've never heard anything differently before. Right. Michael Beehe is not a Christian. I thought that he was. I let's just say it this way, it's so so scientifically written. Right. He he would um Yeah. You would you would observe that it it's not trying to promote. I notice you have another book there, but is that for another purpose? Another purpose. Okay. Uh something that might be a little bit uh certainly there are additions that would be appropriate for younger readers. Uh Lee Strobel is a pretty well-known popular apologist. Uh the story on Lee Strobel is that he was a um a investigative reporter for the Chicago Tribune. He handled the the the uh the crime beat for a while and that sort of thing. And his wife became a Christian and he got all upset and he said about putting his investigative skills to to use to put together this uh this argument to prove to his wife that God could not exist. Mm-hmm. And in the process, he did this, he spent three years doing research and interviewing people and checking out the evidence and the archaeological evidence and literary evidence, all that sort of stuff. And during the process of those, I think it was three years, he ended up becoming a Christian himself. And now he's gone on to become a pretty well known uh 'cause he's a good communicator, so he's pretty well known and his books have done well. They've been New York Times bestsellers which doesn't necessarily mean that they're good, but it does mean that they're um they're uh They're popular because they're uh they're approachable. You can you can actually approach the work and understand it. They're readable. Mm-hmm. Some of these other guys with the big PhDs and stuff, it's dry But Lee is not like that. But he he's got the case for a creator, which talks about the evolution issue head on. Uh the case for Christ, the case for the real Jesus, the case for Easter, the case for Christmas, I think. He's got all these case books and other books too. Uh but he has student editions for most of those, if not all of them. Just in case. Yeah, just in case the regular case book feels like it's a little too much. And I'm not sure it would be, but just in case the student edition is definitely designed for like a Fourth grade, fifth grade, sixth grade, maybe seventh grade. Once you get to eighth grade, you're probably old enough to and have enough ability to read anything that least trouble write, I think. Yeah. So I just think that parents need to to take this seriously. I I think there's another piece to this though, that it's not just uh the intellectual that we have to equip kids with before they go into the public schools, but there's a uh an emotional and spiritual part that they have to uh equip kids with because if they are in an environment uh y you know uh an environment where they're loved, where they're cared for, where they have they have a sense of God's love in their in their own home and so forth. It's very difficult to um break the connection um by mere intellectual facts. Um but uh I raised four kids and uh I didn't grow up in exactly a Christian home per se, but it was a it was a g it was a good home and it eventually a Christian home, you might say. But uh one of the things that happened was uh we were loved, we were cared for. And even when I was presented with facts that would be contrary to some of the Christian thought I had a a sense of love and care that I experienced in my own home that let me know that what my parents had shared with me uh had to have b come from a significantly caring source. And I felt as though if the God they were talking about loved me like they loved me, that God must be a good God. Uh and I think the church has to do the same thing. The church needs to be in a in a position where they're um educating and loving kids Significantly. And I would say that God loves you even better. Yeah. Than your parents loved you, right? Exactly. Well there's a lot of agreement on today's show. There are a couple of areas that I think there is some disagreement that we'll explore maybe in next week's show. But the things we talked about at length today, I think you and I had a lot of agreement. Parents D don't leave it up to the school system. You know, don't even leave it up to the church. Don't just turn your kids though over to Sunday school or vacation Bible school or the Christmas play or something like that and say, Well, that's gonna cover that No, it's not their responsibility. It's your God given God not only your God given responsibility, but your gone God granted privilege to do that in the life of your children. So Uh Arn, thank you. Arn Björndal uh with uh Youth for Christ. I'm Troy Skinner, and uh you're listening to the Faith Debate. We're brought to you by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? We'll be joined in future weeks by Jonathan Schweitzer, I'm sure of it, but Not this week and not next week. So till next week. God bless.