This is the Fate Debate, a theological round table gab fest, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can The Faith Debate is a free-for-all for Kua, where fake community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble! Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the fate-to-bate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a more on And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweitzer. Now I'm just getting longed up. How does the Bible take the reader from Genesis to Jesus? Is the foreknowledge of the Messiah's arrival something that has always interested you? It has Craig Lancour and he's hitting up Jonathan Schweitzer for some basic Christian education. He says that his Questions for John are coming from a place of ignorance. I'm not sure how true that is exactly, but he's trying to make the point that he's not coming from a place of opposition. And he thinks maybe he's in the same place you might find yourself, and if that's true, then you're gonna really enjoy this week's show. If not You're gonna really enjoy this week's show. Uh whether you like it or not. Yeah. Jonathan Craig, this is uh this is not our eighth show in a row together. Woo woo in a row together talking about this particular topic and you know our goal was to make it to Mother's Day and we have Happy Mom's Day all you mothers. Yay thank you Mom's thank you Yeah. So you never hear a woman say, so y you know when you ask 'em, you have any kids? and they say not that I know of. You never hear that. Yeah, that's that's true. You do hear it from dads. There is a thing that a mom does for all of us and a weight that she carries. for all of us that that is undeniable, right? You just know it to be true. For whatever reason, the way that a dad is, you know, that's not always the case. But a mom carries the weight. From all of us. And actually they pick up on that and get us on track with what we've been talking about this last few weeks. things that we trust to be true. We trust mom. Until we can't trust mom anymore. Right? Until mom lets us help. Until mom does something wrong. Mom is she seems wonderful and great and then you catch her in a lie You know? Uh and you're like, wait a minute, or she has one of those bad moments and she disciplines you out of anger as opposed to out of love. And you're like, well I'm not Or we start to be teenagers and we come up with our own opinions and beliefs and we challenge our parents and we say, nah, that's not true. And then that becomes true for everything in our life. We don't always trust dad. We don't always trust the authorities who lead us in government. We don't always trust the uh the pastors of our churches, we don't always trust our fellow Christians. Uh we have lots of doubts. We're let down we're we can't always trust the science that we're told is accurate and true science because we can't always trust the scientists, as Jonathan said either last week or the week before. Yeah. And so we bring all that baggage into can we really trust the Bible. And we've got these what are called higher critical scholars out there that are trying to nitpick away everything in the Bible to try to make the point that you can't trust it. I would argue that they fail in their attempt to undercut it, but the kinds of questions and the kind of quote unquote scholarship that they advocate for leads to even more doubts. And I would say this about that. I'm not a biblicist. I don't think that we do ourselves any favor putting our faith in the Bible as in or putting our faith in the Christian religion. The Bible is good. I will I will debate anybody who would like to come on the show and talk about the uh inerrancy of scripture. the uh inspiration of scripture, the infallibility of scripture. That's where I am. And yet we are not to uh we are not to put our faith in the book. We're to put our faith in God. And so revelation comes to us as what's called general revelation, the world around us. Well science helps us to understand that general revelation. And Paul says that general is general revelation by itself is enough for everyone to have no excuse for not believing God There's enough evidence in general revelation. So it general revelation is good. Science is good. But we can't put our faith in science We have to put our faith in God Himself. And that goes back to something I said a couple of weeks ago about when we're talking about the trustworthiness of the Bible or or the trustworthiness of our faith or the trustworthin trustworthiness of our spiritual experience, all those sorts of things. Right. What it really comes down to is the trustworthiness of God Himself and a from a Christian's perspective And from a fair and honest reading of the Christian Bible, you come away with it saying, okay, this book is telling me that God Himself is Jesus of Nazareth. And so I have to grapple with that reality. Do I trust Jesus of Nazareth? Not do I not even as m just d do I believe in him And and not even as much as do I believe that he existed, but do I believe him. You know, I I can I can uh believe that John Schweitzer exists. I can even believe in him and say, you know what? He's a good guy and he takes good care of his family and he pays his taxes on time and I I believe in him. He's a good guy. But that's different than me believing John believing all that he encompasses and that he's trying to get me to understand and persuade me to understand to be true. And putting your Faith and everything in him. And that is why when we're looking in the Old Testament, we're looking for Jesus. We're looking for the Son. And the word, the logos, we're looking for that in the Old Testament because we're looking to understand God, because we want to trust and believe God. And so yeah, John, Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, you know, the uh the the the very first example of the gospel being taught. You know, that the um that the the s the seat of the woman would have the heel bruised but the head of the serpent would have its head crushed But all the way through we talked about Abraham and the sacrifice of his son. There's so much imagery in that. Right, there's the lamb imagery and stuff. But you know, Abraham had another son through his concubine before he had Isaac and yet repeatedly throughout that portion of Genesis it over and over again talks about Isaac, his one and only son. Isaac his only son. Isaac his one and only son. His one and only son? What are you talking about? What that means is he's the one and only legitimate son. And so when you get to the New Testament you talk about God having a son, his one and only begotten son. What does that mean? It means the same thing it meant. For Abraham and Isaac, Christ is the one and only legitimate son. So there's that kind of connection. Um you know that really weird uh is it Genesis fifteen, I think, the the w really weird scene where uh Abraham uh uh goes to sleep. There's the they they cut the covenant. And they and they and in in ancient Near Eastern culture, you know, everything was a blood covenant. Everything was a blood oath kind of thing. It wasn't a legitimate covenant unless, you know, someone or something died. Uh and the reason they did that was they would come to terms Like I would strike an agreement with you and say, I'm gonna give you my old Oldsmobile in exchange for five thousand dollars. And if you give me the five thousand dollars and I speed off of my Oldsmobile, or if you speed off of the Oldsmobile without having giving them my five thousand dollars then what has happened to these dead animals on the ground is going to happen to you. Right. The one who violated the covenant is going to be cut in half and destroyed, right? And so Abraham's put to sleep, there's these animals that are cut. Abraham again, he's there's a covenant to be made with God, but he's sleeping So what's his participation in that? He's sleeping. And then there's this image of the pot and the uh and and the and the and the flame and stuff that are going through the middle. And what is that? Well that's that's a that's a picture, a representation of God walking through. And why is that important? How does that tell us about Jesus Christ? Because Jesus, the Son, comes into human form and he fulfills both roles of the covenant. He plays the role of God and the role of man because the covenant was broken. Israel as a people not faithful. Someone has to deal with that guilt. Abraham and his seed have to pay for that guilt. And they do. In fact, this brings me back to something I was saying a couple of weeks ago about Isaiah forty to sixty-six. It's it's the height of the revelation in the Old Testament about God's purposes and the the some of the most powerful descriptions of the Messiah. And at the heart of that is that Israel was supposed to be the people of God that that that were going to be God's servants and bringing uh truth and light to the whole world, to all the nations, the Gentiles, the whole world. But they kept Rebelling against God and not doing what was right. And yet God had promised that He was going to use them to bring this to the whole world Right, and he goes back and forth about how he'll he's gonna restore them if they'll turn to him and and all these amazing things will happen if he restores them, but they still haven't done it, and so they're under you know, condemnation. And how in the middle of that is God still gonna use them to bring forth the Messiah, right? And and and so finally it breaks out into this picture in Isaiah 53 of this messianic figure that was going to take the suffering of all of our sins, all the sinfulness of Israel, all the sinfulness of the world upon himself. and he was and and die and he and yet he was still going to be a light for all the nations, right? And how could all that happen at the same time? And clearly that, you know, i if only that was written a hundred years before the time of Christ We know through the Dead Sea Scrolls that that was written before the time of Christ. Right? Because the Dead Sea Scrolls we know for sure are about a hundred years before Christ was born. If that's true then there is a picture about what Christ was going to do as this humble suffering servant that also is going to be the king of the world. How could anybody imagine that to be the case? How could anybody imagine that the humble would rise to inherit the earth? I'm reading uh a book right now by um a gentleman that is is tracing how The message of Christ has changed culture after culture. And he starts with about 150 years before the time of Christ, uh, describing the Greek and Roman uh perspective on women and on the poor and on those that were sick and and there is zero compassion in in those cultures at that time uh for for any of those groups uh having any kind of like uh rights or anything like that. And all of a sudden out of Nowhere comes this group of people that are claiming not that the powerful, the Roman centurion you know, manly men that that have conquered the world. Not that the powerful are going to conquer the world, but that the meek are going to conquer the world. And this message the that the one that died Willingly is the one that's going to be be the king of the world. And it and it of the increase of his government, that's what it says in the Old Testament, there will be no end. It says that in Isaiah, it says that in Daniel. uh two different places in the Old Testament. And sure enough, ever since the time of Christ, the Church of Jesus Christ has been growing in significant numbers and percentage of the population of the earth. around the entire planet ever since then and has never stopped growing. In fact, it's growing faster now than it has ever grown in China in India and uh and places in the Far East, even though in the West it seems like it's in the decline, the reality is that all of the West is in decline. At the same time that Christianity is in decline, but the places where Christianity is is growing in leaps and bounds, uh it is happening in a significant way. So the point is again that uh that in Isaiah Before the time of Christ, the prophecy comes forth about this amazing mixture, this uh you know that that holds the the meek and the broken and the dying. Together with the victorious and the righteous that are gonna bring justice and and it's a picture that is so amazing. What was always amazing to me before I really dived into the Bible was the contradictions and I would always uh say, well how is that possible? That can't be true. That's possible. How is that possible? That's wrong. This is wrong. Right, right, right. And so Um, it's amazing how my relationship with God is something that I work on daily. And the more just like we had talked about a weeks ago about trust and faith and building that relationship, it's not just about the book is I equate it to kind of like the textbook for the class, but the class is Jesus Christ. And you know, I've ran into people who know that book forward and backward but missed the title of the class. They missed what that book is about. And they can quote it as a literal textbook, but don't have the relationship with their Lord and Savior to understand what those words are meaning. And I feel like that's where I was and it's very interesting perspective to be kind of on the other side of that. working on this relationship with God and starting to understand the words as he meant them and as verses It's a very interesting place to be. And I never thought of you know, I worked on my relationship with my wife, you know. I've been married uh just over twenty four years and it was You know, it's a relationship I work on every day and we work on together every day and it's you get out of it what you put into it. And how ridiculous I was to expect m God to be like some type of, you know ring the bell when I need ya. Hey, ding ding dings. Uh things are getting tough over here. You know, come help me out. Other than that, yeah, I'm good now. Peace out. You know, I don't need you anymore. And um it's it's interesting to really develop a relationship with him now. And that's what um I really am learning that those two things go hand in hand. The Bible is the part uh a part of that, but the relationship is, you know, you have to those two things, it just comes together and that's kind of what uh has been amazing about the last six months is that combination of those two pieces coming together. And uh uh it's That's the by the way, that's the voice of uh Craig Lancourt. Jonathan Schweitzer is also on the show on Troy Skin is the Faith Debate. We've got about nine or ten minutes left, so I don't know if there's any particular question or subject we want to try to tackle quickly you know, before this round of shows is over. So I have one question that um I don't know the answer to and I'd like to ask the both of you. I know in in Christian, I have two questions I don't know the answer to. Uh oh. Well Well I don't have any so just for the record. There are many promises made um for those for the believers um in Jesus Christ and um for eternal life and what I I am ignorant to the promises made in Judaism of do they have heaven? Do they have eternal life? What what are the promises of the Old Testament for someone? I don't know that I'm prepared tonight. Or today this morning to answer that. But I did want to start just to say this that at the time of Christ This was one of the biggest questions that divided the Jewish community. Right? And so the Sadducees were of the opinion that there was no eternal life. But the Pharisees believe that there was a resurrection and an eternal life. And so uh so it's actually in several key places where where they're trying to trip up Jesus. And uh then the Apostle Paul later on when he's being attacked by the Jewish people, uh, he he brings up this issue and he says, Look, the reason that I'm being rejected is because I believe in the resurrection and all of a sudden all the Pharisees in the crowd jumped over to Paul's side and said, Oh, well if that's what the issue's all about, we're with you. And it ended up kind of saving his life in that moment because the others, you know, were against that. And so my point is is that uh is is that at least at the time of Christ, there's a whole uh portion, the probably the largest portion of the Jewish community that believed in the resurrection from the dead. And yeah, and that was the illustration I was going to use, and Jesus speaks to that too and talks about God being a God of the living, not the dead. And he's and he's speaking about that in a Jewish context. Right. And what's the passage that he refers to Jesus was Jewish. Right. Let's let's not forget that. Paul was Jewish. Right. All these people almost almost all of them are Jewish. Hallelujah. So if you say, well did the Jews believe? Yeah, well yeah. They they do and they did. Let's see how much time do we have. He says God didn't say I was the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. He says I am the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. And so that's where he refers to uh God in that God says that like all through the Old Testament where it's clearly the the case that God is referring to people that live. you know, and that continually that there's a resurrection yet to come. So that's what Jesus bases it on. And I want to piggyback on that a little bit because uh what's being just talk about there um isn't merely eternal existence. You know, the Bible, through Christ, you know, believers, those who are trusting God, they are promised eternal life. And in a Jewish context, that would have meant shalom. That's right. That would have meant come on. That would have meant peace. It's translated as peace, but it's it's more than just peace. It's It's fulfillment and flourishing and satisfaction and joy and hope and everything good wrapped up into one everything your heart could ever desire that's good for you. is represented by the word shalom. True life. And that's the kind of life. That's the kind of rest, another big theme in the Old Testament, and then carries over into the new this idea of resting, resting in that shalom. Resting in the in the the glow and the glory of God, in the favorable presence of God, where His face shines upon you. I mean what's better than that? And so we have a really small idea of eternal life, like, oh, when I die, I'm going to continue to live on. No, no, no, no. As a Christian, when you die you're then going to experience true life for the first time ever in your existence. Wow. And so it's not just the punishment of of of hell that the Bible talks about, but It's what it's it's the opportunity cost, right? It's not just that they're punished, but they th those who aren't trusting God, they don't get to experience life, defined that way, ever. And so that's what's at stake. And so that's why when we we read some of the other ancient stuff like Jonathan mentioned, was it two weeks ago about where we have uh records about Uh Julius Caesar. Right. That are like two hundred years after he lived, but we accept that he actually lived. Because you know why? If if I accept that Julius Caesar lived and I'm wrong? What exactly is the consequence? Right. Really? Right. I've got a misunderstanding of Western history as a result. And I have to doubt everything my teachers in social studies class taught me as possibly being wrong But as far as life w lifelong, long-lasting eternal consequences, th whether I believe that Caesar li existed or not and get that right or wrong doesn't really matter. But when it comes to Jesus We're making profound claims because Christ made profound claims. He's the cornerstone. So much rests on him. Yeah, so we're afraid to be wrong on that question And if we're not ready to say yes as our answer to that question, then we get defensive and we're like because I mean the consequences are really, really bad. Because and it's not just us. Right. If I'm wrong, then my family whom I'm leading would also per be uh led down the wrong path as well. And that's a horrible consequence for them potentially. Right. It's a weighty, weighty question. Oh well yeah. Oh well it's it's just amazing to me that um all of these um events are happening in my life and I really believed a a while ago that I was all in Christian and I feel like I was a guy who was standing on the edge of a cliff with my toes on I was going, I trust you God, I trust you God And refusing to jump, but once I uh jumped, it's amazing how God has been there to catch me. Hallelujah Yeah, and and that that reality can't be overstated. There's uh the same thing is true in science. The question is why did why did science all of a sudden break forth in in uh human society in such a uh trusted kind of way. It broke out because the belief That there was a God that created things in a way that could be understood, that was rational, that was consistent broke out and so as a result we said, oh well we can study and we can we can learn how things work because there's a consistency to it that we can find. Well we couldn't even begin to grow to understand those kinds of things unless you believe that there's a consistency to how the world is created that we can discover. If you don't believe there's anything there to discover, then we're going to go on in our superstitions and all of our um you know ideas, you know, about knocking on wood and about, you know, in front of me, you know, all these other things that that are superstitions. And so the point is that it is the case that that that that what you believe allows there to be light that that opens up significant parts of the world. And this is true, you know, f you've described it for the last four weeks, that since you've chosen to believe Right, you and you come into that place of accepting the Lord into your heart, right, uh death, resurrection, that opens up a whole gamut, a whole spectrum of things that that are able to be understood that are very hard to understand if you don't if you don't allow them to be able to do that. Thank you, gentlemen. It's been a joy doing these last three shows, or I eight shows rather with you. Uh thank you so much. Thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate at 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner with Craig Loncour and Jonathan Schweitzer, find us online at WFMD. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.