Broadcasting from the west side of Big Bridge. Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preachy with impact is like plowing pavement, and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is a Frederick. Face debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And BMC Insurance. And by the way, I re remembered that last week at the end of the show I didn't thank our sponsors again. So let me just say Our show has been brought to us by Putmin Flooding and Heating. How can we make you smile and BMC Insurance? Huh? Covered my faces. I'm smiling. You can connect with us uh online. Wfmd. com keyword faith takes you right to the Faith Debate page. There you will find a whole bunch of interesting links, including links to a podcast of this show, perhaps Uh may it I say perhaps because it depends on when you do that. If you do it like right now or tomorrow, no. But if you wait two or three days, then yes. There will be a link to a podcast of this very show. And there's uh a blog on the right hand side of that page. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com and whatever you email me pretty much I will post up there. I'm not too discerning. I don't worry about it a whole lot. I used to worry about it more, I worry about it less now Jonathan Sleisker, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. He's back again for more warfare with Dr. Brinley at Christ Reformed Church. In between shows, you know, since last week, Jonathan has I think fully persuaded Doctor Lee that he himself, Doctor Lee, is an apostle. I'm wearing my apostle hat right now. So if you missed last week's show, we're talking about uh what Jonathan refers to as a five year old. Yeah. Well I say it was he an apostle? I'm just checking. Are you an apostle? Um I think it might be the case that I have um an apostolic element to uh my call as I'm involved in things over and after. So the a so it's not it's not an office you occupy, it's an element that comes and goes? Um no. I th I I think uh let me ask it this way. When when somebody is being trained up to be a pastor Uh do you often say, you know what, man, I think he's a pastor, the way that he talks to people, the things that he does. I think he's I think he's a pastor You know, and he's talked a little bit about a call in his life, but he hasn't been recognized by the church and he uh and he's got training yet ahead of him. Uh and so uh I think there are people out there like that. Very much so. There's a n no doubt a broader and narrower sense of the word pastor. He has pastoral skills and abilities, which you mean by that. No, but I'm talking about people like yourself before you were ordained. I was not a pastor before I was ordained. But did did you think you were headed in that direction? And did other people think you were headed in that direction? No, not necessarily. We have what's what's called an internal and an external call in my tradition for the pastoral call. Either one of those two ingredients is insufficient. You need to have the internal call, which is the Spirit, God talking to you individually, giving you a sense that this is your calling. But you're not called until the church calls you. Um you're not ordained, and that's why ordination marks the presence of both of those. Um and and so yeah, I I might have thought I had pastoral uh inclinations or desires. But again, in an official sense, and I think it's important that we distinguish between these broader and narrower senses of the words. The word apostle occurs in a lot of contexts in the New Testament. But it occurs especially in an official sense when Judas is dead in Acts, very important, right on early on, they say, let another take his office. We have to have a special election. And it's one of these weird things where they draw by lots. Like, you know, should we be electing people by lots today? And what Luke means by that, why he does that, is because Just like Christ chose the other apostles first hand, this is Christ's hand in the church choosing the twelfth to fill that office. And never again we don't see another office, another apostle called, except for Paul. who says, I am the last of the apostles, by the way. So Paul says I'm the last of the apostles in a broader sense. Because apostle is a Greek word for someone who's been sent, but that's not the official sense. So this is this is the thing. It says in Ephesians that the body of Christ would be built up until we all come to a perfect man. And I'm just saying it hasn't happened yet. In two thousand years of history, we have not gotten there. And there's still the winds and waves of doctrine that are going on all throughout the body of Christ. And in the context of that Apostles are necessary for dealing with doctrine, for dealing with with uh with keeping us focused. In fact, in our generation, uh the emergent church is Delight f delightfully, they're delighting to move away from uh clear doctrine and uh biblical doctrine. And in the context of that, there are those that are standing for what is right doctrine and There there's there's a significant fight on for the soul of Protestant evangelicalism in the United States right now along those lines. And so sure enough God raises up people that are uh voices that play a role that is distinct and that is authoritative and that um listen, who who raises up workers for the harvest? We're we're called the disciple to make disciples. I mean you you believe that we're called to make disciples, right? Certainly a great commission. So so when when he gave the Great Commission, it didn't just apply to the apostles. Apparently it applied to you as well. At least you believe that. I believe that as well. And my point is that is that is that through the apostles and those that they set into order and those that they sent out, the kingdom of God is continuing to move forward. And that God is the one that raises up all workers to the harvest. We're supposed to pray the Lord of the harvest to raise up workers for the harvest. I don't raise up workers for the harvest. Reformed theological seminary doesn't raise up workers for the harvest. God does. Reformed theological seminary and our churches, we make disciples. And then Excuse me, God raises up those that are going to be the apostles, prophets, evangelists, pastors, teachers, and he calls them internally, and then the body of Christ recognizes them and says, Yes, you're called to that. We get behind you. Does your uh church tradition, uh Jonathan, have officers have offices like are you you know are you ordained as an officer of the church in your tradition as a pastor? It is true though that Like in in our set of churches we're a lot more committed to the idea that the local church is is elder run. And so we work by consensus uh among the elders that that if there's a decision that's to be made then the elders are gonna pray together and now work through to a place of consensus. We don't vote on it. You know, we we pray through, you know, to a place of consensus on it. And uh and so position in our group of churches is actually a lot Um is had some sort of ordination recognition for you as a pastor of of Cross Roselli Chapel. Yeah. Saying would your same group of uh oversight whatever ordain somebody as an apostle in the same way they ordain you as a pastor? They would. Okay. Have they ordained you as an apostle? Uh there has been uh Can somebody be ordained as more than one thing. 'Cause there's some doubt. You're unsure. Right, but your cynicism more reflects your frustration with the fact that I'm arguing with you about this than it does uh um you know the solidity of your argument. No it reports going back to the reality is that I said the same thing that you said about you being a pastor and it's very clear. Before you were a pastor, you thought you might be. There were others that thought you might be. They invested in you. They worked together with you. They trained you in that direction. And then came the time when hands were laid on and you had the external call that meant the internal call. And you became a pastor. I'm saying that the same thing is true. I've met people that have had both. In the the ministry that they're doing in Zimbabwe, Botswana, Liberia. is apostolic ministry where they're not going to be able to do that. So you're gonna have to go someone el somewhere else to be an apostle. Uh that's you're gonna have to lay a foundation. Well that I hope he's not, because you would lose an important part of your regular program Unless you can basic remote him in. Yeah, maybe Skype him in. Well I I think one of the key things m I confess that I belong to an apostolic church uh in the Creed, which we confess at church on a weekly basis. And um and I do believe that apostles were given to lay a foundation that would um uh uh build up the body of Christ until we attain to the unity of faith and the knowledge of the Son of God to mature manhood. Until that time. My church is apostolic, and I think one of the key questions here, and again going back to the Reformation, is is apostolicity, is being an apostle, a revelatory office? And so going back, I think fundamental here, and we haven't answered the question yet, what is an apostle? And I think the New Testament very clearly lays out. Broader sense, yes, a lot of people are called apostles, lowercase a. Capital A, the office, the twelve, of which there are actually fourteen, depending on how you number, because Judas is out outgrafted, Matthias is in-grafted, and then Paul is still born an apostle. Two exceptions prove the rule that there are twelve, and they're sent by Christ personally. They're personal eyewitnesses of Christ and of the resurrection. Um they are ambassadors and they have a special power of attorney, which means that apostolic writings are revelatory and the foundation laying Principle of being an apostle is what Paul refers to when he's talking to Timothy. Again, he doesn't say appoint apostles in your churches So I'm sorry, John, but i if your church does ordain people as apostles, they're doing something that the New Testament doesn't do, except in the extraordinary circumstance of Judas. And when Paul talks to Timothy, he says, Teach in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God, with which I have been entrusted. Paul's words convey the gospel, lay a foundation a scriptural foundation. And that's why it wasn't tongue-in-cheek, and it wasn't because they didn't believe in the Holy Spirit or the activity of the Holy Spirit that the reformers said The miracles that validate our ministry are the miracles that validate our doctrine, and that's the doctrine of the New Testament. So the fun one of the fundamental questions here, I think that can advance our dialogue so we don't talk past each other. In all seriousness is whether or not an apostle, in your understanding, John, is a revelatory office. Uh I do think that those apostles that go into uh new settings for the gospel where the language is new and the cultural uh context is new, uh are in a place where they are um uh they are yeah hearing from the Lord about what it means for the gospel to be manifested in that culture and um that the um Uh again, just just like the Greeks understood things very differently from how the Jews understood things. Uh there are there are in every situation like that key moments where you decide, okay, are we going to use this word or are we going to use that word? And what is the idea that we're gonna tap into, like when, you know, when Paul's talking to the Romans, he he taps into uh some language with the Romans that is that is unique to the to the Greeks so that the gospel can be uh accurately manifested in their presence so that uh the language barrier doesn't end up being um uh a confusion of the gospel. And I think yes it's true that in those places where uh where there is significant cultural differences that that individual needs to be led by the Holy Spirit. in hearing from the Lord in the context of the clear teaching of the New Testament. So there's nothing new in addition to the Old Testament. But they're laying the foundation just like the apostles. All the apostles did was was flesh out what Christ had taught them for the Jews first, and then Paul And Apollos and the others did it on the c in the context of the Greeks. And apparently Peter had a hard time getting it. And Paul had to call them on several occasions and say, hey, you're screwing up about this. You're not living by the gospel. This is what the gospel represents. And the same thing is true, I believe, in Africa, in India, in China. And on around the world. When we got here to the United States, the same thing is true. That uh you know, when when the Protestant Reformation was happening, they were redefining at each step of the uh uh of the way things that had gone awry in the Catholic Church and they were playing a foundational role. In s in in making sure that the church, the the the Protestant church, sorry, the Reformed Church, we we uh would rather be called reformers than uh protesters. But nevertheless, the foundations were being relaid because uh uh it was wood, hay and stubble that had been built on top of the uh the original foundation of the apostles. And so they relaid those foundations, they reset those foundations, and I believe that's still happening in the U. Well that's where I'd beg to differ because that wasn't their self-conception. And and the key principle here is sola scriptura Uh sola fidee and sola scriptura, uh faith alone and scripture alone. Um uh sorry for the fancy Latin. But but those are the the key, the two pillars of the Reformation. And so they would say We are going back to the Foundation. We are going back to the Apostolic Foundation, and we are removing error and additions that have occurred over a number of years in the church. But fundamental continuity and and foundationalism. And so that's where I would say that no, uh someone who is ordained, called to the mission field, sent by their church, China, Botswana, no matter where it be is not laying a new foundation in the sense in which the New Testament speaks of the foundation which has been laid by the apostles uh the and that foundation is the canon, the New Testament canon of Scripture. And that that's a a crucial uh idea here is that when Christ speaks and the apostles speak through him and speak his word, that that occurs in a foundation-laying sense in the apostolic period in a way that it doesn't continue to occur in the church because of the sufficiency of Scripture. Paul says all scriptures breathed out by God and profitable for teaching for reproof. for correction and for training in righteousness. It is sufficient to those things. We don't need a new revelation on the mission field. We need the application, the preaching. the teaching, the ruling, the governing, the discipling by the scriptural word, the gospel that has been given to us. But any hint, and the reformers were very sensitive to this, because they felt that any hint of new revelation New apostles undermine the comfort that we get from the gospel, which is hearing the true voice of Jesus. So would you agree that the reason why that was so important to them was because the Catholic Church had developed some doctrines that very clearly went beyond scripture. Oh, certainly. And that the Catholic Church was the one that was claiming that they had apostolic succession. And the Catholic Church was one claiming that they had miracles. And so the Protestants were were were writing in direct reaction to all that. But in 1 Corinthians 13, we're told that when the perfect comes, the imperfect disappears. Right? And so what's going to disappear when the perfect comes? Tongues is going to disappear. Hallelujah. Well I'll be glad when it finally disappears. Prophecy will disappear. And apparently knowledge will disappear. But clearly, knowledge has not disappeared from the face of the earth. Nobody's going to argue that we need less knowledge on the earth. And so if that's the case, then the perfect has not yet arrived. We still need to emphasize love. We need to live in love. But there's still prophetic activity happening. There's still uh there's still kings around the earth that need a man of God to look 'em in the eye and say, You're screwing up. Like um uh Dietrich Bonhoeffer and uh the guy with them when they looked at Hitler in the eye and they said, We don't serve God, we serve men. There there's still a need for prophets that will look the leaders of the world in the eye and say, you know what? What you're doing is injust. In the reverse, right. How do I say? You said that they don't serve God, they serve men. I think you meant to say we don't serve God. Anyway, that's Jonathan Sweitz, a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, joined this week by Dr. Brian Lee from Christ Reformed Church in D. C. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Uh are there twelve apostles today? I don't have any concern to to have like a specific amount. You know, it says in 1 Thessalonians 2, verse 6 6, it says, as apostles of Christ We could have been a burden to you, but we were gentle among you. I think he's referring to himself and Barnabas and the others that were with him. That would leave me with the impression that there were more than just thirteen apostles of Christ, because he's not referring to any of the original twelve. But he says we could have been a burden to you. We were gentle among you. We loved you so much we were delighted to share with you, not only the gospel, but our lives as well, because you had become so dear to us. Surely you remember our toil and hardship. We I I've told you I already think the word apostle is used broadly in the New Testament in a generic sense. That's different from the sense of the office. And that's what I'm saying is that is that the office of those that go out and plant Is is we still have that office. We just call it a missionary. But the New Testament nowhere commands anyone in the church to ordain people apostles. And nowhere does it tell us to ordain apostles Missionaries. But it does recognize that those that are sent by God to assume. Missionary is not an office in the church. So your argument that that's not the point. I'm not arguing. It doesn't fit your argument, but there's plenty of places where a missionary is recognized as as i in office. That's fine. We can join join at the hip and oppose those people who ordain people contrary to the New Testament, to offices that the New Testament doesn't identify as perpetual offices. Sure. Nevertheless. Nevertheless you recognize yeah. Nevertheless you recognize the distinctions that I'm making. Uh I don't. No. Which distinction are you referring to? Yeah, your unwillingness to to understand the distinctions that I'm making um betrays your willingness to have a discussion. I understand the distinctions you make. Whether or not I agree with them is a different story. I'm not asking you to agree with my distinctions. I actually don't know what distinctions you're talking about right now. Several of them. One that there are certain people that go in and start the church in a brand new culture in a brand new place that is a unique m type of ministry from somebody who comes in and sets in elders and works at a pastoral capacity. Do you do you agree that there is a distinction in how those two people tend to go about ministry? Um Are you talking about missionaries uh exclusively or would church planters also fit what you're talking about? I think church planters tend to play a very similar role to what an apostle played. They go in and and and the guy uh that that planted a church right here in Frederick. I remember hearing him say, you know, we got a great group of elders Uh they're they're preaching the gospel on Sunday. Uh we got a great set of deacons that that were raised up. I think I'm ready to move on. But you're saying I'm trying to I'm trying to grapple with the question. Well, can I let me answer his question? Because I think I can't answer his question Um I believe that that there are the the the gifts, the church is rich richly gifted, the body, there are many members of the body. So there are a lot of different giftings in the church. I'm a church planter, I planted a church I work to plant other churches right now. I was in Cincinnati and uh outside of Atlanta, Georgia this week traveling to plant churches. So um uh I'm active in that activity. And it's a different skill set. It's a different set of gifts. But that's not an office I occupy. I I occupy so so when I say uh you know that the the office of someone who goes on the missions field, that's a a pastoral office. They're either doing teaching work or that they're serving They're ordained as a pastor, a minister of Word and Sacrament in our church when we send them on the mission field. But what I think where I disagree with that distinction you just laid that foundation lane distinction, applying it to this sort of missionary context, but I grant we're just using different terms to describe it, is the New Testament refers to the lane of a foundation. 1 Corinthians 3. According to the grace of God given to me, like a skilled master builder, I lay the foundation, and someone else is building upon it. Let each one take care how he builds upon it. For no one can lay a foundation other than that which is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Titus and Timothy, two of his students, whom he doesn't call an apostle, but whom he calls to establish pastors, teachers, elders, and deacons in the churches in which they labor. As he's as he lay dying, quote unquote uh so to speak. He's telling his followers to establish pastors, teachers, elders, and deacons. However you number those and distinguish those. Again, I'm not quibbling about words, because all of these things are used in narrower and broader senses in the New Testament. But they're identified as particular offices. And when the office of apostle is identified, it's a revelatory office. And the foundation that he's referring to is the New Testament canon. It's the text of the New Testament. And my fear, I'm not charging you with this, John, but my fear and the fear of of the reformers is if you want to look for crazy, you know what, teaching in the church, look to guys who call themselves apostles. And there are people out there who teach all sorts of crazy things. And John, as he lay dying, wrote his epistles. You said you've recently done some preaching through 1 John. And his concern was people who were coming in the church and teaching falsehoods about Christ. And they caught they were false prophets, false apostles. John calls them false apostles? I don't think he calls them false apostles. He calls them uh false prophets. I don't have it the text in front of them. Antichrist. Yeah. Which is my point. Uh y y you can find apostles that are preaching some pretty weird stuff. You can also find pastors that are preaching some pretty weird stuff. Some deacons and elders that are preaching some pretty weird stuff. You don't have to look for a guy that calls himself an apostle to find some really bad doctrine. And there are quite a few guys that have the name of apostle that are preaching really good doctrine, and there is fruit from their ministry that is Extensive and broad and and has been uh a good thing for the body of Christ. No, I don't I don't deny that there are plenty Plenty of people who consider themselves apostles who are doing great teaching. The difference is that the office of apostle I actually think, and again, I don't know about you, I haven't heard you you say this very, very clearly today, but the office of apostle is revelatory. That's the way the New Testament talks about it. So the difference when apostles today teach bad things is they claim to have it as a revelation from God. Whereas a pastor, my title is minister of Word and Sacrament. Minister is servant. If I preach something other than What's written in the Word of God, my elders are charged to get me out of office. Now an apostle can teach something other than the Word of God and claim I got this as a Word of God. I got a word of knowledge. And this happens all the time in the church. Now there's a different logical relation between an apostle claiming I have a revelation and a pastor Making a bad interpretation of scripture, you can say no, your interpretation's wrong. And and fire is you know what. But So so that's the difference. The difference isn't that there are bad people who call themselves apostles. Of course there are m infinitely more bad ministers in these l some of the churches that you and I would agree are not preaching the gospel. But they are all liable to uh persecution in church courts. Apostles are in a sense, I would say by definition Are are the foundation of the church courts. It's interesting because I I think I would argue that that the revelation that comes through the apostles Right? It's 12 you mean? The twelve yes, the original twelve and Paul. I'm glad that you've adopted my definition of apostle. Your sarcasm just really grates out me sometimes. More than any other people that I'm on the show. Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Dr. Brian Lee, senior pastor and church planter, I guess, of Clark Reformed Church. But that's not a separate model. Uh I am Troy Skinner. I uh hosting this show isn't an office either, I don't think. Actually I don't have an office, I have a cubicle. Uh Our shows are brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating, how can we make you smile? And BMC Insurance. Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. What I've been reading lately? Islam, what every Christian should know by Bassam Chadid. You ever read that one? It's hard to find because it's out of print, so you gotta find somebody that's got one in stock or something that's got a resale of an old book. But uh it's good and it's If you're not exactly sure what the distinctions are and you're not don't consider yourself a strong Christian, there's actually a good explanation of what the gospel is in uh distinction against what uh Islam teaches. So I would Hardly recommend this almost book. Anyway, thanks for listening. Till next week. God bless.