This is the Fate Debate, a theological round table grab bag with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the good doctor. Is there a doctor in the house? What is your view on what's happening around the globe and here in the US in terms of what's in the Bible. Do you think we're at the end of days? You could guess that we are getting closer to that. The faith debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith, sponsored by high low autosales and tire pros of Frederick. You do have P People who have a belief system uh that sees this apocalyptic phenomena occurring and that they are a part of it. In this corner weighing in with a master of divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary Mid Master Troy Skinner in this corner weighing in with a PhD from Westminster Theological Seminary, the good Doctor Jodhurst. So is there a chance to change the course? If it is something. that's prophesied. I think we have a chance to certainly uh do everything that we can to ameliorate the situation and provide I would always be shooting for peace. Aren't we all always shooting for peace? Sounds good to me. And f full disclosure, there was some chuckling, prophesies, got a chuckle out of the room. So it happens when a news reporter who's not used to talking theology has to say a theological That's a foreign thing though. I wasn't saying in Europe that happens all the time. No, no, no, yeah, yeah, but if around here. Yeah, around here, yeah. Actually though, I think I heard I don't know if it was when I was listening to the podcast that you told me about But there was a an American podcaster younger than me. Who said one Corinthians. Maybe he just loves reading British theologians. I'm just waiting for somebody in this room to say Revelations. Revelations. Let's turn to Revelations. Chapter twenty to talk about the millennium. Oh, we're so unkind. Anyway, let's let me reset here what's going on. This is the uh faith debate, and we're not making fun of people who don't know the words that we know Because they might make fun of us for not knowing the words that they know. This is this is kind of a nerd language here that we're talking. last week. We found out that Jace is all millennial, and we talked a little bit about what that means. All millennial meaning that there's there's not a literal millennial period. There's like a spiritualized understanding of the millennium And in some sense it might already be here and other sense that it might still be coming, like we don't our millennials don't want to get pinned down the way And not yet. Oh yes. And full disclosure, I would fit into that camp as well. So um and we found out that uh last week that Travis is a recovering Dispensationalist. So that means he's no longer a dispensationalist. So how do you identify your your end times view? How do I identify my end times view? I think that I would term myself a post-millennial preterist. In my opinion, in my opinion. You like peas? I have a lot to learn. Right. Alliterations. In my opinion, all millennialism is going to pontificate about post-millennium preterism. Oh he's doing the PPP thing. Could you outline it in the three-point bullets? All millennialism, in my opinion, is postmillennialism infiltrated by dispensationalism. Oh. Wow. Okay. That's my critique because I I came out of dispensationalism. I grew up in a independent fundamental Baptist church in California and we were dispensational and I began to change theologically in the nineties and grew into a reformed covenantal uh understanding but was all millennial. And then in the early twenties, is that what we say? The early zeros? Yeah, I don't know what that's a odds. The early part of this century The early two thousands. Yeah, but that's too much. Yeah, it's too much. I've heard people say twenties. I've heard ah twenty cents. Anyway, in the early twenties I was a flapper, yeah, w and uh Al Capone came in. Um yeah, in the early twenties I was a part of a of a um Sunday school focus. in a in my Presbyterian church, in the in the PCA, the Presbyterian Church in America, because we had a preterist in our congregation, a man who was saying things about the end times that we wouldn't have said. And so my pastor wanted us to have a um a panel discussion. So uh My pastor, because he was PCA, he did the all-mil. He gave me the post-mill. We had a friend who did the premillennial di distinctions, and then this gentleman that was the the preterist. So in that study, as I studied postmillennialism, I became a post-millennialist. I was like, well, I can see this stuff. This stuff makes a lot more sense. I like the way it sounds. Note to Jace the pastor. Be careful what you assign someone. That's right. Right? Right? Yeah. And I still didn't even consider preterism really. You know, I when this guy d gave his presentation, it didn't do anything for me. But I guess the seeds were planted and um the the more and more I read scripture the more and more in different ways I would come across what I call theological speed bumps. And that is that when when you if you think of reading the Bible as driving in your car and you don't see something in the road and you run across it and it jars your your car. You know, it's a speed bump. Or you can think of it as a theological hiccup. Your your breathing becomes irregular and you start to hiccup. And I think I would think that you guys have this experience even for yourself, that when you read a passage of scripture, you look at it and you think, Th I don't I don't get this. in in the way that I think about the Bible or the way that I've been taught, this doesn't make sense. Yeah, it doesn't fit my my scheme. Yeah. And so and so it's I those I we need to pay attention to those in my opinion because I think for me at least those were indications that I was on my way to changing the way that I understood scripture because I was I felt like scripture was saying this and my tradition was saying this. And I'm gonna be deciding tradition or scripture. So that's okay, so I'm postmillennial preterist Um I have a view of post millennialism that is that um I believe that Christ came to Not simply offer the kingdom, but he brought the kingdom. He established the kingdom. And the kingdom has a presence in the world today through the church. through God's people, and that is going to have a positive effect in history. And we can talk about historical um benefits, you know, about how how Christianity has inf influenced the world. Um and um but as a in a traditional sense the pre mill Aw mil and post mill views of the New Testament still see certain expectations that they don't feel. Found fulfillment in Jesus' time. So you think that the millennium is now Uh yeah, I I'm still up in the air on that. I I'm I'm still reworking a lot of my paradigmatic shifts. So I don't have everything nailed down. I'm gonna say I don't know to a certain extent. But I thought I understood you to say that Jesus when he came ushered in his millennial reign at that point. Well, yeah, I would I would say he he ushered in the kingdom. Whether or not we want to call that a millennial reign, that's another discussion. So there could be something else. a millennial reign. Okay, so when you look at the millennium, as far as I can recall in in Revelation twenty, we have the declaration that those who were beheaded for the testimony of of Jesus Christ and because of the Word of God They came to life and they reigned with Christ for a thousand years. So there you okay so we have to talk about well what is that? They came to life. They reigned with Christ for a thousand years. How do you understand the thousand years? Do you think it's going to be a thousand years of the first time? No, I don't know. I think it's just an extended period of time. The predominant language in Revelation, this is why my podcast is called Rethinking Revelation, because it's not just about the last book of the Bible, it's about the entire corpus from Genesis to Revelation. I believe, this is how I've started to say it in my podcast, that the entire Bible is apocalyptic. Okay? Now the word apocalypse comes from the Greek. You're not meaning that as far as genre. You're talking about that it's all focused at on the end. Is that what you mean by that? Okay, let me let me get to where I was gonna where I was gonna go and see if that it helps flesh out for you Uh the word that we get um of revelation, when we call the last book of the Bible revelation, we get that from the first word in the Greek text, which is apocalypsis, which is Apocalypse transliterated from the Greek to the English. It's just taking the letters and putting it in English. It's apocalypse. Well what does that mean? It means to reveal. Means to disclose. So if we understand all of Scripture as God's disclosure of who he is and what he's up to. All of the Bible is apocalyptic. It it it reveals who God is and how he operates in this world. Some people hear apocalyptic and they think of that as a genre where it's you know Fantastical imagery and that sort of thing. That's not what you mean. I I would say when we if we were to talk about genre, we would say, well Daniel is apocalyptic, Isaiah is apocalyptic. Uh, you know, Zechariah is apocalyptic, the prophets are apocalyptic, okay. But then there's also, interestingly enough, you get a you get a bleed of the j of the genres. The Psalms are full of apocalyptic language. Yeah, sure, it's not always neat and salty. Yeah, Psalm eighteen is is a is a psalm where David is um escaping from Saul. And if you read that, if I if I read that out of context in a Sunday school class and just said, okay, what do you think this is about? Didn't tell them it was a psalm, whatever, just read it. They would say, I would venture to guess, that's talking about the end of the world. But it wasn't. It was David talking about his experience with Saul. Right. Okay. So um and then when you get into Matthew, or the Gospels or but but Matthew in particular. Um you have some interesting things going on in Matthew 23, 24, 25 that we label j in a genre of apocalyptic because it's talking about the end times and if that's related to the prophets then that's apocalyptic. I'm not comfortable necessarily. I'm not a scholar, but I I don't hold to the necessity of talking about genre in terms of the Bible. This is narrative, this is poetry or whatever because I don't think that's important. Uh I Well, okay. But you have see, you have to The genres cross over. They they they cross over. You have narrative, and within that narrative you've got apocalyptic, if you want to talk about crazy symbolic, wacky language, and then you've got poetry in narrative, in history, in gospel, in biography. I mean it's to me it just it just all blends together. So for me, I haven't found it helpful Well let me jump in because we haven't we're about halfway through this episode and we haven't really heard from Jace yet. So let me reset my and give Jace a chance to because I do want to hear I must talk about about the genres. So anyway, this is the Fate Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. The the voice uh that w that has been talking about the apocalypse apocalyptic genre and that sort of stuff uh is Travis Finley. He has a podcast called Rethinking Revelation And uh Dr. James Broadhurst is the pastor of Poolsville Baptist Church. And um yeah, I would jump in, except I think you're probably gonna say a lot of things I might ask. So what are some things that you would say or ask of uh about the importance of as a Bible reader, as a student of the Bible, to to grapple with the form that you're that you're immersed in. You know whether it be law or historical narrative or poetry or what have you. Right. And and my guess is uh even though I was giving Travis a hard time there, I I'm sure he does recognize that there are genres. even distinguish. She just said that they bleed into one another, so they become unhelpful, I guess, in some in some sense. Um so I I I find them incredibly helpful because of the bleeding, because I notice that certain texts may be pulled in from other places. That's why it's very helpful to me. Like, okay, so now we have a poem in the middle of history. Where did this poem come from? I want to know why this poem has been brought into this particular context. Why did Paul choose this poem, this song? Why does um you know why does Adam say, Bone in my bone, flesh in my flesh? Why does that little song show up in there in a largely narratival form? So these for me these mean that they've been pulled out of other places probably. Not and so they become incredibly helpful to me. And of course the difference between And I my guess is you would see it's the same thing. The difference between a a proverb genre and a law genre um that's pretty significant to know that you're in different genres. So when we're dealing with hermeneutics, when we're interpreting things We want to say, okay, law, thou shalt not do this, you know, apodictic or casuistic, however, not just the thou shalt not, but other laws are very Those are good words but back off of those sorry. Law let's just stick with a a basic apodictic law. Thou shalt not kill Right. That's English, I understand that. Yes, thou shalt not kill, versus he who hesitates is lost, which is not a proverb. I need to come up with an actual biblical proverb. But it's a it's a proverb anyway. One is don't do it, and one is you know, sometimes you do it, don't sometimes you don't do it You know, sometimes you hesitate, sometimes you don't. You hesitate this lost, um look before you leap. Two very different proverbs. You don't want to take those as law. That's what I mean by saying genre is very important to something. What he was saying, I think, uh a very important something to say apocalyptic language or apocalyptic genre. You have apocalyptic genre throughout all kinds of texts. Um that it it's all over the place. And Psalm eighteen I hadn't even considered, so that's that's a good way of thinking of it. So I I get what you're saying, and I don't I'm not sure that we're disagreeing on that. That doesn't sound like it. I was uh are we? I don't want to take away any more time on on the squibbling and squabbling of the yeah. Okay. Well that gave us a chance to get Jason to the mix. Yeah, thanks. But you're done now, right? I am done pretty much with the show, if you don't mind. I have nothing a nothing to do with that. Yeah. Okay, so I gave you the postmillennial aspect in i just in a in a broad stroke. But then the preterist aspect is preterite is the is the Latin term for past. Okay, in in Spanish, the past tense is called the preterite tense. And preterism is the interpretation that the I'm just gonna go full bore is that the New Testament is concluded. It's it's done with. Everything the New Testament expected to happen has happened. It's in the past. And That's where at the at the beginning of the of this um discussion I said I'm gonna say things that are gonna hit you upside the head. And one of the one of the first questions is what are you saying that Jesus isn't coming back and I'm going to say yes. He's not. So because you have the expectation in the New Testament of the coming of the Son of Man, the coming of the Son of Man, the coming of the Son of Man. So We expect that he's going to come. But our expectation of what that coming is and what its purpose is determines what we say about its reality. And so then that's where you get what is comfortable in uh Christianity today is the partial preterist. The partial preterist says, look, we can see certain things in the New Testament that did happen. But there's a couple of things, those things didn't happen. So I'm only partially preterist. And then so there's really two camps. There's a per there's a partial preterist, and then there is what is called a full preterist Um I've heard more talk in in circles that the the preferred technical term is covenant eschatology. Um and that is that we are understanding the eschatological end times expectation to be governed by the parameters of covenant and understanding what the nature of that is in biblical revelation. And they might not be called this, but there are non-preerists, I guess, too, right? That don't think anything happened yet that needs to happen. Well that's that's a right uh I I d ultimately everyone's a preterist. Everyone is. There's something in that something. Jesus came, right. He was born. Okay, so there's preterism there. Yeah, so but when but then if you were to to have a a timeline or or a you know a bullet point sheet uh paper with twenty things on it that the Bible says is gonna happen and you say this happened, this happened, this happened, this happened, those are in the past. So everyone's a preterist. It's just that most people want to consider themselves partial because they have certain expectations of the future. So for instance, if you expect that Israel is going to be reinstated You're a futurist, that is there's still something in the future for us to look forward to. So uh uh a a softer retaliation might be instead of saying, so you're saying that Jesus isn't coming back would be So you're saying that Israel is not going to be reinstated. That would be something I would affirm as well. Israel is not going to be Let me ask Chase, would you count yourself as a partial preterist? Are you in in that group? Yeah, and I think his argument I mean is very persuasive. I think we're all, in some sense, partial preterists. We all believe some things have happened. The book of Revelation, if you come from the American pop eschatological world, all of that is something that's happening in the future. And it's a timeline from chapter one all the way up through th to the very end and it's it's moving in some sort of chronological order. And that's that's not fair to dispensationalism, but it's largely that. And I think revelation is probably a little bit different than that. There's a s there's a different structure. There's at least some sort of progression perhaps. but that it circles back on itself in some ways. So I mean the book of Revelation does speak about Jesus coming, but it talks about his first coming all throughout it. So the the birth of Christ is t is spoken of in the book of Revelation. There there are things that have certainly happened in the book of Revelation. So I would call myself a partial preterist. I'm I'm learning whether I might be a full preterist, we're about to find out, but Um but when I ask the question, do you count yourself as a partial protest? I mean obviously all of us believe that some things have happened in the past, like we didn't all s but normally, at least in my experience, normally what's meant by that is that in AD seventy some important fulfillments took place. Yeah. But not all of the important fulfillments uh that are still to come and then that becomes kind of a a a a touchstone important date in history than partial predators make Partial proterists make a big deal about that date just like full proterists would, but they don't make as big a deal about that. And so i i you you would I think subject is very Very important to this whole conversation. Yes. Okay. Many things have happened. And I think, you know, the coming on the clouds of power and stuff, you know, with that kind of power. I mean Tom R lots of people are talking about these kinds of things as as his first coming as his coming in power or it's not something that's going to happen in the future. So yeah, I I don't have a lot of information. The great thing about this is I have this belief, this omillennial belief that I've kind of inherited from my seminary training. And of course I've read through Revelation since then. I've thought through the prophets a lot since I'm a Hebrew scholar. But the reality is I'm just kind of in I've inherited these things. That's the beauty of this is I I I wanted to sit down and talk with Travis and find out I I might be missing a ton of stuff and this there's hopefully some humility on our parts to come to this and say, I I want to hear what what I Wikipedia last night and it said you know full preterism is generally considered a heretical view. I was like, all right, so this is gonna be this is going to be controversial, this is gonna be interesting, but I I want to find out why is it considered that I mean when you say something like Jesus isn't coming back. Yeah, let me real quick and say and say that when I Saw. Oh go ahead. Because we've only got about that much time left. So how about if we uh We hold on to the thought and we'll start there in next week's episode. Now that was a cliffhanger. And we'll find out why Jesus isn't coming back. No, I don't know. Yeah, that's a good one. Jesus is not coming back, everyone. No, well I would disagree but for the record. My jump's uh anyway, Travis Finley, uh thank you. Jace Broadhurst, thank you. I'm Froy Skinner, thank you to our sponsors. Hilo Auto Sales Online at HiloAuto uh dot com. uh autosales. com and uh tire pros of Frederick and uh 167 and a half hours from now we'll do this again until then God bless