This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a three-for-all four. Hua! We're Faith Community Leaders over the truth. Yeah but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor. Teacher and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. And we don't need much time to get warmed up here on the Faith Debate, let me tell you. WFMD. com keyword faith. I'm Troy Skinner, the guy that just said, woo, is the notorious big bridge builder, John Sweitzer. And um we had a chance to try to build some bridges. uh with somebody that I feel like is in La La Land. We tried. And so It's like a bridge to nowhere. Yeah. So um What you're hearing now is really a replacement show and I think it's just as well. We we tried an experiment. We've never done it before. We were trying to be guests on somebody else's podcast, and we're gonna then use the audio from his podcast as audio for our show. Yeah, why not? You know, figure that out. Uh we'd never done it before. We did it over a phone line, which I'm not a fan of, and you know, it changes the dynamic of the conversation quite a bit and makes it less interpersonal and all those sorts of things. As it turns out the responsibility for recording it fell on the shoulders of the guy doing the podcast and he forgot to press the record button or something, so none of the audio. We spent two hours. Come on, it was the sovereignty of God. Yeah, well I was just gonna say you spent two hours recording and none of it was saved and in hindsight he might have done us a favor. Yeah. Because I think both of us got a little bit short. I th uh if I if you don't mind my saying so I think you got a little bit more Snippy than I did. So what was the what was the point? What why did we get snippy? So the I and in fairness, he's not here to defend himself, so I'm not going to use his name. Yeah. It's going back a hundred and some odd years ago, uh began to ha k to catch some fire and it really caught fire maybe fifty years ago and they established the Flat Earth Society There it is. And the Flat Earth Society actually was growing for several decades and then it started to peter out. And going into the nineties, it was down to maybe two, three thousand members of the entire society, and if you'd given it another twenty years, it would have been gone. And then their life preserver arrived, the Internet. And so now every conspiracy theorist in the world And Thomas Friedman wrote the book, The World Is Flat. So I mean he anticipated it with the return of globalism in the internet. It's gotten to be such a big pop culture thing if you're paying attention that even people like Shaquille O'Neal are punking people now Shaquille O'Neal sent out a tweet saying the earth is flat. And people were like just to get them all stirred up. Yeah, and then people were like saying that Shaq was an idiot and stuff, and after enough uh hubbub went on, Shaq sent another tweet that says, I was just kidding, LOL, you know hilarious. So But th they're true but what was irritating to us, yeah to me Yeah don't speak for me yet what was irritating for me is not what he believed but that in the context of the conversation I think this is true For me, most times when we've been on the show and I found myself like, whoa, you know, uh I gotta push back and I gotta push back firm. It's when it's when the person that's talking with us wants to put certain uh boundaries on how we have the conversation that they don't submit to. So they want us to to to answer questions a certain way or to show a certain amount of uh you know, respect and letting them finish or whatever, but they don't uh uh afford you know the same respect back to us. So there's a number of times through the years that we came off the show afterwards and we're just like, man, alive And oftentimes the very people that accuse us of being the most narrow minded in every situation have been people who uh couldn't listen. They didn't know how to hear in anyway. So that's what was where I think I I lost my temper. I didn't I don't know if I lost my temper, but I was firm. Yeah you got a you got a little agitated. Agitated without a doubt. to let him know that he was playing by different rules. For example, it's normal conversation to uh to to stir conversation, to stir dialogue, to maybe ask an open-ended question, to use an analogy, to use a hypothetical And so we would use a hypothetical, well let's just say and he'd say oh but that's a hypothetical but then ten minutes later he would use a hypothetical was so so much uh more abstract. Right. It's like if you're gonna use a hypothetical, okay, that's fine, but let us use one then too. And then he didn't want us to cut him off You know, and he'd turn around and he would cut us off in significant ways. Right. And well, in fairness to him, the the the pastoral sort of yeah. In fairness to him, I'm sure he's used to being cut off all the time and being called an idiot. Right? And so his his I mean, his defense mechanisms are gonna be those a backhanded competition. And we'll talk and we'll talk about some of the central arguments that we had with him in just a second. But uh uh well we can do that right now. Yeah. So one of his big things uh was well look around you the earth looks flat. So therefore it's the the burden of proof is on you to tell me that it's not because when I look around I see a flat earth. That was one of his main when you're watching a ship sail over the horizon, whether it actually seems to drop behind the horizon or if you had a telescope, would you find out that it had just gotten so small and it's still out there, but it's Not behind the horizon. Right. We had this whole conversation, you know, there. And then uh probably the centerpiece of his argument was he doesn't feel like he's spinning. That was the centerpiece which was a little bit hard for me. And so case you're wondering, well, why should he feel like he's spinning? Okay, think about it. The world is uh is rotating on uh if if the world is round, the theory goes that the earth is spinning on its is rotating on its axis. So there's that element of spinning. Then there's the fact that it's Hurtling through space around the solar system, around the sun. Yeah. Because you have a heliocentric model here. So there's that aspect of movement. Yeah. And then of Of course, the galaxy itself is spinning at probably millions of miles an hour probably and moving. Totally ignoring the idea that the atmosphere would rotate with, that the uh that it's all about perspective and scale and size uh and the fact that um uh gravity is holding things in place and making things we were thro hitting with all these and that part was was particularly um exasperating in the conversation right because at that point the response to him is that when you're on a very like an airplane hurtling through the sky at, you know, several hundred miles an hour, uh, why is it that I can get up and walk back and forth and not feel like I'm moving two hundred thousand you know, two hundred miles an hour. Right. You know, and and so we had that discussion or, you know, turning when you're on a very large boat and the boat's turning, you know Uh do you feel like it's turning if you're not looking at the horizon? You know, that that there's a um you know, a scale factor that comes into play. that that you don't feel it when it's a very large thing that you're on. And and it was in that moment where uh where he would tell us that that somehow we were I don't know, it was just exasperating. I don't even know that I could say that like how he responded to that. Yeah, well I felt like we were able to Uh again, we're gonna feel this way because, you know, we have our opinions, he has his. And by the way, this l latest study I saw shows that if the study's to be believed Six percent of Americans believe the Earth is flat. There's six percent apparently ninety-four believe in a round earth and six and and if you're one of those one out of every twenty. If you're somebody that uh approximately, yeah. Right? Approximately 'cause five percent would be one out of twenty, right? So it's more than one out of twenty. Right. Yeah. Yeah. It's like one out of nineteen or something out of eighteen or whatever it is. Yeah. That's crazy. Yeah, I'm gonna start looking at people funny when I walk through the city. Somebody who uh engages in these dialogues and these debates online or with friends or whatever, uh don't don't be too harsh. I'm trying to speak in generalities. I do understand that there's actually a sub-debate about whether or not these should call the earth round. Even if you believe in a round earth. Mean you realize that that means that there's like potentially like uh three thousand people in the city of Frederick itself based on those averages that believe the earth is flat. If that study is true. Now here's I have a theory on that, but I'll get to that in just a second. So there's so many theories on that theory. But to finish the point on Some argue that you can't call it round because it's not perfectly round. You should call it a sphere, but a sphere is also understood by many to be perfectly, so you can probably call it more spheroid. or circular and say but a lot of the people are gr are are dealing with those kinds of semantics and so don't beat me up. I understand those arguments exist but I'm still talking in general terms about the earth being round. So, you know, I'm I'm a simpleton in that regard. Uh I think what's going on is some guy shows up on the street at a mall or in a mall with one of those clipboards and asks you the questions. Right. And and and one of the questions is do you think the world is earth the the the earth is flat? I think a lot of people for humorous reasons flat. So I think the six percent is artificially high. I don't think that's a real number. It can't be. It can't be a real number. It's it's hard for me to imagine. Though when you start talking about including in that number people that think it's sphere word and and other things, you know, ah well, that changes the number significantly. I mean that could be like fifty percent of the six percent. are those, which means it already knoc knocks it down to three percent. Right. So you know, there's there i when y when you get into the numbers maybe it's just a total you know loss. So I I I felt like he was saying that when I look around I see a flat earth And I could very easily come back and say, when I look around, I see evidence of a round earth. If I go up in a big t tall skyscraper, I should be able to see to the ends of the earth if it's a clear sky. Yeah. And I can only see so far before the h it things seem to disappear behind the horizon. Right How or you talk about the boat disappearing over the horizon when it's you know going away from you on the water. That's or when you go up in an airplane that you can see farther than just being down Right. And I haven't per personally flown on the Concorde, but back in the day people apparently the Concorde got uh high enough that he could actually uh with your eyes see the curvature of the earth from that from uh it was high enough that you could begin to see it with the naked eye. Wow. So how do you answer those people? So then um so that was my That was my m probably my central argument back. So so the question that I have is how many people even care about us talking about this right now? You know, like But like where's the tie in? At least six percent. But but I want but I do want to Which means of our audience, you know, that there's at least, you know, what, you know, sixty people out there Oh more than that. We have uh we have a strange audience. Yeah. So we um uh uh there is a potential faith biblical component to this and I want to touch on that in a minute, but it wasn't a central part of our d dialogue, which is why we're not talking about it in a uh uh uh w right now a lot. with our podcast friend. Yeah, we were having a hard time even thinking, should we do it because it's it's so He originally wanted to come on this show. Yeah. Uh and then he would use the audio on his podcast. And I said, Well where's the faith piece? Like what's the faith argument? This is a faith debate. This isn't a science debate or a pseudoscience debate or a conspiracy theory show. This is you know, we're trying to grapple with what does the Bible teach or what do differently religious worldviews on how do they understand reality. So what's the religious component to this? And he really wasn't going there. He could have gone there, but he wasn't going. I said, So it's not for my show So that's why I thought we could do it on his show and we maybe pick the pieces that we most face debate-ish and put them on our show and do it that way. Um but my central argument was, okay, let's say you're right Like this is the guy. That's a huge conspiracy. Uh it's an international conspiracy. Right. And so the question is in our day and age, and and let's just say this about the you know, the gentleman that that we were speaking with, uh he's somebody that, you know, I'd be okay with being A neighbor next to the guy, you know, being a co-worker like a network guy is very witty. I don't have the impression that that this is the guy that's gonna fly offhand though Those are famous last words anymore, you know, in our society, because everybody says that about every shooter that went crazy, you know, across the United States that oh he's he was a great guy So maybe we're just misperceiving it. Wow, he's a serial killer? The red flag. But our sense is that he's not. I think he's a good guy. I think he's earnest. I think he's well meaning. I even asked him at one point. Remember I asked him, I said Are you really a true believer? Yeah. Is this like maybe a a joke you're having fun with? Or is this something maybe that you haven't settled on and you're just you're playing devil's advocate and you're playing around the edges trying to determine what the reality is? Or are you like Rock solid, you're fat flat earthers. And he said, I'm flat earth. And and uh another tie-in that I think it's helpful for us uh to recognize about him is that Uh when we talk about eschatology in the Bible and the study of the Bible in eschatology, he chooses to be in a place on eschatology that is is uh a more extreme view about eschatology. And so uh I don't know if that again paints a picture, a portrait of a of an individual that kind of go after the uh you know the the You know, his view on how to understand eschatology is a big fancy word for the end times, the study of end times, the last days, last things, that sort of thing. Uh I'm not sure, but I'd be willing to bet that less than six percent of people uh hold his view in the Christian rule on on that question. He's definitely a minority report kind of guy. He's inclined to to push the edges to kind of see how far he can take argument. And sometimes there's truth that he found in that. Every once in a while those those crazy wild-eyed conspiracy things maybe are True. And it reminds me in Israel that if you've got ten people on a team uh that are working together and everybody's in agreement they'll appoint one guy to be the naysayer that that will that will choose to disagree with everybody else, whether he disagrees with them or not, which and so there's value in having somebody you know in that uh space. And so that being the case, nevertheless, this is where we stand. Now let's let's spend spend the last few moments we have on the show. We have maybe uh five, eight minutes left, something like that on the show. But to talk about the theological bit for we're both Christians. Yeah. Uh probably. Right. I'm not sure how comfortably either one of us wear that label anymore because it's changed meanings over the years. But you know, we're Bible believing, uh uh Protestant oriented Christians. And so that's the point of view we're coming at this. So we're going to try to go to the Bible, because that's what Protestant evangelicals do. Totally. And so what does the Bible have to say about this sort of stuff and how does it inform our faith? And so those that want to tackle the flat earth versus round earth thing from a religious standpoint, the particularly a lot of the the really earnest Christians will say, look, if flat earth is true That's proof positive that there is a supreme creator, an intelligent designer. Evolution cannot be true because there's no way that a flat Earth would have randomly shown up. kind of thing. And so it's proof that everybody that the scientific mindset is wrong. And I say, well it sounds good, except no, they would just say, yeah, chance randomly put a flat earth. Where it did. seemed to get to part of part of what led him in this direction was was uh him trying to grapple with how could people be in such different places about creation versus evolution. Right? And that that massive, you know, gap between the two that you could look at the same evidence And based on your presumptions, based on on the uh your preconceived conclusions, you know, what you bring to the discussion, you could end up seeing something different from the evidence, right? And this is pretty important to any discussion that you have with anybody these days, you know, whether it's Democrat and Republican, w why the two seem to uh both agree that the other person is an idiot. or, you know, uh religion, uh uh questions of religion, you know, Muhammad, Buddha, you know, w when we're trying to define reality, we see the same thing. All of these point to a similar truth that that if you bring certain conclusions to the discussion ahead of time, presumptions to the uh discussion ahead of time, it affects what you see or how you see what you see. And that Nobody can get away from that, right? There's there's been a little bit of a of a sense that s that science would set us free from all of our false approaches to uh you know like our mystical approaches or our magical approaches to to viewing things the wrong way but the reality is that science itself has be has become a grid through which uh you know we we would call it you and I would call it scientific naturalism, right? That it's uh that it's a worldview, it's become something of a religion. And and so that led this gentleman to kind of asking, okay, well maybe more of science's conclusions are wrong. Maybe these flat earthers are right that these scientists are approaching everything from the wrong way. If I understood him correctly, he was blaming the church for that because the church was backwards and thought the earth was flat and then science came along and was trying to disprove these backwards, you know, uh church people. Meaning that we got cowed into submission by the church uh started to adopt The idea of a round earth giving to the pressure of those who weren't maybe biblical in their approach or whatever and that we got off the rails five hundred years ago. Right. totally misses the idea that there's an ar I don't I this is not my field of expertise, but I've done enough reading. I mean um you know I read too much probably uh that there's an argument argument argument to be made that the ancients at least a certain significant percentage of them understood or believed the world to be round. Going back to hundreds, maybe even t thousand, two thousand years before Christ. Right. And so if it goes back at least that far and then Aristotle, I think it's clear, believed in a round uh earth And in and in the church, uh even in the Middle Ages, uh Aquinas was a round earth guy. Yeah. So it it's it's all throughout Now the argument that they would use is well yeah, but the earth talks about the uh you know the four corners of the earth. The earth talks about four corners. or the sun rising and setting, meaning that the sun is revolving around the earth as opposed to the other way around. Yeah, and that that the earth is set on foundations, these kinds of things that that uh might he he's saying leave space to to think that maybe the earth is flat. Right. However I we don't have the audio to prove it, but I asked him about that. I said, Now you're I don't believe that the Bible is making the case for a flat earth or a round earth. Yeah. I don't think the Bible is intending to teach us about the shape of our planet. It's not making that kind of a of a case. Yeah. Um do you agree? And he said, yes. He agreed with me. So he's surrendering any sort of biblical argument at that point. The Bible's not making a case. So he's purely in this For it's in his favor to do that, right? He's i it's in his favor to to to keep it, you know, not coming from scripture and to let it be something that's driven purely by science. that is uh standing against, you know, the the juggernaut of scientific deception, you know, that's come down from thousands of years of of uh of deception, then you know, he's gotta make his case not from scripture but from science. Now have you heard the theory that this whole revival of flat earthness is and I'm not saying that our podcast friend is is within this group, he might be an uh unwitting participant. Uh this this idea that people who are opposed to uh the Bible and opposed opposed to Christianity have kind of thrown this hoax up to see how many gullible Christians will jump on board and try to argue from the Bible that yes the earth is flat and then trying to backwards, uh uneducated, uh ill-informed. So you ran around like Like how much study did you do any? Sorry that you had to do that. It's well Which is interesting. So you haven't heard that that's uh what might be going on here? It's some sort of No, I mean I just have to confess that I've spent very little time thinking about it. Well won't you be surprised. So I came to the discussion last week, you know, trying to say, okay, well, you know, let me see if I can even go there. And that's part of I think what was so exasperating is you know, how do you even go there? How do you wade into It's just a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little Well now see you're gonna be really, really surprised one day you get up high enough to see that the world is indeed flat. Yeah, right. I will be, you know. I'll be surprised. And you're okay with that? Uh uh when it is flat, when I find out that it is flat. Well, he's John Sweitzer. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. Thank you so much for listening. Thank you to our podcast friend. He might stumble into this show because you know well we I interact with him on occasion and he might see that I post this on Facebook or something. talking about 'em. Know that we love you. I have a actually a deep heartfelt concern for the path that you're on, to be honest. I think it's I think it's gonna cut the legs out from under you eventually and so hear my heart concern on that. And we're playful 'cause this is a show biz, we're doing a radio show and all that and so please don't take any uh take any Okay, till next week. God bless. That was stupid. Was it? Ha!