Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. The Frederick Faith Debate is brought to you by All Shred Mobile Document Destruction. They sell security. Thomas Jefferson once said the clash of ideas is just down to freedom. In that spirit we will seriously wrestle with important ideas and might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. This week we're going to discuss the idea of truth. Is there a universal truth? And if so, can we all agree on it? And how do we know it when we found it? I'm here to uh talk about that this week. Uh back on this week, you're uh he's becoming a familiar uh familiar voice, John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel. Also with us for the first time. Thank you for coming is uh Tony Fish, the spiritual leader at Unity Church in Frederick, and uh a leading layperson in the community, uh Dr. Charles Van Meter, who has uh been conducting and leading a community Bible study uh in the area for about a decade and And is also teaching an adult Sunday school class. This morning So, truth, I was having lunch one time with a friend of mine, actually a business associate, and we were talking about things of faith and spirituality and those sorts of things. I'm not sure why, but I find myself talking about these things from time to time. And um and we were talking about the idea of truth. And he said to me, Well, you know, um all truth is kind of relative. We all have our own truth. Yeah, you have your truth, I have my truth. Wouldn't you agree? And at the time, I said yes, I would agree with that. But ever since that it's stuck with me and I've been thinking about it. Do I agree with that or don't I agree with that? And I've been wrestling with it, so we're gonna wrestle with that a little bit this morning. And maybe real quickly we're going to get a sense of uh where the players stand on this issue. We'll go around the room real quickly and we'll start with uh with you, Charlie, and see Is there one truth or can everybody have their own truth? Uh Croy, I think that um with the background that I'll be coming from, I'll be taking the position that there is an objective truth in the world And the objective truth that I would say that we have is clearly Jesus Christ. Because he makes the statement in John 14, for example, I am the way, the truth, and the life. So I think there's an objective truth. I think in our postmodern world that we're dealing with um a false sense that there's not, that the world today in the postmodern concept, everybody's uh like you said the introduction to the show that uh the it's what's true to me is what's important. We're subjective. And anybody that has a subjective feeling of truth obviously thinks their truth is the truth and they don't have an objective standard. But the scripture tells us there is an objective standard, and I think that's Jesus Christ. He says he's the truth, which I'll elaborate on. All right, John? Um I'm gonna uh ultimately really come down in the same place as Charlie. Uh I'm I'm gonna attempt to grapple I think with the idea that there is uh th that we in today's language uh substitute the idea of perspective for truth uh in s instead of recognizing that there's a truth out there that's absolutely true uh and then there are perspectives on that that uh we ultimately have to grapple with and it's part of the reason I think why uh the whole world is not in agreement on things right now is because uh the perspective element is is kind of where we are hashing things out and so Um I'm gonna argue that there is absolute truth, but that uh the pursuit of it ultimately can only come in the context of l like we're doing today, clashing, going head to head and seeing if my truth still lines up Once I'm going head to head with somebody that seems to have found a different truth and I personally believe that Christ will always uh win out in that context. But That's why I have the discussion. Tony? It's an interesting thing, Troy. I remember John the first time he came into my office said, I really believe that we have similarities. And we have differences and this is going to be a place for us to do them and we'll probably disagree more often than not. Interestingly enough Here we go. No, actually, John. Come on. And and some I I'm sure when we get into the details we will. There is an absolute there is a universal truth. Okay. That is our terminology. There is a universal set of truths. Whether we agree on what those universal set of truths are is a is part of that discussion There are also perspectives which we would call relative truths. There's the big T truth and the little T truth. So Um how we come to and and I um before we got started, Charlie said it's how we get there. It's how we get to God. Um I would say that you know, God is our absolute our universal truth, how we define that and how we get there is then the process. And that's where that's where the difficulty comes in and that's where the dissimilarities come in. Okay. I want to uh Follow kind of a follow-up with and try to expand on something you just said. Uh I'm not sure that I understand what those absolute uh universal truths would be and what the relative truths would be. What are some examples of a relative truth, for example? In um a relative truth Actually it's easier for me to give you what I consider to be an absolute truth. Okay, but let's do that. Let's start there. Um absolute truth is there is only one power and one presence in the universe, and that is God And we call God good. That is an absolute truth. Okay. Now, the other absolute truth from a unity perspective, is that every individual, every human being has within him or her divinity. So for us that's an absolute truth. We are all made of God's substance and are part of that. So for us that is an absolute truth. Now for others, that may very well be. A relative truth. Uh yeah, I don't uh I don't buy that at all. I think that uh I think the scriptures are clear that we are totally to pray, we don't see God, we're not God, we're humans. Uh there's no divinity in any of us. There's only one God. And to say that there's divinity in in people is to make us all uh gods and there's only one God And to make that kind of a statement is very misleading and it makes us I mean, it's a pantheistic type of statement and you know, we're worshiping uh everything. We're idolaters at that point. And uh I don't buy that at all. There's one true God, I agree with that, that's an absolute truth. One true God is truth, and Jesus came, says, I'm truth, which he defines himself as that true God, and what is he telling us in his truth? He's telling us throughout the scriptures that we are sinners. We can't get to that God unless we come through him. He's the way and he's the truth. It gets us to that God and reconciles us. Furthermore, this truth that we're talking about What is this truth? What is the truth of Jesus? The truth is that he is the creator of the universe. Colossians John one. The truth is that he has created mankind for a purpose, for meaning. The truth is that we are not a God. We're a human being. We're here to represent him. We're in his image. And the truth is that we have lost that image through the fall. We're sinners. We have no ability to get to him. We certainly don't have divinity in us. Quite to the contrary, we're uh sinners And consequently, Jesus comes and tells us the truth. The truth is, if we believed in him, then we have reconciliation with the God. And the belief in him is the belief in the truth of what he came to do and what he stood for. And so believing in Jesus Christ as the truth gives us purpose and meaning in life. We didn't come out of some slime pit. We were created in God's image. We have significance and we have a history and we're heading somewhere. And Jesus tells us that clearly We have to believe in him in order to be reconciled to God. There is an absolute God. We are not that God. And we will never be that God. We will never even be a part of the Godhead We are made in God's image and we're made to be servants of this God and we're made to be representatives of this God, but we're not a part of the Godhead. John, you have you look like you're chomping to say a little something. Um the uh it's interesting that uh Tony had said that we each have a little bit of God in us. And um I think She's probably referring to the passage where it says that we're made in the image of God. And I certainly think that we were made with the stamp of the image of God on us. Um and that sin has marred that and that at some level uh what we're being redeemed I think is a good good word back to is is that image of God. Like where it says in in uh Psalms it says that what is man that you are mindful of him. You know, you made him a little lower than the angels, but you crowned him with glory and honor and you gave him rule over the animals and over over the earth. The point is is that is that there's a there's a an ideal that God wants to bring us back to um and we are redeemed back to that, but it's never the divine. And this is This is part of what what um where I tend to and I think Christianity tends to tends to diverge from like Buddhism, Hinduism Uh not so much Islam and and Judaism, but specifically Hinduism and Buddhism, because they define like this this holy um other that we're trying to to get back to to be consumed by. And my concern with an approach that that um just says that that we're trying to, you know, become divine again is that like like what Charlie was saying, that it doesn't keep a separation between us and God that I think is appropriate and that I think needs to be there. And as a result, if when we don't keep that in there, this is my concern, is I think it breeds just a little bit of arrogance Phew, that's huge. That's a tough word. I'm not saying that I see that in you, but I'm saying that I think there's the potential for that. And I'm not gonna argue with that. I believe that if we believe we are God There is arrogance. And that's not what I said. And that's not where I'm coming from. There is within the I think I thought that was the case as I was listening to you. I thought maybe that there were you were making a distinction there. Well but let me let me just let me just finish that process and then we can go. Because there is we are made in the image of God or we are made in God's image as spirit. that same making was in Genesis. Yeah. Stamped as good. So if in fact within me I have the essence that is God. Something redeemable. Not God. Not God. But something that is pure in my essence, from which I start. Then the process of following the life and the teachings of Jesus, who is our way shower leads me on that path okay to redeem because I will have made decisions myself that are not in alignment with that path. So what I am in fact doing is redeeming myself. I like that word. I am I am finding that pure essence that Jesus said to himself. You can do the things that I do. If if I can do the things that he did, I would have to have come from the same place that he did. It's interesting. We got into this the other day with uh with Khalil. um from a mist Muslim perspective and it sounds like the disagreement here has to do with the nature of man. Does sin ultimately make us um what's the word? How how bad does sin affect us when it affects us? Mm-hmm. And what you're saying is that sin hasn't affected us so bad that we can't in your words, redeem ourselves. And what I would argue that script that the Bible teaches, and so just making the distinction, that that what the Bible seems to teach is that Not so much that we can redeem ourselves, but that we're fallen far enough, we're in sin enough that we can't redeem ourselves. We need somebody to redeem us. and to show us grace and to pay the price for our sin. The wages of sin is death, but the gift of God is eternal life through Christ Jesus our Lord. And so what you're arguing is I think what I hear you arguing is that you can redeem yourself. And again, I I apologize for coming back to this term. I feel like that's a little bit uh prideful that that we could ever redeem ourselves to to a place where God could say, you know what, you did it, good job, you've done it. And I would say that that there's just no way that we can do it. W sin has I know my own heart and I know what happens when when somebody does something to me that I don't like. I know the anger that rises up inside. And I need a Savior. I need somebody to redeem me from the death that sin has caused in my life. And that's why I look to Christ as Savior, because I need him to do that. Let me uh introduce what's going on here to those who might have joined us in the last couple of minutes. You're listening to the Frederick Faith debate on uh Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. By the way, you heard uh uh John Sweitzer's voice there just a second. He's the pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel. He made reference to Khalil For those who aren't initiated into this show, Khalil has been on this show a number of times. Uh Khalil El Shazley, who is the president of the Islamic Society, is uh who John is referring to. The other panelists uh here this morning are uh Tony Fish, the uh uh spiritual leader at Unity Church in Frederick. And Dr. Charles Van Meter, who is a leading layperson uh in the Christian community, leads a uh a long-standing Bible study and teaches an adult Sunday school class at uh Good News Presbyterian. Um One question I want to ask, and then I know that Tony, it seemed from your body language you wanted to respond to something that John might have just said, so I'll give you a chance to do that. But also, uh Thank he's got some stuff too. Yeah, I think that's uh I think that Charlie does too. Charlie does. Um Charlie uh uh he's flipping through his Bible so I know he's I know that he's uh I know that he's grounding his his view of what the truth is in in what the scripture, the the the Bible has to say. And what from what John just said, he quoted a couple of verses already uh in the show, he's grounding his his view of the truth in the Bible. I'm not f as familiar with the unity tradition. Is that where the truth would be found in the unity faith tradition as well? Unity is a little different. than um other Christian um denominations in that we use the Bible as a text. We look at it though from a more of a metaphysical interpretation than a literal interpretation. So our basis of assumptions are going to be d somewhat different. Um and and that's part of the dialogue that always happens. And when I say metaphysical, our focus as we're talking here about about Jesus is that the thing that saves us, that the thing that Jesus did that saves us was to point us to that process of living and dying that will allow us then to take those words, those teachings and that spirit and integrate it into our own life. So it's not that we save ourselves By ourselves. We save ourselves through through the process of becoming immersed in the teachings and the the process that Jesus lived so that we can do make those decisions um through prayer and meditation that will get us to that same path. Will I achieve that in this lifetime? Ooh, I got an awful lot of things going on in my lifetime that probably not. But that's my objective. That's my aim. That's my goal in life. Well, Charlie, uh seems like a good place for you to jump in. No, that's a tough one. That's just like all to me that's very reminiscent of all humanistic religions, with the exception of one. Christian Christianity is the only religion that I know of that has a way to God. All the others are works righteousness in that you can work your way. But God's made it very clear in Scripture if you sin you die Now when you the classic evangelistic explosion question is when you arrive at the pearly gate and God says, On what basis should I allow you to enter my heaven? And you say, Well I did this and I did this and I meditate on that and I did this and God's going to say, Did you sin? And if you say yes, God says, Well, what are you going to do about that sin? You've got to either die or have an atonement made for you. And people in the listening audience have got to grapple with this decision. You it doesn't make a difference how good a meditator you are, how many good things you do, how many thoughts you do. thoughts you have that are good thoughts, what kind of spirits you think you have in you if you don't have God's spirit and God's grace and you don't believe what Jesus says, he says, Look, no one comes to the Father except through me. He says, I'm the way, I'm the gate, I'm the shepherd. The I am statements are divinity. He's God. He says, you don't get to me unless you believe in me. And the belief in me is that I died for your sin. I took your sin. You cannot get to me, period Now that's that statement may sound dogmatic, it may sound narrow-minded, but you have to take in mind that God built a history of years with Israel, with prophets. He put a person on a cross that was very climactic and very dramatic. Everybody knows what Jesus did. And to take exception to that is to put your finger in God's eye and say, I don't accept your way, I'm coming my way. which is the height of arrogance and pride and it is false teaching and it will lead to the death of anybody that believes such a statement. Now we are gonna have uh this panel back next week and we're gonna talk more specifically uh throughout the whole show about uh Jesus and and uh uh and and what a maybe a right proper view of Jesus is and what the unity tradition teaches and what the a more reformed uh Christian perspective would teach and uh and and so forth. And I don't want to deviate too much into that, but it's hard for all these conversations always come back to these sort of these they all intersect. But a question I want to ask is it sounds like if I can bring this back to the truth issue. It sounds like uh there's some disagreement on what the truth is. Yes. And it seems like uh at least on one side of the aisle, there is an understanding that having a difference of opinion on the truth has and has an eternal consequence. Charlie just talked about when you go to heaven, you know, what's God going to hold you account on. So Is what is the unity view on that? If is it okay? Can we all disagree and everything still maybe okay? If I don't agree with with your view, for example, Tony, uh Might I still be okay? Whereas if I disagreed with uh with Charlie, he's probably gonna tell me, Well, no, you're you're probably not okay. And I think that's that's a very very Clear distinction between where Charlie Ant stands and where I stand in and probably where John stands and where I stand. In that um we are um in unity there is no physical place called hell. Hell is a s is a state of consciousness It's a metaphysical thing, is what you're saying. It's a state of separation from God. Being in a separate place from God, and when I die my spirit, which we believe to be in its essence pure. Because in fact in the case, you know, So you believe the spirit is pure even though you do sins. At my essence. Your essence never becomes impure. I am pure. I will in fact in this body and in this in this lifetime make decisions that are not. Sure. Because I have been separated from your place. Well, hey, you know. It occurs to me that early in the show, um, you know, I don't know if it was a question or if it was Tony responding to a question and and it got brought up, but she talked I think I it was a question. I asked what are some universal truths. And it occurs to me it m it might be appropriate to find out um you know from John and or Charlie, you know, what would the a uh the universal truths be? It would the universal truths be from your perspective. You know, I would say that uh that there are many roads to God, but that they all lead through Christ. I really believe that. In fact I think every Hindu out there is genuinely try you know, that's really following Hinduism is genuinely trying to get to God. I think the same thing's true about Islam and I think when they finally get to the place Where they and and this is what I believe is universal. That we all as humans know that there's something wrong. That's a that's a universal truth. I know you agree with it. There's a problem And we s and we sin. And the problem leads to a separation. I think that that's clearly a universal truth. And I would argue that that separation This is where you and I would disagree that that spiritually I've become impure. And that that is the death that is the spiritual death. That I didn't just die physically or emotionally, but I actually died spiritually. And so because I died spiritually, I need an eternal spiritual atonement. I need a perfect man, God himself, to come in fact I think that that's a universal truth, that if there's a good God out there that allows evil to happen, then he has to allow it to himself. He has to be willing to let that evil you know and that's where Christ was on the cross. He allowed himself to be crucified and for the fullness of evil of history to be put on his back. That I believe is a universal truth. Excuse me, if there's a good God that at some level he would have to go through with us, walk in our shoes. Charlie? Interesting. Well I'm trying to process what you said. I don't I don't I I so is my wife. She hasn't been arrogant either. I think we are. Yeah, that's that's that's a that's a tough one. I I would have to say that Based upon what I see in Romans uh chapter three here, it says no one's righteous and no one seeks God. Alright, so I would take exception with the Hindus, and I don't think they're seeking God I think they're seeking some kind of soothing to their guilty conscience, but they're not seeking the true God. The true God has made himself known. It's a universal truth. that in Romans 1 he tells us he created the world and he's made it clear to everybody. It's clear to everybody when you look outside on a clear fall night and you see the stars, when you look outside you see all that he's created, he's made himself Obvious. Now, we don't want to seek that God. That's a universal truth. We don't want anything to do with Him Because we're sinners, we're fallen, we don't seek him, we are dead. That's a universal truth. And if we recognize that there is a true God, what does that make us accountable And we don't want to be accountable. We're not seeking the true God. And we don't have a spirit of divinity in this either. The spirit in Genesis one was a breath of life, not the spirit of divinity. Right. And I agree with you on that. Charlie, I do disagree with you on the question of whether or not we can seek God. Um in and of ourselves. Um even in Romans where it says that uh there is no one who seeks God, no not one, it is referring to a specific time in history where Paul Uh Paul when he writes to the Romans is is warning the Jewish people of pride and arrogance and he's and he's pointing them back to their own history and he says, Look King David, when he was alive, he himself in his own lifetime he he cried out concerning the Jews, there is no one righteous, no not one. And then he and then Paul lists out off uh from Jeremiah and Isaiah similar passages about uh uh times in history when the Jews themselves were evil and uh at the lowest levels of depravity in fact. And so anyways my My belief on that particular issue is that is that there are many people that seek God and there uh I I would agree with you though that there's probably a lot of Hindus, a lot of uh Buddhists and even a lot of Christians that their religion is uh is not seeking God but it's a pride trip And uh I think that's true for all of us at some level. I'm gonna give Tony the uh the final word in this uh program. Okay. I just want to say that I I I hear you, Charlie, and I believe that It is it is our basic nature to seek God. I think it's it's part of who we are to reach out to that which is larger than ourselves. uh greater than ourselves so much so that we can't even imagine how great it is. And I think that that's our basic nature is to reach out to God. Whether we make it or not, that's what it is. All right, well, we've solved the world's ills once again in twenty seven minutes or less. This is a Ferdinand Faith debate on Ferdick News Radio nine thirty WFMD, my thanks again to uh John Schweitzer from Cross River Valley Chapel, to uh uh Tony Fish uh from Unity Church in Frederick and uh from Doctor uh Charles uh Van Meter uh representing uh I guess goodness uh Presbyterian. Not in the pastoral sense, but representing them nonetheless. Uh again, we want to thank our uh sponsor of the program, All Shred, Mobile Document Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow. Uh 1-877-2 Shred. That's 1-877, the number two, SH. R-E-D-D. Same panel back next week to talk about the person of Jesus. That ought to be fun. Thanks for listening. I'm Troy Skinner on uh Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMG.