The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. And things that are said on today's panel might not even reflect the views of everybody who's on the panel today. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD on your AM at AM930 every Sunday morning at 9 a. m. That's kind of confusing, right? 9 30 a. m. at 9 a. m. That's almost confusing. Tongue twister perhaps. Anyway, we're on the FM at 99. 9 HD2 and we're on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. And uh we do have this show available as a podcast as well. You can access that through the radio station's website. You can also access it through uh all of my social media and my church's website. That website is household of faithinchrist. com, household of faithinchrist. com. On the panel again this week From uh last week and last several weeks, Steve Jurger. He is with the Shabbat Gathering in Southern Pennsylvania. And uh Daniel Rasby wasn't here the last few weeks, but he's been here for uh quite a number of shows over the last year or so. He's with a church, the house church that meets in Thermont and also part of the Conquered by Love Ministries um organization. And they have a website, conquered by love. org. So I'm not exactly sure the first time that this issue was mentioned, if it was on the air or off the air, but it's come up a few times, either on the air or off the air, as we've done faith debate shows um The the Razveys a and me now and and and typically David Forcey doing the show together for I don't know, fourteen, fifteen months, something like that. And a handful of times the question about Bible translation and those sorts of things has come up as an aside, as a as they come at either in the show or in between shows. And thought, you know, we need to talk about that. And so I think today is a day we will at least begin to talk about that. We'll see if we finish the discussion just in one show. To try to encapsulate the question as simply as possible, are the newer English translations of the Bible worse, better than? As good as? the good old standby King James version from the sixteen hundreds. Um and when I texted uh a version of that question to Daniel, his response was a very cheeky yes. Because it depends on which translation. So and I think that that does all require some clarification. So who wants to to clarify why the answer could be yes, that it's better than, worse than, the same as? So I'll preface it by saying, Well I'm not and we can define the term KGV only. There's that might be actually be uh helpful I think for the audience. I'm not KJV only. KJV, by the way, is the shorthand for King James version. Right. However, I do believe my my personal belief is that the King James Version is currently the most accurate, easily obtainable version of the English translation for the average person. Meaning there are there may be some more accurate in certain ways that you can get But it requires a lot of work and a lot of digging in there. It's hard to find, not not published as much and things like that. So any of the very common English translations that you could just buy off the shelf, the King James is gonna be by far the most accurate in my opinion. Great. So we'll have we'll have some good fodder there. So why well so if if it's if it's better, you know, you're saying it's better, so why did you say yes when you know So that the well is because I think there are certain translations that are uh that do some things the King James did not do. For example, the King James, while it does use the Textus Receptus, the uh receive text, um which is uh I I believe has less errors and things like that than what the majority of the modern translations use. Um it also uses the Masoretic text for the Old Testament, and that is not, I think, what the Apostles were quoting. The Apostles were quoting the Septuagint, the Greek Old Testament. And there are a couple places where that differs. And there's very few translations into English of the Greek Old Testament. Most of them are translations of the Hebrew Old Testament. And the Hebrew Old Testament that we have now is not quite the same as it was prior to Jesus. Um it's it's it's almost and and I have let me pause for a second, tell the listeners, the differences we're talking about in these Bible translations are so minute. That they're barely even worth mentioning, but the fact that so many translations exist makes people wonder, okay, is some better than others? So we I do want to mention them. But they are so minute. Now there are verses missing in some versions, so it's not like they're entirely the same. But on a percentage level, ninety-nine percent plus of all of these translations agree with each other on every on those things. And for that reason is one of those The scripture itself is so reliable because if it was just uh a group of quirks trying to make sure they had kept an iron fist on everything, they would have made everything identical and they would have s thrown out all the other ones and burned all the other ones that weren't quite the same so that there was, you know, um a homogeneous text that you could have for i for time. So just the fact that that wasn't done shows how dedicated people have been to try to preserve the word of God there. So one of the things Ether I just um You you might have explained what it was, but in case it went by fast and or in case you didn't uh explain what it was. Septuagint that's a fun word to say, subtuagent Uh that's the uh ancient Greek translation of the Hebrew scriptures. Correct. And yeah, and and Uh yes, that it's it's very clear to anybody who is paying any attention that uh there are New Testament uh writers who are quoting from the Satutra. I don't Uh I wouldn't go so far as to say they're exclusive. I think there are also examples of them quoting from the Hebrew text as well. I haven't found one. I've looked up to the case. But they're definitely there's definitely examples where they're quoting the Septuagint's version of uh of the text. Obviously they're not quoting in the New Testament which is written in Greek, they're not quoting the Hebrew in Hebrew, uh, but the construction of of some of the verses in the New Testament Greek follows the the Hebrew text uh the Greek text. You mean follows the Greek text. No, say when they're quoting the Septuagint then it's it's basically just a quote from the Septuagint. But there are times when even though you're reading the the New Testament in Greek You can tell by the construction it doesn't match what's in the uh Septuagint, but it does match what a Greek translation uh uh uh an uh an additional way of translating the Hebrew would be. So that's why I'm saying that I think that the the uh New Testament writers are quoting from both. Which I think is interesting to and to this discussion, because we can get hung up on, you know, which translation and like you said, it's like it's I don't know what the exact percentage is, but it's it's probably approaching ninety-nine percent. uh agreement is it okay to have slight differences? Well yeah, the New Testament authors, you know, led by the Holy Spirit were quoting uh the Hebrew and the Greek as a even though there were some variance between the two texts. Uh and and that was fine. If it's good enough for the apostles, it's gonna be good enough for me. So uh I think that helps us to take to to take the edge off of this a little bit. And I do want to talk about the uh the KJV only controversy stuff, you know, the King James only. uh stuff that w people are very strident about that. But I want to get uh Stephen into the uh discussion before we get into that. I asked the KGB only folks. Uh am I in sin if I read another version? Or am I going to go to hell if I'm reading another version? And uh it's interesting to note that the culture And when the language was preserved was the common language of the day. So we have for example when Jesus was on the cross And uh there's an inscription that is written, and it says, Jesus Nazareth, the King of the Jews. And it says, Therefore many of the Jews read this inscription, for the place where Jesus was crucified was near the city, and it was written in Hebrew. Latin and in Greek. So we have a cool little little foreshadowing here of the preservation of the Word of God through a people group, the Jews, Hebrew, and then we have the Latin, which was probably the common language of the day in the first century in Israel, uh being Rome being occupying Israel. And then of course you have the Greek. So There's something to be said about if you're going to have a uh particular version or a particular translation It would be nice to be able to have it in the hands where somebody will actually read it. King James is a little archaic on the language uh some of the words that are used in King James we today if you give it to the average person they wouldn't even be able to relate to some of it. And so there's a uh I think there's room to be able to see And I've paralleled the King KJV, NASB, ESV, some of the other English versions, and like we said, they're very, very close. Um so it's Interesting to take note that uh do we divide over this or what's the message? What are we trying to get the message across? Well to your opening question, um You know, are you in sin? Uh there are some would say yes. They they exist. Some of them have in you know relatively sizable you know online presence. uh and therefore an uh an outsized uh impact based on the size of their congregations. They might be leading a church that only has a hundred or two hundred people in it, but they have an influence on the internet that uh affects a lot of people. I visited a church not too long ago and um was there for their Sunday school and for their worship service and I went and visited them because they're a house church and I'm trying to identify other house churches that we could maybe do some partnership with, work together on some things, you know, be in fellowship together as churches. And but I'm not going to do that willy-nilly. I want to go visit a a church at least once and get a sense of what they're all about and see if it's a fit both ways, you know, I might not be a fit for them, they might not be a fit for for me, whatever. And in the Sunday schools, some things that were said um were rather strident about the King James. In in uh you know as as opposed to other translations in support of the King James. Which caught my attention. I was like, Huh, I wonder if these guys are like strict KJV only type people. And then in the sermon, the pastor He went on this uh rabbit trail that lasted I don't know how many minutes, five, ten minutes, that was basically just a defense of the King James text as opposed to like preaching what the meaning of the text was or or amplifying the gospel or whatever. And he went on this little rabbit trail about the text. I was like, okay, that definitely caught my attention too. They must be staunchly KJV. So I went and talked to one of the elders. uh afterwards and said, uh, you know, uh 'cause I had talked to him before, he knew I was coming, and I said, Hey, I'm glad you had me here you know, but I couldn't help but notice in the Sunday school and in the sermon there was a lot of emphasis on the KJV and there are a couple of things said basically that the other texts are uh all but heretical. So like when I preach, I'm not preaching just from the King James Version. Is that going to be a problem for us? And the answer I got, well it doesn't need to be. You might not just be up to speed on what all the issues are. Basically that's saying yes, it's gonna be an issue unless you know unless we can convince you. Yeah, unless you come around. And first of all, it's a little bit arrogant. Now I'm not saying I know everything there is to know about this stuff. But I think I know enough to know what some of the big issues are and I'm not and you know, uh it's not the main thrust of my ministry, so it's not what I pay most of my attention on. But there are some times when anybody who comes to my church and listens to my sermons, they'll they'll notice uh pretty quickly within within a few months they're gonna notice, uh seems like you're preaching from a whole bunch of different versions of the Bible, and that's self-consciously. I'm doing it on purpose I won't preach from a bad translation. We can talk about that in just a minute. But I'm purposely preaching from other versions because I don't want us to become idolaters of a particular uh translation. So sometimes I preach from the King James, sometimes I preach from the NIV, sometimes I preach from the uh the NASV, sometimes the ESV, sometimes the NET, which is a new Online only translate, you know, it's only available online and is actually Pretty solid actually. If you're not familiar, I would encourage anybody to check it out. One of the cool vert uh aspects to that translation is they have way more footnotes than like any other translation I know of, which is can be interesting and sometimes helpful. So things like that I'll preach from and sometimes I find, like you said, I'm comparing different translations. And one of the things I try to do when I'm preparing a sermon is to interact with the original language. And then I try to figure out what the original language is actually saying, and then oftentimes I'm preaching from the English version that captures that the best. But on occasion, I'll purposely pick a version that doesn't capture it the best and use that as a teaching opportunity to say the NIV here says this, to be honest. This is an example where the NASB or the King James Order actually gets it better because the original Greek is saying this, not to undercut their confidence in the Bible. But to help them to understand that these things can be known with the Translators are humans. They're fallible. Yeah, we can we can so there are errors in any of these translations, but error is also and and there are errors and for for sure, but error is also a little harsh of a word I think for most of what we find. Because the fact of the matter is and it and Americans have a harder time understanding this I think than people uh uh in other countries. 'Cause you've heard the joke, you know, what do you call a person who speaks three languages is trilingual. If you can speak two languages you're bilingual If you could speak only one language, you're American. American, right. And and so Americans have this thing where we only speak English. And uh but if you understand other languages then you start to realize that there is no such thing as a perfect translation of anything. You have to take liberties in order to translate into another language because there are things that just aren't found with context and idiom And uh I mean, we'll cross that bridge when we get to it. But you can't convert that into another language that doesn't have a similar idiom. Otherwise it sounds weird and so some translations will try to faithfully translate that and the other people are gonna have no idea what you're talking about that are listening to it or you can try to change it a little bit to to get around But there's there's a lot of things that it's just impossible to do a perfect translation. There are a few ways that it could be going and particularly when there's entendres, when there's um, you know, double meanings And Jesus has a lot of wordplay when he talks in the scripture, and he says one thing and he means two at once, but you can't translate them both because they're only both present in Greek. You've got to pick one. And so now that's or Hebrew. Um whatever it is, they're only the both meanings are only there if you really know the language like a native. Or Aramaic, by the way. It could be Arabic too. So that's that's where you have a have an issue where s somebody says, Wow, you know, this is the only way they have translated. And somebody else can say, Well, this is also a really good translation of that verse. Well yes, in fact the verse says both things. So really what you want to be doing is reading it in the original tongue, but that's hard to do just by a word search or by a strong's because that just gives you a dictionary definition that still doesn't give you context and grammar and idiom and all those things that you need to kind of be a native speaker to get. So then you gotta read a lot of commentaries, you've got to research a lot to try to figure out what it might mean. But I don't want people to get the impression that we're saying that you must know all these extra things in order to be able to read the Bible and get value out of it. Right. And and Strong's is a helpful tool, but it's it's a concordance. It's not the same as a lectionary. And so, you know, um You know, if you really want to try to understand what's going on, you should get something like it uh for Lexicano still kinda. Yeah, it gets like the B bag is a good one. I for uh uh I forget what all the the B D A G I forget what all the different names that belong to those four letters are but uh that's a pretty good lectionary and that'll give you a a sense if you don't really know the languages you didn't go to seminary and you didn't learn Greek and you didn't learn Hebrew And even those of us who've gone to Hebrew and Greek, we don't use it often enough to s uh unless that's like our our main focus and our profession is to really be steeped in that stuff. But you get a little bit rusty and so there are a lot of online tools. I was a use a tool called Love OS uh that is really helpful. Um and sometimes the differences When we say that there's you know there's like 90 plus, 95, 99 percent uh agreement among the different translations, uh that doesn't mean that there's 99 percent agreement on which English word is the best there. Uh but the but the general gist of what they're trying to translate, they're 99% of the time they're a hundred percent 99% of the time they are in a full agreement about what they're trying to translate. They might use a slightly different English word to do it But there's a couple of cases where the the translations are different because they understood the language differently or because they had different texts they were working off of. Right. And then we get to all the arguments about which texts are better than other texts. Right. Is it the majority text? Is it the earliest text? So usually people that favor the King James Version are gonna say that A lot of the other mo more modern English texts use a translation of Greek primarily by a couple of guys named Westcott and Hort. And there's been many articles and books written to cast doubt on those men's faith, for example, and and things like that. There's and there the fact of the matter is that the that Greek text does have some problems with it and also that it is uh particularly that it is different uh at least than the King James. And for now we're gonna get into the weeds a little bit, we might lose some people but One of those guys I think is uh uh or maybe both of them are Anglican, right? And it was one particular translation that maybe had a lot of weight, but that's When when somebody's when the NASB or the ESV is translated, they're not reliant on those guys. They're going they're looking at all of the ancient manuscripts, the original manuscripts themselves, like photographs of the original writings. Not like a um uh you know not like somebody's transcription of it, like actual documented evidence d of the fragments and all that sort of stuff. That's what they're interacting with to make their translational decisions. So that's that's not That that would be a very faulty KJV only argument to make. Well, think about the Masoretic text. Okay. Think about that being done, people going to that. Pause for a second. Masoretic text is the Hebrew Old Testament, the modern version of the Hebrew Old Testament. Just to clarify. Thank you. Right. But it but it's not the version of the text necessarily that existed uh three or four thousand years ago, right? Just to drive a point home that the people that were relying on that and then when the King James came out, it probably threw a lot of controversy when the King James 'cause you know, the King James also developed over time. You know, you had the Tyndale Bible and then you went from the Tyndale to Whycliffe no Wycliffe and then to Geneva. Geneva. And then you you marched yourself down to where the authorized version and people get their their security and what they feel is what they really like and then somebody else comes along and maybe feel a little threatened or feel like wait a minute I put all my stock at lock barrel in in this particular version. So, you know, I mean it's it's a kind of thing where what is are we splitting hairs or do we want to be able to have a a complete hat that you put on the head that will be able to do which is the primary message of the gospel of Jesus Christ and the whole formation of the kingdom of God, the whole plan from Genesis one to Revelation twenty two and and how all that unfolds. None of us throw something of a stick in the mud where in j in 1 John 2. 27 says, and for the anointing which you have received from him abides in you. You have no one for anyone to teach you, but his anointing teaches you about all things and is true and is not a lie. And just that is taught you, you abide in him. Now somebody could take that scripture by itself And say, I don't need all this stuff. I don't need you know, but throw that out in the conversation and see what you guys think. Well if you take any uh word or combination of words uh out of context, you know, a a word out of context is nothing but a pretext. You know, so you seriously, it it only any word only has meaning in context. I use this as an example when I was a a a young buck, you know, and back in the eighties, you know, Michael Jackson's a big deal and he had a popular song called I'm Bad. Well, before Michael Jackson comes along in his generation, bad was, you know, uh ungood, right? If something was bad, it was ungood. But when Michael Jackson comes along, all of a sudden bad is cool, hip with it. Like It's it's good to be bad. So if somebody says what's the meaning of bad, first thing we should ask is what's the context? How's it being used? So it's the same with a with a connect uh a combination of words in a verse. What are the verses surrounding that text? What is the overall message of that epistle in that particular case with John, 1 John? Or you know what how does it fit within the whole scope of canon? Like there's all the culture, like you said, all the idioms, like what are w how are the terms of phrases being used and that sort of thing. Yeah. I mean th for me One of the reasons I s I settled on the King James and also if it and if you have a criticism that the King James is just too hard to understand because it's in old English, the new King James It by and large uses the same texts that the King James did and it did it's I haven't really found anything that it's that is different or missing from the New King James, it's just other than the the words are updated, most of them. Some lieutenant became satraps and that's actually more difficult to understand, I think, for the a modern person. But besides that, most most of the things are are easier. But besides the New King James, most of the other modern translations, the ESB, the NISB, the NIV and all those Uh and I'm not getting into the new the new new woke gender neutral type stuff, but prior to let's say ten years ago, all those other new English translations, what they had in common was most of them were missing some pretty key verses. Um and so there's a famous verse obviously in 1 John again where the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and these three are one. That's usually either relegated to a footnote or it's taken out entirely, because there is some controversy about that verse whether it would make sense to have it in there. That may be too much for this discussion, but there is there's a couple other verses that really make absolutely no sense not being in the in the passage. Um and they're taken out. So for example, in f in John's gospel, there's it says, you know, this he comes up to this crippled man, and the crippled man is sitting there waiting for the moving of water and he Jesus says, What what's going on? He's like, I have nobody to get me into the water when it's moving. And Jesus says, Okay, you're healed now or but I'm I'm really shortening it right now for this discussion. But that makes absolutely no sense. Why would he want to get into the water while it's moving and you know, unless you have the other verse that's missing, which is in the King James and the New King James and a lot of those other original texts. It which is it says, well, for at a certain time an angel goes and stirs the water, and whoever gets in after the angel stirs the water, he's the one that's healed. Um automatically of anything. And and okay that makes more sense now what he's trying to rush in that he gets killed. Yeah I think there's a lot more that probably needs to be said. So we'll we're gonna do part two on this issue next week because there's so many things that probably should uh be said to add some clarity. For example Yeah, uh the presumption even, and this isn't meant as as a criticism, but uh a a critique of the words that y you used uh if somebody has a particular preference and uh and another translation doesn't include a verse, your preference includes was oh they left it out. Well maybe the King James is the one that added it in. You know, so that's part of the discussion we have to figure out too. But we don't have time to get into all that now so we'll do that. next week and we'll and uh I'm a little bit concerned that we might have undercut people's trust in the in in the Bible. So I want to make sure that uh we we undergird your trust in the scriptures uh next week Better than we did this week. Uh Daniel Radby, uh Stephen Jurger, I'm Troy Skinner. Thank you guys for being on the show. You can find us online at uh WFMD. com, of course, Household of Faith in Christ dot com, and you can follow the uh the ministry that the Razzleys are involved with at concordbylove. org. Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from just about now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com, a service of Holtsupple heating and air conditioning.