Broadcasting from the West Outside of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. I encourage you to encourage you to send me an email, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, tell you why in just a second. You go to our faith debate page, again, wfmd. com keyword faith. You'll find links to all sorts of cool stuff, including podcasts of this show Um, if you like this show, you can listen to it over and over and over again. You know, you can you can tell your friends, your neighbors, have it listened. In fact years from now. Kids will memorize these shows and quote them to one another with the passion that came out of us. It'll be part of the catechism. So Oh God help us really scary. But if you email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel dot com, guess what? I will post what you send me on the Faith Debate blog page because our blog is your blog. 18 times a day, Monday through Friday. That's 90 blog postings a week. So I need lots of volumes, so send me your stuff. On the Faith Debate today, you've already heard him chime in. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church on the show Once again. And we're joined this week again for the fourth week in a row now. We haven't scared them away yet, so we can get at least one more show out of them. Father James Hamrick from St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church. And we've been talking about some distinctives between um Uh generally speaking, Protestantism, because there's a whole lot of distinctions within that and orthodoxy, and there's probably a whole bunch of nuances we're leaving way off on the on the side of the table here. I after processing last week's show, I want to uh position something here and see if I'm not wrong. The Orthodox tradition says the Bible is inspired, uh is authoritative. Yes. Uh I don't know if you go so far as to say it's in inerrant, do you? It's inerrant? Well, we would say that that being the word of God it is with it it it is inerrant in the sense that being authoritative and being inspired, we believe that it's without uh theological errors. That's not to say that there couldn't be errors in co the copying And that kind of thing. Oh sure. But in the original autographs there wouldn't have been any there wouldn't have been any errors or maybe there w we don't know, we don't have them, right? So that's but there's there's a lot of common ground there. Sure. Okay. But I'm wondering if the difference is uh we've talked about this issue, John, on other shows in a different context when we've when we've talked to more of a secular or liberal mindset. Oh. And we talked to people about, you know, reading the Bible uh through the lens of science before looking at science through the lens of the Bible. Oh yeah yeah yeah So I'm wondering if we can change the word science for the word church tradition And say do we read the Bible through the lens of church tradition or do we read our church tradition through the lens of the Bible? Is that a fair distinction to make? orthodoxy from our Protestant brethren is the the Protestant's view of solo scriptura in that it is if it's not in Scripture If it's not in scripture then it's you know we can't hold it as um as authoritative. Um and in fact what I would argue is that that All these denominations within Protestantism really represents different ways of interpreting the same Bible. In fact, once they get to the United States, the denominations explode because everybody's free to interpret it for the same thing. Sure, sure. that the Bible, that the truths of the Bible are plain, you know, the perscapuity of scripture and all this. And what Orthodoxy has always held is that the Bible is a part of the deposit of the whole church, sacred tradition of the church. And therefore, it is not the individual that is the final arbiter of truth, but rather It is the church. One of the things that Father Peter Gilquist, who in making his conversion from Campus Crusade to uh Campus Crusade for Christ into Holy Orthodoxy describes His journey quite simply is first of all coming to have faith in God, believing that not only that God exists, but that God loves them and that he has his best interest in mind. And then the second was trusting God's word. Trusting Scripture, trusting the promises of Scripture. But then his last step in in conversion was then trusting in the authority that gave us Scripture, and that is the Church. And so the real difference in terms of authority between the Orthodox faith and much of Protestantism is a matter of authority, where the authority lies. And for us, believing that the church is the ongoing incarnational presence of Christ in a very concrete and visible way. Am I talking just spiritually or mystically, but very c in concrete terms? Um we acknowledge that uh that we interpret Scripture through the lenses of the church. That is the whole deposit of patristic tradition. We we stand on the shoulders of these giants. uh these men down through the ages who were uh affirmed by the church as being teachers. And so there's a there's a there's a sacred tradition that is at work even um within the context of this framework of the church. And there's an element of that in Protestantism too. I mean yet that whole idea of standing on the shoulders of those giants who came before us I mean uh uh no good reformed guy is gonna discount what John Calvin writes in his institutes and and in in his commentaries, for example. Right. No good Lutheran is gonna discount uh what Martin Luther had to say. So they're they're they have their own tradition. So the question becomes whose church tradition? Because even non Protestantism, let's throw that out to the side for a minute There are th there's Protest Protestantism, there's Roman Catholicism, and there's Orthodoxy. Right. And Roman Catholicism would agree with the Orthodox position that the church tradition needs to hold a lot of sway. And we should really read scriptures through the lens of the patristic tradition But whose patristic tradition? Well Because you uh you don't agree with if we had a Roman Catholic priest on this panel, we could find lots of areas of disagreement and you'd both be pointing to church tradition. So whose tradition do we pick? Well and and what I would argue, uh from an Orthodox perspective, is that it is the continuing that it's not just we're not just looking back in history, and by the way, even within the Protestant traditions, you're looking back you know, really in those traditions five hundred years. Uh our our whole the positive tradition really goes back two thousand years in terms of The patristic uh writings and and the the uh slightly I'm in a slightly different place Yeah, he's already not agreeing. Yeah, I'm not gonna agree with it. Because I say my my tradition and my view of how I interpret things is the redemptive historical model. So I've got a six thousand year old tradition it's informing my point of view. And I think a lot of reformed people would fall into that category. But you were going to disagree for a different reason. Well I was uh m it's similar. Uh our group of churches say that we're New Testament apostolic. meaning that what we what we're trying to do is to go past the patrist patristic fathers and go back to what is it that the that the you know, first century church, J you know, Pa James, Paul, Peter, uh, you know, John, all these guys, what is it that they believed and taught and to to stay in that place, you know, to recognize that that there was a drift that happened at some point and that the way to get past that drift is to go back to the autographs and to stay there to live in that place And to even grapple with those things through the eyes of some of the saints, even through some of the eyes of the patristic fathers and different ones, but to recognize that from the get go those guys, you know, were were again fallen, you know, faulty and and that there seemed to be drifts that were happening in different places. And so to to to let the scriptures be the final arbiter for that While we honor their the authority of the other guys, while we honor, you know, that we stand on their shoulders, but but, you know, endeavoring to get back to that place. Yeah, but Saint Saint Peter also said that the church is the pillar and ground of truth. Yeah, that's true. And and so And and I agree with you, Troy, that, you know, w we would myself and maybe another Roman Cat uh uh Roman Catholic rather would would probably argue over um you know that our tradition is valid, that your tradition is valid, uh or that we both possess sacred tradition and apostolic succession. Um but from uh from our perspective, that is the Orthodox perspective, is that uh Rome Rome split from the rest of Orthodoxy. And so In a sense, um a and I don't want to I don't want to disparage my Roman Catholic brethren because I have a great deal of respect for and love for for them, but uh they s the fact of the matter is that they also stand outside of orthodoxy. Now they they hold to probably ninety eight percent of what the Orthodox faith uh holds to, but have added have added to that sacred tradition. Um we would say that the Roman Catholics have added to Orthodoxy just as the Protestants have taken away from uh detract it from orthodoxy, um uh remove like such as we talked about earlier the sac sacraments, for instance. Um There's this, it's not just this idea of we are we are looking back to to Moses and and to the Old Testament. law, and which by the way we all agree that Jesus became the in the embodiment of of the law and the prophets, the fulfillment of the law and the prophets. But that there was not just a mystical church, but that there was a very real concrete church that was led by bishops. Uh the brother of our Lord, uh St. James was the first bishop in Jerusalem. ran the Jerusalem Council in Acts chapter fifteen, for instance. So right from the beginning there was church structure, there was church authority There was visible, there was the visible liturgical sacramental church that was underway. And they they dealt with these issues such as as happened in Acts 15. over this whole issue of Judaizing, do we allow the Jews uh uh to continue in in practices and still claim to be Christian. And so these were all issues that were decided and it it becomes then a living tradition. So it's not it's not just that we're looking back or appealing to these ancient church fathers, but rather we understand the church as an ongoing embodiment of that whole deposit of of Christ's teachings, the apostles' teaching, which have been handed down. And of course the church began over the years through especially through the um ecumenical councils and dealing with and wrestling with these issues and heresies uh began to mature theologically and began to place the very essentials of our faith in in the creeds. And and the Nicene Creed, for instance, that really defines who we are as Christians, whether we're whether we're Orthodox, Catholic, Presbyterian, Lutheran, Methodist. If if you if you can't if you don't hold to what's in that creed, then you're really not you're really outside of at least Orthodox Christianity. And I mean Orthodox with small, not necessarily the denominational denomination of orthodoxy, but The fact is there is an authority that is inherent, that is present in this concrete visible church, which we call the Holy Orthodox Church. Now I'm not sure what your uh op opinion would be exactly, but I'm I'm assuming that you would count Jonathan Sweitzer and I as as Christian brothers. I absolutely And so Jonathan as a pastor is a Christian pastor. Yes. Absolutely. And you mentioned somebody in the very first show we did together a few weeks ago. Uh you mentioned uh John MacArthur as as as a famous present day uh leader in the Reformed Church. Right. Um and so he would be a a present day Reformed Church father, if you will. Sure. And yet, you know, we can poke some holes in some things that John MacArthur might teach. Sure. For example. Uh we could go back and look at what Luther wrote or John Calvin for that matter and poke some holes and say, well, Calvin was pretty good, but I think he might have got that one wrong. We can do the same thing with with Augustine or Ambrose, right? Yes. So how when we go back to the earliest of the church, can we do that with Ignatius? Yeah. How far back can we go and start poking holes and say, yeah, and and see that and that's a and that's a great point because what we would s What we would say is that even though somebody may have been regarded as a as a patr as a father of the church, a patr patristic writer such as Ignatius or Augustine and and so forth, um Saint Irenaeus of Lyon and Tertullius. That doesn't mean that everything that they wrote or taught was was infallible or they were certainly capable of Tertolian particularly condemned for un universalism, the idea that all people will eventually be saved. Although These were a lot of times these early very early patristic writers did not have the benefit of the the more mature theological contemplation that occurred in these later councils. And uh and so so even though we may regard somebody as a father, that doesn't mean that everything that they spoke or wrote was held in the same regard as Holy Scripture. But as a case, as to what parts is the counseling. the the church. And when I say not just the council, and it's not we hold that the authority is not just inherent in the clergy of the church. Rather Uh canon laws were considered to be, or councils were considered to be ecumenical, that is to be truly authoritative. And and having the effect of of canon law there. If if the if y if they were accepted by the council itself, which was headed up by the emperor and all the bishops of the of this of the the apostolic sees and it was e it was accepted by the laity of the church. And so we're not in in the same regard as like the Roman Catholic Church, which is very monarchical, that the Pope basically can um present cathedra. Speaking ex cathedra, right. And whereas the in the in the Orthodox faith We hold that authority resides in the whole body. And so it is something that is discerned in council but that is then received by the laity with the discernment of the Holy Spirit. And actually I really like that. Mm-hmm. Let me jump in for a second and then I'll find out why you like it so much because I'm surprised to hear you say that based on what he just said. Anyway. Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor across the Sally Churchill who just surprised me. He does that from time to time. Uh Father James Hamrick from St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church in Lewistown is also on the show today. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB. All right, the reason I was surprised is it sounded like, James, you were setting it up that Uh part of the discernment process is okay, yeah, the laity has to kind of be on board and the clergy has to be on board and the council is led by the emperor. have to kind of come to a discernment that does everybody else then gets on board with. Okay, you're right. The Emperor part I don't like. And then you agree. The Emperor has no clothes. The rest of it is good The Emperor the let me just say though, the Emperor all the Emperor did was facilitate them. The Emperor had no uh ecclesial authority in in making decisions. decisions. Well he had ecclesial authority in calling the councils. Right. But but remember this was during a period in which you had the Holy Roman Empire. that had become at that point a Christian empire. And so they were they were saying that the colour. That's fine though. Forgive us. That's fine. That's fine. But the fact of the matter is it was pr it was because of guys like and and I realized there were issues with Constantine. Constantine, by the way, was not alive at the last ecumenical council in which they dealt with the um issue of icons. But um But the the fact is it was the the emperor that was trying to keep the realizing that it was Christianity that and the church that held together at that point the fabric of of of the uh political decision, really. Well for for the emperor it was it was very political. He got tired of all the different you know sects of fighting with each other and said I can't hold my But the pious emperors also acknowledge the reality of the authority of the church and and that he was also a servant Of God. He was appointed of God, divinely appointed. Did any of the councils uh in you I'm sorry, you're saying Constantine was divinely appointed by God? Well I the church would hold that I mean this I mean this from Romans Anyone in authority is there because that's authority, right? Right, along with Nebuchadnezzar and Cyrus and all the rest. You can point to any Pharaoh Okay. Sure, so I'll accept that he's divinely appointed but but but he's godly or that he represented Godliness. Although he was b he was baptized a Christian before his death, so Aaron or whatever it was. Uh I'm sorry, Troy. Yes. Some argue that he was just trying to cover all his bases, but he's gonna know his heart for sure. So could the council have any of the councils ever gotten anything wrong? He didn't never come back and ask me why I liked what he was saying. Can I say it? This is the th oh, I thought you did. I apologize. The reason I like what he was saying about the councils, right? Not about the emperor but about the councils is because In Acts 15, where I'm going to scripture for my standard, we see the church dealing with controversy in exactly the the way that he said. They came together. They heard it out. There was a full airing. And in the context of that, James stepped up and says, you know, this seems to fit with what, you know, with uh what uh was said in the Psalms. you know, about David, you know, that that his his tent's gonna be rebuilt. You know, so so let's move forward with it. And and it went out through the churches and and that approach of everybody coming together and hearing it out and uh in waiting on the Spirit of God together uh fits with m my own environment. Like there there's something happening there that is It's not a CEO, it's not a Pope, you know, it's not some kind of a hierarchy, but it's the men sitting at the gates, which is not just a New Testament idea, but is an old testament idea that I feel like is is the right way to handle things. And part of the reason, like we're saying, that the church ended up being triumphant. Right. And so what you're describing there, which is the pattern for this conciliar form of government in the church. Councils through councils. And that's what I mean by concealer. And and and James said, you know, it seemed right to us and the Holy Spirit. And so there was this process of discernment. To answer your question, Troy, yes There there was a council and I don't remember I I'm not a historian, I don't claim to be, um, but there was what was known as Robber's Council. And uh and and I don't remember all the All of the history and the and all of the because it was it was outside of the ecumenical councils, um, but the church had convened to to look at uh a particular issue or a a group of issues and they got essentially they got it wrong in that um the the the clerical body, the bishops that had uh made certain declarations or attempted to pass certain canons was rejected by the laity of the church. And and so again, in that process of discernment they realized that they got it wrong. And um and that was known then as as quite pejoratively, I suppose, as the Robbers Council How would we pull this all together today? We couldn't have a true worldwide Christian council today. Furthermore, once the councils were under the authority of the state It just changes things. Right? When when Acts fifteen had a council, right, and they came together, I mean they're living under severe persecution everywhere. And they're coming together doesn't have any danger of coming under the, you know, um uh pressure that is inappropriate. I mean these guys are just really trying to be you know, seek God and and to be in unity together. And they did that for some over you know, over two hundred years before such a time as they were able to do it uh free and uh sponsored by the emperor. And all I'm saying is that is that that shift in my mind Is a very dangerous shift. Even at the time there were there were many bishops in the church that were against all of those that came back into the church once it was no longer persecuted. Right? Saying that well well these guys walked away from Christ when they were persecuted. Now they're just coming back you know, now that it's uh popular to do so. Right, uh that there's there's significant issues that come up at that point that Um that I'm just saying uh to to to where I stand and when I look at the councils, everything shifts at that point. Well th remember it was the councils that helped us To define what was heresy, what was outside of uh of correct understanding of of scripture and of the faith and what you were referring to as well. But my point is that that was happening before Constantine. There were there were issues, of course, that was happening before Constantine. For over 200 years. probably the very first council of the church. And so from the beginning, the church was conciliar and continues in Orthodoxy to be conciliar. There is um there is plans underway in the Orthodox faith to try to assemble a great council. Now there's some you know, there's some academic debate about whether that's even possible because we no longer have an emperor. Because it traditionally and under the the canons, at least the ancient canons of the church, it was the emperor who would call the council. To my mind that makes it more authoritative. Well it but the point is What we recognize though is that there are there are issues that we have to address, especially with regards to Orthodoxy in America, how uh we there's a lot of um even though we're unified in the faith, there's a lot of visible disunity in terms of these various ethnic groups, the the Russians, the Greeks, uh the Albanians, the Georgians. And so um and and there's also question. And by the way, I like that as well that that that the unity of the Orthodox Church um gives the authority to the Russian gr tribe, as it were, to have their council and to the, you know, Greek tribe to have their council inside their You know, and then they send their own. Well, a great a great council, the church, would include all of the patriarchal sees. So it'd be all the churches under Antioch, all the churches under Jerusalem. The fact that he's too sick of that is frustrating me. What do you mean those various Cs? Yeah, I mean I mean the church is everywhere Mm say you get those five C's, it's far from a great council. What about China? What about, you know, India? What about Africa? What about But there would be wherever there are bishops represented in the world, they would be invited to be a part of that great council. But would the five C's be more important than that? sees. So whether you're in China, New Zealand, United States, um, all everybody who's within the canonical Orthodox Church um has their authority under one of those under one of those patriarchal uh sees of or seats of authority in administration. And there's a you know, there there's kind of a tradition of councils uh even today, like you know, the the Presbyterian style of government where they come together and meet as a Presbyterian and they meet as a general assembly. Synod. You know, and they have and then the and the synods, you know, Missouri Synod for the Lutherans, for example. But you know, they're not gonna they're gonna come to an agreement that would disagree with what the three of us in this room might agree to. And so well I'm glad we solved all of it. You know, we've we've done four shows and we've solved everything. So we'll just We'll send tapes of this. Do you think tapes in the counter three different parts of the body of Christ? Exactly. Where's the Emperor? Anyway, uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Rosalie Church. Thank you Uh Father James Hamrick with the St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church in Lewistown, thank you. It's been my pleasure, thank you. Thank you to our sponsor, Putman Plumman Heating. How can we make you smile? I don't think I mentioned last week what I've been reading, so I'll give you two. They're both Ted Decker books Thunder of Heaven, which is part of the Martyr Song series, and Priest's Graveyard. You gotta love a title like that, right? Priest's Graveyard. Makes you want to read it. We'll be on next week, same time. Well, not this exact same time, same time we started today, every Sunday morning, 8 30 till 9, right here on 9 30 WFMD. Thanks so much for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.