This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. We're Faith Community. leaders wrestle over the truth. Yabba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Ooh how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run by Let's get ready to rumble. Weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the fake debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Was communism good for Christians? Christian truth. Consider in response, uh the re the Reformation, the the Catholic Church heavily endorsed the work of Thomas Aquinas, elevating Thomas into a status second only to the Bible itself. it would seem. Other philosophical systems today disagree with Tumism or Thomism on many points. But Tumism remains a dominant philosophical worldview. It is influenced the way you think, whether you know it or not, believe it or not, because you live in the West. Here this week to continue our conversation about empiricist observations, experiences necessary for knowledge, interpreting what we see and feel and understand, are John Schweitzer, known as Jonathan to his. friends, founder of Bridges, Connecting Needs and Resources in Frederick County, and Hayden, known as Hay, to his friends, Booth, a layman of the Christian, of the Roman Catholic Church, a Christian lover of Christ, uh Thomas, Thomas, T. Take your pick. Uh he's on the show too. Again, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Fate Debate on nine thirty WFMD. So this is round three uh on the show. the foundation, uh how Hayden come to uh be such a uh a fan of of uh Thomas Aquinas' thinking, kind of historical context in which Thomas Aquinas' thought kind of fit that sort of thing. Uh last week we wrestled uh with kind of the practical aspects of what that can mean for somebody's life. It can give someone a defense for their life and give them some ammunition to talk to a friend who has doubts about uh things of the world and that sort of thing. And We touched on some other things too, but those are kind of the general gists of some of the notes that have been sounded so far. And as you can tell by that description, we haven't taken a deep dive into the philosophical underpinnings, the real arguments, the hair splits, the then the spighting words, my friend, kind of stuff. And so um late in last week's show I could tell that Hayden was itching to go there Uh Jonathan is itching to go there from the beginning of a very first show. That's just how he's wired. So what are the critical things. Let's try to bring it. We we ancient stuff gets a little boring probably after a while. So let's make it a little more contemporary. Let's let's freshen it up and talk about the now, maybe the twentieth century Uh basically the the modern and postmodern period. So let's, you know, the last hundred, fifty, two hundred years-ish kinda area of philosophical thought and where Christians are and where where the arguments for and against Aquinas fit. Is that does that seem Like a uh I don't know. Ca can we go there? Sure, yeah. Do you feel like you can hit that? Yeah, I I can try my absolute best. Yeah, dive in. Um so I think that in order to really, really understand Aquinas' arguments you need uh Pretty decent crash course in Aristotelian thought. Um we'll steer away for that for the time being because there is something I do want to hit on and it's what what kind of happened Do you don't think that the typ I mean I I'm I'm not pushing back, but I I I wanna, you know A person listening might feel like, Oh, so I guess I'm I'm stupid. I think that the average American understands intuitively more about Aristotelian thought than than they would even acknowledge or that we might acknowledge on their behalf because we've been steeped in it. The Western culture is Aristotle. You know, all of the things that we think we understand about beauty and how the world works and logic and reason, all that sort of stuff, it if it's not rooted in it, it's at least connected to and tied to, uh, Aristotle. So I don't know. I don't th you don't you think that the average American really would be that lost? I mean they might be, I don't know. So I don't think they would be lost because they wouldn't be able to keep up because most of the stuff that's said is very common sense. I mean it's things that make complete sense like change occurs. That's A very Aristotelian thought. Right. Well it's common sense in the West because we've been steeped in Aristotelian thought. So it's common thought to us now, right? Uh well yes and no. I mean that's the point is that in in many universities, and this is part of what you ran into, so much of of the logic that is at the heart of Aristotelian thought, see I said it the right way. And A Aquinas' thought has been rejected, you know, that like like with Hume that there that you can't make a connection between a cause and an effect. Hume David. Yeah, David Hume. Right. Like like w one of those arguments that Faser gets into is is that Hume and some of the following philosophers begin to argue that you can't logically connect a brick going through a window being the cause of the window breaking. Right? And so he he literally would would would disconnect those two things as two different events. that can't automatically be uh be listed as cause and effect or assumed to be cause and effect. And so because of that kind of thinking you know, uh y uh y uh uh uh Descartes could could say I think therefore I am meaning he was he was trying to figure out whether he could even believe that he existed, right? Like that's how far uh thinking had gone from Aquinas that that was arguing that that you could logically uh list cause and effect of the other thing. In this arch of shows we've mentioned uh an author a few times, uh Phaser. Uh is is that that type of Phaser, it's not Phaser, it's Phaser. That is correct, yeah. Yeah, but it's Aristotelian august. No, but in case somebody isn't familiar and they're like this Phaser guy that that this Schweitzer guy keeps mentioning, if you want to Google and find out it's Ed Uh it's uh it's like Feaser, all right? F-E-S-E-R, Phaser. So Google Ed Feaser or Phaser and uh you'll uh You'll find him. Okay, he's kind of the new kid on the block as far as Aristotelian domestic thought. Um he teaches at Pasadena City College in Los Angeles. Wow, he was a pop singer in the nineties. I didn't know that. He uh yeah, so he he basically wrote a very um comprehensive and very uh good book I have in front of me. Um Aquinas for Beginners. It's it's kind of you know your your introductory guide to Aquinas before you go read the, you know five volume suma. Right. Um he wrote a book called The Philosophy of Mind, which talks about the philosophy of mind. Light reading. Light reading. Yeah. Um he wrote uh he writes in such a way that it's really accessible. And uh that's kind of I d I introduced uh uh John to him and uh he sort of got us talking about Thomas and um yeah, as you as you were alluding to, um I think that human causation was the first or um the first were one of the first major steps away from Thomas' Aristotelian thought and a significant one at that because um If we if we look at Thomas's thought, uh cause and effect are essential to his proving that God exists. I mean d that's the the basis of one of his proofs. Um which goes back to the idea of a first cause, an uncaused cause. And he gets into language dealing with pure act versus uh a potential. Yep. You know, and uh and so uh he defines God as pure act, meaning he's the uncaused cause whereas everything else is uh is both act and potential. Yep. Meaning that that you and I as humans we haven't uh come into all of our potential. There's there's change that's still possible that we can come into that is potential and that's true about everything. outside of God. And so that's a huge And this is the argument, right? Everything that begins to exist has a cause. But God didn't begin to exist. He's always existed, so he's that prime mover. He's that the unconscious for him because he's always been Yeah. And so he's able to cause things that now come into be get into being, right? Yeah. So the way the the way that uh Thomas would put it is whatever is in motion must be put in motion by another. So w a common misunderstanding is this is why, you know, we we You have to define our terms. Um motion doesn't mean forward progress in space. It doesn't mean like I move from one side of the room to the other. It means change. And as as as John was touching on, that m means changing being as Aristotelians refer to it as being reduced from potency to act. Potency is could be acting is the potential. Sure, so if you think of a red ball. Same root word, right? Pot and pote and see. That's right. That's right. So if you think of a red ball Uh, the red ball is a ball. It has the potenti it's a red rubber ball, say. It has the potential to be a red puddle of goo. Yeah. It has that potentiality in it. It can only That can only occur if it's acted on on an by an outside force, namely the play heat. Yeah. Heat. Um and that that's sort of the basis for a lot of Aristotelian thought. Um If you'd like we can just sort of go into a little bit of a crash course and tell me that we're going to have a lot of people. U U is not just what you're made of, but also the form in which you're made. So it's the matter that makes you up, all the cells, you know, all the um cells that make you up better. But then the form that is you that we look at, you know, that you know could use a little bit of exercise and that you know, didn't comb his hair just right in the morning, that your form is how we know that that's the same. That's right, baby. Uh all of us And so Hylomorphism, word of the week, by the way. Hylomorphism is is that. And so what makes the ball a ball is is not just what it's made of. It could be made of concrete, it could be made of rubber, but it's also the form that it's in. And so you would you wouldn't call it a ball if it didn't have the form and the matter that makes it up. And so that leads in the direction of grappling with are there certain forms that don't have matter? Yeah. Right? And so that's that's this whole question of how many angels could dance on a on the head of a pin You know, they are forms without matter. And so God is also. Is God a form? No, that's the point is that God is simple without form He just exists. And so form inherently carries with it a potency Is that correct? That's part of what he argues? Let me jump in real quick. This is Floyd Skinner on the Fate Debate 930 WFMD. You're about to hear Hayden Booth speak, and I'm going to have to ask Jonathan Switzer, who just finished speaking, to start speaking English if you would. Sure, so um form can exist without matter, sure. Um Aquinas would say that uh angels I apologize. Uh readjusting the mic. Um angels would be form plus the act of existence. Yeah. So instead of being formed with matter as we are, uh they're forming the act of existence. Um But With the potency act thing, they are part actual and part potential yet, because only God is pure act So an angel is is act in potency, but without matter, just with the form. And so all of this I feel like comes down to like these these fine definitions that that that he's trying to grapple with how do we define who we are or what it is that we see and what are the the categories that we use to define those things. that lead in the direction of his, you know, full metaphysics. Yeah, it's interesting. It strikes me in a moment like this, you know, I'm trying to I'm I'm trying to envision um someone who's not myself listening in right now. Yeah. And so somebody who hasn't been to seminary, somebody who hasn't spent years grappling with deep philosophical questions and conund conundrums and and and trying to do deep dives into what the Bible teaches. Just a typical person getting through life, trying to pay their bills on time, raise their kids, and trying to understand their place in the world and what the world is all about in a general, generic kind of a sense. And then they hear us talking about you know, uh matter without form and form without matter or, you know, uh um all these really, you know, angels dancing on the head of a pin kind of questions or comments. And it I wonder if we run the risk Well, I wonder if we run the risk of we're trying so hard to demonstrate some proofs for God that we undercut our own argument by making them so ethereal, so like out there that the average person doesn't have the patience to try to figure out what the heck you're talking about. Okay, so let me answer that. Let me answer that like like very forthrightly. This the problem is that uh uh he argues that there's four causes of any given thing. There's the material cause, what is the thing made of, there's the formal cause, meaning meaning what is the form of the thing and and how did it get put into the form so the ball You know, is is made out of rubber, it's put into the form. Yeah. Okay. Right? Remember that cartoon? Form of Yeah Shape of but then it gets into these two other causes and one is the efficient cause and this is where modern science lives. Meaning all that is important is that we can we can take uh gas and we can put it into an engine and use it to drive something and so so it's it's how how is this stuff pragmatic for us to use, but then there's the final cause. Uh and so uh of Thomas's four causes, the final cause is the part that is missing in everyday society. So great we can drive a car, so great we can talk on phones and find people around the world. And so so because we threw Thomas's four causes out and we we decided to spend all our time on this third one that is basically what modern science today is all. And what did you say the reason is? What is the point? Ultimately, and to God as love in who who God is. Yeah, we don't want to skip that too much. Um just to kind of bring it back, we'll bring it back to our ball. Yeah. So our ball is the materials rubber, right? It's a rubber ball process. Um its form is of ball. You could have a Same form, ball made out of wood, ball made out of metal as you as you were saying. That's right. Um the efficient cause is how it was made, so the the guys at the factory made the ball. Yeah. In it formed. Exactly. Yeah. And the final cause is to have fun. Exactly. It's the goal endedness of the match. That's the point of the ball. So uh another really good example, one that Faser uses and one that's very common with Thomas Thinkers is the match, right? Yeah. So match it has material, phosphorus, form, match, uh cause it was manufacturing and its range of effects, the final cause is the goal-endedness of what it's what It regularly produces So the way that um the way that it's generally put is if A uh generates B regularly as an efficient cause that can only be because B is the first uh I apologize and I just No, that's only uh trigonometry that you're doing. It's only because B is the final cause that A points to us. I apologize. And so so this is um This is kind of a cool aspect of this that even if something is not intelligent like an animal, there's still a purpose behind the thing, right? So even a rock has a purpose. Even a mat which is which is not a rational being, has a purpose for existence. And s and so this is at the heart of of what his thinking was all about that is that logically you can identify for everything that exists a purpose for it, a final cause that that can explain why it's there, all of which then points to God. And for a half a second I'm gonna, you know, ramp it down from the intellectual part. Well we can ramp my butt back up, but uh kind of a pastoral application. Yeah Uh so many people in life are struggling with any sense of purpose. Sisyphus. Right. Any any sort of meaning to their existence, any sort of purpose and what they're doing, what what does it all matter anyway? Does it all matter? I mean suicide rates are off the charts. Drug addiction is a gigantic problem. Yeah, I'm working in the opioid crisis here which is huge. And they got this synthetic opioids of fentanyl. Somebody So there's this absence of the the fourth thing. You take away that fourth thing and The ball, you say it's a ball. I say it's an ornament. My friend says it's an elephant. Who's to say who's right? Yeah, I say it's made out of rubber. Well I say it's made out of wood. It's actually made out of metal. We're both wrong. But who cares Yeah, because we threw out any sense of right and wrong through out of the way. Inherent meaning or or goal, you know, the the telos of it all, like what's what's the point of all of this? You take that away. And we can just rearrange the checkers on the checkerboard however we want. And so now we're talking about kind of a postmodern, not a modern situation where we've entered into a postmodern. Well, actually postmodernism comes from the modern philosophers that were postmodern a long time ago. It just took a while for it to catch up with uh you know with the the average everyday person. And they've been talking this way for a long time, but they talk this way because they Well, i in the process of walking away uh uh t Thomistic sense of purpose. So here's the point I guess in a practical real world sense, using the ball as an example. You know, you say it's a ball. No, I say it's a ball because it is a ball. So now let's start applying some of uh Thomas Aquinas' thinking. We know it's a ball because it's you know it's shaped round, it's rubber so it bounces, uh, you know, it has this sort of potential to do certain things. And the whole reason it was it was created was so that kids could play with it could hit it with a bat and knock it over a wall for a home run or whatever. Like this is its whole reason uh for uh existence. It's what gives it meaning and because of all of these arguments sacked on top, I can say with some certainty that you sir are wrong when you say it's a cat, it is clearly a ball. Sure. Right? So it has a practical sense. So which is necessary if I'm gonna if I'm gonna raise kids, if I'm gonna live in a society with other people There has to be some sense of purpose to why we do what we do. If you remove purpose, and and nobody has ever really removed purpose, and for that matter, even the modern scientific endeavor has purpose you know, woven through the whole thing. They just try to act like it doesn't have purpose while at the same time uh uh uh you know basing all their arguments on the on the fact that there is purpose you know, to all of these things. And it ties into our logical that can be tied together. Do borders matter or not? Well you can kind of go through these steps and figure out, okay What does nationhood mean? Is it you know what is its goal? And what does it mean to have a nation and all those things? Same things about homosexuality versus you know traditional marriage, you know, getting into sex identification even. Is there a purpose of a of a male? email, you know, and they help us to understand what things are. Questions about abortion, you know, and whether or not, you know, sex should be separated from uh reproduction, you know, uh you know, all of those things kinda tie together together with this question of what is the ultimate. kinda challenging uh a potential assumption that, you know, the average person might not really know what we're talking about. Gutturally. They just can't articulate it maybe. They can't go through these four different things. They can't, you know, they don't know how to make the arguments. And so that's why learning about these philosophical constructs and learning the arguments of somebody like Thomas Aquinas or a contemporary like William Lane Craig and hearing how they form an argument, how they defend a point of view, how they deconstruct somebody else's erroneous argument really is helpful So we can say what we know to be true in a way that is persuasive as opposed to say what we know to be true in a way that is mean spirited and argumentative isn't going to persuade anybody. Sure. I think I think that um we've got to be careful not to assume that like all the things that we just hit were like Republican issues. Uh and and so I don't think we can assume that drives us towards republicanism because there's plenty of teleological arguments for you know some of the the the democratic platforms about caring for our neighbors. you know, and uh helping people. So somebody could try to make the same argument. So I'm just gonna say that that we're not we're not assuming that you know I I think we all agree with this There are Thomist Marxists. Like Alistair McIntyre is probably one of the most form like one of the foremost Thomas thinkers. I mean there are Edward Faser is a very he's about as normal Republican American as you can get. But Alastair McIntyre is a Marxist. There's there's room for disagreement within within Christian thought, within Thomas thought, within Catholic thought. There's room for disagreement. So you can use the same arguments against, for example, I think the first one I threw out there was nations. What does it mean to be a nation? Yeah. Somebody can say, okay, here's what it means to be a nation, they can make all the arguments, just you know, defending what their idea of what a nation is, and they can use those arguments to then say, see, and this is why nations are bad. That's exactly what we're doing. All of which assumes that there's a good and and so Faser and and uh Aquinas gets into the definition of what is a good in what makes it good, it means that there's a desire there's a desirable end, you know, to that thing. And there's a desira desirable end to this thing. This episode of the fabric is is is done We have reached our end. We've re we've found the fourth phase. Yeah, here we go. Anyway, thank you, Hayden. Uh Jonathan, I'm Troy. Thanks for listening. We're online at WFMD dot com keyword faith. Until next week, one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from right now. God bless.