This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The faith debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master. Of Divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh, yeah. Troy Skinner. Robert Jefferis, pastor of First Baptist Church of Dallas, has advocated in a rather high-profile way. for an interpretation of scripture that supports the building of a wall at the southern border of the United States. Other pastors disagree with this position. They say that Jeffers' view is problematic at best, saying that Jesus wants walls torn down. If Jesus wants no wall built, well by golly, we must want no walls too. So who's right? Who's wrong? Or is there a mixture of right and wrong? I am Troy Skinner and here to help us think through the wall question. By the way our right ratings will spike if I start referring to it as Trump's wall. Donald Trump, Trump, Trump, Trump. I just got a fourfold increase in ratings right there. Morgan Kokenauer, the pastor of Frederick Seventh Day at Adventist Church, is here. And Tim May, pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. And you might also know him as uh as one half, the uh the better looking half of of his New Maryland Live Show with uh Tim and Frank. So thank you for uh slumming and being on the show today, Tim. I it is a privilege to be sitting across from you. Now I mentioned uh Robert Jeffers and I'm gonna start should inform our politics and how our politics is perhaps informing our our faith uh in on both a liberal and conservative political spectrum point of view on questions like this. So Robert Jeffers, for those who don't know, I mentioned him at the very start there. He's the guy that's on Fox News Channel all the time. He's got a big church. uh down in Texas. So one of these big mega church kinda things. He's got a radio ministry that's on stations all across the country. He's got a big platform and he's been a pretty uh pretty uh out of the closet supporter, if you will, for Donald Trump. And so when he speaks, people have a tendency to pay attention. And it caught the attention of uh of a friend of mine who I respect a lot. I have high regard for him. He's uh he's a pastor, and he wrote this on a blog. He says, Robert Jeffers confounds me. As pastor of flagship First Baptist Church of Dallas, Jeffers is a pastor's pastor, and yet Jeffers continues to advocate an interpretation of Scripture, which is problematic at best. Most recently, Jeffers' contention that the Bible condones wall building as a solution to illegal immigration because the Bible includes walls in its narrative. This is a stretch of biblical truth. So he's talking about it. This pastor I know blogged about it. Jeffers are talking about it. We're talking about on the show now. But before we get into the meat of it, you guys are pastors. Is this coming up at all in the aisles of your church? Are people walking around saying, Hey Pastor Tim, hey Pastor Morgan? What should I think about this wall thing? Is it an issue in the church You know, at the you know, the uh congregational level. Sure, I if you're looking towards me. Um it it is because all relevant uh situations, both political and and worldwide, seem to come up at Bible study or in your fellowship rooms and uh It it has come up, but it has never been uh any rejection of the wall. No one has said in the church uh as yet, I I don't think we should build these walls. Because I I think the wall We we're confronted by this wall and and as others have said, we're confounded by this wall. But the wall is is not uh uh to me it is it is not an obstruction to freedom. It is not an obstruction to to life in the United States as we know it. I I I don't see the wall as uh a detriment. In fact I think what has happened is that there are there are there are political sides in this rather than religious sides on this who have made it that way. So that when it gets to the religious community It it it all at once now has become a biblical problem. I don't think it it is a biblical problem. I think this is more of a unfortunately the way it's being addressed uh or or uh stated. is a is is is a political problem. But that's that's w what I hear at my church. How about you, Morgan? You know what it that that's a very good question for me. It what is relevant? And is a wall rel is a is it a relevant topic when uh if I've got uh debt, if I got a car loan, if I've got marriage problems, I mean what's going on in my living room and does does the wall move um move the pendulum uh for most people Um I think it does to a certain degree because it does have impacts on uh people's jobs, it has uh on the on the market, on uh finances or on a number of different things. But I would say this Uh for me as as you were saying is as as far as perspective goes, uh w what's practical and what's sustainable. At the end of the day, I look at the Bible as being a very as a living document, as something that is that applies to 2019 and to uh to nineteen AD. And so the practical uh side of these things is and we can look at this from what Jeffries was saying, but also who was who was writing his blog as what's practical to today and how can we apply that uh to uh to the to the issue of the wall that's uh we're dealing with today. This got pulled into the um faith sphere from the political sphere because uh Sarah Sanders and uh then Attorney General Jeff Sessions both uh cited uh Romans uh thirteen saying that the Bible gives them sanction for having the wall and walls are good and the that's the it's the responsibility of the state to do things like this. Um so that then caused those who disagree, like the blogger I've mentioned. Sure. Uh But other pro not just Jeffers, um uh is it Paula White, I think. Uh she's a big supporter of Trump. She's got a big mega church. Uh personally I think her theology is a little bit uh questionable but but she's out there saying th a lot of the same things that uh Jeffers is saying. So have we allowed, has the church uh allowed the politics to hijack a conversation that maybe we would rather not have in public? I I don't know that we would rather I think the church should uh should always have the conversations. I think anything that's relevant to the to everyday uh situations is very relevant. Because uh as Morgan said, the the Bible's a living document and the answers, I think, to everything in life are in the Bible is what we all know. I I think the interpretation and what you want your side to to believe is is fascinating. Sarah Sanders obviously got that quote from her dad. uh former Baptist minister, uh, you know, uh Huckleby Mike Huckleby. So I I'm interested where they got that. I don't know that we need to uh instantaneously come up with a biblical verse or scripture line to support or deny something that is happening in real life. Uh whereas you know Is the is the matter of a wall discussed in the Bible? I I you could you can stretch the imagination. I don't you know, there's so many Old Testament and And as soon as you bring up the Old Testament then then the uh the New Testament people, which you know, which is fine, will say, Well, that was God, that wasn't Jesus, yada yada yada. I I just find that uh I I can find support for and against the wall. Yeah, I would even say this that even during um maybe one of America's more darker periods was slavery, there were people on both sides of the aisle who were uh pulling scripture out left and right. And that's what I think is very dangerous, is when people When people use the Bible or they they reference the Bible in a way and and don't necessarily know the context themselves. And then the Bible is used uh to in in a negative way or it it has a negative impact and then that leads lends creed to uh uh uh people who are opposed to the Bible Yeah. And I think that speaks to some of the concerns on both sides uh uh on this. I I think it is uh um healthy at the at the very least and um and maybe even required at the very most for us to figure out what does the bible say about life about things and then how do I then use what I know about what God has revealed in His Word to navigate the world with wisdom. But what you guys are talking about, I agree, is there's this tendency to to try to figure out what we want to believe And then go find a proof text, a scripture that will support my point of view, whether it's in context or not. And that's actually uh part of this this blogger. He says Paul's Gospel, the the Apostle Paul, the New Testament. had an inherently anti-imperial thrust. Jesus and Caesar cannot both rule the universe. This dimension of the gospel means that Paul cannot in any way espouse a blind nationalism or patriotism In this respect, he agreed with all Jews that there is but one true Lord, and it's not an earthly political uh situation. So I think the concern from those who are against the wall is that those who are in support of the wall uh are in support of the wall because of some sort of uh nationalism or jingoistic patriotism And then they're trying to use the Bible to support their political stance as opposed to arriving at a political stance because of the Bible. You think that's fair? In at any level? I I would I I first thing that comes to my mind of course is uh on the question about paying taxes, and where you have a nationalist tax uh being uh asked and Jesus, uh you know, do we pay under Caesar? You know, you pay under Caesar with Caesars So do you know, we're not uh uh for unfortunately we're not living in God's kingdom the way we you know what we would like. And I think we have civil authorities and they have civil rights, so to speak. And uh So w what do we do? Do we ignore what we don't like or that we can find something biblically says we can't do that? I I don't think that applies with with the wall. If we're talking about much more sensitive issues. it it doesn't it doesn't inflame, I don't think, like like abortion issues would or something. This is a this is a pretty uh nebulous type of subject matter, I think that we can discuss both sides and and understand these sides without getting overly emotional. That that's the way I've seen it so far. I could be wrong because uh I only s obviously travel in groups that uh tend to tend to be in my faith uh belief system. Yeah, but the people make it continue with some some key points I've highlighted on this vlog d they make it emotional. Those who are opposed to it make it emotional with language like this. It is my contention That erecting a wall between Mexico and the United States as espoused by the current Trump administration is an act of violence Not sanctioned by Scripture. There is a proven correlation between the fortification of borders and the number of people who will die trying to cross them. To be blunt, a wall is immoral. Under the New Covenant, Jesus has come to break walls, not build walls. You're talking about people dying and it's immoral and Uh that's trying to pr that's pretty emotional language, right? It i it's incredibly emotion it's emotionally charged language, but I think even that uh the um thing you just said that Jesus came to break walls, not build walls Once again I uh even in the Old Testament I know what you're saying as far as God Jesus or whatnot in that argument, but uh there are civil laws in the Old Testament and there are religious laws, there's some ceremonial laws, there's health laws, there's all these laws in the Old Testament to sustain and govern all aspects of life. And to say that Jesus came to break down walls, I would think every pastor, preacher, would wholeheartedly agree with that. in a theological, spiritual, biblical context. When it comes to the civil side of things, okay, let's really carry that out to the furthest extent we can take that application and say, okay, that means You're taking the locks off your doors. And people would say, Well, that's not what we're talking about. Well, if you're gonna go to the fullest extent of the if you're taking that statement and you're applying it in that kind of a context then the if it that's an incredibly dangerous statement to make, but also one that nobody would agree with. Well we won't agree with it here, but we will apply it in this application over here on it when it comes to a wall. That's the voice of Morgan Kokenhauer. He is the uh pastor of Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church here in Frederick, and uh also on the show is Tim May, the pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren, uh in Jefferson. Uh I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So here's a You know, uh effective communicators often will insert little stories or jokes or whatever. And this blogger is an effective communicator, and so he has his little this little story joke that he tells. So St. Peter and the angel Gabriel had a problem Peter was sorting people at the pearly gates, letting some in, keeping others out. But Gabriel was finding more people in heaven than Peter was letting in. They were befuddled. Gabriel told Peter to keep on working and he'd get to the bottom of it. A few hours later, Gabriel came back and told Peter not to worry, he'd figured it out. It's Jesus, Gabriel said. He's pulling people over the wall. And the blogger says, that's the gospel. Not a wall, but a Jesus who supersedes walls. Now, you guys as pastors and well studied theologians probably can have a heyday with a lot of what's going on in that story. Who wants to go first? Well no I I I'm still I know the blogger well and I'm and I'm I'm very uh impressed with how he comes up with these things. But if you want to go ahead to answer first, if uh No no after you sir. I I just think that once again and Morgan said it well. I you can take you can take any situation that you want And uh as as the blogger has done and said, you know, well then what was the use of having why was Peter there? Why was Gabriel there? Uh wh why would we why would we even have a gate there? Why is there a gate in heaven? I mean this is ridiculous. Jesus wouldn't allow a gate in heaven Because he's bringing every he wouldn't have to bring somebody over fence, he'd knock the wall down. Why didn't Jesus knock the wall down? I mean it gets to the point where I I I understand the cutiness of this that's a word I just made up. The cutiness of this of this uh vignette But uh it it really is it's it doesn't apply because Jesus doesn't need to pull someone over a wall. And why is the wall there? Why is there a gate around heaven? Answer anyone? Well, uh narrow is the way. Mm-hmm. You know. And if you don't enter by the gate, You're in trouble. Well what's used to have a gate if you don't have a wall? You know, that's my problem theologically. First of all, the Pearley Gates idea is like s so extrascriptural that it it bugs me. It just gets under my skin. But the idea that you know, we're told that you have to enter by the gate. Yes. Jesus himself tells us this, so if he's gonna be pulling people over the wall, he's violating what he said himself, like theologically. It's like, what are you thinking? Why would you write that? Well because it well even in the parable that Jesus says, Listen, there's only one way to get into this and that's through me and there's gonna be a lot of people who are gonna try to climb over the wall and you won't be able to do that. You've got to come in through the gate. So regardless of whether or not there's a wall in heaven, the Bible clearly says The only way. There's a wall. And and to even say this, that when you read the Bible, the Bible was not written to people in 2019. It was written to people who were contemporaries of that writer. And the but the principles that you can take from that can be applied to us today. So if you're if you're back in, I don't know, let's say eighty, sixty or whatever, and they read about the pearly gates and and the wall, they're thinking is security. All they're thinking is a safe place. And for them a wall prov shows the a powerful wall just like the walls of Jericho uh left the impression that you can't get in and we're safe on the inside. And yes God brings down those walls but the context of this is walls provide safety and security and you have a right to do that as a sovereign state. Yeah, the Pope weighed in as well. He said that Donald Trump is not Christian when he calls for the deportation of undocumented immigrants and pledges to build walls around the United States and Mexico. A person this is a quote, a person who thinks only about building walls wherever they may be and not building bridges is not Christian. This is not the gospel. So you guys are taking a stand against not just Pelosi and those folks, but taking a stand against the Pope. Yeah, I I I get it. I don't want to do it. I don't answer to the Pope, but uh I I always first of all I uh I reject the idea that the Pope could say to anyone that they are or not a Christian. I don't think he is the the trier of fact there. And I think that the uh uh the banner that he placed upon the president is is uh is is entirely wrong. That's not his uh it's not his call to make. And I think It it's amazing that there's an immigration status in Rome. Uh how many people can come into Rome and now the Pope is in charge, of course. And and yet we have uh uh ne not everyone is welcomed into Rome. Isn't that amazing that there is immigration laws in Rome and that there you know although the wall doesn't protect the entire city of Rome, there is the wall there. Why is that wall there And if you say it was to protect from years going by or the centuries going by, that's fine. Then why is the wall still there? Why hasn't it been torn down? Yeah, I'm reminded I've been spending some time uh again in Pilgrim's Progress. Have the two of you have read that? Yes. Or have you read it in a while anyway? No. But um you know, it a a a key part of the story is there's you know interlopers who aren't who aren't on the path the uh through the gate. They jumped over the wall. And they're and and bad things happen to them, you know, they're you're not allowed to jump over the wall. So um we're arguing about what was written a couple of thousand years ago, but even something like Pilgrim's Progress, which was written about, I don't know, what three hundred and four hundred years ago, whatever it was that was still an issue then. So anybody that's arguing against a wall, it seems like it would be a relatively contemporary invention in the theology. Uh I'm not a a church historian, but I can't think of any example of anything I've ever read anywhere where where churchmen were writing against, arguing against, preaching against the construction of walls. I I've never seen it that uh that I know of and and I I think you know Troy maybe at some point in the show or in in our in our get together Uh less I I think this is not about the wall. I I don't think I don't think the the uh the blog, I don't think the uh the the uh opposition to the wall has anything to do with the wall And I and I think that our blogger says that because he's talking about the and the Pope as well, is that we're, you know, w what should we do as Jesus people Uh for those who are suffering. Maybe we need to go a little bit deeper rather than just the wall. Tim, let me ask you this. Do you think uh the Because I I think I I I do agree with you on that. I think this is it's almost like the bag of chips being left open. We we were arguing we're not arguing about a bag of chips. It was probably something happened maybe a couple hours ago. Exactly. Um that this is more of an argument about direction. And maybe people don't like the direction things are going and so we're going to take a stand here It's because we're in a fight against maybe what's coming down the road, not necessarily this what this wall situation is. Back together again next week and I was thinking that we would talk more broadly about the immigration issue as a whole and not just the walls. But but backing up uh uh a a hair to g what I was talking about with where did this idea come from? And I wonder, because the blogger quoted it, which is what made me think of it, and he's not the only one who quoted it. I've seen it in other places too. Um over the last couple of months it's come up. When's the last time you heard anybody talk about Robert Frost's poem Mending Wall? Like I haven't heard about that since I was in school. Mm-hmm. Which was only a couple of weeks ago. But But all of a sudden now the mending wall is is popping up. And I think that's informing theological thinking. Uh if you're not familiar, here's here's uh parts of uh Frost's mending wall. Something there is about God that doesn't love a wall There where it is we do not need the wall. He is all pine, and I am apple orchard. My apple trees will never get across and eat the cones under his pines, I tell him. He only says good fences make good neighbors Spring is the mischief in me, and I wonder if I could put a notion in his head. Why do they make good neighbors? Isn't it where there are cows? But Here there are no cows. Before I built a wall I'd asked to know what it was I was walling in or walling out, and to whom I was like to give offense. Something there is that doesn't love a wall, that wants it down. Something there is that doesn't love a wall that wants it down is not scripture. Right? It's one of the most famous poems uh in all of literature, I would argue. But if we're If we're basing our theological arguments on the words of Robert Frost, maybe that's where we get ourselves in trouble. Yes the the the I don't know what the book of the Bible that is the Robert Frost in the U. I think it's Third Confucians chapter three. Right beside Philadelphia's I'm sure We have a couple of minutes left. Uh there's something coming up at your church, uh, Morgan, in uh in a in a few weeks. Uh something that has to do with the book of Esther. Um a controversial book, if ever there was one, because it does it's a book in the Bible. It doesn't mention God by name. But there's some great lessons, theological lessons to be learned from that. So what's going on in your church? Well we are. We're doing an uh we're doing an extra play it's called Uninvited, the story of Esther, and I was really excited because now I get to use my radio voice that I explained my whole life through. You gotta put a hand over the ear and you know, I and that won't even help then either. Uh the so the the the description we have for this is Esther who never dreamed. of being a princess becomes queen of an empire. Experience her journey of intrigue, enemies in disguise, and the chaos of royalty. Learn how this young woman of beauty, brains, and bravery risks her life for something greater. Save the date of April 12 and 13, both of those evenings, it's the Friday and Saturday night, and this will be hosted and put on by the Frederick Adventist Church Um, I think the show times, if I'm not mistaken, are seven o'clock each night. It's like a two hour show and um her ask her being uninvited doesn't mean she was uh immigrant who broke over somebody's wall doesn't exactly know that while there's titles and invited, everybody is invited. Uh I went to your Your play last spring, I don't think it was the same show, it's a different. It was Lazarus. It was Lazarus and I think that's a good thing. I couldn't remember what it was, yeah. And very well done, you guys have some talented people in your congregation. Yes they do. Good people. All right. So um we'll be back next week, the same panel to talk about the the immigration issue a little more broadly. We'll still talk about the wall. And at some point during our time together I do want to go through some specific scriptures that are referenced. and give you guys an opportunity to respond, maybe place them uh a frame of context around them, that sort of thing. So those are some of the things to look forward to. So Morgan Kokenauer is the pastor of Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church. Tim May is the pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren. Um Morgan's church is in Frederick. Tim's church is in Jefferson. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith, or you find the little on-air drop-down menu and you click on the Faith Debate, there you'll find uh oh rundown of recent shows, links to podcasts, and you'll get a teaser of what's going to be on next week. So tell your friends Wake the kids, shake the neighbors. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.