This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed mascot as the master of ceremonies and the notorious treble bee, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Huawei community. Leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run ball! Let's get ready to rumble. Out. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the fake debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron here, is that it? And in this corner, Weighing In is a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. I hope you've been a good little boy and little girl. Because in just a few days, you'll be opening presents under a pagan symbol. Oh ho It was redeemed by Christians. We went for a couple years. about the over paganization. They smell so good and look so nice. We will always have a Christmas tree in my house. Yeah, because they look so good. So the one that's they still haven't had a Christmas carol about it. That's uh David Forcey. He started a house church. Uh we we've learned about his background and his uh his uh what his house church is. And he's an arborist, so it's right that he have a tree. Exactly. He kinda has to. I'd like to have him in the house year round. That's right, yeah. Evergreens. So anyway, uh so David Forcey's on the show for round three. Uh Jonathan Schweitzer, uh founder of Cross Bridges on the show as well. I'm Troy Speener. Thanks for tuning in. So last week If you were listening along, we are talking about the flow of the of the of I guess the worship service. That's what you would call it that, right? In your home church. The flow of the worship service in his home church. And in the midst of all that, Jonathan was making note that, man, some of that sounds like so familiar with the context that I grew up in, and Jonathan grew up in a um a charismatic kind of and like a Well, there's a particular kind of charismatic movement that you kind of grew up in. What's it called? Um New Testament. Is that what you called it? New Testament church? We called our churches New Testament churches and it was all about trying to get back to how the early church did church in the temple front. from house to house with uh getting away from any of the structures that would inhibit relationships and or in uh introduce into um our worship something that is rooted in church history as opposed to things that that came from the early church. And so we spent a lot of time in First Corinthians I wonder though if that's charismatic. He has a fantastic testimony. He uh grew up uh a Muslim Yeah. And as converted, become a Christian and he's, you know, a really staunch articulate, intelligent, well studied Christian. I mean just a and and doing great things in ministry. And he started a house church And there I don't know exactly but my I've I've visited what he does and I never actually asked him, so I probably should. But it's kind of Mennonite what he's doing. Which is not charismatic. I've never been to a Mennonite congregation, so I have no idea what that looks like. What does Mennonite look like? So well, you know Very conservative, uh prime and proper. Uh during the worship time the women don't really speak. You know, they're and and they actually literally have a head covering. During the worship time they literally have their head covered with like a you know some sort of Hat or a cloth or something and First Corinthians. It is, yeah, yeah, yeah. It is Anyway, and so if I'm in this character, and they might not be Mennonite, but it just it has you know, like when I walked into uh the church that David had been a part of before, and I mentioned a couple weeks ago when I visited for the first time, I turned to my wife and I said I feel like they're trying to be Anglican, but they're not quite doing it like Anglicans. But I feel like it's kind of Anglicanish. And then sure enough, David said, Yeah, it's kinda going in an Anglican direction. So it's kinda same thing with the sort of thing. So had you been in previous Anglican churches that when you when you saw it you're like, Oh, that's like what I saw before. Yeah, I've spent a lot of time in them. Yeah, I've been in Anglican church. Yeah, the Yeah. One of the earliest churches I ever visited as a young person was an Anglican church. Uh I'm sorry, a young person wasn't there? Yeah, as you know. Oh. I was once a young person, Jonathan. I know it's hard to believe. So is Angli uh I don't know that I've ever been to an Anglican. See, this is where my background, which is really eclectic and weird, can serve me well. It it gives me yeah. Yeah. You know, I walk into a room full of Calvinists and they point their finger or they well they'll wag their finger and say, you know, are you an Arminian? And then I'll walk into a room full of Arminians and they'll and they'll look at me suspiciously and say, Are you Calvinists? So it's hard for me to find a camp but because I grew up a denominational mutt, I went I was involved with a whole bunch of different and so I kinda have this sense of the different flavors. So in in this context it serves me well. It's like this feels Mennonite, this feels charismatic, this feels Roman Catholic, you know, whatever. So Well anyway something that I was getting into last week in terms of a comparison with what uh Dave is describing at his home is both the emphasis on relationships and the emphasis on like um Uh so I use the term event orientation versus time orientation. Right? So time orientation means that we're gonna have a church service, we want to get in, get out, because we've got places to go, things to do, right? And if you're gonna connect with people after the service, that's fine. You know, you could do it, but it's certainly the case that some people are more time oriented, some people are more event oriented, you know, in terms of how they approach things. And the event orientation says you show up And you you stay with it, right? You there there's no hard end necessarily to what you're doing because you're there to connect with one another and and that connection is May maybe some of both. I mean there's a Um or maybe maybe our our time orientation is uh is in the sense of okay at bit For this for a time now we're going to do this particular thing and now for a time we're going to do this particular thing. So so my definition of I Lingen Felter and Meyers uh some uh missionaries cross-culturally wrote a book that defined like seven different uh dynamic tensions that they find in cultures. And one of the distinctions was that Some cultures are more time oriented, some are more event-oriented, so they give a definition to it. And what you just described fits their definition of event oriented meaning you do it for a time and then you do this for a time. Right. But but but but you're not saying we're gonna do this for twenty minutes and then we'll be done. Right. Yeah. Right. And and so what gave it away was when you said we would talk And then, you know, when it feels like, you know, the time's right, then then we'll move on to the next. Right. And so uh in our circles we would say, you know, when when feels like, you know, the spirit is is uh is finished for that, then we'll move on to the next thing. Right. Right. And so you're w we defined it as led by the spirit. You know, but it's it's still something of a subjective you know, that everybody kind of feels the consensus, okay, we're ready to move on. Yeah. You know, kind of a thing. And that would happen with the different parts of the service. And if something like really came alive, we would let it go longer. And so sometimes the services would go like two, three hours kind of things. And in other times, you know, we'd be like, ah, you know, that was nice, you know, but but we're done quick. And and and that was that was part of what we prided ourselves in that it that if it wasn't going anywhere we didn't push it. But if it was, we let it You know, in uh in the name of, you know, just the spirit was leading one way, one way and another one another time. I don't think you would use the language of the spirit did it, but It sounds like it it's very similar to that. So uh uh maybe maybe something that I mean that I didn't bring up already is I I I do think that um that it's important for for the church to have leaders who are named elders and deacons if the need arises for that particular role as well. Um and so I I would not have been um because of my understanding of of scripture I would not have been comfortable um Starting a church gathering in my home, if I had not been ordained. I would have looked to uh to place myself under uh by ordained you meaning uh meaning seminary training and No, I mean I mean th other other church leaders have come around and um in i in essence uh recognized and commissioned Yeah. So that would have been the case in our circles as well. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's a uh another similarity. Yeah. Yeah. That's not a contrast, that's a that's a similarity. Uh that w that w in fact, um part of my discomfort with some of those settings is that you know, at the end of the day who decides that we're done, you know, or that it's time to move on and, you know, when you have a consensus or you don't? And and there would end up uh there would end up kind of being you know, one or two, maybe three people in the group that that um that ultimately it kind of came down to they were the ones that that that were d discerning, okay, you know, it's time to move to the next right uh thing and and after a season uh meaning like ten, fifteen years, twenty years, that can almost feel like, oh, well then it's the leader's personality that's the definer of you know, when it's time to move on or not, meaning what whatever's in the heart of of the leader, which then kind of played against our uh you know, priesthood or all believers and you know that and and so maybe that was right, but it i there was a little bit of a personality thing. that that the structure of the th the yeah, the tone, the personality of the thing would end up being similar to the personality of the leaders. But I guess that's everywhere. It doesn't matter what kind of I mean leadership is gonna end up influencing. So I don't know that that's all that unique. Yeah, I think um I I guess one of the things that uh about uh meeting in a home is one it it uh it it has to be a smaller group. A group can only be so big in a home. And there's certain things that uh It's just easier to do in a smaller group. And so at what point would you say, Okay, we're too big, let's divide? Uh, if we don't fit in my living room. Yeah. Or in or in someone's living room. But if it's a if it's a nice gathering, man, you can cram a lot of people and you keep cramming in. See, but there's a point of division between, you know, what what David's mindset is and and what your circles that you grew up with have done because when you got bigger You you then left the home setting and went somewhere else. Yeah, so some of the groups that I was a part of would stay with a with a s with a home church orientation, others would would give themselves permission permission to grow and to move out, you know, to a larger facility. And it's the case that that the charismatic groups were really into, you know, guitars and psalm, you know, singing, you know, songs. Though the emphasis in our circles was always that those songs should come, you know, like right out of the Psalms right out of the Bible, meaning that that we're intent on on singing songs that that were actual scripture. And so there's whole passages in in the Psalms that that when I read them today, the song comes back. You know, 'cause you spend a lot of time singing those. And so anyways, that that that's a distinction as well that that we're, you know, coming out of the seventies, you know, the the whole you know, kind of cultural. I guess when I think of thing that was going on. When I think of charismatic, I think of um sort of seeking out an elevating um miraculous type events and interactions and in in a worship service and then also um uh you know, there being a lot uh a lot of crowd participation, if you will. Maybe. Um, or you know, not meaning like we're praying at the same time. Is that what you mean? Property. Yeah, and they're and they're and maybe I also sort of have in my mind the you know, that that there's um much less in the way of any uh you know, the ideas that that that this that the spirit is leading and so any sort of human leadership kind of Takes um takes less importance. Ultimately Uh to the extent that the spirit's leading, it's an individual that is kind of def kind of saying, yeah, that's right, or yeah, that's not And so so is it the Spirit of God or is it the leader, you know, what what is the the combination, you know, or or the you know, mix of those things. Yeah. Yeah. And I I mean I think I think in m in my mind, my perspective is that um you know that that God is just as God has given God puts people in You know, all those who are in authority are there because God has put them there. You know. Parents are the parents of their kids because, you know, God has has done that and so you know, a lot of the um to me the the leading God's leading is um done in large part in the church by by placing leaders there. I think I think the It's interesting that you keep making that distinction and possibly your experience of charismatic circles uh is is of a different stream but but like when you describe those things I'm like yeah yeah I mean that was true for for us. every step of the way. There was always elders. There was always, you know, a sense of of authority, you know, that was there that was recognizable. In fact, uh it was taught in our circles that if you don't uh that right yeah it was taught in our circles that that at the end of the day if you're gonna allow that kind of spontaneity it can only happen, it can only feel safe to people. if there's clear, strong leadership. And if there's not clear, strong leadership, then what happens is people get um one, weird things start to happen and then two, people start to feel like the weird things are gonna happen. So then it just kinda you know, quenches everything and so so you had to have real clear, firm, you know, uh leadership uh to to you know, if something kind of weird were to happen that you just address it forthrightly and say, Yeah, that's that's that's off or you know, we're gonna we're gonna you know we're gonna we're gonna move back in this direction and and so Yeah, so and that's I mean that brings up an interesting um An interesting point that uh I think one of the advantages so so maybe one of the the the the dangers as some people might put it of of a of a house church is that there is um that there's not a whole lot of structure and so there is the possibility of things going wrong or um or of or of weird, not good things happening um in some way and So I I but that's where the ordination and the clear leadership is necessary. Yeah, and and I th so I think there's a lot of drift is that a lot of the reason that churches end up having a whole lot of structure or very few people participating in uh in a worship service other than just being there and singing songs maybe, um, is to sort of head some of that off. Um I I think that, you know, it's good for those things to to arise just at at least to the point of awareness so they can be addressed. And I think that's one of the advantages of just the smaller setting is uh there's a better opportunity to to know one another. Yeah. Um even just in a sen in the setting of of worshiping God. It's it's closer to um you know uh the way that a a family would get to know one another if they are worshiping together Um and actually that was a dec sorry. Yeah. Uh sorry that you have to define this in the context of me being here because if if you didn't it it might have been uh a different contrast. Um in our circle of churches we called ourselves New Covenant Churches and so the emphasis on relationships and family relationships that that that build in, you know, holding each other accountable and uh, you know, learning to walk with one another as as family and not just You know, you show up, do their spiritual thing, you know, and and uh and then go away. But but where you're living with and bearing each other's burdens, um There's a pretty well developed kind of theology and and teaching around the idea of covenant, that that we're in a covenant family together. And uh and you know, that means that you know, that we're building more deeply and we're sharing, you know, in each other's lives and and that sort of thing. That that a again is a it sounds to me like a similarity is you know in terms of what you're describing. Yeah. So anyways, I think we were un some charismatic people would would call us charismatic light because of because of some of these things. You know, and so so we did have something of an emphasis on the miraculous, but but kind of more on the spontaneity of being in the Word and worshiping together and letting everybody come with a priesthood of all believers as opposed to some charismatic churches that would really, you know, look for that moment where You know, there's a emotional crescendo and and uh, you know, praying for healing and those kinds of things. Not that we didn't do those things, but uh we would be considered charismatic light. Uh that's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer, uh David Forcey also on the show this week on Troy Skinos, the Fate Debate on 930 WFMD. We just actually just have a few minutes left in into in this episode of the show And it's it's striking to me a lot of the things that uh Jonathan's been putting forward as you know, this was my charismatic experience and it feels like a lot of what you're saying, David fits that. But I'm wondering if it's really about charismatic theology and it's more about uh what's driving decisions that have nothing to do specifically with theological approach. Um or it might be cultural, um, you know, might be the might be personality, like somebody has like a an independent streak in them or a separatist idea They could be charismatic, they could be Mennonite, they could be you know Pentecostal, they could be Baptist, they could be anything, kinda do their own thing. And then the the the length of the service and no defined uh beginning or end time sometimes Uh I mean, you ever go to an Orthodox service? And people that's like the people if you were to look at it in time lapse photography, it'd be like running water through the sanctuary. You know, people are entering and leaving. You know, the the service begins and there's like twenty people there and you know forty five minutes later there's twenty people there but only two of them over there at the beginning and it's a completely different group of people that's really replaced them And then some of them leave and then it seems like it kind of it I guess it has an end time, but it doesn't have a a strongly defined end time sometimes. Or some of the you know churches that be Pentecostal but not necessarily charismatic 'cause there's there's some alignment there, but they're different. Right. Um Or churches that are big into the revival idea, like somebody that's big into the the methods of Charles Finney, who wasn't necessarily a charismatic, and they're going to have these revivals that go on for hours So I'm wondering how much of it is just a a variety of life experience, uh political perspective, who knows? Uh and when our team does it, we say, Oh yeah, that's Roman Catholic, because we Roman Catholics do that. But so do the Baptists maybe. So, you know, I'm wondering if we're lumping in our own experiences more often than it should. How many of those are just common human condition things? How many of those are deeply distinctive theological positions? Yeah, certainly our new mentology was rooted in, you know, a second experience of the Holy Spirit, you know, that um uh that drove a lot of our approach to First Corinthians twelve, thirteen. The doctrine of the spirit. And so, uh but ecclesiologically, you know, in terms of like what do you what what is the you know, what does church do? What is your what does the Bible say about what church does? Like that part of theology I think we're seeing a lot of similarities from anyways. It's it feels like home to me. Like I think if I was in that setting I'd be like, man, I get this. So you know Merry Christmas. We've got uh to both of you and to you listening. Thank you. Uh thank you, Jonathan. Jonathan Schweitzer, founder of Cross the Bridges, and David Forcy, the uh founder of the House that meets at David's House. The church that means it days. Yeah, yeah, yeah. The house of God. I gotta start church. House of prayer for all nations. Anyway, till next week. Well, find us online, WSMD. com keyword faith. Till next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com