This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of divinity from reform. Theological seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies. Oh, yeah. Troy Skinner. Question: Is the human soul mortal or immortal? What do Christians believe about this? What does the Bible say about it? Does the answer change depending on whether a person is saved or lost? These are just some of the questions we'll seek to address in the coming weeks on the Faith Debate. And on the panel today, Morgan Kokenauer, who is pastor at Frederick's Seventh-day Adventist Church, you might recall his. predecessor predecessor Robert Quintana, who was a friend of the program, guest panelist several times on the show. Might also recall Jonathan Sweitzer as pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, a very frequent presence on the program over the years. And we're going to begin this dialogue with with the question generally speaking, is the human soul immortal or not? We're gonna start with kind of a broad question there and then drill down uh on on what the implications to an answer to a question such as that such as that might be. By the way Encourage you to check us out online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find access to past shows via podcast and a listing of uh the upcoming shows, kind of a program guide of what you can expect in the coming weeks on the Faith Debate. So Uh and as the announcer was so kind to to let you know, my name is Troy Skinner. Thanks for joining our dialogue. So, human soul, immortal or not? John, what do you think? I think I'm in a different place from where you think I might be. Like I've grappled pretty extensively uh do you disagree with me? Well I don't know. So I might be not where you think I am either. Yeah. So uh I'm uh I'm increasingly uh doubtful that outside of Jesus Christ, that the soul is eternal. Hmm. Hmm. Okay. So there's a con conditional immortality. For those that are saved, the soul would be immortal. But for those who are lost it is Yeah, the concern the concern in the garden was whether or not uh wicked man would eat of the tree and live forever. So that would be you're you're beginning to to grapple with and maybe lean in the direction of an annihilist p position, right? Yeah, I'm grappling with it. But there's a lot of passages in the case. So you're saying there's at least conditional immortality. Yeah Okay. Yeah I'd see that. What what do you think, Morgan? You think that there's conditional immortality, absolute immortality, or no immortality whatsoever? And this is like a game with a matrix, a movie the matrix, and we're all living a dream. You know it well first of all I want to thank you Choi for having me on. It's a pleasure to meet you as well, John. Thank you very much. I'm looking forward to this conversation. I guess for me Uh annihilation just sounds uh a little harsh in my mind, uh but if we want to look at the condition of the the soul, uh I don't know if Once again, we use these terms, uh I guess absent of the labels we're going to put on them, I would say wholeheartedly that our life depends on our relationship with Jesus Christ. Uh John 3. 16 says uh that for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believes in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. So one of the most used verses we have in the Bible lays it out pretty plainly that uh that e eternal life you can have by believing in Jesus Christ. And if you don't believe in Jesus Christ, there is no alternative per se. So Uh I would just start off by saying that I believe all life depends on whether or not you have are connected to the source of life, which is Jesus Christ. Unfortunately that passage has been a passage that um has been interpreted for many years. uh in the context of um uh you know etern the the immortality of the soul for both those that are saved and those that are not saved. You know, the idea uh the idea being that there would be eternal death as opposed to eternal life, you know, which is not necessarily in the passage, but that is read into the passage from other directions. So that's that that that's a interesting passage. I think it's helpful to think about it from a different perspective, but I feel like we need uh biblically a more solid basis. You know, uh we we gotta identify which passages would be like the the crux passages, you know, to to make a difference. Everybody in the room on the show today is you know professing Christ. But let's let's uh for a half a second let's try to broaden it, look at the a larger bush and get out our shears and start to prune it back a little bit. So What would you say is a biblical response? Uh some kind of a loaded question because if I disagree with you, I'm gonna Well w if somebody were to say, hey, what does the Bible teach about these sorts of things? You um what would you say if they said before a person came into existence, you know, through their mother's womb and was and was born, did they have a soul? Is there is there an eternal soul in that sense, meaning a soul that predates uh your existence as John Schweitzer I would agree, I'd say no. Okay, so it's a Mormon uh idea that that the soul existed before birth Right, among other traditions, right? Or re-incarnations. So we're not talking about an eternal soul that keeps coming back in different uh that'll be a different show with di with a different panel. But for our contacts, we're talking about a soul that uh comes into existence, I'm gonna assume you're both gonna say at conception, that that there's a human soul at conception. Yeah. Yeah. Or at least at birth. Well, I'd say at conception. Right. I would too. Okay. Oh, okay. Okay. But there is a beginning point. Yeah. Okay. So there's a begin and then The so then the question is if it's conditional, for some there's an endpoint when the soul would cease to exist. At least that's something you're grappling with, John. Right. Or does once it begins to exist, does it exist forever? Yeah. Alright, and and what what's your John's a little on the fence and unsure. Well I'll tell you can can I tell you why? Okay. Um those that are going to that receive the mark of the beast will drink the wine of God's fury uh that they're gonna be tormented with burning sulfur in the presence of the holy an angels and of the lamb. All right so there's pretty uh dramatic picture without a doubt. You know, we just went from being family friendly to not so friendly. Good morning. Happy Sunday to you. That's right, yes. Morning, everyone. Uh to n and then it says, and the smoke of their torment rises for forever and ever. And the uh the phrase there of course is for for an aeon, for an age. You know, uh so there's there's a couple key words in there that are important to define and that as you dig into the definition you realize that that there's a little bit of space in the uh original Greek, you know, to to grapple with, you know, okay, what exactly is it referring to? But the idea seems to be that that it's a never ending smoke of the torment. And so So that the question So that would be That that would go an argument against what you said in the very beginning of this. That's right. That would that would go go in the direction that's what I'm trying to grapple with is is is this speaking to an eternal torment? In which case the soul is immortal Immortal, did I say immortal? Is immortal and uh will go on forever. Okay. Um that the Bible doesn't ask. And uh and it's a it's a very modern argument, and that is how could seventy years of rejecting God result in a an eternity of torment. Right? Meaning it it seems like the punishment doesn't fit the crime. And um because I don't see the Bible directly address that in particular, uh I'm I'm less willing to grapple with that particular argument because it feels like an argument that's imposed by uh by our our reason and our rationale and I'm just of the opinion that that in those places where my reason seems to conflict with revelation, that I need to say, not my will be done, but thy will be done. Meaning my you know, I d I don't know how God thinks and and uh even though I might want him to handle things differently, I I need to trust that that his justice is justice. And so anyways, um That that particular argument isn't enough to deter me from thinking that the passage I just read really does refer to eternal torment, but I'm still trying to grapple with it what exactly that means. um the uh not the eternal state of the of the human soul, but the the uh eternal existence or non-existence of the human soul Well I think um I know that uh John jumped Revelation. I think I I want to go to Genesis um to kind of look at creation. Um and so when we look at uh when we look at Genesis and especially at Seventh day Adventist, uh everything for us begins uh at creation. I mean some of our uh biggest beliefs uh uh founding uh fundamental beliefs are in creation, whether it's the Sabbath, whether it's marriage, whether it's whether it's gender. I mean that's a whole nother conversation that I've thrown out there in these topics. But the other one is is is life and death. Um and so when you look in Genesis, I mean all I mean it's I mean it it's it's powerful. Uh and and and and creation itself is a powerful story just because that's even being called into question. I mean we we know what what evolution what evolutionists believe, but there are some Christians who are beginning to really question and have questioned for a while, you know, how long did creation take? Was it a seven literal days? As Adventists we believe in a in a literal seven day creation week. And in that day on the sixth day, the Bible says God came down. I mean the Bible says that God rolled up his his sleeves and he didn't say a word. He just started playing in the dirt. And he made Adam and Eve out of the dust of the ground. He made mankind out of the dust of the ground. And then after that all he did was breathe into their nostrils the breath of life. And he essentially he gave this clay, the ability to breathe. And out of that comes the ability to reason, to live, to enjoy, to love, to experience an adventure, and then also companionship. And so and when when he puts them down in the garden Uh the Bible says that after he gets done with everything, he says, you know what, it's good. It's good. So for me, I don't know what part of that speaks to the mortality of the soul. Okay, so it speaks to this and that God said in the garden, you're gonna have two trees. Yeah He says there's a tree of life. Now, if you're immortal, there's no reason to have a tree of life. Because you've already got life. So you're not dependent on life for anything else. You don't need anything else for life. You got it Then there's a tree of knowledge of good and evil. And God said, You can eat from any tree. That's I give you I give you everything except this one in the day. And it says here in Genesis Uh Genesis chapter two, verse sixteen, the Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat from it you will surely die. So that's Genesis 2. And then the Bible says that God calls all the animals to come before him, He puts them to sleep, creates Adam or creates Eve. And then we get to Genesis three. And the very So So could we could we hit Genesis that that passage real quick? Just in terms of like asking what it does say and what it doesn't say. Okay. Right. So before you do that really quick, that's Jonathan Schweitzer, um, co-founder of the Faith Debate Show. Uh the other voice you we heard right before that was Pastor uh Morgan Kokenauer from the Uh Frederick Seventh Day Adventist Church. I'm Fred Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So you were saying. Right, so so the passage that you just read speaks to like there's there's two key things there. One, there's a tree of life. Mm-hmm Right. And so this the i it introduces the question, then why do you need a tree of life if you've already got it? Which I think is an an important question to ask. It's logical to ask that question. But then the death didn't come until they ate of the other tree uh which also begs a question, which is an important question, and that is if they had never eaten of the other tree Uh meaning the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. If they they never ate from that tree, would they have had any reason to expect that there would be an end to their life? Good question. So essentially what we believe is is when that tree's put in there, and it's it's righteousness by faith. I mean it's really faith. I mean you have to look at God's telling Adam and Eve something, one thing. He's saying this is the way it is. He created them on the sixth day. How do they know that was the seventh day? For them that's the first day. When they come to life, they have to believe everything that's coming out of God's mouth. Even if an angel comes and says, Listen, I saw God create everything. They've got to believe it because they weren't there to see it themselves. Sure. So everything is based on I have to believe what this guy is saying. So the whole Bible from Genesis to Revelation is do you believe what God's saying? Well not I have to believe, but why shouldn't I But what in what's in God's word is w what I believe is truth. Right. And so for this particular test it's a tree. Do I think it's a tree for all of us? No, I don't think it's a tree for all of us. But for Adam and Eve, it's these two trees. And God is interesting that he didn't say don't eat of the tree of life. He says you can eat from any tree. So for for God, the one thing is people say, well God says I can't have any fun, God says I can't do this, but God's pretty much saying you have liberty. You have freedom. I've given you everything. And so now When you have these two trees, it's not a matter of this tree is somehow the fountain of youth. If I if we can if Indiana Jones can can go find this tree and the Raiders of the Lost Tree. then uh we can eat from it, we can live forever. It's a matter of do you believe what God's saying? It's it's essentially it's it's faith. Do you have faith in God? So in saying that Wait, what's faith? You're saying the tree of life is faith? I'm believing by eating the tree that I'm trusting God. That I'm believing him. That this is some it's it's an act of of faith. It's an act of obedience and hey I'm putting these two trees in the middle. Do you believe me? Or as we look in chapter three, do you believe the devil And so the devil comes in and says, listen, did God really say you can't eat from any tree? So immediately he flips the question. God said you can eat from any tree. Flips the question. Then he says, No, I'm telling you, you will not die. So God explicitly says, and the day you eat of it, your fate is sealed. You're going to die. Now we obviously know the Bible says that Jesus Christ is the Lamb which was slain from the foundation of the world. So even before Right. This decision comes into play. Sure. There's already been a decision made on God's behalf saying I I'll fix this if it goes south. And so the devil comes in though and says, Did God say you would you would die? No, no, no. You will not die. So for us, in the garden, the very first lie, because what's the lie in what the devil said? If you believe in an immortal soul, then essentially you're saying, yeah, you won't die. You'll never die. Whether you believe in God or not, you're either going to live in heaven or you're going to live in hell. Right, so that's an interesting twist on what you're saying. You're saying that even the belief in in the immortal soul then is part of the original satanic lie. Yeah. I've never heard it put that way. Have you ever heard of put that way? So so that's the answer to the question. So that's the question. The Seventh day Adventist position is that there's not Oh yeah. And we don't believe in an eternal burning hell. And this and this and so starting with Genesis, we'll send it to Revelation. evangelical position of uh eternal torment uh has a very clear definition of death that they associate with what happened uh on the day that they ate of the tree, that is that they were separated from God, that seems to be backed up in uh Ephesians where it says that that you also were dead in your sins and trespasses, right? And so he made you you were made alive with Christ, right? That is by grace you've been saved through faith. This is not of yourselves. the gift of God. And that, you know, which raises its own questions about um you know faith uh in other settings. But my point is just that um that death as defined in the New Testament, uh happened that day. And so if that's the case when you say that day you mean in in in Genesis. When they ate of the tree. Meaning so death happened, meaning full spiritual death happened that day. According to may I ask what you mean by spiritual death? By spiritual yeah. Separation from God. meaning meaning the thing that changed when you pass from death to life by accepting Christ as your Lord and Savior. And so so my point is just that um if If that's death in the New Testament, then we could say that there was death and physical life at the same time, that the soul lived while the spirit was dead. And so all the evangelical world has done, and I'm not convinced that they're wrong at this point, is they've said that that spiritual death is something that can remain for eternity. Uh because we've already seen that you can have spiritual death and physical life, you know, where the soul remains. And so so that's not a dichotomy that is a problem. in any way. Okay, well for me I say for me sir. And I gotta be careful because evidently I'm speaking on behalf of my whole denomination right now on this radio station. No pressure Sure. Not at all. Is that you even brought a friend with you? Do we get to introduce him? Or we're not allowed to even say that he's here Sorry. This is the guy that brought the popcorn this tonight, so you know, we gotta know that he's here. Yeah, I'm Greg and I'm with the Five Except Amnesty Church. Yeah, Greg's the popcorn guy. And he's helping out with a a big play we're putting on which uh we'll talk about a little bit 'cause Lazarus has something to do with this So for me, yeah, yeah. With uh when it comes to Adam and Eve, uh yeah, they ate the fruit, but before them, uh there was no death. Can we agree on that? Right. Well that's that's one of those that's the key the evolutionary distinction, but the evolution requires death in in life and death in life. And ru and so if there was all that evolution happening ahead of time, then it wasn't Adam where the where the death started. So there is a death is spiritual death. primarily that we're dealing with. Now I'm using the term spiritual death. What would you call that? I would call it death. Like the breath leaves your body. The Bible says in Ecclesiastes the dead know nothing They don't have emotion, they don't love, they don't hate, they have no idea of what's going on in the land of the living. They are dead. When we talk like so for instance, going back to John 3. 16, so did all men die in Adam? Well let's w I want to make sure we're clear on this in that when before Adam and Eve did the bu before the sin, before they ate the fruit, does the body die? Does the breath leave? Is there a point where they get old age and they die? Let me jump in before you try to answer. Peter says a day and a thousand years is a day. Because I think that next week's show is probably going to grapple with this kind of question more on the death side. We're talking about the eternal life question this week. I think we're going to talk about the death question next week. At least it's springtime we're talking about. We've got just a little bit of time left. We kind of get a teaser. In a few weeks there's going to be a a musical taking place at your church. Uh the dates on that are the fifth and sixth, is that right? Sixth and seventh of April. Nice. Uh seven o'clock both days, correct? That's a Friday night and a Saturday night. Okay, so uh working on the Sabbath, okay. Hey, Jesus said the priests work all over the Sabbath and are exempt because their work is ministry. So so and this this show is called um Uh glorious unfolding. And if somebody wants to find out more, they go to the church's website. Is that the idea? Yeah, the website is ariseforgod. org. And so they can go there and under the events section, they can look it up. Please get tickets, you need a ticket to get through the doors. But there's two showings. They are free Um but yes, it's a great show. This is the second year we've done it and I'm really proud of 'em. They do a phen phenomenal job. AriseforGod. org. AriseforGod dot or G. com dot org. And again, to to clarify The t there's no cost for the ticket. Exactly. But you must have a ticket. Correct. I guess that's gonna allow you to have some crowd control. You're gonna know when you can put the announcement, hey, sold out No more tickets going out to anybody. We want to make sure we make the fire marshal very happy. All right. So that's coming up in about what, three weeks or something like that. So uh check that out. It's uh I understand it's a big production. It's gonna have uh Like elephants and camels? No. But they've been working hard. They they kinda had a drive to run practice. Uh and they and they and they worked at the kinks and this year they know it's going to be spectacular and and I and I trust them. Right? Okay. It'll bring you eternal life. Thanks for listening to the face of eight. Thank you, John Sweitzer and Morgan Kokenauer for being on the show. Um thank you for listening. We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Until next week one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless.