I don't know if that was as loud on the radio as it was in my earphones, but if so, I apologize. Man. Hello. Good morning, Frederick. That woke me up. Wake me up on Sunday morning. Oh, wow. Broadcasting for the West of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Eating. How can we make you smile? As always, I encourage you to visit visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. You type in the keyword. You can get there other ways, but the easiest way is go to the search field, type in the word faith in the keyword section. It takes you right to the page. And what you'll find there are links to your podcast. You'll be able to hear this show in a couple of days and pretty much all almost all the other shows we've done over the eight plus years of doing the Faith Debate show. Somewhere along the line they lost about two years worth of shows. I don't know why. Those were the best shows we ever did. That's right. Anyway, and you will also find uh on the Faith Debate page uh a blog, a Monday through Friday daily updated blog, nine new blog postings a day. And how do I do that? Well, I lean on you. You email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. What you send me, I post. Very little to minimal, sometimes no editing whatsoever. And sometimes it has nothing to do with religion. I don't care You email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and I will post it up on the Faith to Bay page. Even if you don't email me, go visit it and see what your neighbors are sending for me to post, for you to read. I'm a true conservative, baby. I am so yesterday across the board. That's right. You have a great listserv though, Troy. I love that listserv you're running. It's a total joke. I got rebuked right uh I can say rebuked on this religious show, I think that's we For not giving these guys a chance to talk about the new media nonsense. Jonathan Schweitzer is uh doing this whole tweeting bird thing. Sweitzer Jonathan. So tell me. At Sweitzer Jonathan. That's how you can follow me. That's right. Come follow me. Why you want people following you? I have no idea. Because Jesus said it. Come on. You walked into that one, baby. And are you doing the whole Twitter fear series? I I do it in in the person of my church. Christ Reform D C on Facebook is our is our ID there, Christ Reform D C and just Reform D C on Twitter. Um so we're a Reformed Church in the Dutch Reform tradition. We meet downtown at Logan. Circle. Okay. That reminds me, by the way, I didn't mention who you guys are. That's the voice of Dr. Brian Lee. He's the pastor of Christ Reformed Church. Jonathan Schweitzer is the other knucklehead on the show today. Not to say that Dr. Lee is a knucklehead. I am the first knucklehead. Jonathan's the other knucklehead. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of your Frederick Faith Debate. All right, last week we were talking about whether America is a uh a a Christian nation or not, and we had to def spend some time defining terms and all that. In the process of defining terms I began to wonder whether or not uh America has any Christian churches. But anyway, that's a separate uh topic for a different show. We've wondered that before though, so yeah, that's not a new thing. Are we doing next week whether America's a Mormon nation? Or we can wait till after November 16th. Cliffhanger last week was was we were kinda hung up on two things. One, does the New Testament indicate that there are no longer Christian and unchristian nations? Dr. Lee was saying that the New Testament would indicate that's the case. Jonathan Sweitzer was saying You gotta show me because I think you're arguing from silence. So I think the New Testament is silent. Yeah, I totally feel like you set up a straw man there. And I'm not gonna even answer that one. I'm gonna change the change the d the question. You're gonna change the question? Okay, well that's how I understood it. And then the the second thing was Uh Jonathan's saying that we're we're built on a Judeo-Christian foundation. America's done a lot of good things, therefore we've been blessed. We're based on these values that are godly. And Dr. Lee said, okay, let's name some of those values. And so those are the two things. Does the New Testament change what was going on in the in the Old Testament? Can Dr. Lee persuade Jonathan Schweitzer to his satisfaction that that is the case? And is America basically good, good enough to be called a godly, Christian godly type of nation? Can Jonathan make that argument strong enough to persuade Dr. Lee? So that's how we've set this up. But again, I'm not trying to do either of those. You're setting up strong. Uh judged or blessed, and you talked about the Old Testament setting up criteria from when God would would bring nations down. You can no longer be a nation And I think it's i this is always implied in any talk of no matter how we define Christian America type language, it's always implied that there is a potential judgment in store should America fall far enough away from some minimal litmus test of faithfulness. And uh and I think that's if as I hear it, that's how the adjective Christian is being used. Some minimal bar of faithfulness by which God is withholding his judgment. And I would say every nation ever Including Israel, which by the way is a model of unfaithfulness, breaking the covenant while the covenant's being cut on stone on Mount Sinai. Um but All nations, including Israel, have always been unfaithful, and what we have in the New Testament is God restraining his hand until the day of judgment when he will judge all men and women. Uh, including nations in that sense as corporate expressions of men and women. But but i if in some other sense America is blessed or not judged now because of some minimal bar of faithfulness, w what is that bar? What what what's the thing that makes America more rather than less uh faithful today? Yeah, m my answer to that is that there had been for the last two thousand years In the Western world uh that has been Trinitarian, uh it's interesting to me how uh when the Islamic In what sense has the Western world been Trinitarian? Uh I'm about to describe it. Okay. Um the the the part of the world that the Islamic Empire conquered is the part of the world where the Church of Jesus Christ had had not been willing to say that Jesus was the Son of God. And when they arose in the earth They were were very quick to conquer nations all across North Africa and through Arabia. that had already compromised and given themselves over to rejecting a Trinit Trinitarian orientation. The churches, right? That was not true in in Biz Byzantine. Did I say that right? Byzantia? uh whichever the Byzantine Empire over into the Roman Empire. I'm talking about those churches. I'm not talking about governments. I'm talking about the churches that were in those places. uh that there was a backbone that they had that they said this Islamic thing is evil and wicked and we need to stay away from it. Right? Uh at the time uh so we fast forward significantly to uh the split in the year thousand AD between the East and the West. And as far as we understand, about that time there was a woman who was putting her lovers on the on the on the chair, the papal chair for uh several years in Rome, right? There was major violation of the purposes of God. Interestingly enough, everybody that lived through the bubonic plague in what is it, three hundred AD, was of the opinion that that was the judgment of God for something somewhere uh and when we look at the history of what the Roman Empire uh what the Christian uh European world was like, they were far from walking in the purposes of God. Within uh only a hundred years of that, the um We have the rise of the the Gutenberg printing press, which meant that when Luther put his ninety-five thesis on the wall, it was everywhere throughout Europe. Okay? Well this led to the Enlightenment, the Reformation all happening. And France, when it got a hold of that, had a revolution, right about the same time that the United States was having its revolution. And the French Revolution very decisively kicked God out of the nation. They didn't they want wanted nothing to do with God to kick God out of the nation and man was it ugly. It was obvious that it was it was as wicked and vile as any Roman Empire might have been, any beast of revelation could have been, it was very ugly. Within a short period of time, we we uh we see the same thing happen over in Germany. where we have this this rise of and this is the first world war of government structures that were super vile led to it led to World War I. It was obvious that that some wicked beast nations had to be destroyed. World War Two, once again Hitler and then Stalin, even though much of the of the of the uh socialist world never wanted to admit it. went so far as major genocide in the name of wanting nothing to do with God or religion. We watched the history of it. And all I'm saying is that that England And the United States, uh in England, uh Europe has even gone so far as to kick God out of their constitution whatsoever to have nothing in the history of their documents in the EU right now that that says anything about God. I'm just saying Is God in our Constitution? Uh uh uh He is in our founding documents, okay? And the and this is what I'm going to, is that if the people and I don't know what what the numbers are But I think it's still true that that if the people of God in a in a nation are are calling out to God and I don't know what the percentages. I've asked myself often Abraham apparently was given permission by God to go after percentages that that God has has kept a measure of faithfulness in the United States among people. I'm not talking about governments. I'm talking about among the people that is uncommon. You know, the number of churches that are available in the United States it outnumbers uh in terms of of the the intensity and the numbers of churches that are available. Of course, we just admitted last week that many of those are not uh godly today. But but so what is the basic standard of faithfulness? It has something to do with uh with freedoms, you know, and responsibilities It has something to do with uh the the percentages of people that are seeking the Lord and prayerfully seeking the Lord that that allows the government to not go so far as to say we're kicking God out of the country and we want nothing to do with it. And all I'm saying is that we have seen historically that it played out very similar to how we see the Old Testament. And if that's the case, then why would we say it's different? Well okay, so it fits. Two two quick points in response to that. First in I w won't make you talk about Romans thirteen again, but Paul very clearly describes Romans thirteen a a legitimate state And he's talking about Rome, and he's saying that that state is to be honored, to be respected, and he says they're a minister of God. So um so that's Did I say anything that disagrees with that? No, but what you're saying here is is that if there is you're talking about what the criteria, what the percentage must be for a nation state to be faithful. Yeah. Rome, there's a handful. If we're talking percentages, we're talking nothing. That's my point. Rome was headed for total destruction. It was one of the beasts of Daniel But let me finish my thought. I have two thoughts. First of all, Pot Paul isn't condemning it at all. Paul is holding it up and not as a model. Paul is saying uh Rome and he's not doesn't say Rome. He says All civil magistrates everywhere have been risen up by God and are appointed by God for these purposes, no matter holy or unholy they are, and some are more or less holy. But let's go back to France, because I like France. I'm not going to defend Robespierre or the Reign of Terror. But see again, imply in what you said is is is France and Napoleonic Revolution or pre Napoleonic Revolution but then Napoleon uh uh uh departed from godliness entirely. Well, A, I would agree that that that was an entirely secular revolution. But B, I would note that well so so what came before it was godly uh the the ro the royal monarchy of France? I mean see the problem is your bar can't wait till you let me answer that really. Yeah, go ahead. Uh answer it right now. Your bar for faithfulness is is bizarre. It's nothing that the Bible would hold forth as faithfulness. The Bible holds forth as faithfulness those who confess Christ as Lord and believe that he raised from the dead. And there's no other biblical bar for faithfulness before the bar of God in the New Testament. Uh except for the fact that nations in the Old Testament were allowed to to remain or not remain based on some bar of faithfulness. I mean there is a bar of faithfulness pre-Christ and there's there's nothing in the New Testament that tells us that Israel Israel is no longer the geopolitical people of God. Every one of those nations in the Old Testament is being described over and against Israel, which is being called to faithfulness and is a model, a type It's a shadow that's fulfilled. Israel is no longer the people of God. There is no longer the people of God, the church is the true Israel. All who believe are the children of Abraham, Paul says So the church is now has no territory, we have no army, we have no police force. Sure. Sure. I I would split with you on uh on the ongoing role of Israel versus but that's kind of a a uh that's essential to the whole thing really because the only reason there are other nations that are talked about at all in the Old Testament is on a typological level in correspondence with Israel And so uh the question is always been. So you have to define typological because I think I'm in disagreement with you about the typological out. Yeah. So so what do you mean by typological? I mean Israel represented the people of God on a national scale. Whereas the people of God before Israel, Abraham, Abraham is really the more model uh pattern of what a Christian is in the New Testament church. The author of the Hebrews says that Abraham Even though he lived in the promised land, Abraham lived in Israel, but Hebrews says he lived there as a stranger and a foreigner because he was looking, seeking a heavenly city, what Hebrews calls a city with foundation. So Christians And the kingdom of God, the only kind of nation that we can describe as Christian, is is our heavenly inheritance. It's a city to come. And so What happened for a brief period of human history, from Moses to Christ, Paul talks about in Romans 5, for a brief period, God took that church and gave it a land. He gave it a territory, he gave it an army and a king to show how the people of God would govern themselves. It was a it was a type, it was a a a a model. to display the faithfulness, the ability of God's people to be faithful to God's laws. And Israel is the model of people of God in their failure. That's why we need Christ. That's why we need forgiveness and pardon of sins. So that's the type that's it's the prophetic idiom going all throughout the Old Testament. You say the New Testament is silent about that. No, it's not. Paul is adamant about it. Jesus is adamant about it. Israel with the coming of Christ has been judged for their unbelief in the Messiah, A. D. seventy, which you already referenced, the destruction of the temple, is the the last and final presence of any political people of God on earth. And so after AD seventy We cannot say that there is any nation that is more or less biblical, more or less faithful, more or less Christian. And I have to look at my notes if I have the name of your church. Dr. Brian Lee's Church is uh Christ Reformed Church. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer is Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. And now it's Jonathan's turn to respond. Okay, so a couple things. First of all, um in uh even Paul in Thessalonians recognizes that the man of sin is going to be revealed. And it recognizes that that's going to be in the s in in the secular government you know, where this happens, the beast. Even revelation refers to the fact that there's going to be this secular government that is a beast that follows along with this uh Old Testament idea of the beasts from Daniel. That there are these beasts that rise up, these governments that no longer are human They they've they've degraded their humanity and their following of wickedness, and the result is that they become beasts. It's a very apt uh metaphor for what's happened. And in the New Testament, we are told that yes, Israel has been set aside. But specifically that they've been set aside, they've experienced the hearting in part until the full n measure of the Gentiles has come in, but so all Israel will be saved. Now I know that you disagree with me about what that Israel represents there But it's it's clear to me that that Israel represents the original nation of Israel and that there is still a role for the people of Israel that is unique, that is on the face of the earth, that will be only be fulfilled as they come to Christ when they say uh uh uh Bashem uh I used to know it in in Hebrew, uh Adonai when they say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, and that that is still yet to be fulfilled. And I'm comfortable with the fact that we disagree uh about all that and I and I realize it might be at the center of all this discussion. But but my point is is that when Robespierre and those guys arose, it was after years of of France already rejecting the purposes of God. Just like in the Old Testament, where for some four, five, six hundred years The northern ten tribes walked away from the purpose of God, from Jeroboam all the way to Zedekiah with Ahab and Jezebel right in the middle. getting worse and worse, you know, all through the generations, to the point where at one point they're they're sacrificing their children before idols in the time of Elijah, and then and then they get pulled back from that, but they still worship before the two idols. that Jeremiah s Jeroboam set up and it's generations of wickedness that God finally judged. Well look, if God finally is is is uh judging France after many years, that's no new thing. That that doesn't like How do you know he's judging France Well my point is is that is that there's there's there's clear um uh uh there's clear teaching in scripture, Deuteronomy twenty eight. No no see you you're claiming to interpret human history, you're claiming to have the mind of the spirit. How do you know God is judging France? You are right that I'm claiming that. You're absolutely right. And I'm very comfortable with that because the Bible As I read it, gives us a clear presentation of how and why God judges nations. And when he does so, what does he do to them? He hits them with things like famine, he hits them with uh with with attacks from the outside. There there's a whole number of things that he c that that he clearly says, if you walk away from me These are the things that are going to happen. And when he even in Isaiah and Jeremiah when he talks about other nations, he shows us how he's going to hit them, whether it's, you know, with disease, whether it's with families, all these different things. And Haiti is a great example of that I mean hi the island of Hispaniola, clearly those guys they made a pact with with voodooism And they are the poorest nation like in the whole Western hemisphere, is that the whole world? And it's clear to me that God has not stopped. He hasn't changed. The things are happening. Just like they happened in the Old Testament. See, the very clear thing with Israel is uh what faithfulness meant for the nation of Israel was very clear. The prophets come and say, You haven't kept my Sabbaths You haven't worshipped the Lord, um, you haven't honored me, you haven't taken care of the poor. They had a fully detailed uh Torah length When the nations are judged, uh they're condemned not by that same standard, but they're they're in Contradistinction to Israel. There is no such national covenant in the New Testament for the Old Testament for that matter. Yes, there is. There is a national covenant for the people of Israel. No, I'm saying for the other nations there is no other covenant even in the Old Testament. I know, but you you have you have no bar of faithfulness in the New Testament for uh a a nation to be holy. Right. Testament doesn't clearly contradict the Old Testament, then we have no reason to stop believing the Old Testament. All of those things are still being fulfilled. Well well I know that X nation or Y Nation that Jeremiah or or Isaiah and by the way, their focus uh uh They spoke about the other nations in contrast to Israel. Egypt was condemned because of its oppression of the people of God. But the Well I've done a lot of talking. I don't want to take up all the time. No, I mean m m my point is simply that that there's no bar of of faithfulness in the New Testament and and there's no there's no concern uh with the faithfulness of nations anywhere in the New Testament. So um i you know, you have Christ saying, Mine is a heavenly kingdom, and Paul says simply in Romans thirteen, There is no author let's talk about this verse because I think it's crucial here. There is no authority except from God and those that exist, that would be all of them, have been instituted by God. Therefore whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. Those who resist will incur judgment. You can say that Syria fell or Assyria fell or Egypt was condemned because the scriptures say that. I can't tell you why Robespierre rose against France. For me to say that that was God's judgment is to claim to know the mind of God and the scriptures say very clearly the secret things belong to the Lord. I believe that God is providentially in control of everything But I also believe that I don't have a clue what God in his wisdom is doing with everything. I have no clue whether it would be more of a judgment or a curse. If Mitt Romney or Barack Obama was elected November sixth, we might be airing this after November sixth, in case I would sound really stupid. But but I don't have any clue. Um When that will t uh whether that's a blessing or a curse. And I have no basis to claim as a Christian that God is judging America. Because then I am putting words in the mouth of the Holy Spirit. And how dare I do that as a minister of Christ's church? Yeah, and I have no problem with that because I'm not putting words in his mouth. I feel like he's the one that's speaking them. And uh But the scriptures say nothing about France. Tell me tell me more about Louis the Fourteenth. I have no problem uh believing that there are still m uh non-canon writing prophets and and uh those that are that are uh apostles that are non-canon writing apostles that are still on the earth today. Are you a prophet? Uh I I have moved in prophetic activity. So have you had a revelation regarding any specific nation being judged? You mentioned Haiti. Uh I I feel like God gives revelation in the context of meditating on scripture and what he's taught us. that we can know that he's moving against certain nations at certain times and that he's doing it in response to his choice to judge because the nation has walked away from the purpose of God. I feel like uh uh that that that's very uh consistent, that's noble. Can I go back to the Romans thirteen passage? Sure. In the Old Testament Babylon, even Egypt for that matter, when Joseph was there and uh and others were were in the nation of Egypt. They submitted to the governing authorities. They were told to submit to the governing authorities. Assyria, Greece, Rome. I have no problem with With uh uh uh it's not contradictory to believe that if I lived in Russia when Russia was rejecting uh God, that I shouldn't submit to the governing authorities except for the one area that would probably get me killed when it comes to the preaching of the gospel. But in every other area, if I live in Russia, if I live in Albania, if I live in in China, I'm to submit to the governing authorities. I'm uh to to to make every effort to live at peace with everyone. But that doesn't mean that somehow um uh that that somehow that changes the fact that God is judging a nation that I'm submitting to. I can submit to a nation that God is about to judge. For that matter, that's what Daniel did. He submitted to Nebuchadnezzar and warned him, God's about to judge you. He submitted to Darius and said, God's about to judge you. And sure enough You know, uh these things happened and God judged those nations even as he was submitting to them. And so but we're given the basis upon which God judges those nations while we as Christians are submitting to the governing authorities, because we know that God himself who has revealed to us why he judges and how he judges nations, that God is the one that is doing that according to his sovereign power and authority. And so our job is to submit to those authorities, except for the place where uh where it it means that we can't preach the gospel anymore. We continue to preach the gospel and that we seek to influence those governments. And that God allows that. And in some places he allows more influence, i. e. in the United States, where there's the potential then for God to bless, because there's a lot more people that that are choosing righteousness as opposed to choosing wickedness. We're gonna have to let Jonathan Schweitzer have the last word. Much to my chagrin. I hate when Jonathan gets the last word. Jonathan Schweizer. My chagrin's fine with me. Senior pastor of Cross Island Chapel has Jonathan Schweitzer. And um Dr. Bryan. Um Lee, what's my name? No, no, what's your church? Christ Reformed Church. Easy enough name. Yeah, easy enough. I don't know why I keep forgetting the name of your church. George Washington wrote twenty thousand pages in his life and never once used the word Christ in his own hand. Now that's a Christian model. I believe it. Wow, well there's some little trivia for your next cocktail party. That's right. I'm Freud Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930. I know you care. Christ Centered Preaching by Brian Chappell. Or is it Chappelle? Chappell. Maybe Chappelle would be better. Anyway, till next week. God bless.