Broadcasting for the west side of Big Brother City in the hearts of Gridlock County where free With impact is like plowing pavement, so I've been told. You know why? Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Our sponsor is Putnam Plumbing and Heating. Hopefully make you smile. We are online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. We are all Also on the WFMB Facebook page from time to time. And you know what? I hinted last week you're gonna try to get the video camera in here for this week's show, and we didn't do that. So You know why that was though, because there's th the show today is such an exciting continuation of last week's show that I I don't know about you but you know I've done nothing else but wanna think about in between last week's show and this show. How to move forward. So uh the the word pictures that will come forth will be better. We are a radio program, an audio program. What's this video stuff anyway? It's a fad. It'll go away. Video will never work. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I am Troy Skinner. And again, this is the Faith Debate. And our guests this week, let's go ahead and get their names right. Uh Doctor Harpel Manget and his wife daughter. What's your wife's name? We gotta get her to come on the show. Absolutely. Okay, next time she will bring your wife But Hannah is is is their daughter, uh Hannah Manga is a sophomore in high school in Montgomery County, Churchill, right? High school. Churchill high school And she's done some amazing things there. I think if you Google her name you'll probably find some stuff that she's done down here. Yeah, mine will be pictures with mustaches drawn on me and things like that by people who aren't fans, I guess. But uh anyway, last week we were talking uh about well a a variety of things. We ended up drilling down on Islamophobia and what we mean by that. and uh how we should understand uh terrorist activities, ISIS and and other like-minded um uh professing Muslims and whether they're representing true Islam or not, and if um if those of us who are not Muslim in America should have a fear of them if it's justified and uh uh and okay to have a fear or if it's completely insane and uh and unforgiving and uh unknowing to have such a fear. That's kinda where we we were. And I finished with a strong uh uh uh uh kind of um historical comment about not hysterical but historical and Christianity and how those two groups act when they are under oppression And uh Dr. Manget was prepared to give a uh you know crushing response to that. And to frame it really quick, the point was uh the the point the uh the point was the doctor made the point initially that you know there's there's economic oppression and political oppression and and and they're really there's a there's a a a tough environment in which they're living. And so that makes them ripe candidates for being uh pulled into the movement by these extreme uh terrorist groups. That's right. And then Jonathan was making the point that y okay, that's may or may not be true, but you don't see Christians in similar situations in China or the Middle East or wherever. Going out and con and uh committing terrorist uh activities uh in the name of Jesus. Yeah. And so then the show ended. There seems to be a unique psychosis that we're seeing among these Islamic groups that we haven't seen in Sikh groups. And now we've asked the doctor to hold his thought for one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours. Let's see how well he does. Yes. In in ref in answering the that response back. Yeah. The fundamental word is freedom. If you look for the countries you quoted, there is no freedom of expression. There's no freedom of expression in China. in North Korea and many of the Middle Eastern countries. Okay. What you're talking about. So they aren't allowed to express themselves. Okay. And they live in fear. of a repression. So I'm not saying w uh that is right or wrong. Uh certainly it's not right. But the whole point is in Europe they have that freedom of expression and that's what is being um Given to them and it louds and express it. And we're not saying it's right or wrong, it's definitely I don't think it's right there. com committing ha violence and hate crimes against the rest of the population. That's totally uh uh inexcusable. But the whole point is you've got to have a fundamental understanding the liberties we take for granted uh w whether it be here or in Europe, are not there in China. I mean the guys uh they they have Muslims in China and they can't express themselves. Uh in fact, wouldn't you argue or would you agree that those freedoms that you're referring to that are the freedoms of liberal democratic uh nations all over the world are freedoms that have arisen primarily in what were originally Christian nations And that to this day we have never seen a Muslim nation move from being a Muslim nation into being a liberal democratic nation. They tried to do that in Egypt and it fell apart when the Muslim Brotherhood got in power. They they were moving in that direction in Turkey, but in the in the in they were thinking maybe this is gonna happen, you know, we were all excited about it. But then it has not, and it's moved in a in a more extremist direction again. And so maybe one day There will be Muslim nation that has moved toward a democratic republic. But as of now, that's not the case. And so there appears to be some key differences. uh in the worldview and the in the theological constructs that produce uh even the uh the secular societies of today that have allowed the the context of a secular society today that we just don't see coming forth from Muslims. I'd like it to happen. I think it's happening. I think the whole point is uh uh when we went to Iraq we went with that idea in mind. The idea of having the freedom um for people to to do that. And you know, let's look at freedoms in our own country. It it took a civil war and a lot of blood to get freedoms established. Profoundly. And that's what we're witnessing now today, uh, in these countries is a change from the dictatorial system and this Arab Spring and many other countries is showing the expression of the people to express their uh freedoms from the pri colonial eras when they had dictators who l were left in power after the uh colonial powers left. Without a doubt, you can't separate the history of those nations from colonialism and I've I've tried to think through some of those implications and uh we'll never be able to go back and and try to, you know, imagine what Islam could have done if there had been no colonial uh rulers that have moved into those nations. So uh you know uh i uh i it it it wouldn't I think be a productive discussion to try to imagine that. Nevertheless, to this date It it it's the Christian what what most people now call post-Christian. Europe is post-Christian. The United States, most people are saying now, is post-Christian. But it's these post-Christian societies that have been at the uh at the forefront. of this idea of civil rights around the world and and even producing the United Nations and such. And if that's the case, I'm just saying that That um in communist Russia, in Nazi Germany, in communist China, in in Vietnam uh there were the majority of the population was not Stalinist, was not Hitler-esque, was not Pol Pot-esque, you know, or Mao Sei tongue. The the majority of the population were just peace loving people. But that's the problem is that in all of those nations the minority extremists were able to grab a hold of power and create these tyrannical monster regimes that ruled for a generation in each of those places. And and so I'm in agreement that that probably most of the Muslims in our nation are moderates. But there's enough that are uh that are radical, extremist, violent that at this point I feel like I can't trust them any more than I could have trusted Stalinist Russia or Nazi Germany because there's enough that they're able to stir up the people and the people that are the moderates don't seem to have the moral strength at this point. They need it from us, they need encouragement from us to rise up and to throw off These people that shouldn't represent Islam, but at this stage of history, are getting away with it I'd like to uh if we can pull Hannah into the conversation a little bit. What are your thoughts on what's been said so far in this week's show? Um well I just wanted to uh point out like one important fact that I'm assuming everyone knows, but just to say it, um last week we mentioned the Planned Parenthood shooting and how um you said that in the Christian community you guys said, you know, c like many people had come to cons uh consensus saying that that shooter was not in fact a Christian Um though he did claim it. Oh, he doesn't claim it. No, I think he does. Oh he does. Uh no, his actions reflect a really unique individual. The guy lived like outside and didn't have toilet, didn't have electricity, he lived all alone. Everybody that knew him thought to themselves, wow, that that guy's a weird guy. They didn't think, oh, he's in a culture that is a Christian culture. They didn't think, oh, he's in a culture that is A Muslim or something other, they thought wow, that guy's like really weird You know, I hope I hope everybody's gonna be okay at me. And so I all I'm saying is that is that um uh Well what was your what's your point though? Well um I just want to say like that from like my friends who are Muslim or you know from like Arab descent that I've like spoken to, in their opinion ISIS are like members of these extremist groups, they say they're not Muslims. You know, so it's like you have to like none of us here right now are Muslims. So I think that's just like important that like of course we're talking this about a very like national security point of view or like a p political point of view, but when we're talking about religion, I don't think you can say that the Quran or like Islam, like the five pillars of Islam are produce terrorism. You know that's and that and that's actually uh segueing into a point I wanted to make. We're spending a lot of time on the faith debate talking about uh geopolitical uh ideas, uh economic strife, yeah, uh sociological examination, even uh with the uh the wacko who at the Planner P Planned Parenthood thing, kind of a psychological analysis. All these things that have absolutely nothing to do with the the principled faith matters that are uh at stake. Yeah. And so this is part of my ongoing frustration, not in this show. I haven't been frustrated yet in in the show, but in in life You know, hearing the the dialogue happening among the general population, you know, out and about. It's just a political discussion. And there are some people that are Islamophobes, and I mean that pejoratively Like it's it's not a well thought out, uh reasoned concern. It's just oh the lights went out, I'm scared, you know? Uh And so that's troubling. Uh but there are other people that are making very cogent arguments or or fact based statements that say, look, here's the deal and they sometimes then get lumped in with what I'm pejoratively calling Islamophobes. And I'm just saying that they're accurate researchers or historians or religious experts or whatever. And so when the wacko goes into Planned Parenthood, the guy that lives in the woods and and he wants to say all day long that he is he's a Christ follower, and I say, Really? In what way are you following Christ? When did Christ ever do anything like what you've just done? And he has no leg to stand on. But when somebody wants to know they're not Muslims This is what the point I think I made in last towards the end of last week's show is well those extremist, violent terrorists, they're not really Muslims. They're not following what Islam teaches. They are in an awkward position where they have to then say Muhammad wasn't a good Muslim because Muhammad did those things. And so the founder of the religion is what's at stake. And so I don't want to make it about Muslims being good or bad. The moderate Muslims would be, uh I would think, would would not be accepted as Muslims by the radicals. You're either a s an adherent to Islam and a follower of Muhammad or you're not. But Uh that aside. In fact, the religion itself, if it is followed I'm gonna get myself in trouble with this, but I'm gonna use an analogy if it'll make sense to my Christian friends. All right Sorry guys. I believe I'm gonna make enemies on the Protestant side and the Roman Catholic side with this. So just forgive me in advance. Nice. I believe that there are Roman Catholics who are saved, who are Christians and uh will be met in heaven by other Christians But I don't know that there are any good Roman Catholics that can are Christians because I don't think you can be a good adherent of Roman Catholic teaching. and follow Christ because of the faith plus works aspect, which is contrary to what the gospel is. So if you're putting your faith in yourself to accomplish it, you have rejected the finished work of Christ and therefore you're not To my understanding, you're not a Christian. So I'd actually be in a similar place with you on that. So I'm going to have Roman Catholics mad at me for saying, Oh, what do you mean we're not Christians? And I'm going to have Protestants being mad at me for saying that any Roman Catholics could be saved, right? make enemies on both sides. So but I think it's the same with Islam. It's I think you can be Muslim and not violent and and killing people who don't convert. But I don't think you can be a good Muslim based on what the Hadith and the Quran and the example of Muhammad have taught. And that's where the divide is. So we're asking for more moderate Muslims. What we're asking for is a watered down Islam to be embraced. We're asking for a change in the religion. And maybe that's doable, but w it's never going to happen if we won't admit that that's what has to happen. Now let me ask a quick question about this because In my little very short study of Sikh uh theology and worldview, my understanding is that Sikhs are of the opinion that no one religion holds absolute truth. And that all religions are inherently good? Well Would you go that far? Like how would you express all that? It would be that um all religion everyone's on their own path, that a religion is a path to the creator, to becoming one with the creator. That's um our goal in life. And so all of those paths are equally uh adequate. Yeah. I mean it whatever path you take if you're being a good person, you know, if that's a thing. So so this is an important like foundation for the discussion that maybe we should have gotten to last week at the beginning. That That in Christianity, we inherently believe that Jesus is the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but through him, right? Jesus is the one that said that. And and so that's like a central tenet of what it means to be a Christian is that you can't believe that there's other paths. Because Jesus is the path. I used to uh joke about it this way, tongue in cheek, that there's many roads to God. They just all lead through Jesus. Right? Uh on the other hand, you guys, from what I'm understanding, uh believe that uh kind of precisely the opposite there, that there are many roads to God. So so at the heart of this discussion Our belief that there's a problem with Islam, your belief that it's not a problem with Islam, it's just another good path, is at the heart of what is a theological distinction between Sikhism and Christianity Yeah, well I want to jump in real quick. Jonathan Sweise just the voice you just heard, he's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I am Troy Skinner. We're joined this week by Dr. Uh Harpel Mangat and uh his daughter. I erroneously had you guys hitched earlier. His daughter, Hannah uh Mangut is on as well. Um That's because Harple's looking really good, like a young you know. And Hannah's so darn mature. That's right. You know, you put those two together. And I think I said something along these lines the last time that you were on with us like a year and a half ago, and I'm I'm gonna Echo it again, you know, it's not false flattery, but we have a lot of people. We've been doing the show for eleven years. Yes. We have a lot of people who know what they're talking about on this show But we've had a lot of people on this show that are supposed experts and well educated and lots of experience that aren't half as articulate and thoughtful. and insightful as as you are at sixteen. So it's it's a pleasure to have you on the show. It's about worldviews don't exactly match up and trying to figured out from the can I use a a uh uh recent experience that I had here in Frederick. Uh I uh that just we we just had news in the in the uh uh newspaper that the Unity campaign this year working with twenty nonprofits raised three hundred seventy five thousand Well that was originally started as Frederick 48, we had 22 nonprofits we were working with. We raised $660,000 over uh three years and then we handled it off and and they m kind of transformed it in the unity campaign. At the beginning of that process one of the other uh religious groups in town wanted to do something similar to that. And the basis of the unity, she said, was, look We all just worship the same God anyways. Why don't we just work together and quit fighting with one another? And I said to her, I said that that basis of unity will never fly in the United States And the reason for that is because the United States was founded by Christians. And the the the foundation of the unity that I've bought into in the United States is not that we all worship the same God. But that even if we don't worship the same God, we can still build a country together And so we have freedom of religion, freedom of conscience that is built into the First Amendment. And as long as this other lady was attempting from her religious uh uh uh uh perspective to bring unity in Frederick on the basis of something that is that that is uh a a blatant contradiction of Christian uh teaching meant that we could never come into unity. But When we moved in to build that kind of unity and we said, look, it's not about when we're doing these kinds of things together as a community, w uh whether or not we all worship the same God. It's about the fact that we have accepted that we can still live in the same community without saying that we all worship the same God. And that distinction, I believe, is the reason why there can be any uh multicultural religious respect in the West that you don't find as pervasive in the rest of the world It's the principle of good fences make good neighbors. If you guys were to set up a Sikh perspective as the foundation of unity in the United States the Christians could never fully participate. They would find themselves uh at a distance and would have to constantly be raising the question that we can't do this. I want to give the doctor a chance 'cause he's raising his hand, but I want to say something and and this might uh add to your fire for both of us. I don't know, doctor, but Uh it occurs to me, John, would you agree that the first three hundred years of our of our nation's history, going back to not the Constitution but to the arrival of the of the pilgrims and all that seventeen hundreds. Right. So the sixteen so the first three hundred years I I shy away from language like saying that we're a Christian nation. Uh we've had that discussion on the show before. But I do think it's fair to say that the the uh primary influencer on society was an influence of Christian biblical principles. That's what was primarily influencing the way that our society thought about things, interact with one another. I have a small caveat to that. But lately You went ahead and caveat an hour later? Uh just real quick, the the small caveat to that was that the Enlightenment thinkers uh that with Ben Franklin, Thomas Jefferson brought in what I would argue was a secular in in some atheist philosophy that that was uh strong enough second to Judeo Christian uh philosophy that I think it's a monolithic influence. It was just but that the what was winning the day more often than not was this Christian influence. But over the last At least fifty years, maybe a little more than that. That's not been the case. It's been more of this and it seems to be at the same time that the nation is in a decline. Well i and that's you know for a different kind of post-human analysis. I'm trying to make the point though that what w what the nation once was it's is no longer. Would you agree with that? I would agree. Which is post-Christian Right. Yeah. Okay. So responding to it. But the basis for unity can't be that we worship the same God. I think the response I was going to give was a historical perspective. You're talking about Always, I love this when when you bring us seventeen seventy six uh, Benjamin Frank and and the Declaration of Independence. But but if we look somewhere across the globe in seventeen eighty, from seventeen eighty to eighteen twenty, where our heritage is from in the Punjab, there was a Sikh king uh Maharaja in Jeepsing. He had a um Islamic people in his uh ministers, he had Hindus in his ministers, uh and also the generals were uh from Napoleon Bonaparte's uh uh crew. So there was a pluralistic society. Okay, wait, wait, wait. Let me just be clear. You're saying Napoleon Bonaparte's guys were somehow Christian? I I didn't say they're Christian. I said they had they had the generals from J Napoleon Bonaparte at that point. Okay. So you're not necessarily saying that Christians were part of that? I didn't say anything. I just said there's a pluralistic society there which had people of different groupings. Uh but it didn't have the Christians It had them. They uh I mean they had uh everybody in there. So I'm trying to report across to you. It wasn't just Sikhs, it wasn't just uh uh Muslims, wasn't it just Hindus, it was a plural pluralistic society with everybody there Uh that functioned uh pretty well before uh the British decided to uh s seize the Punjab in the Treaty of Birwal and Treaty of Lahore eighteen forty six and eighteen forty eight Which is a t total different story. But the whole point is the precedence of what you're talking about also happen on the other side of the world. I mean you're c absolutely correct. Uh what Benjamin Franklin did here at his viewpoint and what he brought his great intellect brought. Uh but the whole point is it was a time that was occurring in many other places which many people may not know about, but it did occur. So that was thirty years that that was the case? For forty years. Forty years. Well, for fifty years, it's seventy eighty till eight by eighteen forty six when the British annex annexed the Punjab. Sure. We never lost against the British in battle. We were I don't know that Jonathan was disagreeing with that though, right? What you're saying is that is that the democratic liberalism is not rooted in saying that we all worship the same God, but it's rooted in saying Ah, maybe we don't worship the same God. But we're gonna give each other freedom of conscience and not try to force uh a unity uh where there isn't a unity. We're gonna respect the fact that Christians don't believe that anybody's gonna get to heaven and have eternal life outside of Christ. We're gonna respect the fact that that you guys believe that that we all w just worship the same God and that that it's just different paths. But in respecting that, we're not going to force some kind of a of a unified belief. And I'm just saying that here in Frederick that I I'm just drawing a distinction uh about belief. Um If a Sikh were to say at the root that he's going to allow for freedom of conscience and not require there to be a um uh a belief that we all worship the same God, then um I think Christians would be okay with that. But I know that across much of India I read all the time about Christians being the one group that is uh is well Christians and and and Muslims actually because they're uh both uh absolute uh approaches to uh to uh God. Muslims believe that theirs is the only way, Christians believe that theirs there is the only way. But that in general Buddhism and Hinduism is uh uh finds itself fighting against those two because those two are a threat to the reigning ideology of India, which is that All religions are just different paths to the same God. And Jonathan gets the last word two weeks in a row. He's John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Cross Hill Jelly Church. Uh Harpel. Mangott and Hannah Mangott on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. Our sponsors, Putman Plumbing, and Heating. Help We Make You Smile. And I'll tell you next week what I've been reading because I'm out of time. Thanks so much for listening. 167. 5 hours from now, we'll start all over again. God bless.