Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock Camp. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement, and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help We Make You Smile. Check us out online, WFMD. com keyword faith, and I encourage you to email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, because if you email me something, I will post it on the Faith Debate blog because my blog is your blog. Eighteen blog postings updated each and every weekday. That's ninety a week. Isn't that crazy? I know it's crazy. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, he's crazy. Are you impressed or crazy? I was like Yeah. I'm hoping the webmaster doesn't expand it so that we can do like a hundred on a page. But that's a lot of people. That means ninety people a week are sending you something that is going up on the page. Or it's or it's like some of the same people might send five things themselves in one week. That's three hundred and sixty a month. That's a lot of people that are paying attention to the Frederick Faith debate. Or they're not liking the other things things that are posted and they want me to, you know, put their stuff on it because it's better Because everybody loves good debate. I forgot to mention what I've been reading last week, so I'll give you two this week. Uh Mark Deaver, uh famous for his nine marks uh uh church movement. Uh what is a healthy church? And uh David Platt's Radical Together. By the way, Jonathan Schweitzer jumped in there. That's the voice you've heard other than mine. He's the uh founder, co-founder of the Faith Debate Show and uh founder of and senior pastor at Uh Crossroads Valley Church. And speaking of founders and senior pastors, Richard Fredericks from uh Damascus Road Community Church. is back this week for another go round. Jonathan did his best to scare him away last week, but he's back for round three. So I tell you I so appreciate Richard being here because really I look up to Richard Uh in in and I think he is a tall guy. How tall are you? I've wanted to have this discussion, but having you know these kinds of discussions in the right place and I I appreciate your willingness just to go for it. Uh uh yeah, the spirit with which he comes to the show is really embodies what the spirit of the show is supposed to be when it's when it's firing on all cylinders. He's more than uh willing to listen, but he actively I can you can't see this, so I'm giving you a little insight, uh you know, the uh theater of the mind. When Jonathan is speaking, and as I'm speaking right now, Richard is engaged, he's making eye contact, he's leaning in, you know, he's he's paying attention. And then after Jonathan says what he has to say, Jonathan might say and I'm not say this is uh the case necessarily, but There have been times when Jonathan would say part of what he would say Richard agrees with and part of what he would say Richard disagrees with. And Richard always starts with What do you think? And I I I'm glad you uh that you're there, because I'm there too, and that's wonderful. However, I'm not so sure we're on the same page here. That is fair. So if you're taking notes at home, this is how you engage with me. Actively listen, affirm everything that you possibly can, and then gently with humility address the areas where you have some disagreement, always being open to the possibility that you know what, they might win me over. I I disagree, but I'm gonna I'm gonna be intellectually honest with you and I'm gonna hear what you have to say and maybe it's unlikely but maybe I'll be persuaded by something you're gonna say to make me Or at least give me pause and say, wow, okay, I'm gonna have to really think about that. And that's been the nature of Jonathan's relationship with me over the years, which is why we do this show. Jonathan and I disagree on a lot of things that you've heard us banter about on this show over and over again, but the of course the essential things we agree on. Mm-hmm. And uh I love about Jonathan is that I haven't swung around to agree with him on a lot of issues, but I'll tell you there are dozens of theological points that have been influenced and I have shifted to some degree because of things Jonathan has said. And that's what this this show is all about. So I'm excited about round three. Amen. So we were ending last week's show. Um w and we always do, ready to launch into something else and want to go full bore and we kinda run out of time and so uh we're gonna jump on uh the beginning this week. We've been they catch you up. You haven't maybe listening the last two weeks, shame on you Last week we were primarily talking about the role of Israel for today. Does he have a place for Israel? What does it mean to be Israel? And how does that fit in with what it means to be the church. Kind of the that was the bigger question. And we kinda ended last week with Jonathan kinda uh leaving us with a hanging question, which was should we Expect that God is going to fulfill his promises to Israel. Should we as Bible believers, God's word says God's going to do this Who are we to say, well, no, God changed his mind, he's not going to do that now? So should we expect that Israel that the promises to Israel will be fulfilled? Mm-hmm. That's where we left. So Jonathan posed the question and I'm gonna uh push it over to Richard and he's gonna get to the frame, I think. Let me just say this as well that my understanding is that all of the promises to Israel are going to be fulfilled in Christ and by Christ. Right? So they're not going to be fulfilled outside of Christ, but that they will be fulfilled. And that many of those are yet as yet unfulfilled, and that it it behooves us as believers to watch for and to yearn for the full full full the full fulfillment, the complete fulfillment of all those prophecies to Israel so that Well, I think it it's possible that it'll happen at the same time that that the whole earth is is brought into uh the glory of the Lord. You know, whenever that that happens, whenever that where where the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the earth as the waters cover the seas. You know, that that it'll happen with Israel at the same time. But that The promises were first made there, and those that were of Israel hung on to those promises, and when Christ came they said he's the one But they did it because they saw him as fulfilling all of those, and all those are not as yet fulfilled. Even in Acts 1. 8, when he says, Lord, are you at this time going to restore the kingdom to Israel? Jesus has a huge opportunity to correct them about their theology on that. And he does not do so. Instead, what he says, it's not for you to know the times or the seasons the Father is set by his own authority But you will receive whole uh power when the Holy Spirit comes upon you and you will be my witnesses in all the earth. Meaning that he's saying, Okay, look, that's gonna happen. It's not for you to know when it's gonna happen, but this is where I want your focus to be in the meantime. Which says to me that there's there's stuff yet to be fulfilled there that if you're a Jew and a believer, you hang on to those as well, as much as you hang on to the uh the additional promises that we have given to us in Christ in the New Testament. Mm-hmm. So there. Um I I would probably drive your first point further and say that um All the you know, as Paul says in 2 Corinthians 1, you were quoting at 19 and 20 there, all the promises of God are yes and amen only in Christ Jesus. So I for me, uh my my understanding of what the New Testament is saying is that there's a lot of promises not only made to Israel, but there's a lot of promises made to the nations, both judgment and redemption that are spoken to very literal people in very literal geographic places. Some of them don't even exist anymore. But those promises are made and they find their fullness and their completion in the person of Christ and through him to his church. And if you even look, the New Testament gives us a lot of indication of that. For instance, right out of the gate, Matthew's gospel is the gospel written to the Jews to try to explain Jesus as the true Messiah So what does Matthew do? He shows how Jesus literally recapitulates and fulfills the whole history of Israel. He starts out Israel is God's firstborn son, Jesus is God's firstborn son. Israel was called into Egypt? Jesus is called into Egypt. Israel's called out. Out of Egypt I called my son, spoken of Jesus. Israel is led into the wilderness for forty years to be tempted. They failed. Jesus is led into the wilderness for forty days, only he doesn't fail. He completes and fulfills what they they were led through baptism in the Red Sea. He goes to the Jordan to be baptized to fulfill all righteousness. It just Basically what Matthew and the Gospel writers are saying to us is all this that was promised in a literal local way is now finally finding its fulfillment and its fullness in the true Israelite Jesus And in the new covenant, we don't come into that fullness because of our bloodline. We come into that fullness because of our trust And so again, I think where we have common ground is you have a heart for Israel. And after being around you and going to the the forum you did I have and I I like you have done tours to Israel. I have such a heart for the Messianic and the Palestinian Christians But I would not bank my whole understanding of how history is going to end on particular geographic things happening in Israel. Now I don't think the New Testament point and And you know, I did have I'll say this and then turn it over to you. Um I had enough questions about another kind of eschatology, as I mentioned in an earlier program, that literalized a lot of the Old Testament promises So it drove me to end up spending three years doing a dissertation on the Christology of Revelation. And in that study it really solidified for me that all those promises which were made so literally and so locally and so geographically to Israel have now through Jesus become the promises made to the church. So that would be the distinction there. I I I wouldn't I actually I'll turn it over to you with that. Yeah, I think that I would say that um that there are analogous or uh similar promises, that the promises that that that were yes and amen to Israel have now become yes and amen to us, mm-hmm but not in a way that it means that that the original ones to Israel are not somehow still true for them, provided They come to God through faith in Christ. Which which ultimately I'm splitting enough hairs there that maybe it means that I'm in the same place. But the issue on to a geographic fulfillment of old church. One of the things that that drives me in that direction is I ask myself, where did the church go wrong in history? Right? And in and I go back to the time of Constantine and Constantine is the first place where the church drives this super strong wedge driven by Constantine where it says that if you're a Jew And a Christian, you can no longer celebrate the Old Testament holidays, be circumcised or worship on Saturday no longer. Like it told them they can't do it any longer. That if they're a Christian they have to do it uh, you know, the way the Gentiles would do it. And I feel like when I look at w when I look at history, when I look at church history, that that's the moment where the church lost something, where where it became this this institution and it lost something of the life, like all of the meaning of the words, like even the word Christ. is is meaningless in the Greek. It only means something in a biblical sense because Messiah is is the the Old Testament word that is translated to Christos. The the word f uh Christ only means uh uh somebody that works with um with oil, right? The Christos. And so to the Greeks, Kristas had nothing to do with the Messiah, it just had to had to do with a certain job that a certain person did. There was no, you know, uh prophecy or anything related to it, but because the Septuagint translated the word Messiah into Christ, the word Christ became something. Well my point is is that is that all of the so much of the meaning That c of what Christ Troy and I have had this discussion where we're supposed to read all the Bible through the eyes of Christ, but I'm convinced we're supposed to read all of Christ through the eyes of the Bible. as well. And that we can't do one or the other. We need to read the Old Testament, or mean rather, we need to read Christ through the eyes of the Old Testament. I agree. And the more that we can do so seeing what Paul, Peter, you know, James, Mary, you know, Simeon, Anna, seeing what these guys saw, the more likely that we're going to have a better grasp of what Jesus means. And I feel like The loss of that led to a uh well, I don't know if I could if I would say this. Uh there's a lot of uh abuses that you know that were in the Catholic Church through the years. There's a lot of good in the Catholic Church through the years. The Old Testament, there's a lot of abuses in the people of God. I mean, we're just the younger brother that followed in the steps of the older brother and and and we've done a lot of the same things. But I feel like one of the the places where we where we lost, where we stepped away from the dynamic uh life in the spirit. We even talk A lot of people talk about going back to the New Testament church. I'm just going on and on here. So you're letting me. You're such a kind listener. No, no. When we you know we try to go back to the New Testament church and say, well, how did they do it back then? Well The reason we want to go back there is because we feel like something got lost. Well you know maybe you don't go back there, but I Oh no. I I no I think that's That's right. We have a model in the New Testament of the formative dynamic years of the movement of Christ through the church and and the whole You know, the whole development of that. I I I want to affirm some things w with you. No, but I I really do. And we go home tonight affirmed. Well I I think it's important for for photos. Back in the seventies of the yeah. Okay. Good. I want to run with you for a minute, Jonathan. Okay. Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, I'm Troy Skinner, and we're joined by Richard Fredericks, the Senior Pastor of Damascus Road Community Church. And uh this is the Faith Debate on Fredericks News Radio, 930 WFMD. All right, so now you Okay, so run with John. Yeah, I I do. In that I think a l everything in a sense is lost when we disconnect Jesus from his Jewishness. When we disconnect Jesus from the long unfolding of God's revelation of who he is and what he planned to do from Abraham right through Malachi. And then the intertestamental period. We can't even lose that because be you know from the end of Malachi to the coming of Jesus, there was this whole formative era of Judaism. And and what I love about God, Jonathan and Troy, is that God doesn't operate in abstractions, he operates in history. Yeah. He comes into history and so, you know, when Jesus came into history, he came in as a first century Jewish rabbi. And I think probably you've mentioned some good books if folks want to dig into this. There's a book by a guy named Geroslav Pelikan. It's called Christ Through the Ages, and he just looks at how in every era of Christian history There's been a understanding of Christ that was formative, but the first one was that Jesus was a Jewish rabbi. That was the early church's understanding. So I I agree with that. I I think where I'm differing is that I'm fearful that a focus on some kind of geographic fulfillment to prove the truthfulness of God deflects from what Jesus is really saying that you know w the night he was betrayed, Jesus prayed one last prayer and he really only prayed one thing for us as Christians say just one thing. And that was If you can become one, if there's this oneness, then the world will believe that I am who I am and the Father sent me. And and I think Paul picks that theme up and says, you know, you there's been this dividing wall between Jew and Gentile. Jesus came to abolish that, to tear it down and to make the two into one new man in the church, one new humanity. So I think hearkening back and saying, you know, a lot hinges of the credibility of God and of the integrity of the work of Christ on geographic boundaries that God talked about when geographic boundaries were the game back there, that's where you and I would that's where I would difference. Like today, I wouldn't say unless Israel today is looks a certain way. You know, therefore my faith is questionable. You know, and the the proof of what Christ has done is question. I'm talking about the final ultimate fulfillment of all things. That you know in fact 9, 10, and 11 of Romans is so important because it appears as if Paul's saying, look, let's put God in the dock. Let's let's put God on trial here for a second and ask the question Is God the one that is not fulfilling his promise to Israel? Or what exactly happened there? And what Paul concludes as he goes through nine, ten, and eleven is that No, God was faithful, but many of the Jews were not faithful. That's his conclusion. But he does it in a way where he's saying, look, God can be put on trial. If, you know, like even Job, again I go back to Job, can you put a hook in the mouth of Leviathan? You know, at the end of the day, there's forces at work that are bigger than all of us in And the reason why God was willing to let Satan push him with Job appears to me to be an integrity issue with God. Where Satan is saying, Yeah, you're claiming that Job is a faithful man. But he is he really? Come on, God, aren't you just kind of making a little bit easy on him? And and in that story Whether you believe it's a an actual an allegory or an actual historical event, the lesson there is that God says, all right, I'm going to let you, Satan. Test the righteous to prove whether or not they are integrated what I'm what I got and claiming that they are. The integrity of the issue. And so the the integrity Of the issue with Israel is will God fulfill all those things? And if you're a Jew, this is a lot more important an issue than it is for us as Gentiles. If you're a Jew that was raised on the Old Testament and has come to Christ, then the integrity of what God is ultimately going to accomplish in your mind must include the fulfillment of not just the promises that we have in Israel uh uh in Christ, but all of the promises that were made uniquely to Israel personally and the best of the ones that I talked to recognize that God's gonna do that for them, not just for them, but he's gonna do it for the whole world. As a witness to the world. As a witness to the world. And again I come back to the reality that that male and female, uh I don't Um how do I say this correctly? I don't anatomically change. Right. In in the females. Females don't anatomically change. And our brains, you're married, we're all married, they're different. You know, there's there's a uniqueness about women that cannot be explained away by by modern attempts to equalize the sexes. There's a there's a uniqueness there that God uses for his glory in uh in uh in togetherness, that that there isn't a division that that you know the battle of the sexes. And same thing with with slavery free, that ultimately God's going to fulfill all of that in For the sake of our Jewish brothers and sisters, I wanna I wanna say, yeah, God's gonna fulfill all this. For those uh you know uh Jewish brothers and sisters, what would be some of the uh literal geographical political state of Israel promises that they would be expecting to be fulfilled. Yeah. That you know, that you're what are the ones you're what are the what are you talking about? That all Israel is gonna be saved, that that that all of your children are gonna come back to Israel, that uh that that from the Nile to the Euphrates, you know, will be the land where you live, which is interesting to me because God doesn't say that you're going to be an empire that takes over the world. He says that I'm going to give you your spot. And a very close friend of mine, Dan Juster, who is a uh rabbi, a messianic Jewish rabbi, says it this way, that ultimately who's going to inherit the land is going to be the meek. And so it'll be both Jews and Gentiles that are in Christ that will end up inherit inheriting the land uh at the end of it all. But that The promises to the Jews will be fulfilled. In fact, it says I want to say in uh Isaiah, it says that Egypt will be my son, and Assyria will be my son, and Israel will be my son together. That there's a that that there's in the Old Testament that fulfillment of all of that, but that for the Jews in particular, that they'll know not that it's going to be just theirs 'Cause that was where the Jews got off, that they thought it was just about them. Instead of being a light to the light to the dentist. And the reason, you know Hezekiah, Josiah, David, uh Jehoshaphat, the ones that walked in the purposes of God ended up being a light light to the to the rest of the world. But there was only four out of some thirty-nine kings of of Judah in Israel that walked in the purposes of God, and the rest of them walked in idolatry and their own So I'll make I'm making notes because we're gonna we're running down uh you know into the shallow waters again. So uh all Israel will be saved is one that they would be pointing to. They meaning uh messianic Uh Jewish Christians. Jewish Christians. Well what are some other things or is that the big one? Well let me let me say though that I I agree with Jonathan that Romans nine to eleven is key in this discussion, but I I would differ in that I think the the the culmination of that in verse twenty two and twenty to twenty four is that it really isn't saying that if there's gonna come a point in time where Because of some miraculous thing that has never happened before. It never happened when God was operating with Israel in the old covenant. It's never happened since that everybody who's a Jew is going to be saved. I think rather what he's saying is very clearly in verse twenty-two and twenty-three is that Israel in the mind of God was always those who received his covenant and lived in faithfulness to it. And many of the Jews were cut off from being Israel by their unfaithfulness, and many of the Gentiles were grafted in. And the Jews that choose to believe, that's the same argument as Hebrews 4, the Jews that choose to believe will be grafted back into, and therefore all true Israel, all people of faith in Christ will be safe. I don't think it's saying that there's going to come this kind of magical point where suddenly every Jewish person throughout the diaspora is going to Come back to Israel and the first time. Hopefully we can bring this panel to uh together one more time for next week's show and uh and we'll we'll put a bow on it and everyone will have the answer. I'm really excited about that Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, Richard Frederick, Senior Pastor of Damascus Road Community Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This has been the Frederick Faith Debate on Fredericks News Radio 930 WFMD brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I ask you to visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now God bless