The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Get used to it. I think we're going to be saying that every week on the banquet. And you know what? I'm okay with it. Is it Faith Bay, thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us uh on this uh what used to be a momentous kind of celebratory weekend here in this country Independence. Remember Independence? It's a vague memory. Liberty and all that. I kind of kinda I muster up the mothballs out of the back of my brain, I can remember Liberty. Anyway, thank you for listening. I'm Freud Skinner. You can find uh me and my church online at householdinch dot com David Forcey, you heard him chuckling a little bit in the background like that was every single week. How does he do it? David Force is the pastor of a church down to Knoxville, House Church, although apparently doesn't always meet in Knoxville, so I guess they're like, you gotta drive around and see somebody meeting. you know, randomly on the street having church on Sunday. David. We're still in that general area. Ask Joy for my number. And uh Daniel Razby, uh one of the pastors at the Church that means at Imran's and the ministry there they're involved that they found in uh called Concord by Love Ministry. Conquered by Love. org check that out. So we've been talking about the end times and getting saucy and saxy and bunch struck and all that sort of stuff. This week, if we haven't already alienated and angered everybody who calls themselves a Christian or hopefully Today this show will do it. This will be the one that that'll just take everybody off. You know what I'm saying? Uh what's the importance, uh, if any, of present day Israel and biblical prophecy? That's that's what we're gonna try to figure out today. Is there any importance to Israel? I would hold immense importance to it. Immenses. Okay. What you what do you mean by Israel? Do you mean the uh Oh as we're recording this the government You're gonna jump into defining terms right away. Oh man. Because Israel as a nation is just celebrated as we're recording this their Independence Day, which is you know, a month or two before the American Independence Day. Nineteen forty eight they were declared by many nations to be their own country again and and so on. But they don't actually have an or hold the entirety of the land that was promised to Abraham, you know, which is from Euphrates all the way to the Mediterranean. And all the way to the the Nile, so between the Nile and the Euphrates and the Mediterranean, which is a whole bunch of countries that would be very offended to hear me say should be part of Israel right now. Um That's all included in the promised land to Abraham. So some would say they don't actually have the land, they don't exist as a nation still. Anyway. So well we're getting a little ahead of ourselves there, I think. We're gonna swing back and touch on some of those things, but I do wanna uh tease out the question that David threw out and I'll give you the first chance. If if somebody says to you, Israel, what is the way or the variety of ways that you might take it and apply it? How should we think about Israel? Oh man. I yeah, I think without context, uh a lot of people probably think first of the you know, the current political nation that exists. Um I think uh, you know, a lot of Christians the first thing that comes to mind is probably the you know, the the the descendants of uh of of Jacob, right, the uh in in the Old Testament. Um the tribes. Right, yeah. Yeah, the the tribes of Israel. Uh I don't know if there's another way you could Israel, but most of those tribes are gone, so the only one that really matters is Judah. And so it's the descendants of Judah now at this point they're called Jews. Right, right. So yeah, yeah. And and maybe that would just uh Some people would say, oh, somebody who practices the religion of Judaism Right, because there's less of those than there are. And not all of them are of that descendant. Right, and some people would just think, you know, ethnically Jewish or traditionally Jewish. So yeah. Some people would say, Oh, you mean the church because the church is God's chosen people is the new Israel. I I think few people would jump right to that. But Yeah. So Do we take one at a time? Let's let's start with the first one you mentioned. I do agree, I think, that most people in a in a secular mindset. Yeah, globally. Most people are just going to think of the the political nation. So the nation state Israel, what role, if any, you know w uh importance if any, does the present nation state Israel play in biblical prophecy? Biblical prophecy? Try and tie it back to that. Was the country established in nineteen forty eight? Uh I would say uh none until you convince me. So Israel centric, let's say, form of of end times prophecy, they'll say, Well that that really plays into it because Christ is going to come back within a generation of Israel being re-established and all the people coming back into Israel and having their own country again and officially and all and all that. Um and so I I would hold to that not quite as stringently as some would say where where it has to be certain number of years exactly uh from nineteen forty eight, whatever There's some people that go really deep into that. I I I think just as a general principle, Israel needs to exist as a nation. Now whether it's this current government, I don't really care. It's just there need to be ethnically Jewish people, descendants of Jacob, living there in that land, running their country and having a government of sorts. Like that's important to the end times because I think And and I but I think particularly what has to end up happening is you've got to have a temple be built and sacrifices being done again and things like that as a precursor to the final piece. Um So I think we're about to see that. I th I would I would predict if you can make Indy the business predictions and I'm not gonna say I have a word from God specifically on it, but I I would predict that that's what you're gonna see eventually in the near future, whether that's in months or years or decades from now Um you're gonna see a a temple be rebuilt, the rein restarting of sacrifices regularly on the Temple Mount and things like that. And that's that's one of the pieces that needs to be in place for Christ to return 'cause you have the Antichrist that's going in the temple to stop a sacrifice and the he's only stopping it if it's going on and that's that's the idea. Yeah, it's interesting 'cause you you You pivoted in the middle of your answer to the second one, but with your little line of saying, whether it's going to be the same nation or not. So the nation as it exists now, you're you're willing to say it might be, but it might not be important. Well I think the particular government the particular government not so much, but that there is one of Jews. So the present day nation-state of Israel could disappear theoretically and reappear five hundred years later and that could be the the nation state of Israel but you know the the one thing that that kinda gets to me uh in this is the the the significance uh so like in the old testament um I guess throughout scripture right there there are places like particular geographical places that end up being super significant and multiple things end up happening right in those very specific particular geographic places. And so that's That is the one thing that gives me pause when, you know, my my initial thinking is to not think much of the nation of of the the political nation state. Yeah. Um in Daniel we see that God I mean that there's that there's demons that control each different countries right there and and and they're fighting with the angels. But in Deuteronomy God says, Look, I have I divided up the countr the the world and I gave a different portions to different angels and I kept my portion for Jacob right here. This is this is the spot the the this God's spot Right. And I don't think that ever changed because I think the covenant with Abraham is an everlasting covenant. I don't think that ever changed. So that gap gets into the suppression of the w which we can get into, but As far as to yes, your question about does it matter about the political but well I would say this, I would say Since the fall of Jerusalem in AD seventy, there was a scattering and there was also not n no control and sovereignty of Israel as a nation politically. From then until nineteen forty eight, like that it was a really, really long time. They were Israelites living in that spot, but they were always controlled or under the jurisdiction of another government that was not Israel centric and that's what fundamentally changed in nineteen forty eight. And so I think that is very important. I don't think that the particular government has to be the same government. Like you could have a revolution, it could be different form of government, it could turn into a a kingdom instead of a you know, republic or whatever, but it's It's the the idea that that's that's a thing again, that Israel is a nation politically, and I don't think that's gonna change again from now until the end. That's the so I no, I don't think it's gonna go away and have another five hundred years from now if something else happen Yeah. A as an omillonist, which I mentioned a couple weeks back, uh I I eschew most of the importance of that sort of stuff. Uh uh I mean God can do whatever he wants and I'm I'm open to being surprised. Um but I'm and I do uh geopolitically see value um to the current nation state of Israel as as an ally for American interests and as the uh you know, one you know, so called democracy, uh in in the region, an important region in the world, those so I I don't discount the importance of it. But I mean, uh in its current incarnation, the nation state of Israel isn't particularly godly. No. So I mean I'm not so sure to represent So well there. Now the the you already began to pivot though into the the Jewishness and the needing to get Jewish people and and the temple and all that sort of stuff. And that was the second thing that David brought up that people might think of the tribes of Israel. You know, the or in by in today's parlance the the Jews So what importance uh are the ethnic Jews or the the the ethnic Israel uh if any as to I won't say Israelites prophecy Israelites more important than Jews specifically because I think part of what have has to happen for the end times to come and whether it has started to happen or not is the diaspora all the all the different tribes coming back. God promises in Isaiah he's gonna bring all the different tribes back to the promised land again, and they're gonna retain their genetic them they're they're those you can tell those are those tribes. So I do think you're gonna have distinct twelve distinct tribes in Israel again by the time the end is complete, whether that's during, middle, before, after tribulation, whatever. But it's it's that's gonna be the culmination is when all the twelve tribes are back in the promised land. And I think they're coming there now. There's a lot of um news articles where I could point you to about that. So uh uh I guess ultimately where I Where I'd go with this, maybe I'm jumping ahead, is uh you know, as as I I read a lot of uh uh a lot of passages in the in the New Testament that uh that lead me to believe that um that that God has a a singular people Throughout all of history, those who are his and those who are not. And uh and so there's a a nation of Israel in the Old Testament, and Even within that nation there are those who are gods and those who are not, those who belong to him and those who do not. And and there are even people who have come from other nations and become a part of that nation of Israel who are who are God's people who belong to God. Um even though they are, you know, were ethnically different, you know. And uh and and so, you know, then then where that goes you know, where that to me what I s what I see in scripture is that then it becomes, you know, all those who are are in Christ belong to God and and all those who are not in Christ. you know, are they are not his. And so it there is this the seamless seamless continuation of of God's people. There there is always God's people. Um and it you know, and and it becomes So th in other words, the the church or the true truly saves people are God's people. And whether they're you're gonna call them Israel or not, but that's th that's a continuation of what that was. Right. Um there is I I I would Somewhat agree with that, but but I I that made me think of something which is a little bit related to what we talked about last week with in interpretation. And Troy I think this is really important where This is the purpose for Israel and uh uh as a nation, the people, tribes, the culture particularly, is God put in place this group of people that maintained their cultural integrity and identity throughout thousands of years and still exist today as a culture and this distinct, unique people, ethnic group through which you can see if you use that as your lens to read the Bible and understand that the Bible is written for and about the Jewish people. that becomes your lens of interpretation because that's the cultural identity of the people that to which has been described. And so having that group of people present today as well as a thousand years ago it allows us to see that continuity of this is how the culture is and this is who's God's writing to and talking about and so it it provides us a lens for interpretation. But I don't think that's what the Bible's talking about. I would push back on that. In in uh Luke chapter twenty-four and John chapter five, Christ himself tells us that the scriptures are about him. They're not about the ethnic Jews. They're Well everything's about Jesus, sure. Specifically about him. Right. And God's word written to God's elect, they're written to his ch his people. And I'm grafted in, but to the Jew first. But also the Gentile. But also the Gentile, but to the Jew first. Who's the true Israel? Christ is the true Israel. I would disagree. You would disagree that Christ is the true Israel? Christ is of Israel, but he is this he is God. He is the Son of God. Israel is of God. Those are two different things. He is everything that Israel failed to be. Every failure that the Israel kings had, Christ succeeds. Every failure of the Israelite uh prophets, Christ succeeds. Every failure of many Christ succeeds because he is fully God and fully man at the same time. Trey, you mean like in regards to uh uh fulfilling the law, right? Israel was supposed to keep the law and Israel did not. Christ did not Israel was supposed to be a uh a a light to the nations. And you know, because of their rebellion and disobedience, they they were not, and Christ is. So that that is what you mean when you say Jesus is the true is the true Israel. Yeah, he he ended up fulfilling everything that Israel was supposed to was charged with uh uh fulfilling, but failed, and he comes along and does it. And so I can't make the same point as as you know um as stridently as I might have, but if one were to accept the idea that Christ is the true Israel And believers are in union with Christ and we're in union with true Israel, that's another way of thinking about us being true Israel. But Those who are God's people goes back to Abraham. Right? Right. God chose to make a nation out of Abraham. So Abraham On the other end of history is not Israel then. Because Jacob is Israel. Right. So I mean So I think this is where I'm agreeing with David. I think there's one continuous. This is where we're we're angering all the disputationalists right now, by the way. Well, I w I would agree. I'm not I'm not a dispensationalist, but I would go so far as to say there that it's all one like and that the covenants haven't ended. Right. So I believe for for example that the Torah is still in effect, like Christians should be keeping all the things that are in the in the Bible. That doesn't hasn't changed. Um And it meaning even the civil law should be Oh yeah. So so you so you'd be a theonymist then? Like a pretty hardcore theonist? Yeah, I guess so. Um but that's an aside, but but it but it does play into it because see see Paul talks about grafting. You meant you mentioned this uh to um David. is we're grafted in, right? So what is grafting, right? Grafting is when you take a branch from a different tree and you hook it onto the original tree and then it grows and it gets attached to that tree. But the original tree is still there It didn't get uprooted, right? Or put something new on it on the existing tree. So what is the existing tree? I would say the existing tree is Israel. And so that means we are now part of Israel. Correct. I agree. We're in agreement. Yes. But now we're because of that, all the things that Israel is supposed to do, we're supposed to still still do. And we the covenant is with us as well. It's not a it yet there is a new covenant, sorry about that. But the old covenant is still there. E every time Daniel's saying Israel, you're thinking Jesus and heartily. Um but but it sa it says you can first buy bubble over there David. Come on now. That you're my friend. Yeah. Right? From the root, but the root is still Israel and and the Jews that are unbelieving in Christ. are no longer part of that. They're no longer part of that inheritance. However, they will be grafted back in to the original root, right? Not to Christianity. They're grafted back into the root, which is Israel. So with uh and yes, by believing in Christ. I I I I don't want to discount that. But the point is they're not being grafted into Christianity, they're being grafted into the original tree of the children. They can be Well says uh uh um Israel will will be saved at the end. Uh but Paul says in Romans chapter nine that all Israel is Israel. Many, many different passages, yes. Yeah. Um But but the the branch and the root is is is is important to me is in in in in my theology of okay this Nothing is changing as far as the old covenant like it hasn't gone away. It's an everlasting covenant and we are Because we are now God's people. We should be keeping God's laws and those haven't changed and things like that. So So what is somebody who thinks like 'cause I I'm we're this is an area of this is maybe the first This is the first recording session we've had where there's been some s significant areas where we disagree. Uh so this is a chance for us to explore, and we've only got a couple minutes to explore, unfortunately. But what does somebody who thinks that way and trust me, I know people to think you you're not you're not a unicorn. I get it. You're not completely alone in the wilderness on this. I I'm probably more the unicorn actually, uh to be honest. Uh but how But I I have you in front of me now. What do you do when Paul says you don't have to be circumcised anymore? That's part of the old covenant. Not to be saved. I think it's a good idea though. It seems to me that you're saying that in spite of what Paul writes. He's going out of his way to say No, I think it's it's an irrelevant thing. Get get circumcised is going to make it easier for you to witness Christ to people. Otherwise don't worry about it at all. Like it's not a good thing to do, it's not a bad thing to do. It's it's not a thing to do. It's just But if you want to do it, what the heck? Go ahead, go for it. And Paul's point was no. Belief in Christ, faith, grace alone were saved, not by works. And circumcision in that case would be a work. It's not something that was done to you when you were a baby. This is you're converting to Judaism, now you've got to get circumcised. And so this is a work that you're doing. And so I I don't think Paul was against that at all. I th I think that that's something that he was very adamant was not going to save you. Yeah, I think it's more than that because i the the whole controversy in Galatians, when Peter he's acting like those who are circumcised are somehow better. They've done the better thing by being circumcised compared to those and so he goes hangs out with those guys and Paul's like dude we're all one here we're all in union in Christ. What are you doing playing favorites? It's not about circumcision. It wasn't just about salvation. It was about fellowship, about community, about oneness. Right? I I don't know. I don't th I don't I I don't think I can go there If the circumcision is one of the one of the harder um things to answer in that. I'll I'll I'll grant you that. And the and the e the the the eating rules. That that I uh we don't have enough time for, but I I will fight you tooth and nail on the eating rules. So you should people should still not eat coast. I would I would say very adamantly that First Corinthians ten had absolutely nothing to do with food. Paul, I mean sorry, Peter with the sheep coming down, all the animals, nothing to do with food. And w I don't know if we have time to go into that or not we have to do that. But there is a place in the gospel where uh Where the commentary of the gospel writer is thus Jesus declared all things clean. Uh you mean you're talking about in that passage of Peter? No, in the Gospels. And there are others that are popping in my head too from different letters. Those things are yeah, what what Christians should be doing. And again, not to be judgmental to again to anybody listening here. We're we're having a conversation about and this is not a wigoism thing, I want to clarify None of those things save you. You can do every single thing in the Old Testament and the New Testament plus some and you're you're gonna go to hell Right? Because obviously you can't do it perfectly, you're gonna sin. So the question we're talking about is okay, well what is since we since we are saved, we want to do what pleases God, what pleases God, I say the stuff in the Bible that he says to do and we should keep doing that. But that's that's secondary to tell Salvation is the most important thing. I want to make sure we end on that note. Get saved. Be covered by the blood of Jesus Christ. And that is going to be the ending note. So there's a little bit of a gospel proclamation there from Daniel Rasby Also on the show this week, David Force, the UnTroice. You can respond online at WFMD. com, the Faith Debate page there. Or just go to household the faith in Christ dot com or you can link to the Faith Debate resources and a whole bunch of other stuff too that I think you might find helpful and interesting. Till next week, one hundred sixty seven. May have hours of right about now. Love us.