The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Welcome once again to the Faith Debate. 930 WFMD and 99. 9 HD2 and online at WFMD. com I'm Troy Skinner. You can find all sorts of ways to access me and my church, Households of Faith in Christ, at my church's website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. As always now, joined on the Faith Debate panel with me as Imran Razvy, Daniel Razvi, and David Forcy. All four of us are pastors involved with house churches in Frederick County. If you'd like to find out more, again, just go to household of faith in Christ dot com. You can connect with me and I'd love to talk with you about it. If you all call count yourself as a Christian And you're not going to church. You're in disobedience, you need to find a church. However, finding a good church can be tough. And maybe a house church just doesn't seem like it's your thing, whatever. It's okay. Contact me anyway. I would love to have an opportunity to try to help you find a good, biblically faithful, uh gospel for claiming, Christ exalting church. There are at least three in Frederick County that I know of, and they're all represented in this room. But maybe there's another one No, there there in within the region there are. I'm not sure how many in Frederick County there are to be honest, but I just made a whole bunch of pastor friends mad. But uh trust me, I know most of you guys, and most of you guys I would not go to your church. There's a reason why I have my own church, okay? There's a reason Alright. And to be honest, you probably wouldn't go to my church either. You know why? Because you can't handle the truth. The truth is because the reality we're talking about the nicen. The last two weeks we've been talking about niceness and how that's a problem, you know, and and all that. So the niceness problem extends to the gospel. Why does the gospel get proclaimed? Because in my if you're gonna do a full-orbed, uh well-rounded presentation of the gospel, in my opinion there are five elements that get touched upon. And this is how I teach the sharing of the gospel of my uh at uh Hustle the Faith in Christ, by the way. uh incorporating these five elements and then we practice using each of the five as the starting point. And the reason we do that is because in everyday conversation we think, oh I would share the gospel if only, you know The opportunity were there. The opportunity is there. We just don't recognize it because we've all been raised up with the evangelism explosion, the idea of, hey, you if you look at the Ten Commandments, have you broken any of them? Well then you're a sinner. What are you gonna do about that And we start with the problem and then Jesus is the solution. And it's this very narrow avenue t into talking about the gospel. And that is one of the five ways. But it so I'll just go in like sequential order. And they're all offensive, that's why I'm talking about this now. So the first is we have a creator. Right? We have somebody who made us for relationship with him and with others. He made us so that we would uh glorify him and enjoy him forever. We have a maker who made us and we're fearfully and wonderfully made. Well, in today's the science world and so many secularists out there who believe in, you know, evolution or uh some sort of random uh you know chance theory of things popping into existence or whatever, you're gonna offend them Or you're going to come across as being narrow minded and backwards and you're going to make the church look bad, and that's going to offend me as a Christian. And so it's not very nice for you to to really go out there and say there's a that there's a creator God. um who's who's sovereign. So that's offensive. Well on the th the next step of course in the chronology is, well, yeah, we're made, we're wonderful and all, but then we we're fallen. There's sin in the world. So we got we we're a mess Did you just call me a sinner? That's not very nice. Well but the good news is that there's a rescuer from that sin. Jesus Christ. He lived the perfect life, died the perfect death, and proved that he is who he is by raising from the grave and ascended into heaven where he's ruling now. And he is the way. He's the way? Wait, there's only one way? It's rather narrow-minded and bigoted of you to say there's just one way, isn't there? Rather exclusive, isn't it? That's not very nice. And then on in response to this good news, this rescuer that we have, um we out of gratitude live a a life of increasing holiness. We call it sanctification in in Bible speak. And we want to be m increasingly more and more like Christ as we as we progress in our walk. So we we're going to still commit sins But we're saints now, so we don't wallow in them, we pick ourselves up, we move forward, but we still do wrong things, bad things, we need to be held accountable We need to have people in our lives who are going to challenge us, iron being sharpening iron, and hold us to account when we don't do things that God would tell us to do. Well that's not very nice. You're calling out my sin? Who are you to call out my sin? Judge not, lest ye be judged, and all that sort of nonsense you hear, right? Because that's the nice thing to do. And of course the last step in all of this is that ultimately We share eternity with our Baker, with our Savior, in glory where we will no longer sin. And those who don't accept what God has done for them spend eternity in torment, consigned to hell forever Well that's not very nice. So all five elements, right? We have a maker, we've got sin, we've got a redeemer, we we uh are in the walk of sanctification, ultimately ending in glorification. That is a full orb gospel and all five parts, pieces, aspects, whatever. are not nice. And so it doesn't get doesn't get preached. Doesn't get sh doesn't get shared with the world. That's that's a problem. And and you can see by the way, if you're talking to somebody and and and uh Um they're mentioning a book they read and they say, Oh I mean, I love this book. Wow, because it's I I you know it's it's got it's a it's a wonderful comedy, has a wonderful happy ending. It's like, oh you know, happy ending. You know, there's the happiest of endings awaiting Christians when we live in glory. And you can start a gospel proc uh proclamation with glory, starting with the endpoint, and say, of course We have to get there, and the reason we have to get there is because the things will be restored the way they were at the beginning, because we have a maker who made us for that glory, but we spirited up through sin and you can start walking your foot No matter what somebody talks about, you can you can share the gospel with one of these five points. And a great example of that, you know, what you've been talking about is Philip with the Ethiopian eunuch. The Ethiopian Eunic was reading Isaiah 53 and he asked Philip, Hey, do you know what this means? And it says Philip started there and explained the gospel beginning from the begin Genesis to you know the the end. So he started there though in Isaiah fifty-three and then told him the whole gospel. So you can start from any part of it. Just as long as you hit all those points and and you make make that whole story. Yeah. So anyway, so that was a little bit of an instruction moment here on the Faith Debate Show. But the point is it's difficult it it feels difficult. Like feelings. We were talking about that a couple weeks ago, right? Feelings It feels difficult because it well it's not going to be received maybe as nice. Well, we've we've we've been sold this lie that you have to make friends first before you can make any impact in somebody's life. So you have to be friendly and nice and be accepting of all their problems and sins and issues and challenges and make sure that you're really friends before you tell them anything. But by that time you're taking part in their in their situation without even pr uh realizing it. From you know, where will the world be salted if the if the saltiness is gone? And you know, some of the big evangelical leaders uh have a a little um a little phrase they like to use that talks about that. You maybe you've you've heard it. They talk about our uh our social capital. You don't want to spend down your social capital. You want to maintain your social capital. So you gotta be witness, you gotta become friends with the lost and dying world around us. You've got to you've got to have them like you before you're going to share the truth with them. But what if they never like you? And and and the way and you know We got spoiled for years because this country was originally established based on uh some pretty hardy biblical principles. Um A lot of it is because of direct influence of the scripture, and a lot of it also is because of uh really heavy influence from English common law, which is deeply steeped in scripture. And so there's a lot of scriptural influence in what made America and its form of government what it is, and a lot of the people they learned how to read by reading the Bible. Uh the the the the primer in in primary education was scripture. You know, so that was kind of just in our DNA, if you will, as a culture. And we've been living off of the echo and the fumes of that for years. And so there was this assumption that that's you know the starting point. But yeah, that they're they're gonna give us room to to share the gospel with them. Well just 'cause they they kind of generally agree, even if they're not Christians, they generally agree with all these Christian principles. But that's not the world anymore. Right? People don't give you the benefit of the doubt. In fact, if they find out you're a Christian, you're whacked out your way out there. You're extreme. Yeah, and people talk about the freedom of religion in this country, right? What does that really mean? If you look at some of the papers and and documents and stuff and Daniel was pointing that out, it was really the freedom to worship the one God in different ways, not worship whatever religion you want, not worship the devil, not worship this or that and have all these different cults. It was w it was worshiping the God. God, the Savior. How bigoted of you. But but the heck be it we need to have a standard. Right? I mean think about it in the simplest terms. You know, you you have a house with kids in it. And somebody's got to make the rules. If everybody can just make up their rules as they went along, at some point somebody has the final stay and says, these are the rules. I'm guessing that's you, David. In your house. Uh no, it's just whoever's the strongest, right? Yeah, when you're old and feeble you're in trouble, huh? Yeah. Oh, well that's not fair. You know, what if I like this other way? Well, you're going to heaven. So it's God's house. So he makes the rules. I didn't imagine make the rules either. Right. You know, God lets in who he wants to let in. And he's published a list. Here's the entrance requirements for heaven. That's that's what it is. There's not other entrance requirements. There's no back door to heaven. That's it is what it is. And I'm sorry if you don't And you guys are businessmen, right? And so y you have to set the the the standard for what your business practices are gonna be and if somebody says, Well I'm gonna I'm gonna completely do something different, you're going, No, no, no, you're not It's my business. Our logo is our logo. You're not changing out the logo. You know, our sales practices or our fulfillment practices or our billing practices are what they are. You're not going to just change those without inform me and and letting me weigh in and and tell you, yeah, okay, this is what we're gonna do. You're not gonna just gonna do willy nilly. And so applying that now more broadly It's not nice to not let the uh the migrants who want to cross the southern border come in and get all the free health care and free food and and subsidized housing and free cell phones or whatever they give them nowadays, I don't know. It's not nice not to do that because we're to welcome the sh the the sojourner and they'll try to use biblical language against the Christian. So if we're living on a steady diet of nice, well it is nice to let the sojourner in. It is nice to let the homeless person come in and just We just ravaged by a food pantry. Remember we defined nice in eighteen twenty eight as weak, foolish, effeminate, and so on. So yeah, it can be weak to to get help and see what one of the problems with that is the government has overstepped their bounds and provided things that they're not supposed to provide. And when that happens, then it makes it very difficult to be hospitable, to be welcoming of uh people that need help if the government did not provide free this, free that, all these different things, then these people that came here would have to work for it, they would have to labor for it, and other people can help and support them. When my family immigrated They immigrated they were sponsored by my aunt, my parents were, and my aunt and uncle were responsible for my parents and there was no welfare or freedes and things like that at that point. They had to work. And if they could not work, my uncle and aunt were responsible for making sure that we didn't starve to death. And That was great. It taught us to meld and get into this community and and um I was reading, you know, just recently a billionaire, he said that his his parents emigrated and His parents taught him that the ladder from poor to success in the US is the shortest it is in anywhere in the country uh anywhere in the world use it. But now there is no ladder because we we're stopping people from using that ladder because the government gives you free stuff, so there's no chance of you climbing that ladder because you're gonna stay at the bottom. You're gonna stay getting where there's free stuff And these immigrants, if they're coming here for the free stuff, they don't have that opportunity to actually become great, which this country had a history of and uh has the ability to do. And it's difficult in the world of NICE uh to try to help people understand that what sounds good on the surface You know, there's the law of unintended consequences, right? So it it sounds nice that yeah, I'm just if somebody's having a hard time, we're just gonna put them on the public public dole and So they can get back up on their feet kind of thing. But there there's no accountability in uh in most of these situations. They never get back up on their feet. Yeah, and if any of uh you guys have ever had chicken eggs hat It would be nice to help the chickens hatch out of there because they're struggling, they're pushing hard and they're just they're just brand new. But if you did that, those chickens would die. Because part of the process of getting out of that egg gets their blood moving in the situation, gets them hearty, and gets them to survive. But if you crack that egg open and help them get out, they will die. And that's what you do when you have the safety nets and and and the again the law of unintended consequences. You want to be nice, but what is that how does that affect everybody? It makes it detrimental to their health. And and you're saying that It is really the church's job, but particularly believers in general, to be nice in in that sense, if you're going to define it as help people who need help. Um with accountability. W with accountability, but that's the job of the Christians and the people in in general. It's not the job of the government. And when the government started to take that job away and they said, Oh, we'll fund it by raising taxes. And the churches and the Christians said, Oh well I guess since you raise taxes we'll just count that as my donation to the poor and now I don't have to worry about it And now we've got the situation where nobody's doing a good job of of it and the taxes are still higher. In a sense, everybody's become uh A victim of what was a few years ago called Trump bucks and now people call them Biden bucks. You know, all these these these checks because of the the lockdowns, the mandates and people were forced out of work. Like, oh we'll just send you some money to help you get through, it'll pay your rent for a couple of months maybe or something like that. I don't know. Uh but the church uh is that that allows you to look at Get flabby. But the the church has grown flabby as a result of depending on government money too, because the if the government spending all this money and doing all these social programs Then the church becomes dependent on, oh well the government's doing that, so I guess we won't do our responsibilities anymore. And so now we've got kind of this fat, dumb and lazy church in general. Yeah, we can spend the money on a bigger building with nicer lights and a nicer sound equipment and the big band. necessarily wrong for churches to have big buildings and fancy lighting and all that sort of stuff, but in most cases they're probably able to have the big fancy buildings and the big fancy lighting and the smoke machines and all that because the government is spending money on things that maybe the church should be spending money on on I think there's a bit of a connection and uh at least a correlation uh there. And we see this with um the government wanted to tie the hands of of employers. Like I said, you guys are in in business and you you owned your own company for a while. Uh and I can only imagine that there were times when you thought, you know, I want to take a shot on you know, a few years back, let's say, you were doing the whole climbing the trees, knocking down the branches and doing that you still do that, but you're doing it as a business owner And maybe a a young whippersnapper like Daniel when he's like, you know, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen years old and says, Hey, I want to climb some of those trees too. Like, you know, you're kinda young, don't have a lot of experience. Uh I'm gonna have to pay a lot of insurance because you know you're a higher risk and so that factors into my equation. But you know what? I'd be willing to give you a shot, but I can only pay ya fifty bucks a day for you know for the first week and see how it goes. Well, fifty bucks a day would be far below minimum wage. So something like Daniel has no opportunity to prove himself during that first week. And after the first week he's like, Yeah, you know, you're probably worth a hundred bucks a day now. And after a few months, now you're worth, you know, a million dollars a day 'cause our business is booming. But he has no opportunity to get in, and so we got a bunch of people who can't get their careers started. Well the regulations have really stifled uh the economy here. I mean think about this, Troy, if I hired you And you only work for a week. I'm stuck with unemployment insurance and even though you quit or you uh fired you because you stole, I still gotta pay your unemployment for ninety nine weeks. You know how that long that is? That's more than two years that I gotta pay you when you only work for me a week. Almost two years. Yeah, that's uh That's six hundred and ninety-three days. Yeah. So you you worked for me less than a week and I fired you because you were incompetent, but now I've got to pay unemployment insurance or money for you for two years almost. Yeah, that's crazy. So why would I hire you? Why would I take the risk? By the way, I'm a you know, this is kind of a little bit off subject, but you're a financial guy. Can you help me understand? I've been wondering about this for like almost two years now. So everything falls apart, right? Coming up on two years ago, everything falls apart, everything gets shut down, and the stock market predictably, and it makes sense to me, nosedives. It went from like, I don't know, thirty something thousand down to like eighteen something thousand. I mean it Almost cut in half. I mean dramatic in the space of a few months, two, three months, something like that. That makes sense to me. But the lockdowns and stuff, the restrictions continued. The jobs market reports and all the financial indicators continue to look horrible. And yet, here we are, the stock market Has rebounded all the way back, has since then set new record highs. How's that possible? Easy. Very easy. The government's printing money like crazy when it's giving money away for free and you don't have to pay your rent, you don't have to pay for things that are essential, you're putting it in the market and it's forcing it. So the stock market really did take a crash, or a real it was supposed to, and it did, in March um of twenty twenty, and then within the same month it came back up or three months. It was the shortest recovery in the history of the stock market. Okay. Why was it that? Because we've printed three trillion dollars and dumped them in the market. And and to a to a larger extent, the market I think has less and less correlation with what's actually happening in the economy. and more and more correlation with speculative investors that are just manipulating the market. So what you're saying is people were sent a bunch of uh Trump bucks that they didn't need for rent and so they just put it into the market. That's the that's a very basic is that what they're doing. So when you dump in three trillion dollars of new money that was never even in existence, that's gonna flood the market, it's gonna make everything go up. And we're suffering some of the consequences of it now with inflation. But there's just uh more money in the market than they're supposed to be because it was printed with nothing to back it. But isn't part of the market um a a bet on the future? And people who are smart realize that in runaway inflation would be devastating for the economy, which would crush the stock market, one would think So wouldn't that hedge enthusiasm on buying a bunch of mutual funds and stocks and bonds and stuff or how about it? Like I said, there's less and less correlation because a lot of the the Uber rich people are buying and selling large swaths of the market which m uh manipulates it in whatever direction they want. So the average investor that's thinking, oh well I think Such and such company is a good bet for the future, I'm going to buy some of it, has very little impact on the market. So what those small investors are doing is not really uh as big of a deal as the large head front fund managers. And there's some of those that are making big money because the they have the resources to manipulate the market. So it's fake. Oh, it's a few. It's fake. It's fake but also everything's fake. Since the advent of the four hundred one K where you're automatically taking money out of every paycheck and putting it in the market. It doesn't matter what the economy does, what the market does, because you money's gonna go into the four hundred one Ks every week anyways. Every time somebody gets paid, some money's going to the market. So if if people are n are worried about the future they would normally stop investing. But they can't do that. They can't just call up and say, hey, I want to stop my four hundred one K contributions. Okay, so if the government's gonna just send a bunch of checks to people because they can't work because the government told 'em they couldn't work And then to compensate for all the things, they're just going to print three trillion dollars and flood it into the market and invest it in the market to prop up the stock market and all that sort of stuff. And they can just print all the money they want, apparently, without any uh f uh any reality f negative realities felt from that as of yet, why not just can't they just print a hundred trillion dollars? A zillion dollars? Sure there's been negative consequences. Look at the inflation. Inflation is doubled in this large largest in forty years. But can't the government just send me more money to Compensate for the inflation? And then we'll just have like I'm I mean I'm I'm being a little bit facetious, but s as a logic exercise Like what's the biggest number we know? Like a Googleplex or something like that? Couldn't the du couldn't the government just print a Googleplex amount of money and particularly in a digital way we don't have to have to print it, right? Just Just inject it digitally into everybody's account. Then the numbers become meaningless and then do you have if everybody has that much money, then you become Venezuela Then the visibility that you you the things that you buy with money become more valuable. Isn't that what the non biblical pagan world is aiming for though? It's like a Star Trek universe where there is no money. Oh yeah. Right? Money is meaningless. I mean you you do you have uh lot of comments from some world bankers saying things like you will own nothing and you will be happy. Yeah. Charles Klaus, uh quote. And the Well you know what? Great reset. I'll give 'em I'll give them this benefit of the doubt. I think they're gonna be half right Everyone will owe nothing and no one will be happy. Alright, we got about uh a minute or so. Communism Yeah. Yeah, I'm not even sure what to be honest. Will we own anything in heaven? Yes. We will own everything. We're co-heirs with Christ. And Christ's owner of everything. Christ is building many rooms for us. No, I I mean I don't mean that as a joke. I mean seriously c there's uh he is king over all, he owns all, and we are co-heirs, and so yeah, we will have everything we could imagine and then so all of us there will own everything. Yes. And share it. Yes, because we'll all be in Christ. Yeah, communism works if God is in tr in charge. Somebody in charge. It's perfect. That's what's going on right now. I think it's important to recognize that Yes. That's true. Good point. Good way to end the show. Uh this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. That deep voiced wise man there was uh David Forcy, uh Daniel Razvi, and Imran Razvi also on the show again. Thank you, gentlemen. Find us online at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ. Tell next week, 167. 5 hours from oh right about now. Southwest.