Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The face debate is online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find our podcast and Occasional news items and links to all sorts of religious traditions and the Faith Debate blog, which has turned into a video log really of late, so you can catch all the videos for the show there. And our videos are also posted on WFMD's Facebook page uh throughout the week. But the one stop shop to find all the videos most easily is probably at WFMD. com keyword face. And if you want to email me, you're certainly welcome to. My email is Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Troy Skinner, all one word at actually, you know what, we've changed that recently. It's an old habit to say clearchannel. com. It's now Troy Skinner at iHeartmedia. com. That's Troy, T-R-O-Y, Skinner, S-K-I-N-N-E-R. The letter I, followed by the word heart, H-E-A-R-T, and then the word media, M-E-D-I-A, dot com. Alright? I know the changes uh can be confusing, right? Troy Skinner at iHeartMedia. com. So uh if you send me something that's interesting, maybe we'll reference it on the show, maybe we can try to reference it on on the website uh Uh although we don't do the whole our blog is your blog thing anymore for a variety of of reasons that we've discussed on the show in the past, but certainly you're welcome to email me or respond and comment to the videos on Facebook and you can communicate with us that way. We do not have a panel this week as we're uh coming out of the um Advent holiday season. Uh happy New Year by the way. Hope you had a safe one and that you had a good one. A fun time. But again, you you're wise and smart in your choices. Jonathan Schweitzer is on break at the moment, and uh that therefore our panelists are on break as well. It's just you and me. And last year I had opportunity to preach at Fairview Chapel, a beautiful old eighteen hundreds uh building. Um, I don't know about Twenty, thirty minutes to the east of uh downtown Frederick, something like that I think. And it's uh old property owned by I think the United Methodist uh church and it hasn't been a a functioning church of its own for years and years and years. It's been refurbished and restored to its old eighteen hundreds charm and it's spectacular and I guess I'd I'd have to say probably on average about once a year for the last number of years I've been invited to come and speak there for one of their what they call a vesper service, an evening service on a Sunday. So uh every Sunday they they meet and they have different people come and and uh preach or speak or sing or whatever the the special program might be. So I had opportunity to speak there this past year and uh they don't have electricity in this building. It's it's been restored to how it was in the eighteen hundreds, and they did not have electricity. uh back in the middle of the eighteen hundreds. So that's the kind of building it is. And so recording in the past has been impossible, but I do have, uh, through modern technological advances, the ability to to record in a way that is uh Does not obstruct anything that's happening uh during the service and does not get in the way of everybody worshiping the way that they hope to worship theirs. So I'm gonna give this a try. I've done my best to try to clean up this audio and I think it's gonna work. So we'll we'll give this a uh an effort This is the f we're gonna hear the first half of a message called Greed Time. Greed is good. So I hope you enjoy it. Father, we thank you that you allow us to approach your throne boldly, only possible because of your love for us and the sacrifice of your Son. Thank you for giving us the words to help express our exceeding joy at the blessings that we have in this life that you've given us, and also the deep, deep sorrow as it comes from the pain and hurt from living in a broken and sturdy. We ask that to prepare our hearts and our minds to receive the instruction of your word. That we have come away from this gathering today, knowing who you are more profoundly, appreciating Christ more deeply, leaning on the Holy Spirit more regularly. That you would clear our mind of the distractions that are sure to pop in in the coming moments. Help your word to stand out clear and for us to apply it to our lives. In Jesus' name. His glorious name we pray. Amen. Greed is good Really is. Despite all the negative comments that we've heard over the years, directed at Gordon Gecko of the Wall Street movie played by Michael Douglas years ago, green is good. I know that for many years most of you in this room have probably felt a call toward generous living, but I'm here to undo all of that with just one sermon message. Okay, maybe not. But I will not back down from the claim that greed is good because it's true. And I will not back down from the truth. This message, which I titled Green Time, Is built around Psalm 112, which we heard read at the very start of our gathering this evening. It is one of the hallelujah Psalms from the Solids. So some have nicknamed the Proverbs 31 for men. Perhaps you've heard of the call for our ladies to be Proverbs 31 women. Well now we've all heard the call for our gentlemen to be Psalm 112 men. And It is the call to be greedy. Psalm one twelve starts off with Praise the Lord. Blessed are those who fear the Lord, who find great delight in his commands. And so right here we can see right away that greatest good. Oh, I understand it anyway. Greed for the glory of God. Greed for the people around me to know how marvelous is the Lord we serve. Greed for his blessing. In all of our lives. Praise the Lord. Hallelujah. Honor God. Excellent the work of His hands. Lift your voices with a swelling heart and sing praise to the Lord. The psalms, they're not just poems, they're psalms. So let's pull them off from our diaphragm and let's Sing how great is our God. Go ahead. Oh wait. It's not easy to do it. We'll talk a little bit about why that is in a bit, but for now, even though we're not bellowing out loud, imagine that you are bellowing in your mind, in your heart, and your will. Imagine you're singing praise to God about God. What are you saying? Well, if you spend any time recently reading the Apostle Paul's letters that are recorded for us in the New Testament Then you will have at least a verse or two about blessing and fearing the Lord and delighting in his commands. This is also what's happening in Psalm 112. I mentioned the Apostle Paul in his letters and specifically referring to 2 Corinthians, especially chapter 9. There's a strong connection between 2 Corinthians 9 and our passage today, Psalm 112. Second Corinthians nine is where you read of the church in Corinth and their their generous giving to those who live in another city. They Paul is sharing that he's Boasted to other churches about the generosity of this particular church, their eagerness to help, how this has helped others to do the same. And then Paul says, greed is good. Chapter 9 of 2 Corinthians, beginning with verse 6, says, Remember this: whoever sows sparingly will also reap sparingly, and whoever sows generously Well also reap generously. So in other words, be greedy. You want a gigantic harvest, don't you? And so generously. Paul continues along these lines for quite a stretch. Now he does famously say that God loves a cheerful giver. This is right before he goes on to say that God is able to bless you abundantly. But he will also supply and increase your store and seed and will enlarge the harvest of your righteousness. You will be enriched in every way. Sounds like the prosperity gospel, doesn't it? Say all this with my tongue firmly planted in sheep because this sort of greed is Paul in the context of abounding in every good work, Paul writes, so that you can be generous on every occasion, and your generosity will result in thanksgiving to God This is the key, you see. Verse 12 of 2 Corinthians 9. This service that you perform is not only supplying the needs of the Lord's people, but is also overflowing in many expressions of thanks to God. Because of the service by which you have proved yourselves, others will praise God for the obedience that accompanies your confession of the gospel of Christ. And for your generosity in sharing with them and with everyone else, because of the surpassing grace God has given you, thanks be to God for his indescribable gift. Paul draws attention to the correlation between our generosity and our confession of the gospel of Christ. And believe it or not, that is exactly what's going on in Psalm 112 as well. Now I wish that I were clever enough to have made that connection all by myself, but Paul must have known I'd be too dense for that. And so he makes the connection for me. For all of us, by quoting directly from Psalm 112. Here's Paul's 2 Corinthians 9, verse 9. As it is written, they have freely scattered their gifts to the poor. Their righteousness endures forever. That's a direct quote from Psalm 112, verse 9. Paul is saying that grief is good. Service to others, yes, but don't make do-goudism an idol Moralism saves no one. Our service to others must, must be out of a greed for God's glory. Greed for thankfulness directed toward God, greed for His praise, and sharing the gospel of Christ is indescribable gift So now that we're clear on all that, we can quite easily work through Psalm 112 and see how it all teaches us, how it teaches us all to be greedy for the proclamation of Jesus Christ. At the end of this message, we will conclude with a look at the concluding words of the Psalm. In the meantime, we'll look at the middle eight verses in four sections. First, we'll learn about the blessings from God and how they point us to Christ. Second, we will see Christ as our light in the darkness. Third, we will be encouraged to have confidence, which is possible for us, because of Christ. And fourth, we will have the honor of being honored with Christ. For the first of these four sections, we'll talk about verses two and three of Psalm 112, which say Their children will be mighty in the land, the generation of the upright will be blessed, wealth and riches are in their houses, and their righteousness endures forever. So if you fear the Lord, you delight in his commands, you will be blessed. Your kids will be blessed. You will leave a legacy, a legacy of wealth and riches. Not just wealth. Not just riches, well and riches. That's what I'm talking about. All because blessings come from our praise, our fear of God. We have these blessings now, we'll have these blessings in the future. Taking into account the full narrative of the Bible, there's this recurring theme of already not yet. We are already saved as Christians, and yet we're still to be saved Jesus is right now King, and yet he is returning as King. We have been truly and really in the here and now blessed. And yet there is a delayed gratification as well. The psalm is telling us to look to the future, and it's telling us about our mighty children. It's telling us about our future generations who Our eternal generations will be mighty in Christ. This is true for all the wealth and riches in our houses too. We have blessings now. Wealth and riches are in our houses. But even more compelling is the eternal wealth. What is more valuable than our righteousness when we stand before the judgment seat of God? And this is a righteousness that endures forever. In this world of forever, of happily ever after, of infinity and beyond, we are the children who will be mighty in the land, who will be blessed. There is a renewed land coming. When heaven comes to earth, this is a forever and ever, amen, sort of blessing that we have in Christ. Are we greedy enough for this blessing? God has given you something of great value. You are in possession of the gospel of Jesus Christ. You have been freely given something of immense value. Something purchased for you at great cost. Think of this possession as a golden ticket, a talent, if you will, which by the way would be a heavy ticket, it would weigh dozens of pounds What have you done with your talent, your golden ticket? Have you buried it? Have you buried your ticket to ride all the way to heaven in the hopes that you'll still have it in your possession? That you can go to heaven when the master returns? Or have you used your golden ticket to attract more golden tickets so that others can join you on your ride to heaven? When discussing the parable of the talents, which most of us might be familiar with, we tend to talk about these talents as a as the talent given to us by God, our gifts, our special abilities, and it makes some sense to do so, so don't Uh mishear me. But let's not forget that the talents in the parable are money. Gold. Lots of it. Something around a hundred thousand dollars worth of today's economy. I mean that That's a great lesson. Someone gives me a hundred thousand dollars and I feel very blessed. God gives us great blessings in our life, special abilities, gifts, talents, and all of these Great things point us to Jesus because Jesus is the greatest blessing possible. Have you received him from the Master? Then multiply your talents by sharing it. Next few verses of Psalm 112, verses four and five. Even in darkness, like dawns for the upright, for those who are gracious and compassionate and righteous, good will come to those who are generous and lend freely, who conduct their affairs. with justice. There is light that dawns in the darkness. The world is a rough place. It is in need of grace, a hard place, in need of compassion. It's a selfish place In need of generosity, and it is a place filled with injustice and grandstanding in need of justice and discretion. Even in the sanitized world of a Hollywood-style short form movie, we can notice this. I recently saw a video series called Living Generously. Hopes to serve as a good illustration for light dawning even in darkness. In these videos there are lessons of grace, compassion, generosity, and justice with discretion. In one of the videos, a wife wants to host a party for some returning missionaries. Husband isn't so sure he's up for a party, especially a party where the kids are invited. Now husband's a good enough guy. He just seems prefers space as a lone time. Chance to get away from the pressures of dealing with people. Wright doesn't condemn him for this. She has no snarky backminding remarks directed to him. She doesn't condemn him. She knows him. She loves him. She doesn't judge him. She shows him grace and fully expects that he will rise to the occasion. And the husband, the same as Frank, by the way, Frank shows grace to his wife. She didn't consult with him about the party. She made a decision affecting him and the whole family, their house, their schedule, their finances even Without so much is consulting with him. Frank doesn't fly off the handle, he doesn't pick a fight with his wife. Yeah, he pushes back a little bit, indicating that he'd rather just write a check rather than have this party, but He either make his wife look bad or feel bad if he shows her grace. In the other videos in this series was able to see a growth towards compassion, encouraged by a friendly gardener. And through his gentle but strong willed prodding, he helped Frankie get personally involved with the soup kitchen. And Frank gives his money and his time, gets his family involved too. Frank has a humble conversation, many of that with patrons of the soup kitchen. Scotty has conversations in which he truly listens. Truly listens. Personally connects He sort of even at one point in the videos symbolically washing the feet of another man when he walked like some food that had fallen onto his shoes. We're able to learn from this story a special and valuable lesson. Well, writing a check is better than saying, well, somebody ought to do something about that. Getting personally involved is better than merely writing a check. And sharing Christ. That's even better than throwing our money at a problem. That's the best way to dodge the greedy. Now these videos that I saw, they also taught me something about generosity. For example, the gardener that I mentioned, he tells a young boy about giving your best, not merely giving your unwanted stinky sheep, he calls them. The boy responds to this lesson from the gardener by giving a child, actually the child of the returning missionaries, who had no toys at all. He gives him his favorite, most favorite toy in the whole world, a model plane. And in giving this model plane to the boy who had no toys, he becomes an example, a model of generosity for us to follow. Now for the Christian, there is an even deeper lesson than this. In the boys' example. Christian doesn't really ask the question: how can I help the less fortunate? And then respond, I know. I'll give them my toy. The Christian is to be more greedy than this. Because the Christian doesn't want to merely help in the physical realm, they're going to help in the spiritual realm too. And so the Christian asks How can I share Christ? And responds, I know. I'll give them my toy. The videos also helped to illustrate justice and discretion. According to the Dutch dictionary, justice is right action. It is conformity to the law. And with the character named Frank, there is right action and conformity to the law, which tells us that we are to love our neighbors. The soup kitchen roof was full of holes in the story. Bureaucratic red tape was muffing up the works, they couldn't get it fixed, and Frank puts his resources to to good use so they can cut through that red tape, start the work on getting everything set right as it should be. The holy roof gets sick because of the increasingly holy life of a man named Frank, seeking out to live God's law. And he doesn't draw attention to this gift that he gives to the kitchen. He tries to keep it on a down low. But have discret discretion, according to the dictionaries, to show discernment and good judgment so as to make responsible decisions, to do so with a quality of being discreet. And circumspect. Now the word translated as as justice in our passage in the NIV could also be translated or understood as discretion. In fact, it is translated this way in the King James Version. Conduct their affairs with judgment, conduct their affairs with discretion. And the videos I've been talking about show how these two slightly different slants work together as one. Now before moving on to the next two verses of Psalm 112, I want to back up for just a second and talk about the sneaky sheet. As I mentioned, this movie said that we should give our best sheep, not the stinky sheep. So think about it for a second. Who is the best sheep? The one surely without lemmas. He is the light in the darkness Are you giving this sheep to people? Are you greedy in sharing Christ with people and watching the lights dawn in the darkness? And that's going to put a wrap on this particular half of uh the message. We will keep catch the last half of the message. uh next week on next week's program and then hopefully we'll have regular shows with panel discussion and all that sort of stuff after that. Again, that's the first half of a message called Greed Time. Greed is good based on Psalm 112. Next week, uh I think there's a part uh that where I can actually play the the the the the um the reading of the scripture uh when we will kick off with that and then jump ahead to the last half so that you can get a sense of the context. And if you're listening via podcast, well then you're going to finish this one and jump right to the next episode. You'll hear the whole sermon with just this brief interruption of me, kind of an interlude, if you will, an intermission to go grab some popcorn or whatever it is you want to do. Uh what have I been reading lately? As you may or may not know, I I read quite a bit. I probably average about a book a week. Um sometimes I can read more than a book a week depending on the density of the book, and other times it takes me a couple weeks to to finish uh something if it's a little more uh dense in the material that's covered. Or sometimes uh it might take me a long time uh to finish something that's uh of epic proportions And so I'll be reading that while at the same time simultaneously reading something that's a little lighter and fluffier so that uh my brain has a chance to continue to process information, but but uh really digest more properly the the really thick theological stuff that sometimes crosses my path. So anyway, what have I been reading? Oh that to say this Ted Decker's Sanctuary Ted Decker, not thick theological stuff. Although he isn't a Christian author, uh he does have some interesting Christian views that uh seep into his uh his books, uh his novels. Uh but for the most part, uh I find it edifying and helpful and uh if you like uh you know, a good read, grab a Ted Decker book. I'm a I'm a huge fan. I've read dozens of of his his his books by now. He's written I don't know what he's written, forty books, probably fifty books, something like that. I don't know. I've read most of them. Anyway. Um Visit us online, WFMD. com. Keyword Faith takes you right to our page. You can visit us on Facebook as well. Go to the WFMD Facebook page. Uh there what you'll find are the posted videos and comments from those who occasionally will comment on the videos that we post there. And thanks to our sponsor, Putman Pluming and Heating, how can we make you smile. And thanks to my uh buddy, John Sweitzer, he should be back on the show in a couple of weeks. Until next week, 167 and a half hours from now, thanks for listening. God bless.