Welcome to Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of the show and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. online at household of faith in Christ. com. Of course you're listening to WFMD and you can find the station online as well, WFMD. com. And uh Imran Rasby and Daniel Rasby, you can find them online at conqueredbylove. org. They're the co-pastors of church in Thurmont called the Church It Meets in Imrans. If you were listening last week, you had the pleasure of us really entering into a lot of fisticus. We were arguing. It was a real throwdown. Actually there's a lot of agreement. We Oh I'm sorry, I didn't have your mic on. That's the Mandela effect for you. So we're gonna talk about drugs, whether they should be legal or not, and all of us took a Uh well politically a lot of people would refer to as kind of a libertarian point of view, but I would argue it's the biblical point of view and it's an area where the libertarians accidentally kind of get it right. 'Cause their worldview does isn't necessarily biblical, but you know, but even a even a blind squirrel finds an acorn every once in a while. And so now the the the piggyback on the drugs and it should be legal uh question is jail Should they be illegal? Should we have jail? Should there be a prison system? Um I took this kind of question for granted most of my life. What are you talking about? What kind of question is it? It wasn't even a question I was asking, right? It wasn't a question people were asking of me So I just went along with what the societal norm is. My whole life there's been jails. You know, you watch the old uh cops and robbers movies or the cowboy in India movies and there's the sheriff in town and he takes away the guy's guns and he puts him in jail. Like They had jails back in the 1800s. Of course, jail has been around forever. And then you start really asking the question as you're reading the Bible, and and there are jails in the Bible. But the question is I are they are the jails that we find in the Bible prescribed by God? Are they supposed to be there? And so I still I think my view on this is emerging a bit, although I I'm uh over the last couple of years I've begun to formulate what I think is an opinion, but uh it's it's not super strong and I'm I'm I'm finding it loaded with nuances. So I'll be curious to see. What do you think? Jails, prisons, should they exist? No. Well, uh you said, you know, even a couple hundred years ago we had jails in this country. But those were holding cells. They weren't uh systemic incarceration for the rest of your life. You they were holding until you w uh got in front of a judge, made a verdict, and you got branded or you got you got uh capital punishment killed or or whatever kind of capital punishment, you got stocks and whatever, and it was done. You don't spend years or days or weeks or months or years in a jail holding cell where the where society is now funding your you know, quote unquote vacation for life. And s the thing is, either a person is harmful enough to the general public that they should not be allowed anywhere near anybody. In that case this person should be killed if it's that violent of a person. That's the remedy. Or they're not that violent of a person, that's gonna be so then why are they in jail? They should be making restitution. Because we we have uh and I think the problem is in this country we have a fundamentally wrong view of what uh crime, the consequences of crime are. We have this idea, and it's a communist idea basically, is that the society is harmed when you're when you commit a crime. No no society is not harmed when you commit a crime. The person you harmed is harmed. The victim is harmed when you have a crime. And it's all you oh it's a victimless crime. This isn't a victimless crime or that's a victimless crime, you know, or but even for murder, oh society is hard harmed uh you know, or or a theft. Society was no, the person you stole from is the one who was harmed And you know, if you go if you steal if you if I steal your T V and then I go to jail, you still don't have a T V. That didn't fix the problem. All it did is put me off the streets and now guess who's paying for my food? You are if you're paying taxes. So it's it's completely backwards. Well what about the victimless crime of of Trump? Um, the banks weren't suing him and the New York s state decided to sue Trump because he overvalued his properties and got better rates than he should have otherwise and s supposedly society was harmed in some way we can't really identify And in fact the prosecutor said to the to the appeal judge, Well, we need to punish him because even though nobody was hurt in this case, but somebody could be hurt in the future, so we need to punish Trump. That was her Actual. The society is diminished when there's a bunch of crime taking place. Sure. I agree with your point that you're talking about. is so much less important than certainly not merely society and it's not mostly society. In fact, it's compared to the one who actually suffered the crime upon themselves. And so there are infantes by comparison. And there are a few crimes that are so great and so awful uh great as in bad uh as in big, not as in good, right? Great and a and awful as As so that there would be no way to possibly ever make restitution, such as rape. You can't ever repay for that. Or murder, right? You can't ever repay that. And so there's a few things that capitalist punishment is warranted and the Bible makes it very clear what those things are. One of the things is blasphemy, which we've discussed on here before, whether that should be ever uh punished by the the government or not. But there is a specific uh two specific reasons for a type of jail. One is while you're waiting for a trial, because I think a fair trial is a hallmark of a God honoring society having a fair trial in in which you're presumed to be innocent. I think that's a very biblical concept. You can only be convicted wa on more than one witness, not just your word against my word. You've got to have credible evidence pre preferably eyewitness testimony and I think that's that's very, very important. So that that part is good. And yeah, i if you're if you're concerned the person is actually doing uh you know gonna do some more bad things and you and or they're gonna escape, then yeah, hold them until the trial, fine, but it needs to be quick. The other uh method, which this is the biblical version of of a type of jail, is the sanctuary cities Sanctuary cities are a form of house arrest, like an ankle monitor. It's the biblical version of an ankle monitor basically. If you were committed manslaughter and then you and and maybe it wasn't intentional murder, but maybe somebody's accusing you of that It was first of all an appeal system, so if you didn't like your verdict you can go run to this other city and it was predetermined if you got to the city walls then you had another trial 'cause there was another there's a prescription for having another trial. The el uh elders and everybody would would do that. And if it was determined that This wasn't really murder, but it was a manslaughter. It wasn't intentional, but you did kill a guy. Now you have to remain in that city. But you're free to live your life and work a trade and do all this this and that and the other thing until the death of the high priests. Um which is you know, a certain amount of time or or you know a certain number of years or decades it might be and then you could go back home. You only commit crimes when the high priest is old. So you can twist any sort of thing into a loophole for yourself, but but that's the other example, right? So a type of house arrest or anything. Wise of the serpent maybe. So those are the two, right? So you have holding place until trial, which I think is the biblical uh um uh prescription for jail, and then you have some kind of uh limited access to the greater part of the country um but s not really interfering with your life otherwise. You can still work and and transact to things, you just can't step outside certain boundaries. Which is very similar to the ankle monitor probation type of thing we have. uh the uh today. So I think that's that's very reasonable. But jail as an institution I think should not exist. And either the person is dangerous enough that they should not be alive or they're not dangerous enough that they shouldn't be alive and therefore they should be working to pay off their debts. And what happens if you've refused? Well, you become the slave of the person that you harmed until you've repaid that. And yes, slavery is a specific in b uh biblical in fact people say, well slavery is i is i i not only evil but it's illegal in America. No it's not. The amendment that outlaws slavery in the Constitution, it says slavery nor involuntary servitude may exist in the United States except as a punishment for a crime whereof they have been duly convicted. Or if you're working nine to five somewhere. But the but that's the point, right? So slavery actually is legal in this country. If you are forced to pay back restitution to a victim that you have personally harmed, not somebody your ancestors harmed sixty or eighty or hundred years ago. I'm not talking about reparations, which we mentioned last week. I'm talking about specifically re uh restitution for the victim that you harmed That's that is a legal form of slavery. Now we're connecting to something that came up last week with the restitution or you know the the the restorational justice where you hurt somebody you've got to make it right And you were pointing to that, Daniel, certain things can't be made right, and so the only way to make it right is you forfeit your life. So you can't unrape someone, you can't unmurder someone, right? You just there's certain things you can steal their T V. Well you can re you can restore the T V with interest. Like you know, uh there there's things you can do to restore things, but some things can't be restored and so that's where the death penalty comes in. And but while you're figuring all that out and you collect the witnesses and all that sort of thing One, it's you want to keep the the if it truly is a dangerous person, keep them off the streets until you know for sure they're safe. So there's that. But also you talked about the uh cities of refuge, right? The the sanctuary cities in the Old Testament They're there for people who so that um you know some b somebody in the wronged individual's family doesn't come hunt you down and take justice in their own hands. They could run to the city refuge and say, Hey So I'm not sure I quite agree with that interpretation. I know that's a kind of a popular interpretation, but the Avenger of Blood I think was a specifically authorized person. to carry out. And yes, it may be a part of the victim's family, but I think that was somebody that was authorized by the um uh well that nuance aside though that they they weren't going to have their blood avenged if they were in the protected city until they could stand trial and things like that. Right. So basically an appeal system. So what we're talking about is the the system. Right? The prison system, the institution of jails and where people are held like for ever until they basically like a life in prison sentence, right? That and they're maybe twenty five years old and they lived for a hundred. Exactly, yeah, whatever that's supposed to mean. So well they have that sort of ridiculousness because they can you know reduce their life They into something less than life. Like they can get off of one of the charges or they can you know, there's different ways, but if you've got if you stack the life ones then it's pretty much going to be for life. It's crazy. But what we've turned it into now is business. Yeah, it's a business. It's like labor camps and um I don't even know what and it's the prison lobby it's all pro privatized, a lot of it's privatized. There's a lot of money in prisons and so It it's an industry, uh uh in itself. And that's one of the things this country's done is they have given you know, because we spend so much tax dollars and so many different things, the whole industry is uh popping up where the money's being spent And that's what the with the with the um renewable energy. I mean nobody really wanted it, nobody really cared about it, and there wasn't any real um cost saving or anything, so the government subsidized it and then the whole bunch of people made millions and millions of dollars pretending to be green. Anyone hearing our voices can tell over the last ten minutes that uh what we're saying isn't anywhere near because when Daniel first answered, I said, so should we have jails? No. Well, a lot of people on the left, non-biblical people, would agree, totally different rationale, totally different reasons, and they're letting people out of jail who should be dealt with. Um so how do we deal with that? So we as Bible-believing Christians uh would all agree, at least people in this room say, yeah, jail's not great, prison system's really bad, but that's what we've got So if we remove it and we don't replace it with a biblical model, is it I mean is is the devil we know better than the devil we don't know? Like are are we kind of stuck with a prison system? Is this just kind of LARPing, you know, live action role playing? We're just talking how to do it. Well I think you you can't just replace it wholesale. It's just like I'm I'm very much in favor of not having any sort of government benefits, including Social Security, Medicare, Medicaid and all that, but you can't just stop tomorrow. There's a whole bunch of people that have have been promised something and have made life uh decisions and investment decisions based on this thing that they were going to receive that they were promised. So you have to account for that somehow. So you have to have some kind of gradual phase out if you're gonna make any sort of changes there. Same thing with this with the prison system. I think it starts by Correcting our understanding of who was wronged by the crime fundamentally and primarily. Yes, like you say, society may at large have some benefit or detriment from certain criminal activities. Um but the person that was that was the actual victim, that should always be the priority. And I think once we have that understanding, then it can we can transition to okay, well you're in jail and but Because we don't trust that you're actually gonna go work for this person, so now you're earning money while you're in jail. You don't get to keep any debt, it's all going to the victim's family until they're paid back. Right? So there's there's ways that you can start to bring in some of those biblical concepts e through uh you know, the our current system and then try to change it a little bit. The only way they completely up and change the system wholesale is some kind of revolution and that that's not good for anybody generally um until the many, many years after the fact. Now I think that it would be more ideal if we had a a restitution model as opposed to an imprisonment model. Um but I'm not so sure that I can this is where the my you know I said I've got an opinion kind of, but there's some nuances I'm still trying to figure out. I'm not so sure I can I'm comfortable making an argument that um governments are somehow sinning against God by having a prison system. Um there are prisons in both the Old and the New Testament And there's opportunity for it to be condemned and there's no language that condemns the jailing of someone or holding somebody in prison. You know, two of the highest profile people in the Bible were imprisoned, Joseph in the Old Testament, Paul in the New Testament. Neither of them in a A God honoring country. But also those were holding cells in the prison. Well, neither is ours. Until they went to trial. Yeah, you even Paul even Paul's prison was like she just said is it was holding until he could see Caesar and Caesar just took a sweet time. Exactly. He was in prison for a long But that was but that was at least as Joseph he was in jail in prison for a long time, right? Yeah. I'm again I I would say that's less ideal, but it's certainly the lesser of the two evils, right? You're not gonna have the prisoners just running free of pr well yeah right, the these these guilty criminals running free, something having some consequence. Now it doesn't make sense that the person who got robbed from then has to pay to keep the person in jail. Like they got robbed from many countries y y d if you're in jail, they don't feed you They're just keeping you off the streets. If if y you want food, you better hope you have f enough friends and family on the outside that'll bring you food. Wow, what countries do that? Almost uh uh majority of the majority of that. I believe now really a lot of the Western world and the more civilized, you know, first world countries they don't do that anymore. But In a much of the world that is the case. In a lot of the Middle East that's the case. In uh a lot of other countries that's the case. And it may not be in the last few years, it may be changing some way, but so The government won't pay for the food, but the government in these other countries will pay for their trans surgeries, right? Everybody does that, right? No? No. So related to this topic of drugs last week, jail so far this week is how people get there in the first place. A lot of people on the left particularly are concerned that we need to let these prisoners out because they were arrested falsely for under false pretenses. They you know they were targeted unfairly. People that actually that look like you two, right? You have a darker olive con complexion to your skin. You don't look like you're, you know, Aryan. And so you might get targeted by the police. So you might have the security guards at the store look at you a little funny or something and it's not your fault. And so that leads to the question of profiling. Is it okay for police to engage in uh making judgments of people based on their appearance? Well, I would argue that we all make judgments based on appearance Everyone makes judgments w what you're wearing. You're wearing a t shirt, you're wearing a uh suit coat, you're wearing uh you know shorts or pants or a skirt. You make judgments. You make judgments about your wealth, about your status in life, about how old you are, about what you are. If you see if you see somebody walking down the street And he's got his uh yeah, underwear hanging out of his pants, his pants are down on his knees, he's wearing, you know, this tank top uh that's that's ill fitting. He's got all these tattoos everywhere and and and piercings and And he's just this big hunking guy walking down the street swag with a swagger. And then you see another guy and he's dr like dressed in a business suit you know, that's well fitted and got a suit and tie and he's clean cut and he's walking briskly down the sidewalk. These are two people that you're going to assume certain things already, and we didn't talk about what color their skin was. We only talked about Everything else about them. So I would argue if you were confronted with these two people walking down the street and the guy in the suit is black And the other guy's white, you're gonna still be much more apprehensive about this white guy that's that's, you know, walking down in in in a gangster type of of mentality. It doesn't really have to do much with this with the color the skin. Now you certainly you can make assumptions, well somebody that looked like that was uh did this and such and such yeah last week to me and therefore so you can have your own personal experience that's gonna color some of that. But that's gonna be the case uh For all characteristics, I think this country focuses way too much on skin color as the only characteristic that really matters as far as discrimination goes. But discrimination is how God designed our brains. with scanty information, say what is the most logical and probable probable thing that's going to be occur based on X, Y, and Z. So what we what we have is a guarantee of of of a fair trial and of of um you know innocent until proven guilty and all that and so there's many people that say, Well, I was targeted because of this, just because I looked like such and such And I I think sometimes that may be the the case and sometimes it's just there's a lot of other factors that play into it uh that you may not be aware of, and really how you carry yourself does make a huge impact Um the you know go ahead. If you want to see profile n profiling in action in a non-legal kind of a thing or in a a way you typically don't even think about it Like twenty-five, thirty years ago when I didn't have a wonky back and sore knees, I used to play a lot of pickup basketball. And pickup basketball is usually played outside on like concrete or asphalt kinds of things, right? And it's just it's gritty, uh, and it's fun and you don't necessarily have to be great to play and have a good time. But people still play competitively, they want to win. If they're gonna beat up their backs and knees, they wanted to be for something, right? They want to try to win. And you're sometimes you're showing up and you're just a bunch of guys and you don't really know about If you play a lot in the s in the same locales over and over, you begin to recognize guys, like, ooh, that guy could really play. But if you're walking onto the uh uh onto the court for the first time with a bunch of guys and you have to pick up a team Almost always the tallest guy is the first guy you try to get on your team. Mm-hmm. Not only tallest, usually black people because they're known to be bad basketball players, right? Right. But the the tall guy If you've got a guy that's six eight and a guy that's five three, the six eight guy's gonna get picked first. Absolutely. And that might not be fair because oftentimes five three he might be a klutz, right? He can't he can't shoot the ball in the basket from two feet away. He can get the way. But the five three guy might be an excellent ball handler, he might be able to shoot three pointers from all over the place. So you don't know, but you're making these judgments all the time. So And I don't think it's possible to remove discrimination and and profiling from society. I think that's how God designed our brains. Now, prejudice is different, I think, than profiling. And where you have hatred for a somebody that looks a certain way because and assuming they're guilty before uh any evidence. Because and that's really what I think when people talk about profiling, that's that's really the problem with it. You know, if uh i uh now if there's a you know, bowl out on somebody say, Hey, this is this guy was a dark skinned male of uh about twenty five years old. and wearing this, that's profile. That's how you do it. I mean you're not gonna go and stop every white guy and say, Hey, were you at this j drug store recently 'cause they got robbed I mean you're white and it's like playing guess who, the game, right? You can quit quick quick quickly quickly eliminate a whole bunch of people based on some kind of evidence. But see that's That's where there's there's an APVL or something. Th somebody was spotted, they have a description, it looks like this. So I think in that case profiling is very relevant and good and police should be doing that to find a specific person that that's a suspect. If you're just go walking down the street and you just stop everybody that i i is a certain uh color of skin or a certain height just because Well, uh I think the reasons that you're doing it probably have a lot to do with it. I think it's much more nuanced than what uh the Black Lives Matter people would would want us to believe. But didn't there really put something like that in in place in New York where you stop and frisk? And it cleaned up the um crime tremendously. Yeah, and you know, if I if memory serves, it was probably four or five years ago, something like that. I I believe at Montgomery County, just south of Frederick County um they passed some sort of uh ordinance or whatever that the police were not allowed to pull somebody over merely because the person driving the car fit the description of a criminal that had an AP B out on them. So they might be described as a, you know, somebody who was maybe in their fifties, uh, balding, gray beard, uh Middle Eastern looking dressed sharp sport coat, uh gray, black and whitish shirt in a in a in a nice car. Well, I just basically kind of described Imran. And if there's an A P V on on somebody that looks just like you who just murdered somebody I see you and like that could be the guy. But I'm not I'm not allowed as a police officer to pull you over until I have some other reason to pull you over. And if I can't find another reason, then you get to go. That's ridiculous Right. It's it's police work. Pl profiling is police work. Absolutely. And just in our personal lives, you know, it's it's got a bad rap because it's got the word phobic in it, and so it probably should have a bad rap, but xenophobia, the xeno Part of it, like the the stranger part of it, I think we've got like God's given us this instinct to beware the strange Right, to be concerned about things that are different than we're used to because there might be danger. We're not familiar, it might be danger. There was a line in a movie where this guy is trying he's a con artist and he's trying too hard to come across as unassuming and safe or whatever and he's totally beguiling the the love interest that that he was you know targeting. But the love interest's mom was a little sharper and she wasn't trusting him and uh she the the lady who was being beguiled said, Mom, why don't you trust the guy? And and and the answer she gave was, I've always felt like strangers should be a little strange. And the fact that this stranger was behaving in a way that made him artificially not strange was an alert. The strange is strange. I think that we sh I I think it's good to be a little bit nervous. You do that with with I do with dogs. Somebody's walking their dog and if it's a certain breed of dog or a a dog that has a particular posture about it, I'm gonna walk to the other side of the street. It's a cute little poodle and it looks like all, you know, wispy and frail and and and submissive. How many gonna say, Hey, can I pet your dog? But we do it in all areas of life, so Anyway, anybody wants to uh get in a last word or the biggest thing is there's a l a big push that uh police officers will stop somebody who that's driving just because they're black. Driving while black. Driving while black has been a big issue. And if they're looking for somebody that committed a crime and that person is there, they should be able to stop and ask questions. No, you don't have to answer the questions, the law protects you, you can say under the advice of my lawyer, you can't I'm not answering any questions. And they can't search without a warrant So there's still all those same protections. Um but but the biggest thing is a lot of these people, these kids or uh adults or whatever, they act disrespectfully and that just riles up the police more and then there's a confrontation If you act disrespectfully, you're going to be treated disrespectfully. Hmm. End on those wise words. Imran Razvy. Also from Daniel Razby, the co pastor of a church in Thermont called the Church of Mises Imran. So you can find online at conquered by love. org. I'm Roy Skinner, pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Find me online at Household of FaithInChrist. com. Of course you can find this show and this radio station online at WFMB. com. If you go to the website for the station, you'll see the upcoming uh show for next week listed usually in advance. You can access all the old shows. You can find all that stuff through the church website as well, House of the Faith in Christ. com. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.