This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Kua! Where faith community leaders wrestle. Over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's Get ready to rumble. Ow. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, no fate-to-fait master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder. Of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Sweiser. I'm just getting warmed up. Today's show is about men's ministry, particularly regarding jail and post. Jail ministry. The church's response to those who are incarcerated incarcerated is what? Should be what? What are the spiritual, social, economic, and relational dynamics? How does this play itself out in the prisons themselves? How does it play out? Play out in the communities where former prisoners work to plug themselves into the economy, the culture, the church. How does it play out in individual personal lives? How does it play out? And how should it play out? Here to talk about it are John. He's the founder of Bridges Connecting Needs and Resources in Frederick County. And Ace Ray, who is the pastor of the River International, a newer church in Frederick, meeting at the uh uh North Elementary uh school on Moter Avenue. in uh Frederick on the north side of town. So you guys both have extensive history uh with this question of uh men's ministry and jail ministry and post jail ministry. Uh uh Pastor Ace is involved in that right now, serving as one of the the ministers, uh meeting the needs of people in church and and I I imagine you have some uh involvement with them as they're released perhaps. And I know John when you were pastoring Crossroads Valley Church Uh you were very active. In fact, uh your associate pastor is uh s uh he's still involved. He might be the chaplain. He's still the chaplain. And he had a number of people who when they left uh prison would come and start worshiping at your church. Yeah, and some that came and lived in my basement with Yeah. Which to me, I still think you're a little bit crazy. Just a little bit. Yeah, without a doubt. So uh let's you guys have a lot of experience. What are things that we should know? What what are some important things to know about these men that are in jail. What are some of their needs that we need to be speaking to? A lot of these men come from broken homes. The ones that I run into. Broken homes, um, without a father. Um and they built family out on the streets, um and got into different types of um activities and um they They just don't have any hope. And I feel that the the church needs to help these men to get hope and to also let them know their place as men. Because a lot of lot of these guys and I like to say were raised by their mother only and so they've only heard like a woman's voice. and they don't understand their role as um, say some of them are fathers. Uh they don't know about being there for their children, how important it is to to be there for the development of their kids. Uh the church uh sometimes don't Some churches, I can't say all churches, don't understand that that particular ministry needs a little bit more care. Um and when I say that that means in having or developing a program and what I'm and this is what we're gonna implement in our ministry that is the men are saying that they come into our ministry as they get out and all of that, uh, is to have a program that actually ministers to them where they are. uh to help bring them out of a mentality that they've always been in. We can't just just bring 'em all together and just preach to 'em and that's it. And because what happens is they they still go back out and they do the thing just like a uh a daughter turn around and eat if it's vomit, they're right back there. And so we we have to come together with uh programs that will actually help them in the process of coming from a a brokenness into a wholeness. So there was a study done back in uh the seventies called the Rat Park Study. Have you guys heard of this? No. And it was a uh it was a study where they took a rat Mm-hmm. Put them in a cage with two uh bottles of water. Okay. One had a an addictive drug in it. And the other one was just water. And uh when the rat was in there alone in the cage, uh he would he try 'em both and then he'd end up keep going back to the one that was addictive. And he would get wasted and strung out on the drug. Right? You take the same rat, put him in a cage full of a whole community of rats. with the same two bottles of water, one with addictive substance in it and the other one with uh just just straight water. And they tried the one with the addictive But they won't keep going back to it. They'll just go back to the one with water. So we were talking earlier about the importance of community uh in an earlier show and uh at the heart of of the ability to break out of addictive backgrounds is the ability to be a part of a community. And so I was talking to somebody just the other day who uh works with some guys coming out of a rescue mission and uh and he's you know he he he gives he's a businessman locally. that would work with guys over there and and give them jobs at his company where they have mentoring and they have huge opportunity and and what he found was that inevitably something would happen that would create a sense of distrust in the recovering uh individual that that It was a moment where the only way forward would have been for him to trust that the the guys that are on his team care about him and they're not saying things just to try to control him. or just you know, just to try to, you know, demean him but that that the the things that they're saying are because they care and because, you know, they're wanting to be a part of the team. And in that moment, what he notices that if the guy can't see the team as as family and people that care about 'em, mm-hmm, then it's just a matter of time until he's back on the draw. That's right. You know, that the ability to go c to to get into community is necessary in or in in order to break free of You know, the use of the drug in fact it could be argued, you know, and uh all twelve-step programs argue this very effectively, uh that It's not the drug. It's the issues in your heart that you've been ignoring that you're not dealing with. The baggage that you're hanging on to, you know, the the resentments, all those kinds of things that you're using the drug to to cover the pain. Right. And the right way to deal to to deal with the pain is to face it and to learn how to have the relationships that up until that point you didn't know how to have. And that's at the heart of all effective 12-step programs. He's Jonathan Sweitzer, founder of Bridges. We're joined this week by the pastor of a new church in town called The River International. His name is Ace Ray. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate at 930 WFMD. So Credibility is important based on what you just said. Credibility that they that they they trust that you're credible with them. You you authentically care about them. That's right. You have their best interests at heart that you know what you're talking about, that you're gonna be there for them. And one of the kids that that came in to help with the VBS made a promise to a kid, hey, I'm I'm gonna come back next Friday to see you and uh in the next week he called like on Wednesday or something like that and and told the kid, looks like I'm not going to make it on Friday, I just want to let you know, let's try to reschedule. But even that little uh you know, failed promise was like r really painful. A guy that you know, that that serves in that neighborhood a long time. You know, watch the d the downfall in this on the kid's face that that another failed promise. Another another person came in making promises that they didn't follow through on. So is that how credibility is established, you you just demonstrate trustworthiness, dependability over time. You maybe maybe purposely strategically make a promise that you know you're gonna be able to keep so that they I mean i is it that calculating or how how much Emphasis do you have to give to that? Ace you're in the in the prison ministry now, so are you are you consciously aware of, okay, what can I do today to get this person to know that I'm on their side? Or are you just behave as though you're on your side and trust that by osmosis they'll they'll figure that out. You have to be consistent um with your relationship. I'm consistent. I I'm not up and down When you're consistent, they see that you really care. That's just like if it's raining, uh, they look out and they they wonder if I'm gonna show up and I still show up You know, they look at that. That gives them hope, you know, that someone cares about them. You know, I'm not throwing them aside. I got something else to do. And that there are times when I go in there I tell 'em, you know I I desperately wanted to be here tonight. You know, I know uh when I leave, you know, my wife and I we're gonna do this and that and other, but I told my wife, I've gotta come here first. Um because they they look forward to that. And and see the the this is what I'm saying that we as the church have to understand that it takes just a little bit more of our time and effort when it comes to people like like what he was like uh my brother here was saying have internal issues Um and that's something that we're lacking today. We just don't have the time uh to actually Well that's a good question. Like how many people can you mentor? Mm-hmm. You know, like like uh At the end of the day, if if if men are coming out of broken backgrounds and we're we're helping men to to to have hope and we're we're training them into what it means to have relationships, you know, like like how many can you do that with at any given time and at what point can you like release them to start being a part of your team and doing that with others, you know, like how do you We we we put together uh a program that they w they will have to go through like a a twelve month program of training, working with them. Um, when I see that they are able to turn back around and help, that's how we're gonna build our team. And the reality is that you could do that with a certain number of them and they might even have it an initial inclination that yeah, you know, I'll do it for others once I'm done. But once they get done and they've got the training, they could be of a whole different mindset. You know, hey, I got some freedom, I got some momentum going in life you know, I want to go do this instead of turning around and giving back. And so uh it's kind of a labor intensive reality that you're taking those without families and putting them into a family. You know, a mental relationship is really a f familial scenario that that uh I think really requires some real uh uh you know time orientation. I've wondered you know with with um men in the church whose kids have grown and gone, right, and that have time and space if if it isn't it wise to invite you know, some some older men that that are in that stage of life that are in the church to consider kind of, you know, uh building some mentoring relationships and you know, instead of physical offspring, you know, to kind of give themselves to spiritual offspring for a season. You know, and and even at that, you you have to be careful. You have to make sure that they have a passion for it. Um 'cause everybody don't have a credibility question. Right. Because everybody don't have a passion even for the jail, the prison. the street ministry. Everybody just don't have a passion for it. If you don't have a passion for it, you're not gonna do it. But if you have a passion for it, then you're gonna give your all to it. It's just like anything that you do, you never know at the end of the program, like you're saying, some may want to go in a different direction, but I look at it as then my season what God had for me to do in their life, that seed was sown. Yeah. And and and and and that may be the end of that season for me because one planteth another water for God gave the increase And God may use them in another area or they may fall or whatever. But I I believe that the ones who are You know, my understanding of the history of the Waterboys ministry locally was that it started in the context like the first table were guys that were coming out of um addiction and brokenness and that that some some older men got together and said, Hey, we're we're gonna we're gonna be a part of their family, right? And so then they they just started developing tables all across rhetoric and now they're at, you know, some you know, fifty tables uh you know across Frederick and and the various countries. and and they they make themselves vulnerable with one another, you know, and then they're they're um uh there's an expectation that they'll call at least one other person at the table during the week. Right? And so you kinda trade numbers, phone numbers with one another and you make the phone call that week, you know, so They ask at the next table, hey did you make your phone call? You know, this kind of a thing. And so the point is is that is that identifying some basics of relationship and providing a space of faithfulness around the Word of God, you know, for there to be uh growth and in relationships built with each other. Okay. I'll send them a bill. So that's the kind of guy I am. So I I'm wondering if I don't know if you're the right guy to mentor. It's gonna cost you. How much money you got on you? It changes the dynamic, you know. Um I'm wondering if um If some of the things we're talking about, there's only so much time. There's only so many people you can really truly invest in before you thread too thin and you start either dropping the ball or not really being there for certain people. And it's it's important for these people that are in uh particularly acute situations, very challenging, they're in jail. I mean that's that's a pretty tough situation. Right. But what if we could take some of those same principles a and apply them in a practical way to the average bloke? who goes to church and doesn't have a strategy. Mm-hmm. Isn't purposeful about being connected and investing in others. Maybe Mentoring, maybe not. It doesn't have to be mentoring, but how often do people go to church? Mm-hmm. And let's say it's a you know middle sized to larger size church, so we've got several hundred people at least, maybe five hundred or a thousand people if you go to one of those kinds of churches. And every week you sit in a different place or you might sit in the same place, but other people are sitting in different places. So you're not really seeing a lot of the same people week after week. And so you're kind of a stranger among friends. Every single week. And you try to hopefully remember somebody's first name from week to week, but you I wonder if we could admit to ourselves we're not gonna remember all 1,000 people's names, at least in a in a hurry and we can't be purposeful about having a relationship with all of those people at once. Maybe we try to make it a point that every week when we show up for church, we find somebody to connect with Have a small conversation, learn their name, learn something about them, and then next week find that person again. And maybe find two or three people like that and just try to invest in those people and th b begin to build a seed around which other relationships could could build at that church. You'd feel less awkward, right? It's nothing more awkward than going to a church you've been going to for a while and feeling like you know nobody. It's from my perspective, it's easier to go to a church for the first time. There's no pressure. They don't expect you to know them. They don't expect you to really connect. They're gonna try to connect with you if it's a good church. You know, it's the first few times it's easy. Oh, I'm new. I've only been here for a month. You go to a church for six months or a year and you still don't feel like you really know anybody, that is hard. And then you leave Right. Unless you have really tough intestinal fortitude, you end up leaving. Because it's embarrassing and you don't want to be embarrassed anymore. So maybe it's a practical strategy You can find a handful of people that you're going to try to seek out every week and say, hey Bob, hey, uh so you mentioned last week you're going to have a big uh you know uh exam with your doctor. How'd that go? You try to make a Maybe make a note and uh and a piece of paper you stick in your Bibles you bring with you on church or something. I'm wondering if we could apply these these disciplines in In real feels to me like small town USA, small church USA is a place where everybody knows everybody, but there's the potential for complacency. You know, meaning like like there's just y you know, you're not around people that are really intent to grow in a big way and you just kind of get stuck into whatever patterns. But at least everybody knows one another, you know, and so that's a good thing. But then when you go to the city or, you know, a place that's really happening or, you know, a larger church, you know, where things are happening. The potential is what you just described, that you don't really connect with people, you know, and and it's such a happening place that you know, you might not be happening enough, you know, to to connect with people, you know, to to really build relationship. But in the happening place, again, you have to choose to to reach out and to connect with people and to not just kind of, you know, show up and leave. Right. And so you really gotta be intentional about it because in the small town it's just given to you. In the small church It's just given to you. But in a in a bigger scenario or when you're moving to the big city, you're making a decision. I'm gonna find people to connect with and I'm gonna I'm gonna press in. And you know the way that I feel it, I don't know how I could figure out how to make this work for me. But uh you know, I guess preach on occasion, you know and preach throughout the the region, maybe a dozen different locales And a number of those places I've preached recurringly. You know, I've maybe preached a half a dozen times at the same church. Well you preach some place a half a dozen times, that congregation feels like they know you. Right. Right, you're up front, you're center. Exactly. You're introduced, they know your name, your name is in the bulletin. So it's e they they got something to hang on to. So the fourth or fifth or sixth time you're at that church, they're coming up to you Hey Pastor Troy, how you doing? And I'm like, hey, I don't remember your name and I feel really bad because I've met you down six times and I should. But that's the experience that people that are going to church week after week have if they don't have any toehold, any chance to really connect So I don't know. I see I think the point that you're driving at is in in this we again we hit it a couple of weeks ago, church should be about the relationships. Mm-hmm. Right? That we're not just going to hear a message though the message is valuable if they're preaching, you know, about real relationship with God through Jesus Christ. But to make a phone number, have lunch, whatever. It's more intentional, but you gotta do it. If you're not doing it, then uh you're not really being the church. That's right. Well he's Jonathan Sweitzer. Uh what's your website? It's just Bridges. org. Bridges Connected dot Bridges. org. Bridge Bridges Connect. Bridges Connected. Bridges Con Yeah. I should know that off the top of my head and I don't, sorry. But anyway, go to bridgesconnected. org, see what Jonathan's up to with uh his new bridges organization. And uh I imagine the Pastor Ace uh your your church has a website? Yes, it's uh You're not sure? River the the River International um it's not dot org. Uh oh, that maybe Tell you what, well g look it up real quick. We've got a couple of seconds. So I'll uh I'll I'll put The raps on the show, generally speaking, and then you can sneak in your website at the end. Uh I'll send you the bill later. Uh got a theme going here. Uh anyway, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner. I've been joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer from Bridges, uh Pastor uh Ace Ray from the River International. You can find us online, our show, at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find a rundown of of uh of shows that are upcoming, shows that have uh already aired and links to podcasts. So if you caught part of a show and you wanted to hear the whole thing, then go do that. We have a tendency to do shows in ARPs where we'll do three, four shows in a row And if you caught one of them, you thought, well, that's a pretty interesting panel. I want to hear more. You can listen to all four shows in a row uh by going to WFMD. com and find the faith debate page. And uh hopefully now the River International's website is The River International no I don't know. Google it. Google it. Google Eds that's Google's our friend. My wife just sa Finished it. She did a real good job. All right. Well she's gonna be really mad if you can't tell her what it is. That's not gonna happen anyway. That's not gonna happen again. Anyway, thanks for listening. We'll see you next week or l talk to you again next week, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless.