This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com keyword faith. If you visit us online, you'll find my bio. and my picture, you've always wondered, right? Okay. Truth be told, I'm much better looking than I sound. Uh right, right? Yeah, okay. That wasn't as uh encouraging as I would have hoped. Uh anyway, you know the people not giving me the encouragement I'd hoped would be uh Daniel Razby, a uh uh recent grad from Oak Brook College of Law, and took the bar and we're gonna find out in days whether he passed or not. Um Even if it's years, the add the days add up to years, but it's a couple months away from you finding out, right? Uh and also Julia Shern is the pastor of St John's Bible Fellowship Church and the evangelist for Saint John's Bible Fellowship Church is here as well, Kendall Lovelace. And this is our third go round with this panel and we've been talking And we've even gone international. We talked about last week something going on in Russia and Canada. And this week we're gonna talk about something going on in Poland. See? We're on the World Wide Web at www. wfmd. com. So um I'm gonna read this story and then we'll g solicit your uh your thoughts on this. This is from Bloomberg. Jesus is king for Poland's New Rulers is the title. The populist government wants the country to answer to God, not its critics in Western Europe. Unlike in that so far. Sounds good. Last month the president Prime Minister and a government delegation joined a ceremony to affirm their country to be under the protection of the quote Immaculate Heart of Mother Mary. Not as big a fan of that, but that's just theological uh hair splitting maybe. Against moral decay. I'm all about being against moral decay. Even for one of the most pious nations in Europe and home to the continent's largest statue of Jesus Christ. Trivia nerds, pay attention. What's home to Europe's lar uh largest statue of Jesus Christ? Poland. It was a notable declaration, this was. It marked the governing law and justice party's latest move to knit church and state closer together just a few months after Jesus was pronounced the country's king by bishops at a service also attended by the president. Okay now Maybe I'll pause there for a minute and just this is not America we're talking about, but these are the kinds of things that certain aspects of our society are nervous about, particularly since the beginning of the story talked about populism. Alright, so they named Jesus their king, uh, which I don't think would ever happen in America, but it happened in Poland apparently. And they're trying to knit church and state closer together As though it's Islam, I suppose. I'm not sure what their goal is there, but that's kind of what Islam theology is all about. It's it doesn't make a distinction between church and state. Right. Anyway, the story continues. The Catholic Church is one of the quote foundations of our identity, our way of life, and of being Polish. Okay. I didn't realize that Christianity was about being Polish, but past the Kiobasa. Uh party leader uh Jaroslaw Kaczynski I hope I got that closer right, said two days before the Zakopane service uh I'm not reading this right. All these Polish names are throwing me. There are people who are in great pains over all of this. It comes down to an uneasy relationship between faith and power. Uh here we go. Poland's nationalists spent their f again, these are buzzwords that will make American people nervous in certain circles. Poland's nationalists spent their first year in office replacing the heads of companies the media and courts with their own people. Drawing criticism in Western Europe. Oh yeah. It's now trying to return a nation to its religious roots and giving priests unprecedented influence on politics and business in modern Poland. So uh who wants to step in to the batter's block first and give me a first impression on everything that's wrong about this? And what we should I mean I'm I'm kind of f showing my hand, but what do you think about this? Daniel, you want to go first? Well um I I I I may I may be of a little bit a little bit uh different opinion in that As a as a general principle, theonomy is not necessarily a bad thing. God had the nation of Israel, they were all worshiping God, they were following his principles, at least at the times that they were and the times that they were not, w were very clear. he uh uh gazing over into oppression by their enemies. But uh theonomy as a as an idea is not necessarily a bad thing. The problem becomes when you don't leave room for any other interpretation and you don't have a direct word from God. So one thing if you have a direct word from God on a particular issue or topic, and you have to be very careful, if that's the case, on whether it's relating specifically to you and how you live your life. whether he's telling you to do something else. And I think the fear that a lot of people have of of something like this happening in America would be very unfounded. Um the the left and the um uh humanist uh peop uh people in the United States are very much against this and they would fight very hard uh to prevent a establishment on this scale of religion. Um, I th I think the uh this this particular thing is what the founders were trying to avoid why it was to establish a particular denomination of religion. And that was really what the First Amendment was about. They didn't want to have a particular denomination established. They didn't have any problem with everyone believing in God, um, even all the government uh uh you know, all all the elected officials believing in God being strong Christians But they didn't want, you know, uh us to be a Presbyterian uh uh nation or a Baptist nation or a Methodist nation or any of those. So that's that that's I think the where the founders came on this. Of course Poland has a different history than the United States. So I I don't know what your uh it's heavily Roman Catholic. So that's why you know the the uh the the the Mary reference and all that sort of stuff. Well i i it it it it seems to me, Troy, that uh history repeating itself uh we went to w I guess it was called the Reformation, uh, where uh uh the Protestants raised a lot of issues about what Catholics were were were doing and and and out of that you got you got separation. Um There's to me there is uh good news and bad news in what you read. The good news is the gospel is being being talked about and spread in a predominantly communist country. Uh so we're making progress. Uh to me the bad news is that uh just as during the and I may be r uh wrong about this period, the Reformation Act, it's it's one particular denomination trying to trying to get control. Yeah, I think that it uh anytime s people are talking about the Bible and there's a discussion about Jesus, that there's an opportunity for good things to flow from that. But I'm not entirely sure whether this is really talking about the gospel And this ties to your point about uh the uh theonomy or a theocracy kind of idea as an idea, not necessarily wrong. We see it uh pretty clearly in the Old Testament with the nation of Israel. And so if the concept were bad, God wouldn't have done it in Old Testament times. But from a Christian perspective The way I understand and read the Bible, Israel is a picture of God's people that then finds its fulfillment in the perfect Israel, Jesus Christ. And when Jesus comes, that that earthly kingdom of Israel was pointing to a much better, more fulfilled, more glorious kingdom, which the king himself says is not of this world. And so to think about a a a geopolitical national you know nation state as being uh a a a uh a Christian nation with Christ as its king would disagree with the words of Christ himself. Jesus didn't say that his is the kingdom of the Polish people. It is a kingdom in fact not of this world. And so and that I think becomes a misrepresentation or at least a con a point of confusion for people who don't have a lot of understanding what the Bible teaches on these things. Um I mean I don't know if I will get a lot of agreement in this room or not, but you'll hear oftentimes the argument that America is a Christian nation founded on Christian J Judeo-Christian principles. I can't argue with the fact that we were founded on Judeo Christian principles and that our founders were pr overwhelmingly primarily Bible readers and well schooled in things of the Bible. However, I think it goes a bridge too far to say that we were a Christian nation for the same point I was just making. I don't think there's any such thing as a Christian nation. There is a Christian people, there is a Christian church, there are followers of the Christian king. But that's not the same as being a Christian nation. We can be a nation that follows after Christian teachings. We can embrace Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior as a people. But we're not governed by Jesus Christ as our King. And so I get nervous when we blur those lines. I uh I'm gonna beg to differ with you in just uh just uh a a bit Um, if I'm a Christian and you just said it, I believe that I'm in this world. Mm-hmm. But I ain't of this world. Correct. Uh I'm a part of the kingdom. So for my world, it might not be for your world or his world, uh Jesus is king. Oh absolutely. Jesus is my king and my savior. Uh what I meant when I said there's some good news in that and some bad news in it, you know, uh I had to go to scripture. Romans 8. 28 says uh whatever's going on is going to be for the good of those who love Christ. And um the fact that uh when I say the gospel, the fact that uh there are a people in Poland speaking about Christ. in the positive is what I meant when I said that's the good aspect of that. No and and and like I said, I think there's an opportunity for a lot of good to spring from that, to flow from that, but if it stops there It's incomplete and an incomplete picture sometimes is da you know, o of uh something I'm kind of known for saying around my house is sometimes the most dangerous lie is that which looks most like the truth. And so if we get really close up to the truth, I mean Muslims have an awful lot of Absolutely. You know, there are a lot of secularists out there who will say a lot of really good things about Jesus, but they're not proclaiming the gospel. Mm-hmm. You know, the Jesus seminar people say a lot of really good things about Jesus, but I don't think that they understand what the Bible's really saying. And that's what comes to my mind as as you're speaking. Uh shorter, I think that's the problem with the modern day church. I think there are a lot of people who believe. uh that they're Christians. And you know, and they walk in there and they pay their tithes and they treat people good and they and they do all of that. And they show up every week for their Sunday morning social club. And then they show off on Judgment Day and God says, I never knew you And and that's that's the s the sad reality. And we have become lukewarm as as Revolution says. We have become lukewarm as as as a as a people in in in man many of and it's it's across many denominations. It's not subject to any one denomination. Um but that many many uh believers or professing Christians are very lukewar lukewarm and they don't have very strong Right. And there's a weakness of the the church leadership which hasn't done a very good job of training up and making disciples. And I'm invited on occasion to you guest preach at churches in the area and I go in there with the presumption that most of the people that are hearing what I have to say are not Christians. They might be regular attenders. They might go there every single week. They might have been going to that church for 50 years. But I'm I'm assuming they're probably not Christians just because my experience has told me that if you go to somebody who's been going to church for years and they say they're a Christian and you ask them almost anything about Christianity and their faith and what the Bible teaches they don't really have a very well formed view, so do they even know what they believe know enough to know what they believe to bel w much less believe something. You know, so and you would deal with that as an evangelist, I'm sure he'd probably assume that everybody you run into is probably not really a believer. All the time. all the time. And it's a safe place to be, uh, as an evangelist because if I go in under any other mindset I'm probably gonna miss the opportunity. So I I I I assume that everybody says that they are, but there's there's a fine line. Seventy percent of America in Gallup polls says that they're Christian. No way, is that true? Not even close, in my opinion. This is the Frederick's Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. We're online at WFMD. com. Daniel Rasby is on the show. He's the guy with all the legal Uh he doesn't like me because I'm an expert, but with all the uh legal insights on the program, uh Julius Shern is pastor of St. John's Bible Fellowship Church and Kendall Lovelace is the evangelist at that same church. By the way, this is my Ratings enhancement moment of the show. This is the last line I'm going to read from this Poland story, then we've got another story. Uh ratings alert ratings alert. All right. While former communist Europe has been a fertile ground for organized religion since the fall of the Berlin Wall The apparent determination to ally with the church echoes the conflict playing out between urban elites and populist leaders in Turkey. Russia and even the US under Donald Trump. Russia, Donald Trump, Donald Trump, Russia. Again a tenfold spike in the ratings. Okay, so here's a story that's Talking about America now. We've done a few stories in a row going back to last week and now this week on stories that are outside of this country. This is from Religious News Religion News Service. Clergy arrested outside McConnell's office while protesting health care bill is the title. Eleven interfaith pastors, including the Reverend William Barber II, were arrested outside Senate Majority Leader Mitch McConnell's office. Well, protesting Medicaid cuts in the GOP's revised health care bill. About fifty protest protesters had gathered, this is on July 13th when this happened, for the Capitol Hill rally before marching to a Senate office the the steps uh by the capital. Some protesters wore red armbands to symbolize a willingness to engage in civil disobedience. The group was warned three times to stop protesting, Capita police then closed off the hallway and arrested any remaining protesters about twenty minutes later. They started out with fifty, eleven got prot uh got arrested. Uh following the arrest, some of the remaining pastor uh protesters gathered out front. for prayer. So the question here is a little broader and it's not about a specific how do we understand the law here or whatever, but What do you think is the role of people like Reverend William Barber II wearing the label of a Christian pastor, a Reverend? uh getting deeply involved in political issues and protesting at the Senate. Is that a good thing, a bad thing, an indifferent thing? It doesn't matter? Or more pastors should do it or I mean what you know, have you ever done it? Would you do it? Do you think it's the right thing? What what's your feeling on that? Uh I've done it. And yes I would do it, but I would be very careful to pick and choose uh what I would be picking. And uh and it certainly wouldn't be the uh the Healthcare Act. Right. uh as a pastor. You would try to f pick more theological issues that might be. Not necessarily. I would I would theologically correct issues. For example, when we talk about Medicaid, uh Part of that Medicaid is going to fund uh Planned Parenthood. I've studied Planned Parenthood. uh the bulk of the money that planned parenthood goods uh your tax money is used for abortions. Okay. And uh my protest would be not to go there to protest uh uh um that aspect of it and is it i if it dies and they get it out of there I will be real happy But I was but I I believe in the right to pick it. I believe in the right to stand up for uh one's rights. But I think you take and choose. And we have a good example in Paul. I mean Paul was a Roman citizen and he was going to be vocal about it. He said, You do not have the right to uh to be a Roman citizen without without cause. Y you know, uh I was free born. He was he was very adamant that he was going to use his rights under the secular government that God had placed him in. And he was gonna use those to the fullest extent, not being uh um rude about it or obnoxious obnoxious about it, but stating the facts. I am a Roman citizen, you are not going to treat me this way. And and I think In in America we do have the right to protest. I I I think also and I don't know all the facts of this situation, so I'm not I'm not saying this is what happened here, but in in many news stories lately I've seen a lot of confusion between the words protest and riot. And there is a big difference between protest and riot. Um and even when somebody says peaceful protests, okay, well Even a peaceful protest could be disruptive. I could bring a hundred of my friends and stand on the middle of Highway two hundred seventy to protest roads and cars. That could be Amish and decide to do that. I I don't know. Um but I don't think I have the right to stand there and and impede traffic and probably cause accidents and cause people to lose their lives just because I don't like the road. There are other ways, there's times and manners to do so. Yes, we have the freedom to protest and to talk. So I'm not sure what the situation is here, whether they were properly properly arrested or not. But certainly they do have the right to protest and even as Christians we should take advantage of our rights under the constitution, under the government that God has placed us under. because that that is uh w we we are living in the world, we're not of the world, but we're living in the world and we do uh uh i i I think taking advantage of those rights is not against God, it's not against uh our faith. And Pastor Shern had had a a side that's not direct directly related to the story, but I'm gonna uh play off of that for a minute. Um particularly because we have, you know, the the pastor and uh and uh his evangelist sidekick are African American and so, you know, I feel almost like I need to say this. I think it is th as as bad as the institution of slavery is in certain parts of the world, including this country even today, but was for the A African uh com American community or the Africans that were brought to this good as bad as that is and was, and I'm not meaning to diminish that at all, I think that the the willful, purposeful damage, destruction that that our society, the American society, has perpetrated upon African American communities with Planned Parenthood and other abortion clinics. is the greatest sin against blacks in this nation's history. I think it's like so many babies. It's like ninety percent of abortion clinics are in black neighborhoods. That is not by accident. Not by accident. What is it, thirteen percent of the population is black, but ninety percent of the abortion clinics are in black communities? That is not by accident. If you want to look at Margaret Sanger and the whole you know, movement in that direction, it's clearly based in some sort of a negative attitude about a African Americans and blacks. It's a horrible crime what we've done. Tens of millions of black bab white babies too, but as a percentage, it's crazy. Yes. It's crazy how out of whack their percentages are. We have mass murdered If you believe that life begins at conception, and I do, we as a society have mass murdered over the last forty or whatever years it is now forty-five years coming up on legally mass murdered black babies by the tens of millions. Tens of millions. And yet we want to have a moral superiority and say, oh, Hitler was horrible. And he was Yes. And he knew sixteen million. He didn't kill tens of millions, he killed sixteen million. As bad as that is. And there's even more than fifty million abortions. Even Stalin who killed more than Hitler he only killed forty eight million Well, the fifty million is just the the black babies, right? It's over a hundred million. And in therein lies the enemy's line. Turning the lie into truth. You got all of these women marching uh my rights for health care. That's not health care. That's murder. Right Absolutely. Absolutely. And And and the last thing I want to want to say about this, th these pastors were apparently protesting the health care bill. I presumably they want more people to be given health care and I don't want this to make I don't want to turn this into a healthcare debate, but I just ask What is the reason that people think that the government or many people think that the government should be involved in health care is because in many cases the church is not doing its job of caring for the poor. Oh my god And some of these pastors, I'm not sure who they are exactly and I don't want to pass judgment on them, but I think in in many cases we can we can shift the focus. We can be giving to the poor. The reason that the government is stepping in or trying to step in in many cases is because the uh we as a church are not doing our job that is commanded by God to take care of people. Well I have so much more I would want to say on that but we don't have time. This is the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFND. They are sponsors are Hilo Auto Sales online at hiloautosales. com and tire pros of Frederick. Guest this week, Julius Churn, who's the pastor of St. John's Bible Fellowship Church, and the evangelist at that same church as Kendall Lovelace, and Daniel Rasley, who is the last voice you heard before mine. Thanks so much for listening. Single do this again 167 and a half hours from now. Till then, God bless