Welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Thank you so much for spending part of your Day with us. If you're listening live on the radio, well it's a Sunday and good Sunday morning to you. If you're listening via podcast later on, well whatever day of it is, I hope it's a blessing. Day for you. I'm Troy Skinner. I am the host of the Faith Debate and also the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week, as per usual, by Daniel Razby, Imran Razby, and David Forcey, all four of us are pastors actually. And you can find the Razbeys and the church they're involved with and the ministries that they do. uh through um one of their parachurch organizations that works alongside of their church. It's called Concord by Love Ministries online at conqueredbylove. org. And the only way to get in touch with David is to get in touch with me. So if you don't like me You can't get in touch with David. So you've got to pretend you like me so you can get through to the guy you really like and I'll put you in touch with David Forsey. Um we're all our our churches are all house churches and they all happen to be in and around Frederick County. So if you're hearing this on the radio then w you're within uh striking distance of where our churches are and we encourage you to visit us at some point if you're so inclined So, uh, last year it was early in the year and there was word in the news that there was gonna be this ad run in the Super Bowl, uh about a He Gets Us campaign. And Daniel Razve said, Ooh, we gotta talk about that on the faith debate. And I said, Yeah, well we'll we'll get around to it but We got a bunch of boring shows to get out of the way first. We've got to read through a bunch of these statements, you know, about biblical inerrancy and hermeneutics and the statement on Christian nationalism and all that sort of stuff. We've got to finish what we start You know, good, bad, or indifferent, we're going to finish what we start around here, by golly. And so here we are a year later, and my instincts are right, 'cause I remember saying to Daniel, I said, Look, this campaign's not going away. If anything, the controversy surrounding it will probably ramp up between now and the time we get around to addressing it, and sure enough, they ran another couple of ads. in this year's Super Bowl and it stirred up even more of a Hornet's Nest uh response. And by my count there are thirty-one uh videos that they have on their website, the He Gets Us website. And maybe I didn't count them up, but somewhere in the ballpark of half of them are designed to be used on television be or as ads on streaming services because they're fifteen, thirty, or sixty seconds long. Those are ad lengths Then they have some others that are longer, like two and a half, four and a half, six minutes, whatever, that are longer form, highly produced but interview-based kinds of things. And so We're going to finally weigh in on some of this. And the reason we're weighing in isn't to pile on, although that could be fun. Maybe we'll do some of that. But also, um, the church is in trouble and part of the reason uh the the church, globally speaking, the church is having some trouble not having a a strong enough sense of spiritual discernment to recognize problems early enough to see why to see that it's a problem but understand why it's a problem and how to respond to it. So our goal here is to work through some of this stuff that the He Gets Us campaign is putting out there and to help you to understand, listener. Why pastors are concerned about this and why if you're a Christian you should be concerned about it. Even if you're not a Christian, you can understand why Christians would be concerned. about this and you can understand our point of view on these things. So we're going to work through these. There's a couple we're going to work through rather specifically and then more broadly we'll talk about the campaign overall and maybe mention some of the others uh without maybe listening to them. But we're gonna try to listen to some of them. And it's been a long time since we've had to uh worry about such things uh on this show. Oh my goodness. Did I just get locked out? All right. Say something. Do a dance. Sing a song. Well I wanted to uh pipe in and say I think what the church's problem right now is they're trying to be culturally relevant to a fallen culture. as supposed to be an alternative to the current fallen culture. And that's really what's causing a lot of the problems. So there's a good setup. And I uh I was about to say it's been a long time since we've interacted with something uh that wasn't produced by us and we had to go online to pull it into the show so we were actually it's been a long time since we've done that on this show and since we've done that the whole technical setup has changed in the studio And for half a second I was I thought I was locked out of the screen I needed to get to but Yeah, they invented the internet. The wise guy. All right, so This first one might be familiar because it's the one that's most recently causing the hubbable loo. Uh this was featured in the Super Bowl this past year and it's called Uh footwashing is the name of this particular ad. It's I think a 60-second ad, but we're going to be starting and stopping it uh as we go so we can respond. to the different stuff as we see. It's only uh below this up so we can all in the studio see what we're talking about and I'm gonna hit play and we'll we'll uh we'll go from there. So The f uh So this music by the way, I mean I'm gonna pause it right uh right away, right off the bat. This music is perhaps familiar to some because it was a very big hit back in the eighties, back in nineteen eighty eight, uh in XS. um had had a huge hit called uh Never Tear Us Apart. This is a cover version of that song, so if the music sounds familiar, that's why Uh, I already should have stopped. So the first image we saw was the picture of a uh a teen son, apparently, washing the feet of his father at the dining room table. I don't think there was anything particularly controversial. about that one. So they start off innocuous. No, just the we'll see what the message they're building to Yeah, so that was the first one, and now we'll play a little music here. And now so this next one is uh a kneeling police officer uh washing the feet of a black teenager who's wearing a muscle shirt kind of thing in an alley that appears to be kind of in the CD part of town. Uh and uh the thing that's striking to me is uh the the image of the police officer that jumps out at me. Right, because he's kneeling down on both knees. Yeah, you you're gonna find as the pictures as we go through the different pictures, they're they become increasingly woke. um they're being very intentional with which specific uh ethnic groups are portrayed washing which other groups feet and which which uh in in you know intersectional uh foot washing is going on. Okay. It's never in the opposite direction of woke. Sometimes it's neutral and sometimes it's very wokeified depending on the picture. But it's never the same thing. I'm not sure that I picked up the idea that it's consistently getting more and more woke, but I'll be curious to to see if I pick up on that now. Uh I don't d disagree, by the way, there's a lot of woke. But I I didn't I don't know I don't know if it it was a trend in one direction, but uh generally speaking you felt like it was a gathering storm. It's definitely uh consistently uh So the the person whose feet are being washed, right, is typically considered uh A a lesser sort of person as far as uh normal society goes, maybe an oppressed person. Yes. That's uh that's a good way to put it. Right. Yeah, certainly. Something that fits within the intersectionality oppression scales of the woke movement, right? Yeah. Yeah. So now I'm gonna hit this so we can hit the next image. Don't ask me. Okay, so this next one appears to be like in a high school Uh students are milling around the school hallway. There's a a trophy case in the background. There's a cheerleader type uh who appears to be pouring water you know, that I I I'm assuming she's supposed to be kind of The popular girl anyway, pouring water on the feet of a girl uh who if you look closely you can see the girl had to remove her combat boots to have the foot washing experience. So she's definitely kind of an outcast type of a person with short red hair. Yes Uh I think maybe the potenti the uh potentially uh supposed to be uh uh in the LGBT spectrum. Yeah, possibly like maybe a lesbian or identifying as a different sex, possibly, although it seems pretty clear it's likely a female. But yeah, definitely on the outcast, right? I I um like when I was going to high school, this would have been somebody wearing a lot of black, you know, a lot of uh goth. Goth really isn't in as an as a as a thing to do now. Now it's all you know, weird colored hair and that sort of thing. And mix mat mix the match clothing, like the clothes don't really go together. The patterns and the colors and stuff. Sure. Okay, so an outcast person, the oppressed person. Then the next one here is going to be out west at dusk. Uh there's a uh a white elderly cowboy or rancher type person kneeling uh at a uh a wash basin to wash the feet of an older like Indian uh Native American the kind of a cowboy Indian kind of theme uh going on here And I in today's parlance the Native Americans would be considered an oppressed class, right? So so far Daniel's theme is holding up this idea that there's a theme of of building wokeism as we go. And that's the fifth image this is the one that got a lot Ah of attention. Uh and if you look closely known as an abortion clinic. Yeah. A child killing mill. Uh if if you look close you you you see that uh one of the signs uh reads Save the Unborn. So clearly there are protesters trying to save babies' lives. Uh in in uh in the foreground there's a middle-aged woman who's washing the feet of a of a teen who uh had removed her shoes and set down a paper bag. I noticed uh or I thought it was a paper bag, maybe it's not. I don't know. It looked like I saw a paper bag earlier. Anyway, the I think the idea here is that she was inside this building behind them and the building behind them has a sign on it that reads Family Planning Clinic. Right. So it it appears somebody's washing the feet of someone who just he either just killed or is about to kill her baby. And do you can you figure out any uh importance to the the prominent motel sign in the background? I can't figure out what that's like they it's like they almost went out of their way to draw your attention to. Motel. Like is that supposed to mean something? Is that where the baby was conceived? Uh maybe. Maybe that's maybe that's the idea. I don't know. Or maybe it's the idea that the protesters are from out of town and detached and they're not there for the to support I don't know what the the there had to be some reason why they probably to display that. Now image number six is an unkept unkempt kitchen. Has a significant number of liquor bottles scattered around. Several of them are empty. One lays on its side next to a an ashtray loaded with a bunch of cigarettes and In the center of the room on the floor, two women, and the older of the two appears to be maybe uh a drunk or an addict of some sort. Uh her feet are are are being washed by the younger woman ma I don't know if it's supposed to be her daughter or just somebody who cares about her. I don't know. It's the I i I I get friend from it, I think, but or just the idea of somebody trying to help her. Um because they don't really look alike. Alright. So do we feel like this is uh continue to build a woke but feel sorry for the addict I guess? Maybe. I mean this one may be less less woke than the last one, for sure. All of the all of the p pictures are at best neutral on the intersectional line. And they definitely are on one side, it seems to me, uh of the political spectrum at least. Yeah. Politically at best they're neutral in uh in uh in the intersectional in intersectional hierarchy and at worst they're very woke. So now this next one is a uh a picture of a man who works on an oil rig it would appear. Um he he's washing the feet of an apparent environ environmental activist, because you can see a sign that she has set on the ground and it reads Clean Air. Now so this is like the the bad guy who's poisoning our air is washing the clean of the woman who's trying to get him to come to his senses. That's the idea in this one, I think. Yes. I'm just I'm I'm confused uh about what they're trying to portray since uh you know particularly right in in scripture the foot washing starts with jesus being the one to wash his disciples' feet. So, you know, is this the uh is this is this is the righteous person washing the feet of the sinners in all these? I I don't think that's what You know. David, David, David. I mean, it's obvious they're saying that the privileged person is bending down to wash the feet of the unprivileged. And Jesus was privileged with not having any sin in his life. And uh so all these people are privileged either in some way or the other. Deity privilege instead of white privilege or Oh man. Um but I I I was I I was gonna say actually the f in the well and we'll get to m their message here on foot washing, but the first example of footwashing was not actually Jesus washing his disciples feet, it was some sinner lady washing his feet. That's true, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, I m I pick up on the theme here a c a at least the first couple of times. I think it's the kind of thing that as you watch it more and more you pick up different ideas of what they might be trying to say. So in that sense it's actually good art. Right, because it it really calls to mind a whole bunch of different impressions and ideas like what are they meaning to communicate here? And I think we might pre come up with two, three, four different ideas and they may all be true. And they might be all be bad. And and so far they mostly seem to be all bad. The one if I want to give them the a benefit of the doubt. Uh, picking up on what David was saying about it seems like it's righteous people or whatever. They may be trying to give the point that look, those who understand the truth, that are rooted in the scriptures in the Bible and they understand the importance to have a servant's heart are going to step out and humbly serve and take care of those who are oppressed as the world fees. It might be the positive way of looking at this But that has the potential for being a backlash because then those who are oppressive, oh you think you're so good, like you have all these privileged great like people who know the truth are taking care of the the poor, you know, colored people, right? You know, the people with different colored skin and stuff. And so it could have a backlash, but I'm not so sure I want to give them all that benefit of the doubt 'cause I'm not sure that's what's going on in this agenda. But anyway. Ready to go to the next one? Alright, so our next image, which is image number eight, I guess. There's a Latino uh it looks to be me anyway, a Latino woman who's standing next to a bus. Uh Apparently it seems to me the idea here is that she and a bunch of others that are pictured here disembarked recently. This is a DeSantis bus or or an Abbott bus. Yeah, yeah, right. And there's a trash bag that's uh next to this woman, seemingly uh I think the impression here is that it's holding all of her worldly possessions, so I think the idea is that she's a migrant maybe of some kind, whether she's an illegal immigrant or not, I I don't know. And there's what would appear to be the stereotypical suburban white woman uh washing her feet. Like, you know, she's uh uh ten years ago you would have called her a soccer mom Right. You know, so this picks up that same theme that we've been talking about, right? Unlike some of the other pictures, the person who's Being wash doesn't actually appear all that happy or pleased to see your own. Well, she's g uh I'm looking closer now. It looks like her arms are crossed and she's being standoffish, but she's holding a baby. Yeah. She didn't kill this baby. The the the athlete killed her her baby. Yeah, and her pants are all dirty and stuff, so the idea is maybe that you know she's ha at least had a rough life. Possibly homeless. But with the bus there makes it feel like she was brought somewhere and dropped off, like you said, a DeSantis bus kind of an idea, or an Abbott bus or something. But anyway, so now the next one is gonna be image number nine. This one is two husbands uh who are looking on as their wives are uh seated or kneeled uh in the front yard of what appears to be like a middle class home. Uh one couple is of I would say European descent, the other looks to be uh you know, Middle Eastern descent, possibly Muslim because there's a head covering I I think there's no doubt it's intended to be a Muslim family. Right. There's plenty of Christian women that cover their heads, but when you have it in a national ad like this in that specific type of head covering, they're intending it you to uh imagine that this Yeah, so and it's interesting. I can't quite make it out for sure, but the w what would appear to be the the woman the white woman's white husband is looking on and I'm not sure he's looking pleased. You know, his posture in the cock of his head makes it look like, uh what are you doing there, woman? I could be wrong, but um I don't know. But yeah, this is the idea of I guess a quote unquote Christian washing the seed of a quote unquote Muslim Right? I don't know if the Muslims are considered to be oppressed in today's world, but they are people of a minority religion and remember after after October seventh the Biden administration came out of the case. Say are you blank phobic? Right. Well they said th the we need to combat Islamophobia after occupation. Right. Right, right, right. Okay All right. And now there's a couple more images. This is number 10 on the list of twelve images that they give us. There's a a whole slew of protesters out there screaming at each other. They're holding signs on on one side Yeah, you s if you look closely you see the signs they say, uh silence hate and shut him up. And on the other side you've got signs that read No Censorship and Let him speak. And in the middle of all this, there's a black woman who's washing the feet of maybe an Asian or Hispanic woman or maybe Native American. It's hard to tell exactly uh what ethnicity is so he represented there. So in the middle of all this hate, there's somebody Yes, it's the first example of a minority group washing defeat. Yeah. Yeah, so this this is the one that doesn't seem to fit the overall narrative. So is this just to throw us off the scent? Maybe. Like this is a little bit a I wonder who's who's trying to be shut up or not be shut up. It doesn't it doesn't Yeah, we're supposed to be left guessing. Yeah, and there's diff people of different colors and different uh you know, sexes, men and women on on both sides, although it appears there's more women on the one side of the screen than the other. Like it's a lot of men on the left hand side of the screen, a lot of women on the right. So I I I don't know. I don't know. Hm. Maybe I mean maybe it's just uh you know, in the midst of the this this is happening very much in the midst of a chaotic kind of situation. Now this is the sinister part of me, but if you wanted to try to connect this to something in real life, given the the ethnic makeup choice that they've made here It was going back about I don't know how many years now, probably four years ago ish or something. There was the uh was it Covington High School? Um the the the young man was on the steps, because they're seated on steps here in this picture on the pad. Right. And there was the Native American guy who was banging his drum or whatever, and there was uh Nate Sandman maybe was his name, I think. Or Nate Sandman and Nate something or other was the uh the the Native American guy I forget his full name, but anyway, they had a bit of a standoff and the white kid was rude as far as the world was concerned, but here we've got a a black teen, apparently, who's doing the right thing by the Native American person by not standing off and being a jerk. I'm wondering and that was in the middle of the possible and that was in the midst of a lot of chaos and protesting people on both sides too. So I think we're kind of meant to to be you after guessing. and settle with the main thrust of the story is that Jesus was was all about footwashing. Somehow this was his own. Yeah, we're gonna we're gonna get there. So this next one is uh I I don't know, seated on the front porch of a rustic looking home are two older men, uh an old hound dog there. Men are each seated in chairs. So this is a different kind of a visual than we've seen before. And they each have one foot in a bucket of water. Uh one of the men is white, the other one uh is uh is black. But they but nobody's washing anybody's feet, they're both just sitting there side by side with their feet in the bucket. So Uh I I'm not sure what this is supposed to mean exactly other than the the whites and the blacks can get along. Yeah, they're kind of both. Washing each other's feet. It's a pre washed soak. It's a pre washed soak. The the bucket of uh like there's a pitcher of water Is that a picture of water over by the black gentleman? Yeah. Right. So it seems like Maybe he washed his the white man's feet? Maybe. I mean i yeah, it seems like the initiating elements are over on his side. Yeah, that could be and uh call me crazy for bringing this one up but yeah, both of their shoes are off both of them as well. But it appears to me that the dog's fur Is the body and head are a lighter color than the front paws, which makes me wonder if the idea is if the dog has his paws in that bucket of water at one point too. message. Well dogs are people too, you know what I'm saying? So and then the the very last image, this one got a lot of attention too. This is uh Uh we're at the beach, there's uh a priest or you know, pastor of some kind. Uh you you can tell this based upon his uh his clerical collar and he's got a cross hanging around his neck. And um he's a middle-aged white guy and he's down on both knees washing the feet of Um I think we're supposed to guess a certain way, but I'll just describe it as a rather effeminate looking young black man. Yep. Uh uh and you can take that to mean what you want of who what what or who in the society that's supposed to represent. Um thing that's interesting here is the the uh religious guy, he's uh barefoot. So like is he expecting to have his feet washed then too or I'm not sure that that's been a theme also, like in in m a lot of the a lot of the images, both of the Both people. You know what? I hadn't I hadn't picked up on that, so okay, so this is being consistent maybe in the campaign. And I'm gonna let this play out so I can describe what happens at the very end. Jesus didn't teach hate. He washed Beach. We can live. And then it says he gets us, all of us, and then they uh they say Jesus. Oh the us was a different color, right? So geez us and then they give the website kind of a thing. Um so we got through that one and uh w any thoughts on that particular ad as we wrap up this particular Well yeah, and from a pr certain perspective you would say that well, actually he did. He he Right Young Repent. Repent. Stop sinning. And whenever he um And it says Jesus didn't baptize people, his disciples baptized people. Whenever there was baptisms being done, a washing. That was to signify your repenting from your lifestyle. Well and the foot washing that was done was either done to Jesus by this this woman who had been a sinner or it was um uh With Jesus, you know you read Jesus was watching his disciples speak. Well and they were they were I mean one of them was about to betray him, but they were all professing to be followers of Christ at the time, right? They were publicly acknowledging that they are They're living righteous lives. And boy, I should know this off the top of my head but I'm a little rusty. Had Judas already left the room? No. Okay. Not yet. Okay. So yeah, m I mean and and one of the things one of the points that Jesus says makes there is unless unless I wash your feet, you have no no part in me. And so uh Yeah. And and then and then he does say, you know, and if I wash your feet then you oughta wash one another's feet. Well we're just talking about Well there's more to be said about this campaign and we're gonna feature a different ad next time and have time to respond to other parts of this campaign as well. We'll continue that on next week's edition of the Faith Debate. Thank you to the Rasbees, Imran and Daniel, and also to Mr. Forcey David. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at householdfaithinchrist. com or WFMD. com. Until next week, God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.