This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a massive of divinities from reform theological seminary the fate debate master of ceremonies Troy Skinner welcome to the lockdown tape edition we've got some stuff that has been available in social media for the past you know eight nine ten months something like that that I'm repurposing because we can't do our typical panel discussion shows right now the way we normally would like to do them because of restrictions that are in place. But you know, we've got some good content here. And this is stuff that's been out there for about, I don't know, uh at least six months, in some cases nine, ten months. And it's just as relevant. You know, that's uh part of it is because the world hasn't changed all that much and part of it is because um You know, the the gospel reigns supreme forever. So anyway, let's uh let's continue on with our lockdown tape editions and uh you're going to hear the beginning of a special message as well today. I'm looking forward to sharing that with you. Where do we stand at a time such as this? There are differences theologically within the church. Some of those differences are Okay. They're not denying the core of the faith. They're just differences. Sometimes Christian brothers and sisters can't agree to disagree on things and both be trying to glean the truth from the scripture and be faithful to God's reveals word. But despite these sorts of differences, there is unity in the church. Or there should be unity in the church anyway. The unity is rooted uh in things like all Christians maintaining a a very high view of God's sovereignty, God's holiness, God's love, God's provision, salvation through God, through the sacrifice of his son. And so these things create unity, and part of the truth of the message is that we have freedom in Christ. But somebody recently, not too long ago, the other day, asked me, well, why don't we have this freedom? Why don't we just do whatever we want and live lives as hedonists? And perhaps uh you've wondered this sort of thing yourself at some point in your life, maybe recently with everything feeling upside down and topsy turbine, you're like, what's the point of it all? Who cares? Let's just live for the day and enjoy it. Why not do that? Well, we don't surrender to living sin-filled lives because we recognize that living life to the fullest is experienced By being obedient. By being obedient to God. That's where we find blessing. He gave us his word. He gave us his law. Because he loves us and he wants what's best for us. And so as we walk in obedience, we are blessed. And we have the privilege in that blessing of experiencing his face shining upon us. And when this faith is shining upon us, that's flourishing. This is what flourishing means. This is shalom. And this is what I wish for the entire Bride of Christ. It's what I wish for you. And that is the message, that is the truth, and any pretender who would teach something otherwise Any pretender that would say that the written word isn't true because it's legalistic, because it's out of touch, because it's old-fashioned, it's out of date, it's not relevant. Those are lies from the pit of hell that rob you of an opportunity for shalom. So we're not obedient to the law because we're prisoners. We're obedient to the law because we have been set free. to be obedient to the law. Out of a humble gratitude for what Christ has done for us, we desire to be obedient because we know that in that walk of obedience We experience God's best for us. So that's my parting word for you this evening. Figure out what it is God's telling you to do in His Word. And then do it obediently. And when you fail, go to him in prayer and humbly ask for forgiveness, knowing that it's already been granted to those who are his. That is the beautiful lesson of the Bible, the beautiful promise of Shalom Well before we launch into the message today, I want to uh say that it is an honor, true honor, to be granted the privilege of sharing God's Word with you today on Christmas morning of all days. Especially as I get to share with you a personal favorite topic of mine and my family, and it might become one of your favorite topics after you hear what the Lord has for you this morning. Many of you are becoming familiar with me and my family these past several months as we visited a few times, but again a reminder of who I am. My name is Troy Skinner, and I am a sinner. A horrible, depraved sinner. Saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. And it is my hope this morning that by the time I am finished you will believe the same thing to be true about yourself. We pray with you. Father, we praise you and glorify your name for who you are and what you've done. And what you continue to do. And what you will do in the future. We ask that your Holy Spirit open our hearts to receive your truth as you open my mouth to deliver it. I pray that you will keep me faithful to your word and make up for the shortcomings that I bring to proclaiming the message of the gospel. And put at rest the distractions that face many of us today. We are here to worship you in fellowship gathered in this place. Help us to do both well. Worship and fellowship. In the name of our one and only hope for salvation, we pray. The name of your eternal Son Jesus Christ. Amen. Daddy, tell me what it was like when you were a kid. Mommy, read me a bedtime story. From the time we are children, we love stories. Tales of long-ago ages, faraway places. But the best stories are the true. Especially the ones that still affect us today. This is why when company comes over for dinner, tell me if this isn't true, the children are so eager and enthusiastic encouraging their parents to Tell the story of how they met. Come on, tell us how we met. Stories of their courtship, their mad dash to the hospital when the kids were born. What's your favorite story? At a time like this, you might say, well, my favorite story is Frosty the Snowman. Rudolph the Red-nosed reindeer, maybe. Or perhaps It's a Wonderful Life. At one time my son and daughter, they might have said that their favorite story was health. Or The Toy That Saved Christmas by Veggie Tales. Now these examples are all fictitious, but not all stories are fiction, of course. So maybe your favorite story is that of the Reformation or the French and American Revolutions Or maybe a biography about someone like Mahatma Gandhi or other historical stories rooted in reality like that Well what kind of story are we giving regarding Jesus? This morning you are going to hear about the greatest story ever conceived. And you will hear a personal story that illustrates in an intimate way how this greatest story ever told Is retold in new and wondrous ways, even in the lives of those seated around you this morning. After this message, you will know my family quite a bit better than you already do, and by God's grace you will know in the marrow of your bone. What it means to be a part of God's family. It is a powerful, powerful truth. And because it's so powerful, I've been challenged all this week since I learned last week I'd be preaching today to just wait and be patient to share with you this once upon a time. So that you will have your heartbeat stronger for the hope that is happily ever after. If you have your Bibles, you would open them and turn to Luke chapter 2, third book of the New Testament. While you turn there I'm going to mention a couple other passages. If you're really quick at turning in your Bible, you might want to turn here to Matthew chapter 1, the very beginning of the New Testament. I'm not going to read from Matthew chapter 1. I just want to point out that in this first chapter of the New Testament, we have a genealogy. That is broken out into three sets of fourteen generations. From Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Judah, David, and Solomon through Ahaz, Azor, and Joseph, wrapping up with Jesus himself. And in Luke chapter 3, one chapter past the one that we're going to read here in just a moment, we are given another genealogy that works backwards through 77 names. Including Levi, Omah Amos, and Judah, Boaz, Jacob, Isaac, Abraham, Shem, Noah, all the way back to Seth. And Adam wrapping up with God himself. And in Luke chapter 2, it begins. In those days, Caesar Augustus issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. This was the first census that took place while Phenerius was governor of Syria. And everyone went to their own town to register. So Joseph, he also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there, the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her first son, firstborn a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them So what's one thing that we can gather from the long lists of genealogies that I mentioned and this little story here in Luke chapter 2 that I've just read? What's just one thing maybe that we could gather from these things about Jesus? Jesus is a real life human. This is one of the reasons that the Bible provides us with is genealogy. And gives us details about his birth. Like you and I, Jesus has grandparents and parents and great-grandparents and great-great-grandparents and so on. He really, truly existed. These were real people living in real history. Just like Jesus. Just like us. Stories about Jesus are presented in the Bible as historical He really lived in the real world. This isn't some story, a make-believe land, once upon a time. It's a story that takes place within historical context. As we just read in Luke chapter 2, it is when Rome ruled the political world. It is when Augustus was Caesar, when Quinerius was governor. This is not some mysterious land far, far away. This is Nazareth in Galilee. This is Bethlehem and Judea. Just like with us, Frederick in Maryland. The Bible gives us the story of real people in real locations taking place in real time. Jesus is real. Like you and I are real. He is human He was born a baby. He grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, as it tells us in Luke chapter 2, verse 40. Now we're not told much about his childhood, but we are told enough to know that he had a childhood. And we know that he lived as an adult, even from non-biblical sources, like the ancient historian Josephus. And we, of course, know about his adult life in some detail from the Bible. In the Gospels of the New Testament, we can see that Jesus lived a life that is much like ours. He went to parties. Even turning water into wine. He needed rest. Even sleeping on a boat during a violent storm. He ate and drank both before and after his resurrection. He felt stress, coining perhaps the phrase, never let him see you sweat. Blood. He got angry overturning the tables of the money changers in the temple. He cried. More than one. And ultimately, he even died. Absolutely Jesus is a man. This is what the Bible tells us. Most will even grant this point. Perhaps saying that only Jesus was a great prophet, wonderful teacher. That's as far as it goes. But in addition to this, Jesus is the real life-giving God. The writers of the New Testament tell us that Jesus is God by his words, and they show us that Jesus is God by his deeds. Matthew chapter 1 verse 23, and we even sung about this today. It tells us that Jesus' name, even Emmanuel, means God with us. And we can see this demonstrated over and over again. Three dozen specific miracles are recorded in the four gospels. We have twenty or so described each in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. Not all different miracles. Of course, there is some overlap between what are called the three synoptic gospels. Then we have eight additional miracles talked about in the gospel account from John. Most of his miracle stories are unique to his gospel, but the point is God authenticates his word throughout Scripture, through supernatural occurrences, through miracles. Like the plagues in Egypt vouched for the truth of what Moses said. Like fire from the sky proved that it was Elijah who served the one true God. Like the great flood, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the tumbling down of Jericho's walls, the pregnancies of really old women Jesus is the word, and He is authenticated by His miracles. So what we see throughout the Bible, we see specifically with regards to Jesus. And this should not be a surprise to us because the Bible, we're told, is about Jesus. Jesus himself tells us this. The Bible, of course, is about God and about his relationship with man, and this relationship centers on Christ. The whole Bible is about Christ. If you still have your Bibles open to Luke chapter 2, thumb ahead to Luke chapter 24 By the way, if you don't have your Bibles, I know I think that some of these verses are are included in the bulletin and they're probably maybe up on the screen even. I'm not sure about that part, but uh why are you going to Luke chapter uh two uh twenty-four? John chapter 5, verse 39. I want to read this to you. This is Jesus talking in John chapter 5, verse 39. You study the scriptures diligently, because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very scriptures that testify about me, Jesus said. And in Luke chapter 24, we're going to look at verse 27 and also verse 44, where it says, beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he, Jesus. Explain to them what was said in the scriptures concerning himself. He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me in the law of Moses, the prophets, and the songs. Now the law of Moses, that's a reference to the appendix. The Torah, the first five books of the Bible, and the prophets and the Psalms. That's a shorthand reference for the rest of what we now call the Old Testament. So by this phrase, Jesus is talking about the entire Old Testament. We still use these sorts of idioms today. Like if we were to say From New York to Chicago to LA, we would be talking about the entire United States of America. And so Jesus with this phrase, the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms, he is talking about what was, at that time, the entire Bible. So consider we know the New Testament is about Jesus. And Jesus here is telling us the Old Testament is about him too. The whole Bible is about Jesus. Well what does it say about him? What does he say about him himself? Jesus claims to be God. Nineteen times in the four gospels, he says that T is its fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies, pointing to God saving his people. He says 23 times that he is the Son of Man, which is actually a most powerful claim of deity when it is understood the context of Daniel chapter 7. One like a son of man coming in the clouds of heaven. Sixteen times he says he is a son of God. Thirteen times Messiah, Christ, Savior, only God saved. Twice he says that he has the power to forgive sins, and only God can do that. Three times he calls himself Lord, and dozens of times he says I am the covenant name of God revealed to Moses at the burning bush in Exodus chapter 3. Jesus says of himself that he is God. And he backs up what he says about himself with his miracles. And ultimately his resurrection and his ascension. Now the resurrection, that is often said by some commentators to be God's greatest miracle I like to think of it as his second greatest miracle, with the greatest being creation. I mean think about it, he made everything that is out of nothing. Even time and space. Think about that. Not only did he create everything that is, he even created the space within which to put it. And he brought order. Without him there is chaos. Well, the opening of John's Gospel account tells us that the Son of God performed even this, greatest of all miracles. John chapter 1. You want to flip there you can. We're going to look at verses 1 through 4 and then jump ahead to verses 17 and 18. Beginning with John 1, verse 1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God. And the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life. In that life was the light of all mankind. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. Jump ahead to verse 17 there. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God but the one and only Son who is Himself God and is in closest relationship with the Father. Has made him known. From before the creation, the Son has been God Amen? Amen. But what I want us to remember, in earnest, at this moment Is that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King right now. Right? Yeah. Back then? Yes. But also right now. In the future? Yes. But also right here, right now Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King right now. And we're going to pause there on that very uplifting positive note. This is the faith debate. Thank you so much for listening. You'll hear the last half of that message next week, and it features a very personal testimony from um my son. Uh I I tell the testimony uh on his behalf and you'll understand why and it's one of the most powerful stories I have personally to share I'm still looking forward to sharing with you on next week's show. Thanks so much. You can find us online at WFMD. com until next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the Audio Vault at WFMD. com. A service of partners in care. Upscale resale boutique in the Willow Tree Plaza.