Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Croy Skinner. Frederick Faith Debate is an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. Thomas Jefferson said that the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom, and it's in that spirit that we wrestle with important ideas. Our hope is that through our wrestling, we will develop a better understanding of the world. Of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this life. A reminder that the Predator Faith debate is brought to us by our wonderful sponsor, All Shred, Mobile Documents Destruction, Shredding Today for Growth Tomorrow 1-877-2 Shred All Shred they sell security. Back this week from last week Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, Rabbi uh David Wiesenberg from Bestalom Congregation, and Pastor Peter Kemene from Good News Presbyterian, all three here in Frederick. Last week, if you were listening, we were talking about some of the similarities and differences uh in a general sense between Judaism and Christianity and we we found there are a lot of similarities uh in the moral foundation, love is the goal, uh we want to live a good ethical life, those sorts of things. We also there's some similarity in the rituals uh Christians believing that those rituals fulfilled in Jesus. Um but other than that there's a lot of similarity there. Of course the Christian Old Testament uh uh is not is not what the Jews would call the Old Testament, but uh something that they would hold in in in high regard and is the foundation of of their faith and belief. There's a lot of things um that are shared in common, but there's you know there are some critical things obviously that are different because when I went around the room at the beginning of last week's show and I asked uh Jonathan, David, and Peter why they weren't the other guys' religion, they all had reasons. So there are some differences Uh and I guess we're going to talk a little bit more about some of those differences. Uh because if there are no differences, let me set let me frame it this way. Christians, and correct me if I'm wrong, and I know you will. Christians believe that they have been given a commission to go and make disciples. They are to go and spread the gospel uh in the hope that uh they will uh be a part of the Holy Spirit's work in converting someone's heart and leading them to an acceptance of Jesus Christ as their Savior. So I'm assuming that there are enough differences between Christianity and Judaism that you, Peter, you John, would uh evangelize and proselytize a Jew. Is that a fair assumption? Uh yes it is. John's nodding. So yes it is. Now I'm not sure what the what the Jewish view on this is, although I'm gonna guess, and you tell me if I'm right, uh the Jews, as far as I know, haven't been given a quote unquote Great Commission, and so they're probably not out there evangelizing and and proselytizing. Um Is that true? That's correct. That's right. One of the big problems, we'll go right into it. Okay. That's okay, it's a big problem. Okay, how so? Yes indeed. It's a good thing to spread the word to to uh bring people to a good religion and to bring them to good actions, which is a very Jewish point of view too, of good actions and to your belief. And if your belief brings the good actions, that's just a Jew uh that's a Jewish belief. What hurts from Jewish communities is that some evangelical Christians, I take that right back. There are from some groups, unfortunately only a minority. small minority who go out to convert not perhaps who go out to convert Jewish people to become Christian. You know, which is in their belief. But unfortunately it is offensive to the Jewish community. Because they say we have a religion and we want to be respected for it. And we have the right to be respected for it. We're in a free c free free society. And we're proud of our religion. And that's we'd like to be left alone. And isn't it better? Isn't it better to concentrate on those Christians who are not very observant, those Christians who are really say they're Christians but are not very ethical and then you need to do better, concentrate on your own and make them better people. As similar as a Jewish person, as a rabbi, I'm concentrate on my own flock and try to make them into better people. Well Peter Kemani, what's your response to that? Um David Um, it's just Christian evangelical Christians and Jonathan and I would both be identified by that label. They just have a different conviction on this. Uh, and it's the nature of Christianity, and I believe it flows from the nature of Old Testament Judaism, and that's the exclusivity. of of th saying there's only one way and Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, the life. Acts four, twelve in the New Testament Uh there's there's no other way. Uh but I think that exclusivity even comes from Old Testament uh Judaism and the Great Commission, you know, we call it the Great Commission where Jesus said, Go make disciples In Genesis twelve, God promised Abraham, the father of the of the of the Israelites, uh that all peoples will will be blessed through you. And so I see this um commission to win other people to know the God of Israel as something that's in scripture. And so I and if you'll indulge me, um years ago I was on a an airplane, I was just talking to the young lady next to me. She was Jewish and I was Christian And we were having sort of a discussion like this. She explained to me what she believed and I explained what I believe. Then at the end of our discussion, she said It's so nice that we can both talk about what we believe and not try to convert the other And I said well I said, my friend, you don't understand. Um, I would never try to force my beliefs on you But I I do want to persuade you to believe because I'm persuaded that this is true. And I'm surprised that you're not trying to persuade me. Don't you care about me? Don't you care about my soul And so I think and I in in the spirit of our age says, you know, whatever you believe is fine, just don't bother anybody with your beliefs. And my attitude is Yes, I was I respect people of different beliefs and I love them and yet because from my understanding of scripture, um I believe Christianity is the way I do want to lovingly uh challenge others. uh to believe as I do, or else I wouldn't be a Christian if I thought it was just one one choice among many uh belief systems. I am curious to hear what Rabbi Wiesenberg's response to that is, but I want to give Jonathan Sweitzer a chance to chime in first. So uh because he has a chance where we talk to him this yeah. I I was gonna I was gonna mention I read a book by um uh Alan Dershowitz that um bemoans the fact that in the Jewish community those that have the strongest Jewish identity are the closest to the most orthodox and that the farther that you get away from the Orthodox uh you you tend to lose a measure of identity and even if you're a generation or two removed that uh that the Jewish children are marrying into just whoever it is out there and they they lose their faith And um it's interesting to me that that's the case, that that the closest the closer you are to the Orthodox, the more vitality you you see in the faith. And again I I think the same thing's true about Christianity, that the closer you get to the orthodoxy, to the to the truth, uh to to to a desire for the truth, that that's what motivates and that's what inspires. Um and uh Yeah, I guess that th th that's the fullness of my point there. Yeah. Alright. David? Yep. Um It's not really fair because there are two evangelical Christians and one rabbi. converted man. You know what? You better not, because then we can't be on the radio show to discuss together. That's not true. But anyway. I tell you what, really, gentlemen and everyone, um we I do care we do care about yourself. We care about everyone's souls. But here's the difference of just the difference of outlook. Um the difference of outlook is that Jewish people are brought up to believe that other people have their own religion. Yeah. Right, right. It's uh have their own religion and are entitled to and because in just because you're not Jewish or Christian or whatever other religion doesn't mean you can't be a righteous person And the many people who are very, very righteous, and that's what counts, and we should respect them. So there's a difference in outlook. Um can't remember well so what are you saying now? Well Jonathan question is whether I remember what I'm saying. Well Jonathan was talking about the importance of orthodoxy. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's a different issue. Yeah, when King David and King Solomon were at the height, of Jewish power and ascendancy, Solomon in all of his glory. Uh it wasn't a time that was a where they were saying, hey, you could be whatever religion you want, but it was a time where they were clearly saying There is one way to follow God. And it's through the sacrificial system, it's through repentance of sin. You know, in fact, David uh David himself said that that sacrifice you did not desire, but obedience you know, that we would love God and worship Him, that there would be that intimacy and that that response to the Father. And um it seems to me that that in every situation where the Jewish people have been truest to their faith. That's where the greatest blessing has been for them as a nation, the greatest peace with their enemies, the greatest connectedness with the Father, the greatest blessing for the world as a whole And I and I'm convinced that that as a Jew advocating that all religions are the same, that you're you're actually doing the one thing that would cause God himself to remove his blessing from you and allow you to be attacked and defeated. In fact it was claimed that this was true in in in Hitler's time, that there was a major emphasis on tolerance and and the whole society that that we you know, we don't want to say one person's right and another one's wrong. And the church itself was bowled over by Hitler sold its soul to Hitler instead of doing what it should have done, which was stood up and said, Hitler, you're of the devil and you sh you know, and there are a few guys, Dietrich Bonhoeffer and some other guys. My point being is that the Jewish people are most protected not when they try to embrace all religions But when they say no, there's only one way and God Himself is going to be our strong tower and bless the world through us as a result. And so we do. And we do that to our own people. We wouldn't wouldn't definitely wouldn't dream of going to a believing Christian. to say no you ought to be Jewish and start arguing about Jesus. No way. No way. But you know the point you made about um look at the difference in outlooks. It's fine. Um, you know the point you made about uh orthodoxy and all that, the people who are most closer to tradition tend to remain sort of Jewish. It's true and the same and the vitality and the same the Christians, you know. There's a great kind of conflict, you know In the m uh uh uh injured among Jewish people and Christian people. You know what the conflict is? Conflict is listen I I I believe I want to be Christian or I want to be Jewish and I believe in it, right? But I don't want to be stuck with all of those sort of things that go with it which are a bit annoying, you know, like going to church every Sunday, right? Or incursion, etc. Me particularly Catha Catholicism is one of the most uh ritualistic um branches of Christianity if I'm correct. American Catholics don't want to follow that stuff. Well that's right, that's a great dilemma. And the fact is it's true. You know, the more the more you it might be a nuisance to keep the retailers, but the more you obser keep to them, the more you keep to the religion So you might ask the question, well why bother with these religions? Why not just be, as you say, humanistic and kind to each other? Right. Right? I'll tell you why. I'll tell you why I say. And that's because Because if you don't believe that a God, for don't believe that a God, divine being, made the rules, rules to give us guidance on how to be kind, including the others and the others, then we have to make the rules ourselves. And while we think we can be good and effective of making the rule uh deciding how to be good and kind to each other, it is so easy to slip down a slippery slope and turn out to be evil thinking we're good, which is precisely what happened into the German nation before Hitler's time. Right. He told them of being the the right people, they were being patriotic, doing the right thing, and they started believing it. Even the church got befaddled into it. profound. That's the issue. So I say to anyone, you know, why why is it important? Why am I proud, you know, I I keep all this some of these rituals, uh Sabbath observing, Eden kosher and some of it is a is a really a nuisance and some I don't even quite understand Because we believe some laws God doesn't really explain properly. And I don't I say, you know what, it's a good thing. Because through that that's a kind of the clothes I wear, skelet this this through that I have the skeleton which keeps me on track to be a good person as well. Yeah. So I don't stop making up the rules of being good. I'm gonna do that. Yes, I believe. Of course we'll have uh um conflicts every now and again if it's ethical and appropriate for the day and age like happening in Terry Ski Alpha uh case and so on. But by and large By and large I say we always should strive to be to to to keep into our religions to the end. We don't all get there. But it's the right thing to say, you know, if we we if we did if we did everything if we were truly observant we will be observ uh we we believe in it and we're just not truly observant, but we s at least we strive to go there and we believe in it. Because in belief it gives us a barramata of goodness which has withstood the test of time more than three thousand years. Yeah. But I mean, either God likes variety or God's commands are absolute. And so I'm glad you said that you believe that we should follow God's commands and certainly ethically we have a lot in common Right, the Ten Commandments and s I mean, ethically I think we're very similar in our moral codes. Indeed. Even ritually. Uh many similarities. Yeah. Yeah. And I think the difference would be and we talked about this last week, is that we say man needs a savior and we believe God's not only revealed uh commandments But he's revealed the way of salvation. And so Christian says, man needs not only a a moral framework, he needs a savior. so that he can be redeemed from his sin. And so that's why Christians are so or evangelical Christians are are so big on persuading others to uh believe in Jesus Christ. Mm-hmm. Yes, I understand perfectly. And we believe we've really got to save ourselves and we need good leaders to help us to save ourselves. Right. But yeah, I'm not sure. Well hold on one second I just want to uh uh for anybody who's joined us in the last few minutes, they're wondering what the heck's going on right now. So I'm going to tell them what the heck's going on right now. You're listening to Frederick's Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD My name is Troy Skinner, moderating this uh panel discussion, um as you might have gathered, about uh Christianity and Judaism. Uh on the panel this week, you just heard Peter Kemeney, uh pastor of uh cross at um confusing the churches here. Pastor at Good News Presbyterian and Frederick. Um you also just heard of Rabbi David Wiesenberg from um Best Shalom Congregation and Pastor Jonathan Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel is on the panel as well. And we're starting to get into the really good stuff now. We've got like, you know, fifteen minutes left, so that's always kind of the way that works out It seems to me I'm I'm I'm I'm trying to I'm thinking out loud. This isn't necessarily a question. I'm kinda thinking out loud because I have so many thoughts going through my head One of the things it seems to me that separates uh the worldview, uh a Jewish worldview and a Christian worldview and the and and the effect that worldview has on proselytizing and evangelizing uh is that the Jews, you know, it's a birthright, you're born into it, uh in general. Some people will convert to Judaism, but in in a general sense it's it's not just a religion, but it's also a national ethnic uh kind of identity as well. And that's not true with Christianity. Christianity is is about pulling from outside of an ethnic or national group as well, so that might be part of it. Uh again, I'm just thinking out loud. Certainly uh I respect a hundred percent what the rabbi said about we all want to be, you know, live good lives and uh we should be encouraging people to have uh live ethical lives and to have good works in their life. Uh you know, the New Testament even says that, you know, a faith without good works is a dead faith. So both of the the the the faith traditions would agree on that point. But I'm trying to get down to what is it that separates uh the two really at its core? Now, Peter would probably say, and again, I'm putting words in Ruby's mouth, but a Christian, uh an Orthodox Christian would would say that The foundation of what they hold to be important and true and vital for their salvation is to be found in the Bible, and they're going to uh uh what what a Christian would call the Word of God and they're gonna build their foundation upon Uh they're gonna build their house upon that foundation. Um what John was talking about before, Jonathan Sweitzer was saying before about the importance of orthodoxy Uh when the Christian tradition has gotten away from that foundation it finds itself mired in all sorts of troubles. And the same thing with the Jewish. And the same thing with the same thing with the Jewish. Um the Jewish Foundation it seems would be the Bible, but it's not maybe in at least in modern day, uh not entirely just the Bible. I'm not sure. I'm trying to figure out Okay, here's I finally have a question now. I've I've I've wrestled through all these thoughts in my head and I've said them out loud so now they're off my chest. So now here's here's a question From a Jewish perspective, it's offensive to be evangelized by a Christian. You know, I have my religion, leave me alone. Um you have your religion, I have mine. But part of the Christian religion is that they should be evangelizing. So what you're say so you want so the Jews want to accept the part of Christianity is not offensive to them, but the part that is offensive uh they have a problem with. And they have a problem with that based on something What is that something? Where does that come from? What makes evangelism offensive? What makes it intolerable and wrong what makes it an evidence of being intolerable and what makes it wrong from a Jewish perspective? Yeah. Uh I think I would put it like this, it's like the invasion of privacy in a way. Invasion of one's rights. And there is a little conflict. I suppose between American ideals and evangelical Christians. You know, and I'm not criticizing the evangelical Christian Christianity, that you know, that's your belief, that's how you brought up. But there's a little conflict You see in Americans the constitution and our beliefs is that every man and woman is free to practice their own religion. And if you try to start convincing them not to It is somewhat breaking down their freedom. No not not to the same extent as banning them, but it breaks down the freedom. It takes away from the freedom. Can I speak to that? Here's Hitler. All right, uh say somebody here in the United States uh has a religion and it's their own religion. They're not even telling anybody else that they're not even trying to convince anybody else to follow it, but their religion is as Hitler's religion uh profoundly anti-Jewish. And he happens to get elected here in the United States and his religion is is defining his his approach to things. As a Christian I have a responsibility before God to stand up, to look him in the eye, to speak prophetically into his life and say, you are not following the principles of God. I have a responsibility to do that to Bill Clinton, to George Bush, to to any politician, to to the National Education Association, that when they move away from the purposes of God That they are destroying themselves and other people. It's it's a prophetic responsibility. It's part of what we evangelical Christians believe is a part of the Great Commission. The truth is being violated by somebody like Hitler, by all these other guys. But if we build a mentality in society that says we can't force anybody else We can't pressure anybody else, then we create two things. We create wimps so that when a Hitler comes along and pushes himself on everybody else, we're not strong enough to stand. Because we're too wimpy to have the the the hefty debate with one another, to look each other in the eye and say, You're wrong. And this is why you're wrong and you need to change. You know, that kind of healthy debate that that that says, yes, w I'm going to test what I believe, and I'm going to test it against you, and I'm going to test it against the next guy. And when we Allow that to be watered down in society. We are creating what I call an acquired immunodeficiency spiritual syndrome where we are no longer capable of of identifying evil when we see it. And so when I look at what you believe about Judaism and I say there's an evil part to it And when I talk to you about it, and on on the air I talk to you about it so that everybody can hear it, I am challenging you to not have a spiritual aids. And you're doing the same thing with me. We're challenging one another. And and if we if we can't have that kind of an environment, which I believe evangelism is part of the reason, part of the Judeo Christian value that has created such a rip vigorous society in the West that has created the strength where we can stand and talk to people and say, no, this is the best way to go. And in a business I do that. This is the best way to go and we do it and then we see if I was right or not. And and I'm not afraid to admit admit that I was wrong if I'm proved wrong, if the truth proves to be the case. But if we if we allow this tolerance mentality, I prophesy to you that it will create another Hitler type environment. It happened with apartheid. It happened uh I I my my sense is that it's happening in France. They don't know what to do with the Islamic people coming in. They don't know how to call it evil when they see it And I and I'm concerned on your behalf, I really am. Well, okay, that's very challenging, isn't it? Yeah, too. Th there's a difference. There's a difference. One difference. There is a reason so people are behaving evilly and people are behaving rightly. Yes. And we all know that you get someone like Hitler or like fundamentalist anyone whoever the Isla is li uh Islamist or whatever fundamentalist Christian at all. I don't know who who you're referring to but anyway. He's not a fundamental Christian He wasn't a fundamentalist Christian. He was just he had no religion anyway he was he was he was a humanist. It was evil. You stand up for religion which is evil. Yes, unfortunately religion can bring a lot of good and can give bring a lot of bad. The fundamentalist Islamists who blew up the World Trade Center did it in the name of religion, but they used it. It wasn't the religion which was bad. It was the way they used it which was bad. And we have to stand up against evil religion, the religion to spring people to behave badly. But to know the difference and not stand up against religions, which bring the best out of people. And I like to counter with you with respect That if you go for go if you go pressurizing people to convince people who are are basically good people, they have their own religion, you can lead first to the kind of religious wars, the terrible ugly religious wars which happened in the like in the sixteen hundred Or perhaps in the history of time, the persecution against Jewish people by the dominant Christian faith, which at that time were the sort of the right thing to force conversions and to be rude and nasty to them and make their life a big misery. And we know we look back today, it was the wrong thing to do. The Pope e himself sa says so. So we have to know the difference. We have to know the difference between converting con converting and and and speaking for and standing up against the wrongs to the religion or people behave wrongly to those who behave to let live those who behave in right and I'm entitled to Nowhere in the Bible does it ever say that forced conversion is okay. So when Christianity was at its historical worst against the Jews or anybody, it was when not when we were following the Great Commission and attempting to persuade people to follow Christ, but it was precisely when we were going beyond the clear teaching of Scripture and trying to force people to follow Christ. And that's what I'm saying all over again is that that Christianity when we're most fundamental We are most loving and kind and we build the best possible societies. What a great give and take. It's going to have to end there with this one exception. I'm going to give Peter Kemeney the last word because he's been such a good Young soldier sitting there. I appreciate that. I g I guess, um, David, I can understand um your uh concern that about Christians evangelizing. A lot of times Christians um are quite forceful in their zeal And I don't think it's out of malice, it's out of love, but not always wisdom. And I think a Christian uh when I try to engage people, uh is I I I call it permission evangelism. You know, if somebody's interested in talking, I talk I t I'm I wanna talk to them. Um I don't think you can force somebody to believe and I think most Christians are are well meaning And they're not forceful, but I think there are some who are quite obnoxious and they give evangelical Christians a bad name. Appreciate that. That's a very understanding. Well, um this was this really was a a great half hour. I hope that all three of you will come back on again at some point in the near future. Uh Rabbi David uh Wiesenberg, a special thank you to you. You kinda got ganged up on and I appreciate uh your willingness to to Does it join in to pray? Well I'm gonna buttonhole you in the parking lot. Anyway, uh Rabbi David Wiesenberg from Best Your Alone Cong Congregation, uh Peter Kemeney from Good News Presbyterian Jonathan Schweitzer from Crossroads Valley Chapel, and I'm Troy Skinner from uh News Radio 930 WFMD. We all thank you and may God bless you