Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, we're preaching with impact is a lot of plowing pavement as people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Um who else? BMC Insurance, proud supporters of of uh New Life Christian Schools. And uh Cruise Holidays sending Bob Miller on a big cruise getaway to the Bahamas. You know, I heard they really want to send you and I as well. you know, but that we've just been playing hard to get. So well the difference though is they offered Bob Miller a round trip ticket and you and I just a one way ticket. That's right. So there's the there's the problem there But we get so many hits on our webpage that we should be also offered some kind of a uh opportunity to go. Anyway, that's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, he's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by Rabbi Daniel Sikowitz, who is with Congregation Kolami Frederick. I don't know why I said that. I don't know what that was. That was some Jewish novelist of your inner Yiddish. Yeah, that was something. I had to get a little hakama hakama in there somewhere. I don't know. There it is. Very nice. By the way, visit us online, wfmd. com, go to keywordface. It takes you right to the Faith Debate page. There you'll find the Faith Debate blog My blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Whatever you send to me pretty much makes it up there. Nine blog posts to updates uh a day Monday through Friday. So forty-five updates per week. How can I do that? How can I exercise such volume? It's amazing. Because you guys keep sending me stuff to post. Truly amazing. If I had to generate that myself, you'd be lucky to get one post out of me a month. So Anyway, I encourage you to go on there. A lot of the stuff it's sent is religious, a lot of it is political, some of it's jokes, sometimes it's uh a commentary about a TV show or a movie. It's it's it's a potpourri I'd say on average maybe two-thirds of the content is religious in nature, but a surprisingly high percentage has nothing at all to do with faith So I don't know why you're sending it to me, but I will gladly put it up there anyway. So sure enough, is there like people that come and respond to the various uh posts that you put up there? Some people do. Yeah. Yeah. I'll have people that uh I don't know that we get a whole lot of comments on the page. Like if you and I got in there and started having a conversation, do you think there are people that like have to follow those things The usually the responses I get are people will will email me in response to something on the page, as opposed to hitting the comments part of the page. And so then if if I can I'll take that comment and I'll post that on the website, put it where people can see it. Yeah. Then maybe they'll stop and sending it in. That's true they might. So what are we talking about today That is a good question. We're talking about television commentaries, political things, and funny jokes. No, we're talking about faith matters. That's right. And I gotta tell you, speaking of funny things, it's embarrassing but a funny thing. We do. I would have said it's such a pleasure to have the rabbi on the show for the very first time, except he reminded me he's been on before. Yeah, one time way back when, at the very beginning. At the very beginning, and none of us remember what we talked about, so must have been a good show. But I remember that you had to get up and go and I was and I was disappointed. I wanted the conversation to continue But I remember that you had to go and I was like, Man, we really missed that one 'cause you were in the midst of doing some uh education at the time. Apparently up in New York City. Like four days a week. And so you were in and out on a regular basis and we just never quite got back around to having you back on the show. Exactly. Probably I was here during uh in inter what is it called intercession or something like that between semesters or Something, I don't remember. Um, but yeah, I was up I spent four years t commuting to New York. My poor wife. Four years commuting to to New York. Either the show was so dramatic and compelling and shocking that we blocked it from our memories because we just can't go there anymore. Or it was just a dud, which you know happens about every third show. It does But not any of these shows. So all right, uh uh Rabbi you were calling me. Yes. Uh that would be in the strain of Judaism known as reform Judaism, right? That's correct. Yep. Um what does that mean? Yeah, I think you gotta start there. All right, let's lay out the uh the the ground Uh you know, what does it look like in the uh in the Jewish world in that sense? Well if you let me do a little bit of history here, that would be helpful because uh you sort of have to understand why reform came to be Just by understanding where Jew Jews have been for two thousand years or more. Okay. Now history is more fun, like you act out with characters and stuff. So imagine finger puppets. Okay. Oh man, you had me kill the finger pump and Daniel's gonna share with the history. Dan, very nice. He's he's gonna share with us, but uh you gotta imagine your own finger puppet All right. So if we go back about two thousand years to the time when uh Rome destroyed Jerusalem and the temple in the eighty seven way back. Seventy CE, seventy of the common. Okay, yeah. Yeah, eight well I say CE. Right. Okay, yes. Um As all the smart people do these days. Yes, they did. If the academics of the world are using CE. Well And also the other than Christian people, because A D means you're of our Lord and Jesus is not my Lord. So C E makes sense to me. Sure. And so this was the point at which they were dispersed. They were dispersed, and Jews moved all the way t in some in the Mediterranean basin, some up to eventually some up to Europe. Um but Jews were never allowed to be full citizens of any country from that time, seventy CE, until the United States was formed. Wait, are you serious? No country ever let them be citizens until the United States. That's correct. That is huge. Do you realize that that is of the last two thousand years only Is that one, ten percent? No, five percent of that time have Jews been allowed to be citizens. of a country on the earth. Yep. And it's not a case of the Jews not wanting to be citizens. No, no, we were not allowed to be. Wow. We were not allowed to in in places in Europe, we weren't allowed to never too old to learn something new. Uh i i in Europe we weren't allowed to own land, we couldn't uh be in many of the professions that we had possibly trained for. In Muslim countries we had to pay Jimmy taxes. Yeah we ha tax just to be allowed to live there. And was that more difficult than Christian countries or is it less difficult? It it really depended upon who was ruling the See, this is something as well, Troy, that I think is important for Christians to understand that the Christian world was no better to the Jews than than a demitax. being applied to them. That that there was you know, sometimes it was better to be in a Muslim country than it was to be in a Christian country. And so when in today's society there's a significant portion of the population that is inclined to to embrace Islam here in the United States, uh, it's I think oftentimes there's a remembrance of the fact that For Jews often that was better than Christians being in charge. And I've been trying to get my head around all that because that's hard for me to get my head around. I feel like I'm a nice you know, patriotic, freedom loving Christian and when I say I want the religious right to rise up, you know, and establish uh morality in the nation I think there's a nervous twitch because for ninety-five percent of the last two thousand years, Islam was almost as good as Christianity For the Jewish people. I would say that Islam was as was as good or perhaps better than Christendom. Thank you. But not true biblical authentic Christianity. And that's the problem. That's an important point. When a Muslim is properly following the teachings of Islam, they're going to impose a demitax and they're going to refute refer to the people of the book. in negative ways because that's what their doctrine and their teachings are. When Christians behave in a way that is pejorative and mean spirited towards Jews, they're not following the teachers of the the teachings of Christ. So that would be the difference. Those are Christians not doing what they're supposed to do. uh and Jesus and Paul for that matter all the way through to Revelation in the New Testament spoke against those Jews that rejected Christ in a pretty pejorative manner. Right? And so for us to argue that Uh let's put it this way, at best a Christian society would fight for the rights of Jews while saying at the same time, yeah, but you know, maybe they deserve what they're getting. But not according to the Bible. So John and Paul and but here again the last five percent of that two thousand years that people have even got to be. I'm not uh I'm with you. Yeah, I'm I'm not saying that. What I am saying is that when it gets it wr gets it wrong it's because it's out of alignment with its foundation It's amazing how much time you and I have spent already arguing over the little bit that Dan of history that Dan has brought to us. Okay. Well there you go. Back to back to uh let's be disciplined. Let's try to walk through all right. Put the finger puppets back on. All right Then in Europe, finally in eighteen oh five in France. We jumped from eight from C E Seventies, uh eighteen oh five. Now back to Europe. France was very much affected by our revolution. And Napoleon comes to power and he ki Get seventy of Jew seventy Jewish elders together. Seventy should be a number that sounds familiar. The Sanhedrin way back when you're not going to be able to do that. And asks the Jewish people, if you w can you be full citizens of this country? Will you fight in my army? Will you pay taxes? All these other things? Will you follow our civil laws? Wow. The Jews decided, yes we can And so we became full citizens of the U. So there is a discussion there about what that would mean. Yep. Yep. But that didn't happen in the US. No, it happened in France. In the United States we just were allowed to do that. It just happened Without any discussion. It just was. It just was. But it w it wasn't true for Great Britain as a whole. No, the Great Britain came later also. Wow, it's uh that's a I'd love to find some sort of you know uh booking outline scholarly yeah work outline. I'll bring one for you. Oh yeah. 'Cause I've I've never heard that before. Have you? Um I'm uh because of some of these books, you know, Constantine's Sword written by uh uh I know a Catholic gentleman. Yes. I just finished that book and there's there's a couple other that I've been paying close attention to because I've tended to be a you know knee-jerk conservative on these issues and I'm realizing that even though maybe my perspective isn't isn't wrong, that there's a bigger perspective that explains why there's such a resistance to some of the things that I feel like I bring to the table and that I think are innocent and and, you know, shouldn't be so uh scary or so, you know, rejected and I'm realizing it's because it's only been a short period of time. You know, and then not and then the Holy Roman Empire was still doing its thing up until the late eighteen hundreds. And World War II had the Holocaust where half of Europe turned its back on the Jewish people. And so, I mean, it's really There's no proof over the last two thousand years that are that the Christian world and or the Western world is really able yet to maintain the the uh uh a freedom environment for the Jewish people. It's just too short a period of time to know that that's really the case yet. Yep. That's crazy. Yeah. And so when I hear people say it couldn't happen here, I like to believe it would never happen here. I love this country and this is one of the greatest plays for Jews ever in the history of the world. But um just you just You can't let your guard down. No, no, not yet. Not yet. Okay. So as Napole now, the reason why Napoleon wanted to do this, he wasn't altruistic. He wanted us in his army and he wanted our money to finance his so we but as he moved through Europe, he freed people in every country. He freed the Jews in each country. So he got into Germany, he freed the Jews. There were a lot of Jews in Germany, a lot of Jews. My perspective was was like, oh great, the French Revolution led to another empire builder, whereas the American Revolution, we were the good guys, we didn't lead to empire building, you know, we maintained our freedoms and yet Napoleon was setting people free and that changes my perspective yet again on the French Revolution and its fruit, you know, coming out of it. Napoleon setting people free. I mean how do you get asked for it? What better way to to gain their allegiance and not have to worry about covering your back is set them free and be like, you know It it's kinda like uh uh Pax Romana, right? The Romans would make life better for the nations they conquered for the average person. So the average person was like, Oh, we love the romance same thing. Babylon. I understand he wasn't a wonderful guy, but he did do a few good things, at least at least in terms of Judaism. So So Germany now becomes this free place for Jews and in fact we have now we are now allowed Jews are now allowed to go to university, go to public schools. Um in Germany. In Germany. So that didn't start in France, that started in Germany, but the things that started in France seemed to lead to Exactly. Exactly. And so J the Jews got together and and you know, uh as we were talking a little bit before, um the more Orthodox Jews even today will wear things that separate them. out. They wear beards, they'll have certain side curls. Uh they wear a yarmulka like I'm wearing right now, they and other things. Uh sure. Dressing in black. Right, right. So the Jews of Germany got together and said, you know what, we want to fit in. Okay. We wanna both deal with modernity and go to university and go to public school but we also want to keep our Jewish heritage. So we have to figure out how do we do this. And from there sprung Reform Judaism. Which of course is where the Reformation began with Luther and so for reform Judah Judaism to to find the same soil receptive to them embracing modernity Is very interesting. I don't even know where to go with that, but okay. Well, Germany was one of the up until World War Two or between the wars or around there, Germany was the leading int intellectual uh cultural place in Europe. I mean so people were thinking of new ideas. Up until then there was one uh predominant Jewish community community? There were two actually. You had in in Christendom in the Christian world you had what was called Ashkenazic Judaism. Yeah And then under the Muslims you had what was called Sephardic Jews. Ah yes. Now they were they're similar in many words. Say those again. Ashkenazic and Sephardic. Ashkenazic. In in Hebrew the word Sephardie uh means Spain. So it's sort of Cordoba, yeah. Right. The Latin, you know, countries. In fact, wasn't it um who's the great Jewish uh intellectual of the Cordoba years that Maimonides that fled to Egypt, but he would have been Sephardic then. Yes. He was definitely supportive. Yes. Very interesting. Yeah. Yeah. Let me jump in real quick. I knew that. Jonathan Sleitzer is proud of himself if he knew something. He's senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh I'm Froy Skinner, this is the Frederick of Faith Debate, and we are joined this week by Rabbi Daniel Sikkowicz with Congregation Colemy of Frederick. And so we now got to the point where uh Reformed Judaism is established. Is that is that something that would happen in a formal way? Uh it evolved over about thirty years in in Germany. And then um in the eighteen forties in Germany there were several economic problems plus uh uh famine's not the right word, but there was a shortage of foods and things like that. And that's when you see a lot of Germans move to the United States, both Jews and non-Jews. Though it's interesting. In the mid mid eighteen hundreds. In the mid eighteen hundreds, that's right. Which is when a lot of by the way, my heritage is is um the German part of my family came over in the mid eighteen hundreds. Right. Same reason. And so mine came over in the mid-seventeen hundreds fleeing Louis the Fourteenth attempt to impose uh in contra contradiction to the uh piece of Westphalia reimpose Catholicism on the German nobility, and so there's some thirty thousand that came over in a ten year period of time from seventeen forty five to seventeen fifty-five And that's when my group of Germans so so we wouldn't have been there during the great uh Renaissance or uh modernization of Reform Judaism. Yeah. But then we the Reformed Jews came the leaders of Reformed Judaism came over to this country. Yep. And so reform really is about the United States. I mean it really grew up here. It's matured here. Um a rabbi by the name of Isaac Mayer Wise came to this country from Germany. Uh he eventually made it to Cincinnati where he set up um the Union for American Hebrew Congregations. He set up uh the yeshiva the um seminary that I went to, although we now have an uh a seminary in New York also, um and he set up the Central Conference of American Rabbis, which is what I belong to. So Reform Judaism uh attempted to modernize and what what were like the theological implications of like that? Like how did that play out? It's not just address shaving the beard, but it's much more than that. Right. Can we hold the phone on that just for a second? Uh as well, because I think we'll get into some compare and contrast with what other uh communities of of Jews would believe. So we have Reform Judaism, there's uh Orthodox, you mentioned the Orthodox. Yes. Uh there's conservative. Correct. Are those the three big ones? Yeah, there's a smaller one called Reconstructionist, um but they're quite smaller. I mean reform is by far the biggest Conservative is next, orthodoxy, both modern orthodoxy, and then what we might call the ultra-orthodox, and then you have reconstructionists, which is a small group. And and so where does reconstructionist fit? Like I I understand the the Orthodox and Ultra Orthodox, they really, you know, they think they're following the Old Testament law in all of its detail. The conservatives are trying to follow the Old Testament law, but they've given themselves a little bit of uh room to breathe there, but the reform guys have kind of moved more significantly away from original teachings. You know, th th it's interesting because in the reform world it was set up not to move away necessarily, but that each individual had to learn what all of our traditions were, what our commandments are, and to figure out not will they fit into my life, but how do I reinterpret them so they do fit into my life. How do I reinterpret them? Right. So for instance I'll give you an e an easy example. Um you come to my house and you'll see that my wife and I we keep kosher. Okay. Um which following the the Jewish laws that we find in the in the Hebrew Bible. Now We follow Kashroot these laws because w if because of tradition, because we like to f know that Jews have been doing this for two thousand years. Not necessarily that we're commanded to do it in the Bible, but that we want to do this. And it speaks to us Um and that we're mindful of the food that we're putting in our mouth. We're not just shovel which I love to do, just shovel food into my mouth, but I'm mindful of this food. Even Ecclesiastes says that everything else is meaningless, but eat, drink, and be merry. And so what the re uh following the third, the the reconstructionist who fits where in that spectrum. Okay, so the reconstructionist now they're they will follow many of the rules. However, their biggest difference between all the other strands of Judaism is that they don't believe in an external God. They believe that God resides in each of us. The spark of the divine is in each of us. Almost Kabbalah. I wouldn't say it's Kabbalah but ye but yeah, much more of this sort of more new age. New a yeah. Something along those, you know, does a unit. Kabbalah is some is mysticism. It's a completely different kind of out there. Didn't that arise kind of in Cordova, Spain, around the time of Maima Maimonides? It actually arose in several places. Um it it there was some in Spain, although it's at that time frame. It was generally at that time frame, but it really took root in SPAT, which is in Northern Israel in the fifteen hundreds. Interesting. And uh but the roots of it were kind of in the Cordova Spain time frame. Okay, I'm with you. Okay. Okay, so All right, so that's where reconstructionism fits, that's where everything else fits. How are we doing time wise here? So w when did the when do the conservatives arrive on the scene? Okay. So the reformers uh decided the early reformers decided that they were not going to follow tradition. No, actually. No, that they're going to reinterpret traditionally. Each individual. Each individual. Okay. Conservative, on the other hand, didn't necessarily want to leave it twice quite so much. So there are two two reasons why conservative Judaism was founded. One was because of that reason, that they didn't want quite so much individual choice. They wanted a little more we're telling you this is the choice. Right. The elders sitting in the gate. Correct. Okay. The other reason is that when the German Jews came over first in the eighteen fifties, followed thirty years later by Polish Jews and Eastern European Jews. They saw themselves as superior to the Polish and uh Eastern European Jesus. So what they did was we already had our seminar. I was gonna say there's a really there's opening a door. So they established the Jewish the German Jews, the Reformed Ger German Jews established the Jewish Theological Seminary to train rabbis for this new group of Jews who were coming over. So they wanted them to uh become American. They're just being proactive and they're moving it forward. Right. But they didn't want them to necessarily come to their synagogue. They wanted them to have a synagogue, but not necessarily theirs. So that's sort of how uh conservative Judaism. Conservative Judaism kind of uh began as a reaction to Reform. Reform Judaism to say we can be modern but we don't want to be so modern. We want to maintain some measure of orthodoxy. Correct. And it does and that's happening in the late eighteen hundreds, early nineteen hundreds, that's kinda when that's going on. That's right. Gotcha. Well that's about the time when Jews first came here to uh Frederick in eighteen twenty six, Maryland extended the religious freedom from all Christian denominations to include Jews in the Act of Toleration, 1826, and in 1840 The Frederick Hebrew Congregation was founded in eighteen years after that. Rabbi Sussman Geberker, did I say that right? Uh sounds right, I have to. Arrived in Frederick To begin Gobrecher. Gobrecher. Good German name. Yes. And so sure enough, that was about the same time that the Reformed Judaism uh was kicking into gear and the conservatives as well. So Very interesting. Just trump kind of putting it together in my mind. So we've we've kind of completed a timeline, I guess. At least got up into very nice into the It's a good thing he jumped the hit. Sixteen thousand years. Next week we'll start fighting. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church. I think I said chapel at the beginning of the show. So they're not chapel anymore, they're church. That's right. Uh and Rabbi Daniel uh Sikkowitz with Sikkowitz or Sykowitz. Psychowitz, I apologize. Um got his church name wrong, got your last name wrong. I'm on a roll. Uh Congregation Colony of Frederick Check us out online, WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Um I want to thank our sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How Can We Make You Smile, BMC Insurance. There we go. The music was like Pushing the slider up and I wasn't hearing any music. There it is. Voila. Voila. Good tea shop in downtown Frederick, by the way. Uh BMC Insurance, I think I might have mentioned, and Cruise Holidays of Frederick. What am I reading? Ministries of Mercy by Timothy Keller. Tim Keller's a great pastor up in New York City. If you're not familiar with uh Tim's writings and Tim's preaching, highly recommend. Until next week. God bless.