Good morning and thank you for listening to us. This is Sunday morning on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com and I'm the host of the Faith Debate. Joined this week as is becoming pretty normal now, David Forcy, he's the pastor of uh the Wackamo Church. I call it that because they meet at different locations depending on the house church and Whichever family wants to to host, they take turns and it's the Rotisserie League. Is that better than the Whackamwell Church? The Rotisserie League Church? I don't know. You had some highfalutin name for it at one point. It was something like um The the Greater Potomac uh I don't know, Yada Yada. Yeah. Yeah, no, that's that's a good one. Yeah, that's it. So good I remembered it really well And Daniel Razby is here. He's uh here representing the Church of East at Imran's house. He's one of the pastors there, and he's also they have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries online at Concordby Love. org. So today, here's what we're talking about. In light of what's been happening in the Middle East. I don't know. I don't know. Anyway, something's going on in Middle East. And uh there's also been some chatter. By the time this airs there may not be in Middle East. This mu might not be a planet, right? 'Cause there's there's been more chatter about World War Three since like the nineteen seventies and eighties. And rapture and all that. Everybody thing. You know, because uh there's the Ukraine thing and this might not even air, Daniel. I don't I don't subscribe to that technology, but uh Maybe God will bless us with being able to listen to this in glory. Wow. Something as imperfect as this show. I think that'll be allowed. So anyway, there is a lot of buzz about, you know eventual World War Three or ongoing hot skirmishes and wars taking place right now. And um speaking of the Middle East, right, they're There were uh civilian casualties back on October 7th of 2023 when the whole thing kind of lit really hot again. Uh and then in response, Israel retaliated and in the retaliations over the past, you know, months, uh there have been more civilian casualties and it raises that age old question, is it okay for us to be By that you mean there was more than one civilian casualty on both sides. But uh Um many people I I think uh would uh many of our listeners would probably rightly point out that there didn't does not seem to be any sort of comparison at all between the level of destruction and and and rampage that's just going on from one side to the other. Yeah, and and I'm not getting into the minutiae of it 'cause I I'm I'm not framing this as a You know, uh Palestine. By the way, this is a quick aside, you guys if you disagree, I'll write it down. We'll be a separate show topic for another day. But this line that people who think an awful lot like me and a lot of issues say, you know, Palestine's not even a real place. It is. Stop it. It makes us sound silly when we say it's not a real place Just because it is Israel. Just because there wasn't a Palestine uh five thousand years ago, there wasn't a United States of America 5,000 years ago. United States of America is a real place Palestine's a real place. It Israel was renamed Palestine by the Romans as an insult to Jews. That's where the name came from So it is Israel. It always has been. But they So I would I would fight you on that, yeah. Okay, well we'll I'll we'll m I'll make a note. Palestine, 'cause I All it takes is for you to say don't fight me on this for me to fight you on it. So Almstein is a real play. So anyway So, um it's similar to the talking about Israel and stuff, it's similar to the discussions I had with people a number of years ago when um there was all the talk about whether or not the United States embassy should be uh should be moved or not in Israel. And I supported that move, not for political reasons, but for logic reasons. It'd be like somebody saying, I know the United States considers Washington, DC to be their their uh the their nation nation's capital But we don't like the United States, so we're gonna put our embassy in New York City. New York or Houston or something. And pretend that New York or Houston are the capital of the country when clearly Washington, D. C. is the Capitol. So let's just have our embassy where the Capitol is. Let's not pretend it's someplace else. Let's just put it where it is. You know? Let's not get worried about what the political ramifications are By the way, all those supposed political ramifications never happened. Never materialized. Well that was figured matter. That was the whole thing about when Nixon went to China, right? The this the it was a famous phrase, right? Nixon went to China 'Cause he was the first president to acknowledge that mainland China was now being ruled by another country or another government, but still was to be called China We had been pretending for thirty years or whatever that um you know the original Chinese government which had relocated to Taiwan was the real China and these other ones were just an invading force that would someday be destroyed So we would always have our embassies in Taiwan and we would call them China. And then Nixon changed that. He called Beijing China and Taiwan is Taiwan. Of course China for their part says Taiwan is still part of China also. And by the time this airs maybe they maybe it will be. Um but I I view that a little bit differently 'cause countries b boundaries change all the time and but I view I view it view it very differently than I would the Israel thing because Israel is a country that the boundaries were determined by God and announced as such and so I have much stronger feelings about um the specific boundary lines of Israel. Well I believe in a sovereign God, so I believe every nation that's ever existed has this boundaries determined by God. Well but also then he told that he bothered to tell us what they were. Um Anyway, we're we're way off track what we wanted to be talking about. We're six minutes into the show y'all. Right. So basically the question of just war theory, is it is is there ever s a would it be better to use Ukraine and Russia for uh for our example? Sure. Okay. Yeah, okay. But generally speaking, uh do any of the three of us think there's ever a time when war is Completely unjustified. Right. Completely unjustified. We could have somebody in this room. I I ha I'm not sure who off the top of my head, but I'm sure there's somebody locally could come in and make an argument that war is never justified. Particularly some people coming from like a a brethren kind of a background, very pacifist kind of idea. They might say war is never justified. But no, or a friend's friend friend's background Quaker is what you say. Do they say that about uh about countries? Or just about That Christians shouldn't be involved. Well I think to be consistent I think ana the an Anabaptist for example would to be consistent would say that they are not in favor of any war but they can't really control what the c government does. It's just we're not gonna fight. Right. Okay. Um So let me ask the question this way. Is it always wrong when countries engage in war? No. A w a war of offense or a war of defense or uh those terms can be kinda kinda blurry too. Because a lot of a lot of the the current w uh wars that are going on, both sides would consider them to be acting themselves to be acting in self defense. Right. I mean we mentioned Israel and and uh and Hamas If you ask the leader of Hamas who's now dead, if you ask but if you asked him uh before he was dead, you know, uh uh you were fighting offense or defense, he would say defense. I would say he's wrong and crazy for saying that, but he would say th say that and obviously Nanyahoo would also say he's fighting a defensive war. So just because the countries believe or say that it's defensive doesn't make it defensive or offensive. So I don't know, but it c ha we gotta define those terms, defense and offense, I guess, but I would say there's plenty of times when war would be justified, not only justified The reason I know that is because God has commanded war to be waged in many examples throughout the Bible. So if it never is justified, then God is immoral and that we know is not true. Yes. No. Is it only justified if God commands it? No. Okay. Is it only justified if it if it involves uh ancient Israel? Many people would say that, right? That's that would be the Anabaptist argument or or I don't know as much about the brethren, but I have a lot more Anabaptist friends that they would say. That God would never give such an order again, he only did it for Israel taking over Canaan and he would never give such an order again, therefore we don't have to We can just assume that all future wars are unjustified. Well, let's say we'll we'll use Ukraine and Russia because it's going to be less uh theologically charged than Israel. And it and and and and it It's a little uh not a whole lot, but a little cleaner to try to have that conversation. Okay. So for the sake of argument You know, I'm gonna put it out either way. Let's say that Russia is was justified in feeling threatened by maneuvers of of NATO and and uh uh and them being threatened by uh by military presence in Ukraine and their historical claim on on that land being justified and culturally there's some connections and stuff. Let's say that the Russians were right. Or if you don't like that one Let's say the Ukrainians are right and they've been attacked by Russia and they need to defend both of them could make an argument that their fisticuffs are justified. Right. So ha are they? One or the other? Are one or the other or both of them justified? Or are both of them completely there's no there's no justification for anybody? I think it's possible that but neither is the answer. Uh Um, in a specific conflict and and also both. In a sp in a sp in a specific conflict I think there's uh it It's sometimes gonna be hard to make that and every case is gonna be different. You know, we get get the b different people in the room we all debate whether one specific conflict is justified. If you want to give like an overarching principle on when are conflicts justified, that might be uh be uh better. I'm not I'm not sure. Um this kind of plays in this kinda plays into um you know as a Christian the practical implication 'cause I mean n none of us well in this room in any way and probably most of our listeners, d none of us have like a button to press to launch a nuclear missile out of country. So we're not we're we're not uh the ones that are starting conflicts. But we what we Oh that the need to start a Oh. Oh yeah, you definitely do. I would also bet that if he didn't have a nuclear weapon in his backyard he wouldn't tell you. That's true. I have words I have fit. Yes, yes. So but why what I'm trying to say is can we bring it back to a little m more practical? What should a Christian do about conflicts? that already are existing or going to be existing. I I I mean we have a a say in in that we can vote and if we get to positions of government we could vote to to have confidence and and so on, but For the broader listener that's joining in, they're gonna the the practical application is what do Christians do? If you get drafted, what should you do? Um and who d who should your allegiance be? What you know, one of the things the I I've heard some people make s a reasonable case that the Revolutionary War was not justified biblically speaking because it was an uprising against the what what people would consider the lawful government of the colonies at the time. If you subscribe to that, I'm not I'm not sure that I do, but if if you subscribe to that theory, then at what point do you now after the war, do you no longer have allegiance to Britain? Do you still pay taxes to Britain in seventeen ninety two or seventeen ninety nine or eighteen ten or eighteen twelve when the British came back and burned down the White House? Will you say, Yes, great, my team's back in charge now for a week and then pay their taxes there and then you go back? When do you decide? You know, if if China invades the US, at what point does it stop being the US and start being China and now as Christians you have to give allegiance to the lawful authority that's that's in place at that time. I don't know. Well and and how do you continue to def defend your home and property and and your government and you get drafted and you know w what those are I think a little more practical Well, you said you said you brought up home and property, right? And you you're you're actually bringing it down to, you know, the level of uh you know, personal. Um, you know, what is my personal responsibility? over, you know, what's what's what is my domain or or responsibility. And that's that's sort of what I was trying to do by saying, you know, like I have words. I have fists. Right. And so the first question I I ask is like, is it is there ever a time when I need to use those? Right. Or to resolve a conflict. You know. And and I would say yes and I I think there are a lot of people who are true pacifists who would say no. Yes. But uh I'm pretty sure You know, even if they're not using physical force for conflicts that pacifists will um will participate in word conflicts. Yeah. So even i even if they're even if they're they're very angry word conflict. Polite and non vulgar and But it's there still is a a s a struggle. But there does rise to a very different level when there's killing involved. um blows being exchanged or harsh words, if somebody dies, now all of a sudden you have to decide was this a justified death? 'Cause if not, well then that's murder. My uh my my you know my knuckles, you know, if I you know I if I use them, right, they can sustain a lot of damage and pain and destruction. Mm-hmm. Right. And and I'm You know, as the one who has authority over my body, right? I Your body your choice. Is that what you're saying? Uh well, I'm I'm saying I'm responsible for what my body does. Okay. Whether it's good or bad. Right. Um and so, uh So, you know, and and in the same way I think so like you you sort of scale up on that, like um you know, like they're uh so so death in the sense of right the the destruction of something, the ending of uh something that's alive. If somebody actually dies though, if you kill somebody, then that is a very uh different legal standard that's now going to be invoked. Well uh yes if it if we're talking about, you know, uh a person on a person, but but then when you go to I I'm thinking about like also like a a a nation is a body of people. Okay. And so in that sense, like there is Uh like those who are responsible for that body have to make decisions for that body, uh, for the good of that body, or is what they're supposed to do. and they'll be accountable for those decisions whether in this life or the next. Right. Um so that's that's sort of where I'm going with. So w there are wars of conquest and expansion and there have been throughout history plenty of times where the leaders of the country would make no pr pr they would have no pretense that it was in response to aggression by their neighbor they said, Well, I just want more territory and I'm gonna take it 'Cause I'm stronger than you. And that has happened. It most of the conflicts that are in the world today, th those are not the excuses being given by by the leaders. But there have been many in the past where they said, Well, we just want to take over the next country because I'm stronger and I think you might be able to make it w which would be like me like going to my neighbor and saying, Hey, I'm stronger than you, so I'm gonna take all your stuff. Right. And so, you know, that you could I think make a decent case, uh, biblically speaking that that type of war would not be justified. And I think because Well you can make a much easier case about that. That's probably why most of the quote unquote civilized countries these days don't attempt to say that's why they're doing things even if the real reason is oil or land or um you know sex trafficking or whatever else. Um that we always have, you know, some kind of excuse, well, we're saving these people or we're protecting from this other thing or whatever. Yeah, that's the voice of Daniel Razvy. I also heard uh David Forsey I'm Troy Speaker of the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD and we are more than halfway through and it occurs to me We haven't made our whole lot of progress in the conversation, which I think is a point in the favor of the pacifists, because they have a very simple, consistent, they'd be done having this conversation, right? It's wrong. Period, full stop, done. Right? Don't wage war. Don't steal your neighbor's stuff. Don't use the knuckles on the hands that belong to your body to you know, bludgeon somebody. Don't do those things. Turn the other cheek. You know, love, love, love. It's it's a very simple kind of an argument and I think people might be attracted to just the simplicity. Like I don't have to go through all these uh gray areas and these difficult things to try to figure out. I it's because we haven't made any ground. I mean this has been a discussion for I'm not beating us up for this by the way, this has been a discussion for generations Sure. So we're not going to solve this issue, but just as trying to enter into the conversation, figure it out, so why why isn't it simple? better. Just that you know what? War. Bad. Shooting. No good. Death. Avoid it. We are sinful people and we have an imperfect mind and speak for yourself. A lot of A lot of things really just aren't black and white. Um you know, take line for example. Many Christians would instinctively say, Oh, Lyne's bad. Okay, well then why was Rahab not only uh not punished, but in fact praised by God for her lie? So clearly not all lies are bad. And that's one of the easiest things, you know. Have you ever lied? Okay, you've committed sins. Well, probably if you've lied it was a sin. But there are lies that are not sins. And we know that because the Bible makes it very clear that at least a couple of specific lies were justified and and correct. So that's just for lying. And that's one of the littlest sins you could think of. Oh, it's just a little wh a lie. Well you everything fr from there is just gonna get more and more complicated. There are some things that are that I would say are never okay and and the Bible does make those very clear. There doesn't ever seem to be an exception given against homosexuality, for example, or uh adultery or or whatever. Although certain kinds of fornication are gonna have uh certain remedies that are not death, right? You know, if you have uh you could marry as as a result of it rather than um being killed for it depending on the type and and so on. So Where am I going with this? I I my point is that a lot of things, biblically speaking, a lot of theological things really aren't black and white because the heart matters too. and the intent and the uh and and all that and our relationship with God. And then God's mysteries are not always easy to discover, you know? Just as we've talked about before, just understanding the Trinity is is already a a a monumental task. Um so if if you want a simple answer for everything then I I guess pe it's kinda like saying, Well, I want to I want to understand fully everything and every reason that God does things and God commands things, but if that's what you want then you want a God that's not sovereign, that's not I want a God that's bigger than me I want a God that's big enough that I can't understand him or why he does everything. Because if I can understand it all then he fits in my head and then he's not my creator. I could I'm the creator. Let's talk about some of the things that might make it more injust. Unjust. Not injust. Unjust. Um civilians being killed by indiscriminate bombing of of cities, let's say. Um d would that make it Something that's not just Well I uh I think there's that's uh there's another piece there too, which is uh there's is the Is the conflict itself justified? And then there is is are the m are the methods are the methods justified justified or not? Um yes I I think that's in some ways kind of a kind of a different issue. Um yeah, I I I really didn't know that's the whole idea of proportional response and stuff too. Right, because if I slap you you you might have the right to hit me back, but you probably don't have the right to shoot me. Right? Uh just on a one to one basis. Right. Um But then if I pull out a gun then you can shoot me, even if I haven't shot you yet. There's there's various legal standards is my my point. Yeah. Um and there's so that's the whole proportional response and that's what's being talked about a lot in the Middle East and I think One of the reasons that uh um that causes so much angst in the West is because we think about right and wrong as black and white. Everything you're either guilty or you're innocent. There's no in between Where in the in the East nobody thinks of right and wrong that way. They think of degrees of honor or shame and you're either more honorable or less honorable and something you do affects the entire country and and it reflects on the entire country and but especially you and your family and then your tribe and then and the nation, they don't really think of any particular action as being good or bad. It's only how does it make everything else i how perceived. And so that makes it really difficult when you have nations fighting that come from very different uh right and wrong worldviews Sure. It's really impossible for and that's in fact um I was just talking with my family about this recent uh earlier today Yeah, I know you wanted to get away from Israel for but Israel is unique in that Israel is populated largely by people who were born in Europe and Russia. Um At least the last generation was anyway. Yet they live in the Middle East in uh amongst a whole bunch of people that are much more of an honor same culture and they're uh they are more of a uh black and white type culture, which is I think one of the reasons why they attempt so strongly to warn people, get out of the way, you know, those types of things when they go in and bomb places where nobody else in the Middle East does that. Um But again, ki civil on the on the subject of civilians, any any time that that somebody is dying who's, let's say, innocent, that's always going to be a tragedy So you have two questions though. One is is it is it's i i even though it's sad, is is it ultimately sinful or wrong? That's one question. The other question is were they actually innocent because that's another, you know, uh uh another subject entirely. You know, th y people will say, What uh what happens th there's a famous poem about when they came for the Jews in Germany. I don't remember the well, you know, at first they came for such and such and I wasn't that, so I didn't say anything. So I didn't say anything. And then they came for me and there was nobody left to say anything for me. Right? So He's feeling responsibility. He should have stood up all those other times. So is there really ever an innocent civilian then? If a country is ruled by evil leaders that are acting horribly and there is an opportunity for the citizens to say, No, I'm not going along with this. We're gonna stop you but then they don't. Do they not bear some responsibility? On the West I think you in the West you can understand that to a degree. In the East And you if you ask this question to anybody, Christian, Jew, Muslim, anybody who lives in uh uh Israel, in Pakistan, in India, in China, anywhere in the East, they will all immediately say, Oh, of course yes What the person uh i he's totally responsible. I don't care if he pulled a trigger or not. He didn't do anything to stop it and whether he's try could have done anything to stop it or not, his father or his brother or his uncle did this And therefore he it's his fault too. So is that a fashion to do that? Is that an argument against pacifism in the sense of by being a pacifist you are You would argue that you're actively causing some of that pain and because it could be. That's how I would explain it to to a Westerner. But I I think on a more basic level Whether you could have or should have or even did attempt to stop anything, you still bear responsibility for your family's actions. Yeah. And your tribe's actions. Well, uh a couple of things I find interesting in the New Testament. One is soldiers go to John the Baptist and he doesn't tell them to not be soldiers anymore. He said do what you're commanded to do or whatever. Yeah, and don't don't treat people unfairly. Don't abuse your power basically, right? saying that the the government is there they're they're there there's a right way that they're supposed to be operating, but they're there in order to the do do that, to bear the sword. And they were put there by God. Right. And people will say, well, he wrote that when Miro was the the leader, so clearly he wasn't wasn't meaning that they're always uh You know, you can't use the excuse, well my government's worse than that, you know, because that was a pretty bad leader. We're gonna end it there and we'll pick up this conversation in next week's show. This is the Faith Debate. Thank you to Daniel Rasby, David Force the I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at WFMD. com and Household of Faith and Christ. com till next week 167. 5 hours from now. God bless