Welcome to the Frederick Bates Debate on Frederick's Newt Radio 930 WFMD. My name is Troy Skinner. I'm the moderator of this relatively new program. And we jumped right into this show. a few weeks back without really introducing what the show was about. And in hindsight maybe that was uh the right thing to do, maybe it wasn't, I'm not sure. But this week we're going to uh correct that wrong if indeed it was a wrong and explain what the Frederick Faith debate, this program that you're listening to, right? now is all about. A couple of things I want to do to kind of set this up. Uh I am an employee at uh WFMD. I work on the sales department and uh I approached station management with the idea of doing a show like this to bring area religious leaders uh of all faiths and denominations on the show to have an honest, open dialogue uh about what they believe to be true and so that you, the listener, will have an opportunity to deter to determine for yourself uh what you believe to be the truth. And um one of the people you're gonna hear on this show quite a bit is the pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel. Here in Frederick, uh John Sweitzer. And the reason you're gonna hear Jonathan on the show uh quite a bit is because he has uh graciously agreed to help me in uh in setting up many of the programs as far as inviting different people on. And uh he has a network of contacts that he knows and beyond that he's gone out of his way to create a network of contacts And for that I will be eternally grateful. And so more weeks than not you will hear John on the show as one of the panelists. And in fact, this week is no different than the other weeks. Hello, everyone. So far we have tackled issues like the role of uh that morals played in the election. That was a uh a hot topic of interest. Yeah. We've talked about the role that uh the pastorate should play in politics We've talked about uh uh Middle Eastern relations between the the Jews and the Muslims. That was a good contentious uh uh debate between us. That was pretty healthy, I felt. And we're in future shows we'll talk about perhaps we'll do a show about uh and have uh three Christian pastors on to try to explain to us all how to comprehend the idea of the Trinity. We'll do a show. Yes, yes, that should be fun. We'll do a show perhaps about uh, you know, uh uh Christians put their faith in the Bible Is that faith well founded? Why should we trust the Bible? Uh but we're gonna have uh uh Muslim leaders and uh and Jewish leaders on like we have uh recently, have them on again And talk about the differences between the and not just Muslims and uh and uh and Jews, but Buddhists if we can uh locate locate them. Let's bring 'em all. Or uh or Hindus or whoever And so part of what I'm hoping to accomplish here is to let you know uh if if you are not a Christian and you're a part of a congregation if if that's what they're called, or a local group of people that get together. A religious community. And you would like to have your voice represented on this show, please, please I encourage you to contact me at the radio station. And there are two primary ways to do that. I'm going to mention it Now and then at the end before we wrap up, I'll mention it again. You can call the radio station directly. We're in the book, but if you want the number, it's uh 301-663-4181 and ask for me, Troy Skinner. And I would love to uh to schedule you to be on. Now, when I say you, um uh m uh ninety nine percent of the time my hope is to have somebody who uh who can speak with some authority for a particular community. So it would have to be a pastor or a rabbi or or an imam or or something along those lines, not just uh somebody who goes goes worships a lot. Uh anybody could do that. I could do that. That's why I bring the panelists on. Because they know what they're talking about. Another way to reach me is by email. And it's my name, Troy Skinner, spell T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-E-R at Clear Channel. And I don't think I have to spell ClearChannel. It's all one word dot com. There's no dashes, no dots, nothing like the other than the dot com. That's Troy Skinner, all one word at ClearChannel, all one word dot com. And would love to schedule you to be on. We were talking right before we started doing this show about some things we want to talk about in the future and all that stuff. What are we doing here? And I think that John Uh oh. Better than I states what this show is all about. So I'm going to go to the show. Well I certainly like to talk about it, but whether or not I can effectively communicate. Mr. Schweitzer, sir. What is this Frederick Faith debate show all about? Well, uh the uh you know, this Troy, this is such a uh a great um show, I think, because For the last five to ten years, uh there has been a very healthy encouragement across our nation for everybody to be tolerant of one another. And uh the the goal behind that is is for us to to be respectful, to learn to respect one another and to to talk with one another and to not uh to not try to divide each other. But I think in the midst of that uh this is the thing that there has developed across the nation kind of a fear of talking about religious things. You can't talk about it, you know, you you don't talk about it in religious company. And as a result Nobody knows what they believe anymore. Nobody knows what they really care about. And ultimately, spiritual beliefs, if they're not held deeply, they're really not held at all. They're the your spiritual beliefs are those things that are most central to who you are. And uh the hope in this debate, uh this great debate that that we hold each week is that we would uh facilitate the common person listening to the show in figuring out what it is that they really believe. We'll ask the hard questions that you can't ask in polite company here. And we'll disagree with each other in a deep way and in and uh passionate way uh because Ultimately spiritual things they affect how we live our lives. If we really believe it. If we don't believe it, then it doesn't affect us. We you know, it doesn't really uh you can't really call it a spiritual belief. And uh I think that's the hope. that we have on the show that that will ful facilitate people really coming to strong beliefs on things. And it's interesting when you you talk about, you know, you don't talk about this sort of thing in polite company. And I remember growing up That was it was a phrase that I heard a lot in my family was you don't talk religion and you don't talk politics. Yeah. Yeah. And it seems like we as as a nation have grown comfortable talking about polit or increasingly comfortable talking about politics. Yeah. And I think that talk radio has helped to make that. that happened. The Russian boss of the world have have started those those corporate national dialogues so that when we're at dinner at Thanksgiving or Christmas Eve with our family or whatever and uh um the reference of Christmas Eve was not to be uh picking a religious holiday on purpose there. Yeah. But uh you get together and now you get you hear what Rich Limbaugh said, and you hear what uh Chris Matthews said and you hear what Bill O'Reilly said and Uh Alan Combs had this to say and that dialogue happens and you start to exchange the idea it becomes maybe a little bit safer because you're talking about what they said and what they believed and you can feel people out. Troy, our nation was built on the idea. Thomas Jefferson said it himself that the clash of ideas is the sound of freedom. And if we can't discuss things where we disagree, then we haven't become more free. We've become less free. Somehow in in the discussion, in the disagreement with one another, that's where Where we're free. You know, where I look you in the eye and and and I say to your face, I totally disagree with you and I think that you're gonna end up hurting people by believing what you believe. In in looking each other in the eye and then shaking hands and respecting one another, that is I I believe the root of liberty. That's what it's all about. You know, you can't over in uh Iraq previous to uh to the United States coming in and uh helping to uh take out Saddam Hussein and uh destroy his his his power, you cannot You could not rather talk about anything that you wanted to. Um it it was extremely, if you will, impolite. It was dangerous, it was life threatening. And here in in the United States with the magnification of this tolerance mentality I think that that there's become a a fear where, oh no, people aren't gonna like me anymore if I tell 'em what I really think. And I don't think that's healthy. I don't think that's the core of what what it means to be American. And I think that uh tolerance and balance and all of those sorts of uh moderation type words are important. But toleration at what cost? One of the things uh I've heard and uh repeatedly and I'm sure you, John, have and uh you listening I'm sure have heard Um, you know, everybody, you know, if it works for you, that's great. We all have our own truth. Yeah, this is this is very good. But if John has his truth yeah and I have my truth and they're not the same truth, yeah, then we have a couple of options. Either John's right. Yeah. Yeah. Or Wrong. But usually you should know that's the case. But let me let me rephrase it then. Then either John's wrong or I'm wrong. Okay. Or we're both wrong. Heaven forbid. Right? Yeah. It can't be possible. We can't in uh uh at least not logically, we can't both be right If if John says that this shape is a circle and I say no that shape is a square, then we're gonna have to determine what this real shape is. No, no, no, no. Because um people are gonna disagree with you on that and they're gonna do it uh effectively. Uh they're gonna say that the thing's an elephant and you just happen to be standing on a different side of the elephant and so what you're seeing is actually the same thing that they're seeing. And um and so the point is is that actually you and I could disagree on a lot of things and still both be right. Only because our backgrounds and our perspectives have profoundly influenced us. And uh and that's why in any debate like this we have to take the time to listen to one another and take the time to recognize that you were raised in a Catholic family. I was raised in a in a different family. You were raised, you know, uh uh the next person was raised with without both parents in the home. Another person was raised and their parents were on drugs. Another person was raised and they got a BMW for their sixteenth birthday. And those perspectives mean that we're going to have differences of opinion. And that, you know, I I think that's a great thing. Uh the the question is, are there issues that that when we disagree about them We really have to admit that both of us can't be right. And that's what we're trying to drive drive to on this show, that there are elements of our spiritual religious beliefs that we're not talking about the same thing. We're trying to talk about the same thing, but we can't both be right. For example, Hitler When in th this is the great example of the twentieth century. Hitler believed he was right in exterminating the Jews. He came from an evolutionary mindset. and believed that the Jews were a lower race and so killing them all off, uh you know, they're all going to reincarnate anyway, so why not help them to reincarnate sooner rather than later? And Hitler really held these kinds of beliefs. Well, you c Somewhere we gotta say, you know, no, that's wrong. That's not right. And it seems like with terrorism and and and uh what some people in the Islamic world call jihad uh in in martyrdom for the sake of Allah, uh some of those people are uh are claiming to do right and they're doing things that are really evil. And somewhere we've got to have the the ability to talk about those things. Otherwise I might be living right next door to somebody that is plotting my my murder and claiming to do it in the name of their God, and in doing so, I don't even know what's going on because I'm afraid to have any discussion with him about what he really believes. And somehow we gotta get past that. And that is exactly really the point of the show. And and one of the reasons I love John so much is he always helps me refine uh my thinking and uh and be careful uh how I state things. Because we actually we end up getting into uh off the air we'll get into these big uh uh dialogues which are yeah yeah in which it's in which it seems like we're disagreeing. And only to come to the realization that we agreed all along, I just didn't state my case very well. You know, I gotta tell you something though, Troy. My wife says the same thing to me all the time. She's always saying, uh look, uh just because I didn't say it right doesn't mean that You know, I'm I don't agree with what you're saying and it's fascinating how uh unfortunately it's the finer issues that uh that you gotta go after in order to really clarify what we believe. Otherwise we come across, see this is the problem Troy, if we come across as um unthinking and unsophisticated in our approach to spirituality, then we're not helping anybody. We're just we're just being simplistic. You know, my dad used to always say that simplicity on this side of complexity, he wouldn't give you a plug nickel for it. But on the other side of complexity, he'd pay millions of dollars for simplicity. And uh the word for that kind of simplicity is elegance. Is it possible that there's that that the truth really is simple, but in an elegant way, not in a simplistic way I love that phrase. That's a whole theological question, is God simple? But anyway, well I don't know if we'll get into that. sort of discussion on this show or not. Maybe we will. But my point in a couple months ago bringing up the square circle thing is I'm gonna I'm gonna use your analogy because it is a better one. I agree with you. My my point was If you're grabbing onto the tail of the elephant and saying, ah, this is the truth, this is what elephant is. And I'm grabbing onto the elephant's tusk and saying, ah, this is the elephant, this is what an elephant is. And that's my truth and the tail is your truth. I'm not doing you any favors. In fact I'm doing a disservice to you to not explain to you that no, this tusk is also the elephant. Right. And you're not doing me any favors to avoid talking about well the tail is also and if we all have an honest. Yeah, because who knows that elephant might turn around and run me through with his tusk. And I wouldn't have even known what was going on because I didn't even believe there was such a thing. I thought all tusks were were tails. But the point is the point is there is a truth. An elephant is an elephant. And if I think an elephant is a tusk, I'm wrong. Yeah. And if you think an elephant is a tail, you're wrong. Yep. And we're not going to begin to realize the error of our thinking until I challenge you, and then we're both going to share maybe for a while then Oh, an elephant is nothing but a tusk and a tail. We would be wrong there too, and so we need somebody else to come along and say, Well, no, you're missing the ears and you're missing the teeth and you're missing the head and the feet and the toes and all that stuff. And that's what this show is kind of all about, taking all the various uh perspectives and insights and arriving at what the real truth is. That is not to say that everybody if somebody comes along and says, Yeah, you know, an elephant is uh is a squishy Uh purpley green kind of thing. Well, no, that's entirely wrong. Well that's the tongue. Oh okay. That's right, that's right. Clearly his elephant was dead first. And the other thing I wanted to say is uh it came up I think in the third presidential debate. Yeah. Um Bob Schiefer asked the the candidates the question about their religion, their faith. Yeah And uh President Bush in his answer said that, well, you know, my faith is it I'm paraphrasing here, but my faith is who I am. It's the core of How I think about things. Yeah, yeah, yeah. If we're and I think that's true of all of us. We all have a religious view. Even those who don't believe in God have a religious view. Their religious view is that there is no God. Right. And there's implications to what they believe. And those implications, see this this is the thing. If if we ignore that there's differences, then what ends up happening is we go around and around and around the discussion. Nobody can figure out why everybody's always disagreeing the core of most of those discussions. In fact, a lot of a lot of political uh choices that people make, and I know solid Christians uh that vote Democratic and I know solid Christians that vote Republican that really care deeply about what they believe but they magnify a certain element of their faith and then they go out and they vote along those lines. And the point is is that what we believe ends up affecting how we live our life, how we go about work, how we go about marriage, how we go about raising our kids. And if we d if we're not honest about those differences, then we go on just kinda railing at one another without really understanding. So at some point we need to discuss deeply and disagree deeply in And our hope in this show, and and you the listener can tell us if we are doing a very good job of this, but our hope in this show is to clarify those differences in such a way that all of us are uh aided in our search to try to understand what is the truth. And I I think I think it'd be appropriate for me to To make sure everybody out there knows that I I strongly believe that Jesus Christ is the only answer uh to uh the world and its problems. But my believing that is not uh well I'm hoping that it's not simplistic, but that uh the Christ that that I've come to know and love, man, he's he's uh He really does apply to the situations of life, the complexities of life, over and over again, consistently in a way that breeds um forgiveness, that breeds healing, that breeds uh clarification and brings light uh to um to what people are going through. And and so I'll be honest up front that that's the perspective that I'm coming from. And my hope is as I talk with Buddhists and Hindus and and uh Muslims and uh humanists and Unitarians that uh that they'll try to poke holes and expose some of the places where uh maybe my Christianity seems to be less than effective enough at helping to resolve the world's problems Because ultimately that's what it comes down to. The world out there is not right. See this is the thing. The world out there is not right. We all know it. We know that Saddam Hussein shouldn't be been doing what he was doing. We know that um that Scott Peterson or you know, shouldn't have been doing what he's doing. We we know that that that somehow things aren't right and ultimately The reason why we seek things spiritual is to try to effectively uh you know, figure out what's wrong and what's right so that somehow maybe we can see some change. So that maybe our children can have better lives than we have or somehow our children get along better, somehow, you know so we all have in our mind a sense of what's right and what's wrong. The question is what is there Is that better facilitated by the religions that that we're involved in or not? Uh reminder, by the way, you're listening to the Frederick Faith debate, that was the uh voice of uh John Sweitzer, pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel here in Frederick, my name is Troy Skinner. This is uh Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And we're uh we're kind of introducing uh the show. uh to you after it's already been on for a few weeks. So our apologies for that. But we we felt it might be important to to provide some uh to construct a framework so that you can have an idea of where we're coming from. And I'm I think maybe it's important for me to match uh uh John and and he felt uh moved to share his perspective and I think might be important for you to know I play the role of moderator. I am not a pastor. Uh and I don't know nearly uh enough about these things uh as I should and and hope to uh one day know. Of course we all kind of feel that way some level or other. Uh but in in in fairness you need to know where I'm coming from. I am a Christian I believe that the Bible is the uh inspired word of God, that it is in inerrant and that it is uh uh all that we need to uh to uh to teach ourselves not only the things that John was just talking about, about moral guidelines and how to live a right and proper life and to have uh a a peaceful life. But more than that, it's all that we need beyond this life. Hm. And that's something that uh you haven't touched on yet. But that's what The critical divide from a Christian's perspective, and I don't know if this is true if this is true of other uh uh religions, I don't know. But from a Christian perspective, Christ the person of Christ is of critical importance. So if a Hindu or a Buddhist or a Muslim or a Jew or anybody disagrees on the person of Christ from a Christian's perspective That is a critically important issue that should be honestly talked about. Right, right. Because if they think that we're wrong, they need to be poking holes in it to to steer us clear of this gross error we've made. Yes. And if we think they're wrong What kind of creature are we if we're not going to try to offer them some understanding of how they can have eternal salvation? Alright, so let's ex let's expose the uh um the argument against what you just said though, Troy, because most people out there are gonna s are gonna claim that Because you believe so strongly, uh you're as bad as the Taliban, you're as bad as Al Qaeda, that your fundamentalist approach uh saying that you're the only one in and everybody else is on the outside, uh creates division and causes people to hate one another. And this this needs to be addressed because clearly this show is meant to facilitate for everybody that's listening, for you there in your car, for you there at home, as you turn the radio on, so that you can uh take a moment and ask yourself what you really believe. And it's possible and I've got it We we've got to acknowledge this. It's possible, Troy, that people listening to the show as we have, you know, different people from different religious perspectives come on, that they're gonna listen to you and I, Troy, and they're gonna say, you know what, Troy and John are screwed up. They are way too fundamentalist and and I could never live like they do. I could never handle uh living, you know, so tightly or so uh closed minded as it were. Uh I think it's very possible that some of you out there are gonna uh could disagree with us. But the question is is whether or not We have taken the time to really think through what we believe. That's our hope. That as you're listening, that you'll have these different perspectives. uh effectively communicated and so you can say, you know what, I really agree with what that guy's saying and this is why. Instead of just saying, Well, I agree with what that guy says, but I uh I don't know why, I just do, you know, it just kinda feels right. You know, that that there's a little bit of a a strength behind it 'cause ultimately You know, somebody needed to stand up to Hitler. Somebody needed to stand up to Saddam Hussein. Somebody needed to stand up and say something's wrong. And if we don't have a spirituality that is able to give a rational background for why we we agree or disgrove something, then ultimately uh our spirituality is very weak and and Irrelevant to our lives, you know. Why bother? No, by the way, there might be an assumption made, and not that it's important whether you would have this false assumption or not, but just for the record, um uh John Schweitzer again, the pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel, I am not a member of John's church. There it is. So it's not like uh you know the I've I've grabbed my pastor by the by the neck and said, Hey, we're gonna do a radio show. Yes. Uh he's somebody that uh that I know well, that I trust, that I respect. Uh and we have had some incredible knockdown drag out discussions and debates of our own because Christians can disagree. And some of those disagreements maybe will be highlighted in some shows in the future as well. I hope they will. As we try to determine what right doctrine is within Christianity itself as well. Um doctrine is not this big scary thing that is only for people that that are uh, you know, seminary professors. Ultimately uh doctrine is what you believe and how it ends up influencing the decisions that you make. You know, do you get married? Do you not get married? Do you uh have an abortion? Do you not have a have an abortion? Do you uh do you spank your kids? Do you not spank your kids? All of these things uh end up um being very important in our lives and and they're decisions that need to be made and ultimately will be informed by our spiritual perspective. Now you've heard us uh uh talk already just in passing about I I mentioned the the presidential debates. Yeah. Uh John mentioned Hitler. Saddam Hussein. Uh you this show is going to touch on some political things and current event things and and worldview things too because you can't help. Yeah. But have that be a part of it. If there are some things that you think this show should talk about, again I gave you my phone number and my email. Let me know what those things are. And I'm going to give you that information now again real quick Again, the phone number for the radio station is 301-663-4181. Don't call right now. No one will answer that phone. But call during regular business hours. And uh let me know what you think we should be talking about. I would probably prefer you can call, but uh if you don't have access to email, call. But I would prefer email to be a man. And I can leave a message on the voicemail. Absolutely And my email is Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's T R O Y S K I N N E R at Clearchannel. com. We have about uh I don't know not even a minute left of the show, but real quickly. Yeah Where does your church worship and uh and what time what time does worship service begin? Yeah, well we start at ten o'clock in the morning at Crestwood Middle School. Uh if you take New Design Road past the Baseball Keys Baseball Stadium uh overed 70 and over 270. It's right there on the right hand side, uh just inside Ballinger Creek 12 o'clock on Sunday mornings. And a good time has had. Yes, it is. Thank you, John, for being part of the show again this week. Thank you for listening. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. With uh Pastor John Sweitzer from Crossroad Valley Chapel and me, Troy Skinner from WFMD. This is Frederick's News Radio 930, WFMD.