The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Yeah, Sony just said the but they could. We don't know for sure if they represent the the views of the station's management or not. They haven't share. We we should poll them before every show. And so here's what we're talking about. Here's what we're intending to say. Do you agree or disagree? So we don't know. But because we're right, and they clearly they want to be right, I'm sure they would agree, they just don't want to say so publicly. Hello, this is the Face Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. Thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. I'm Troy Skinner and the other voices you heard chiming in already in no particular order, David Forcey, Daniel Razby, and Imran Razvy. Um and by the way, in case you're wondering, uh most people that know uh Imran call him Raz, but with two Razvis in the room and referring to him as Raz Razvi. It's just i I feel like it it confuses me. And I know I'm really easily confused, but there's got to be one other person out there who's easily confused and might be confused by that. So just for clarity, I'm not I mean it is his given name, so I'm not trying to be disrespectful or unfriendly, but uh you can raz me about that later if you like. Um So we did a series of of shows recently where David wasn't a part of it. We were talking about, you know, family matters, uh marriage, relationship, those sorts of things. And we're we're picking up on that today. We've got some specific topics and and targets in mind. We might possibly swing back to touch on some of them and see if David has some some thoughts that he would have uh shared and opined with us um last time, but we'll see how how it goes. Last one we talked about marriage relationships and parenting and uh uh relating to your children at the heart level, talked about adoption quite a bit. We did a couple of shows, if I remember correctly, on adoption and the issues related to that. And today we're transitioning and to talk about uh learning disabilities and parenting children that have some uh difficulties in that area. If you're wondering where these topics came from, there is a uh organization that's been around for how long now? Fifteen years? Fifteen? Fifteen years? Eighteen years. Um that the the Razvis founded, Imran I guess, and your and your wife? Uh found it. Tammy and I found it this Conquer by Love. And uh it is really designed to give uh tools to parents on um how to Overcome some challenges that children might have, whether it's learning disabilities, whether it's emotional challenges, or just raising a child, because they don't really get born with an owner's manual And unlike years past where you live with your parents and grandparents and you got help and advice and wisdom, a lot of families now live without any extended family, so they don't have that help uh or wisdom that's been learned over ages. So we put together About forty-five books. They're very thin books because we know parents don't have a lot of time just to tackle some of those challenges and issues and hopefully give some good practical information. And if you want to learn more about those books and the other resources, the website is conqueredbylove. org. Conquered by Love Ministries, I guess, is the full name of the organization, but conqueredbylove. org is their website And the books they have on this uh topic that I found on your website anyway, Overcoming Learning Disabilities, Is Your Child Struggling and Brain Development. You mentioned that you have some children in your home that uh have struggled with some learning disabilities. I don't think any of your children uh would would qualify as learning disabled, but I don't know your family as well as maybe I should Yeah, no, not not anything in particular, um you know, or or severe in any way. Um I I I might have some general thoughts to share on on the topic. By the way, that's the voice of David Forcey so you can start to connect voices with with names. Um I do have uh an adult disabled son. That's going to be thirty this year, so I've got some experience on that matter. But before um, you know, I I share some things. Um Daniel, y you're you haven't been the parent of a learning disabled child, but if you've got a learning disabled child in the home when you're growing up, that has some impact. What What was it like you know, I don't know the nature of the disability or whatever, what's it like not being learning disabled yourself? I'm assuming you're not. You're not uh unless you're dyslexic or something, I don't know. I th I think dis disabilities you don't know. That actually um what I will say about that i is is part of part of the issue is all those labels. And a lot of people would they try to rush to label things like dyslexia or or dy dyslexia or whatever else you want to say, whatever disability it is, many of them are not actually like a like a physical thing that's that's permanent. I mean you could be born with missing your left arm, for example. You're never gonna grow that arm back. Right? But if it has to do with the brain, a lot of that actually can be uh changed, can be improved and and so on. And it's not like a permanent physical um thing. A lot a lot of them not all, but a lot of them do have to do with environment and and other things. I'm sure we'll get to that. Um but uh I didn't see anything different. I mean I when we adopted we had, you know, twelve year olds that would come into the home did not know how to y add two plus two Uh we had five and six year olds that could not do one of those little um uh puzzles with the with a knob on the end that you pick and put in the uh you know, one piece at a time in the puzzle. Um But that wasn't because their brains didn't work, it's just because of the environment they were in. So that all of them had many, many labels uh from the public school that they had been in that had all these uh learning disabilities that they are not ever gonna be able to learn to read um ever gonna be able to do uh math and and and all this. But that turned out all to be false. I mean all of them got to be very well educated and highly intelligent and all of that. So uh the labels in in my e experience the labels that are assigned to kids are quite often um they're they're overused and parents use them as a as a oh well my s my child has this okay that's that's how they are. Kind of like the example I said about being born without an arm Well, okay, that's the way they are, they're not gonna grow another arm. Now you can still do things you can walk uh with one leg, you can, you know, carry things with one arm, you don't have to have two arms for everything. So even when there is a physical disability, there are things you can do But a lot of people just make the assumption, oh, because somebody slapped a label on them, that's it. There's nothing to do about it. Yeah. That's the voice of Daniel Razley, by the way. I'm going to turn to Imran Razley here in a second. Uh I know that you've got um a family with biological children and adopted children. I'm curious, uh any of the children that have had learning difficulties, uh were they uh adopted and if so, did you know going in that were taking on uh a child is going to have some learning difficulties and uh and if so d did that affect your decision making like yeah we're that much more gung ho we want to help this child or boy I hope we're up to the task on this Um, I was a little more hesitant than my wife. Uh sh my wife had done Tammy had done a lot of study on brain development and challenges and environmental challenges. And so she f she really feels like there's no challenge that she can't handle or God can't handle w uh and uh she would do that. Go ahead, Dang again. Okay. So um my uh issue was You know, somebody that uh had a severe disability, um, like spina bifida I didn't think I would be able to handle, okay? Or Down syndrome. I I wasn't sure if I was uh had the tools and ability to do that. But the c most of the children in foster care have learning disabilities because they don't have a stable background, they don't stable have a stable home. And many of them are labeled learning disabled. uh unable to read, never gonna be able to read or write or do or function properly in society. And most of that is because society's given up on them, the school system is given up because they have nobody to help them. And so what we found is most of these p children You had you'd identify a problem, you label it and you medicate it. So they were all medicated. And we had to take them off the medication a little time with the doctor's help, and then start uh developing the brain in ways and there are s there are different things, different exercises that uh my wife and I and have had done to help them develop their brain and to be able to think and uh react properly. And uh it's a process. So every child's every baby's brain develops. And in fact, uh there were some studies done where um half the brain was removed because of an accident or pr or tumor or something and these children ended up excelling better than regular child children that had full brains. Why? Because the exercises and the techniques that that the doctor used was able to more than compensate for that half missing half brain. They had to relearn stuff but they had if they did the things in in certain ways and certain things. Um the doctors are slipping me now Uh Glenn Doman. He did uh he wrote many books on um child development, on on learning disabilities, on on achieving your human potential. He was a humanist. He wasn't a um, Christian, he was a humanist, but he felt that the human potential was vast and he was able to prove that and there's many books um you know a achieving your human potential. Uh a baby can learn to read, a baby can do math. And we were exposed to that Uh really a Daniel when Daniel was a baby and we thought that was interesting, but then we would use a lot of that material and information to help with the adopted children that really did not have those skills. Yeah. Um you're big in the homeschooling community, David. Special needs children, developmentally delayed children, uh learning disabled children? Uh I don't I don't think that we have many um in our circles that uh Yeah, it's tough and I will say part of the reason I was asking one, I thought you might have an interesting anecdote and some insight from that perspective. But uh another reason I asked it was, you know, I Yeah, we we've had a child who f since birth we knew we had some challenges on our hand. We didn't know the exact nature of the challenges at first, but over time those challenges begin to reveal themselves. And that's true with any child, you have challenges with any child, but uh all the typical parenting books, all the typical anecdotal stories that your aunts and uncles and grandparents can share with you, they don't really fit the situation is like okay, what do we do? And so we learned an awful lot, uh, the first, you know, three, four, five years with our son. through i early intervention therapeutic approaches and some really good people that God blessed to bring into our path that we we were naive, we didn't know. We wouldn't have known a good therapist from a bad therapist, a good doctor from a doc bad doctor. We wouldn't have known. And yet we had some really good people. And looking back, I'm even more persuaded how good they were, because we've had since then some not so good people. We didn't realize how good we had it at first. And our daughter, who's not, you know, special needs in any typical way of understanding that, she really benefited because she was younger. And all those uh early intervention kinds of things we were doing with our son, we applied those same strategies to our daughter, and she was like off the charts in her early development. I mean, she was doing stuff At eighteen months it typically you wouldn't expect till three years old. I mean no exaggeration. She was like way off the charts. And so I would encourage anybody who's a parent or a grandparent who wants to help their their you know their children be better parents, do some reading about what are some really good strategies for helping special needs children. and apply those same kinds of principles to typical kids, I think you'd be surprised. Um couple of things I want to say real quick, the labels thing, boy, that's a double-edged sword, isn't it? Because we do want to properly identify what something is. And if you can simplify your language, say rather than taking twelve hours to try to explain to somebody what my son's challenges are, those who are in the field of dealing with these sorts of things, all I gotta do is say my son has a a dual diagnosis. He's in the uh severe slash moderate portion of the of the autism spectrum and he has Williams syndrome. And people who know their feel they're like Oh, first of all, they're gonna say that's a really odd combination. Yes it is. But okay, that's interesting. Now tell me fill in some of the the details about how it affects him specifically. So labels can be helpful. Can also unlock of different programs. There are certain agencies and services and monies that are available for specific labels, right? Specific diagnoses. And if you don't get the diagnosis, you can't access those things. And so that's a problem. However The labels can be rather limiting. They can be limiting, they can be erroneous, uh they can shift over time, which can cause confusion. In fact the autism community is dealing with that. I don't know if you pay attention to these things, but Um when my son was a child, um Asperger's was part was understood to be something related to autism, was on uh on the spectrum maybe, but it was something other because the the The syndrome as it presents is different. Well, about, I don't know, five, ten years ago or something, a lot of the people in the uh psychological services and special needs services and stuff, they decided to get uncomfortable with the Asperger's label and a lot of these medical institutions started dropping the diagnosis. And now even the World Hor World World World Health Organization, we all learned last few years how much influence the World Health Organization wields. They decided that they're not going to recognize it as an official diagnosis either, and that went to effect January of this year. So now basically in 2022 is the first time in my son's life that there is no Asperger's world officially. But seriously, I've met people on the spectrum that they would identify as Asperger's. I would recognize them as Asperger's. And it's not a negative thing and it helps to distinguish and now those people are left without a label. That they that helped them to who know who they were and what their struggles were and now that labels so the labels as a double edged sword Uh for sure. It looked like you were leaning in to say something for a second. I kept rambling, no? So I would just say let's let's step back then. We talked about identifying about different things about learning disabilities and some tools that you can use to uh help the children. Is what can we say from a biblical perspective? What is how does the Bible talk about teaching children and is really important to keep in mind because most of the people who are in these fields Well because most of the people in the world it's not specific to this field. It's just most people in the world, they're not Bible believing Christians. Right? They they they that doesn't really it isn't ultimately what shakes their worldview. It's uh you know, so Uh but if you're a believer and you're listening to us talk about this, then you've got to remind yourself what you know to be bedrock truth. And it starts with every individual is fearfully and wonderfully made. Every single human being is an image bearer of God. Now all of us are a marred image bearer. None of us perfectly reflect the image of God. So we're all a fractured mirror, if you will. And some of us, those fractures present in a way that's more noticeable to watching eyes. I might be just as fractured or more fractured than my son. But secular eyes don't notice my fractures the way they notice his. And for example, my son is and this isn't like the typical, you know Special needs child parent response. This is no joke, no exaggeration. My son is the most forgiving humble, uh take you at your word, trusting, loving person I know in my life. That's not me. Before we started the shows tonight, I was venting about some things that bothered me, it agitated me, right? And I said some sassy things to people today. My son doesn't do that. But he's had other challenges and and my challenges are perceived to be okay because well we all have those challenges, but we don't we went to a church once though, uh, in town in Frederick. And uh they came to know us better and it wasn't an issue over time, but the very first time we walked in, somebody, a young young child, like a ten or twelve year old probably, walked up to my wife and asked if our son was demon-possessed Wow. So so it is important for you if you have a special needs child to understand they are an image bearer just like you are. And this ties to something Daniel said when he was talking about um you get the label and then it's like they can't learn to read, they'll never gonna learn to do math. That ha actually they tried to do that with our son. Um and what happens is they treat them like cases, not like people. And so their cases be managed, not people to be loved and and encouraged and helped to grow. And so they're checking boxes. And so they wanted to give um our son the this isn't an offensive term in today's culture. It wasn't when I was a kid, but it is now. But I'm not sure if it's still technically a diagnosis or not, but at the time it was, you know, the word retarded. And they wanted to give him the diagnosis of retarded. And we're and we were supposed to sign off on that as parents. And I s I learned by this point. I wasn't like I said before, I was really naive when it started. You learn not to be so naive after a while. And so I thought, well, before I sign anything, I want to look into what I'm signing here. And I looked it up and basically the way the definition read on retardation, it was unable to learn. And I said, I'm not saying that. Well why not? Because you're telling me that my son is unable to learn and I know for a fact he has learned lots of things already. So he's able to learn. Well, what we mean is he's not gonna learn to read, he's not gonna learn how to do math, and I say, Yeah, you know what? Um I might be able to fool, but I believe in a God that can work miracles, and I also believe that we can be new creations in Christ. So there's a biblical slant too. And I'm going to hope the best, pray the best, and work the best. And you know what? He doesn't read like at a college level. But our son reads today. Our son can do sp basic, simple math today, probably like at a third grade level. So he wasn't supposed to be able to do any of that. So don't let the system bully you into something. So we haven't had experience with that, not to that degree, but we did have an experience with that when we adopted several of the children had been told By everybody, by teachers, by social workers, by foster parents, by everybody that they were unable to learn things and they were dumb. They were stupid. And this is what they were told and this is what they believed about themselves. So whenever we would try to teach them something, oh no, I can't do that. I'm stupid. Oh no, I don't I don't know how to do that. I'm dumb. I'm dumb. I'm stupid. And and they could not even bring themselves to the frame of mind to attempt the task because they believed it was insurmountable because of what they had been told. And that's where labels can really st have an impact is not just on the parents, the parents not just in some cases, not there are many parents who really do give their all to try to help the children. And there's some care some parents to say, Oh well, nothing I can do about it, that's the way you are. But even from the children, if they start to believe that, then they're they believe there are obstacles that cannot be overcome. So it took years just to get them to believe that they could learn things. And then finally, you know, uh one of them said to my mom one day, Oh, I'm smart. Yes, you're right. We've been telling you that for years. Well you know we live in a world where the labels have become the identities and that's a problem. kind of a big part of the point you're trying to make here. Right. So if somebody um has a difficult time reading Uh that doesn't they don't I wouldn't identify as I am a poor reader. No, no, I am a person who struggles to read. Like there's a difference, right? Right. Um my my son Um he's on the spectrum, but his identity isn't autistic, if that makes any sense. His identity is in Christ. His identity is a loved son of his mother and father. So yeah, but in that case the labels can be really damaging. So and that's what I was saying about about labels is yes it's fine to identify what the issue and challenge is, but what we've seen most often is that starts limiting and the abilities because people use that as an excuse not to teach. Just like your son, they're saying, Well we're not gonna teach him to read because he can't read. He's not gonna be able to read, so why teach him? Uh no. Uh y you may take longer. I mean uh what brings uh comes to mind is Helen Keller. They thought she was completely out of it, right? Absolutely. And she was a genius. I mean level uh you know, she could do amazing things But we w they weren't able to communicate with her and once they did, then she blossomed. And a contemporary example in the autism uh autism world is Temple Grandin. If you don't know the name, look it up online. Temple Grandin, the Resume movie made about her life, and she was never gonna accomplish anything and she's now like a c literally a college professor and she was severely impacted by autism and now she's very high functioning because they They've found ways to to tap into her brilliance. Yeah. It's like a typical kid too, right? Like if a kid's being annoying, you don't say, Go away, you're annoying. We should say, go away, what you're doing is annoying. There's a difference, right? We don't want to give them the label of you are annoying. That's not helpful whether you're special needs or not Right. And and some some practical things that you can do as well to improve the environment, to make it more conducive to learning and to calm uh be a calming environment and and and loving environment to to help the children. If whether they have challenges, particular uh s you know, special challenges or not, all children benefit from a a a good environment. So some things that are very healthy, for example, playing a lot of classical music in the home. the more the children of any age listen to classical music, particularly of the Baroque period, but anything really that this that's classical. Um That that really makes a difference in their emotional state and their mental state and their ability to learn and how quickly they learn and healing from emer um learning disabilities. Yeah, that's shown in many in many studies that uh the classical music actually increases the synapses in the brain. So it increas increases the connections so that the w w whatever and it does work more with either brain damage children or young children because that's when the synapses are created more rapidly and this and the classical music does a a better job creating that. So that does help And it also uh the other the dissonance in in the Rochmes and other things tends to stop that, stop the synapses from growing. So if The more connections you have in your brain, the easier it is for you to process things. And you want to provide a structure and some predictability and you want to give them a lot of tactile input too, because that's a way that uh uh all of us in our early development really learned and there's gonna be slower so we might give up on some of those tactile things uh because it doesn't feel age appropriate but develop developmentally it's still appropriate so we want to tap into that. And you know, this is gonna be politically incorrect, but we've done it before on this show. I know there are a lot of people in in this community that probably would sing the praises of Rock Creek Elementary School, which is the one m maybe the primary special needs school in Frederick County Our experience there was absolutely horrific and I've heard from enough other parents that have had absolutely horrific experience and they were in the news again, was it last year or two years ago? Uh it was part of what led to uh Elban's ouster. So if you've got a special needs child, you better be really, really involved and in tuned and do not take them at their word. I'm telling you one parent to another. Um I'm sure there's some really good people stuck in that system, good teachers and stuff, but as a general rule, I if when you can get somebody who's awake to what's going on and who will be honest and trust that they can be honest with you, you will hear some horror stories about that school. So just that's a practical, politically incorrect thing. for me to have added here at the end. So if if worse comes to worse, homeschool. And you know that's why I asked David, most people are the advice we were given, because we pulled them and we homeschooled them. And we were told you don't want to do that. It's too hard. It's too difficult for the parent to uh to take care of uh of a special needs child anyway. You add the burden of homeschooling, it's gonna destroy the relationship. And I gotta tell you the exact opposite is what happened. Absolutely In fact what she said is the more involved the parent is, the better the results. And yes, it's gonna take us away from our job or other activities. But the the the dividends you're gonna get from putting that time into that child i it was is insurmountable. I mean y uh you put the time in when they're young and when they're needing and then you'll get a lot better dividends in the future So that's going to wrap on this show. Thanks for listening to the Faith Debate This Week on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at WFMD. com. You can find my church online and connect to all of us through that as Household of Faith in Christ. Imran, Daniel, David, and me are all pastors of house churches in the area. So if you're looking for a house church or any church really, let us know. We'll do what we can to help you. Until next week. God bless.