Broadcasting from the West Side, a big brother city in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Just ask Jonathan over here. As people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Brought to us by Equipment Blumbing and Heating Halfway Make You Smile. You can check us out online, wfmd. com keywordfaith, where you'll be able to see all sorts of videos now. That's our new thing in in recent weeks and months. Jonathan is our official cinematographer. He's gonna win a Grammy, I'm sure. No, they don't get Grammys for that. What do you well they give Grammys for Best Video, right? As long as there's music playing, we've got to add some music to this and you can win a Grammy. Jonathan Sweiss is a senior pastor of Crossroadside Church and the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You, is also on the show. Again today, Jonathan has done his best to chase Barry Robert Star Lipper away, but he keeps going back for more. He is clearly a glutton for punishment. So what we're here to talk about today, goodness gracious, how do we How do we introduce this? We ended last week's show talking about what is the ground for our belief. What is you know what what do we put our our faith in and what what informs our beliefs and that sort of a thing and what's the most important thing about uh uh I want to say religion, but that's not the right word. That's only not the right word for me. Maybe for someone else. But anyway We've argued extensively last week and the week before that too, quite a bit, about, you know, the authority of scripture, relative authority of scripture, what is scripture, what's not scripture. scripture how do we derive us into that was are trying to define whether or not religion was biblically a good thing or not. And in the context of that we realized that that the way we even come up with our definitions or, you know, authorize what we think is totally different. And so the question was put to Barry and it wasn't put exactly these words, was, you know, so what's the ground of your faith And basically, you know, in one word he'd say experience, right? The experience of Jesus. Specifically Jesus. And so it i is is certainly the grounds for my faith. Um Here So I have a whole ton of questions, all of which because uh you know, as soon as you say that, I have like all these red flags that go up in my mind that I'm like, really? Uh you know, like for example, um the other day I was out on the street Sharing the gospel with people. Which gospel? Uh we we went by the gospel of the kingdom. Very good. I I just wanted to make because the kingdom is. And uh and she was a palm reader. And she looked back at me with more um uh graciousness and joy than many believers that I've ever met and said, I'm so glad you're out here doing that. I'm a Christian too. I'm a believer in Jesus Christ. And if I were to rely On her testimony and experience, I would be led into what I consider to be an occult activity. of reading palms. Now why why would you jump to that conclusion? Because she's out there reading people's future through their palms. You don't consider palm reading to be an occult activity? Do you think that's a normal Christian Uh body of Christ activity, kingdom activity? Uh based on the definition of terms, now I wouldn't call it a normal Christian activity, but would you say that it's generally uh antithetical to godly living that we would put any faith whatsoever in uh somebody reading our future. I mean let me see if I got this straight. Uh you you can't be a palm reader and a Christian. Is that what you're suggesting? I am. Well, this is this is part of my problem with organized religion. I mean so what? We're going to establish specific kind of rules and whatnot. I'd like to point out that we're going to be able to do that. This is the same Jesus would be I thought you were a mini heretic, but the more I talk with you, I'm more I'm a mini heretic heretic. I mean like at every level Troy can't believe I just told you this. But by but I gotta degree you can be honest with you. But by this definition, so was Jesus Because he argued the same kind of argument Jesus was into occult activity? No, that's not what I'm saying. But he was against the Pharisees and the Sadducees that simply established rules and regulations that uh did nothing for the for the people that they were imposing those rules and regulations on. Okay, so back in the fourth century AD A guy by the name of Muhammad started to experience angelic revelations and he wrote them down and he uh has you know led people in a certain direction. Would you say that he led them astray? By the way, just for clarification, he didn't write them down, his followers wrote them down. His followers wrote them down. I'm glad you corrected him on that. Because again, all religion is man-made one way or the other. So there's no difference between what I'm doing in church on a regular basis and what uh Muslims are doing at a mosque on a regular basis. No. There is no difference I want to just say something just to to flip it to flip the table a little bit. Because obviously, Barry, you're not satisfied with Jonathan's uh pharisaical view of religion. Yeah, I'm a pharisai. But but Jonathan's experience brings him there So how is it that you could say that his experience is wrong? Are you defending me, Troy? Well, first of all, I am not saying or even suggesting that his experience is wrong. Uh for two thousand years, uh the church at large has simply not fulfilled the ministry that Jesus came to do, which was to preach the kingdom. But how can you say authoritatively that you know what Jesus came to do. He showed up and and he gave you a vision of that? I mean it was it No. But you said that the ground of your of your knowing things is your experience. No, I didn't say that. That's not what what we were talking about last week. No, that's not the proper interpretation of that. Okay, so can can I just share with you? Because I did agree with that out of certain real scriptures, those passages that are breathes of God that spoke about the Word of God, which is Jesus. That's how I establish what I happen to believe about what Jesus came to preach. Let me get into something else here before you get back on that same subject as last week. Obviously you don't agree with me, but I would say they're all pointing. Not all of them are. James certainly isn't. But anyway. That now for the people that weren't listening to the they don't even know what we're talking about with that. But anyway, but let me get to something else, because I I want to point out that This heretic here is not totally alone in this, and I I want to point this out uh because I quote this guy in my book. I have a very good friend of mine by the name of Don Mylam, who's authored uh many books, one of which is called The Language of Eden. And uh I would suggest, by the way, he'd be a great guest for you to have. Uh he would be much more calm compared to me. Oh what fun is that? You're definitely the better guess than. But anyway. You live locally? He lives in in this region? Lives around here? Uh uh yes Well after the show, can you give me his contact information? And uh and by the way, his book, The Language of Eden, is a tremendously written book. Anyway, he and I used to English only in Eden. He he and I used to get together and we used to discuss Theology and various things. We've known one another a long time. And he made the statement at uh this restaurant one night. He said, you know, someone said That Jesus came preaching the kingdom. And what we ended up with was the church. And Don, again, is a very intellectual, very well read, and I said, Well, well who? Who said that? And he couldn't remember who it was. Well, it took me two years of research to find out who said it. And by the way, he didn't have the quote quite right, but he he was close. It was said by a French Catholic priest by the name of Alfred Lawaisie, and his statement was a problem, Jesus came preaching the kingdom And what arrived was the church. Now, let me let me take quickly something about before you start jumping on something here. Because I I know he's fighting it to bit to do that. But here's what I want to say. This particular Catholic priest in the late eighteen hundreds in France was the top theologian in the Catholic Church in the Roman Catholic Church. Top theologian taught at their top school But when he came out with that statement and he came out with a couple papers that he wrote with regard to his concern about the church The bottom line is by nineteen oh eight the Catholic Church excommunicated him out of the church. So my my point is that he I knew you were hung out with excommunicated people. Yeah. And and because I I like a man both. What arrived was the church, because again, that was an invention of man based on conversation. They argued for almost three centuries. about the concept of the Trinity, for God's sake. I mean, forgive the putt. But the b the bottom line is that in fairness to those who are having those arguments, at least Is Jesus God Yes. There were people saying he wasn't. That was part of the Trinitarian argument. Well that's not quite what they were saying. But th that's what I'm saying. If you looked at all of that argument Uh the same thing. So you're not a Trinitarian? Back there. Pardon? You're not a Trinitarian? Um again, that depends on your definition of Trinitarian. As it shows up in the creeds. Let me let me put it let me put it this way. I have a very good friend of mine who's Jewish, uh, who one time he told me, he said, you know, the only reason that I couldn't be a Christian like you is because We Jews only believe in one God. I said, Oh. Uh and we happened to be in a restaurant and I took a napkin out and I said, apparently you have a misunderstanding of our three gods. He says, well, uh maybe I do. I said, what do you think? And I wrote it down on a napkin. I said, you believe that it's one plus one plus one. Plus one that equals three. He says, yeah. He says, isn't that what it is? I said, no. It's one times one times one times one equals one. So, do I believe in the Trinity? I do that way. I don't believe it in a one plus one plus one. No. My my point is that when you look at the argument that went on at the Nassian Council about this and all the arguments from Athnatius and all the other people that got in the world. Again, all we're talking about, what I'm saying is all we're talking about is men Theorizing. The word theology means theory. It uh all theology is just a theory. This is the profound theory. And this is your audio and relay test. Dodge will now fire the following relays in this order. Relay one, F and rejoin join network, teaching. Relay Zero FN local. FN network. And every breathing word of Jesus was about the kingdom. And All of your authority for for what you for what you believe is rooted in the experience in some of the books of scripture as being authoritative. The problem is that The gist of your book, from what I was reading, was to correct abuses by people that were using things their own way. What, if I'm honest, frustrates me so deeply in my interaction with you is that is that you seem loath to allow me any handholds into what you really believe. You wanna believe it, you wanna own it for yourself. But you don't necessarily want it to be strong enough that we could build our lives on it. And and I come away feeling like Feeling like I used to feel with my older brother, right? Just by by nature of being older, at least when we were growing up, he's not that way anymore. He was right. Even when I was right, I was wrong because he was right. And it was an abuse of authority. And so so as long as I'm around you, because of the definitions that that are changed or different from classical definitions, because of of uh of the your approach to experience being being the root of your authority and then you know a few uh books that that you have kind of decided in your own study which ones are and which ones aren't. Right, then it comes down to you're at the center of the authority of what you believe and there's no basis for there really being unity. I'm I'm left with If I'm going to hang out with you, that that in order for there to be peace or or in order for there to be be any working together, I've got to come into your perspective. And I just can't live there. No, that's uh first of all, that's not true. I don't expect you or anyone else to do that. That would be a good thing. You don't seem very committed to the idea that there's a unity that is supposed to be the body of Christ. And that unity means that that we find some the we're we're finding a basis for unity. a basis uh that is a ground of confidence with one another. And what what we've been arguing is that the ground of that is is scripture and as it defines our experience of God. And so scripture is is the authoritative and if something happens by experience that falls outside of Scripture, then I'm going to be a lot less uh doctrinarian about it. I'm gonna be a lot less uh less dogmatic about it. But if it falls within Scripture and in the the teaching of Scripture, then that's where I'm gonna s I'm gonna stand. And so like Troy was saying, that's been the basis for he and I you know, uh working together on this show that that there's a a basic understanding about the ground of truth. But when we bring a Buddhist guy on He does what I feel like we've been doing here with you, and it's really frustrating to me, that every time that we get to the place where we define a term And then I and then I say, okay, that's the definition, then I go to try to use the definition and you're like, No, no, no, no, no, that's not what I mean You know? And so so it's almost like as long as I Take a definition and start to try to use it, you're gonna be bothered by it. But if I let you keep kind of defining the terms, then you're okay and you're happy and in and as as long as I kind of repeat back to you what it is that you feel like is right. then you're okay with that, but it doesn't provide a basis for true communication. It just ends up being what you believe and what I believe and there's no real uh crossing of terms and definitions, right, because you've you've kind of redefined So many of those terms. Jonathan Sweitzer is the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. And Barry Robert Starlifer is the author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom among you. And two things I want to give you a chance to respond to what Jonathan just had to say and in in the context of definitions, I still have we haven't had time to hear your definition of what you mean by the kingdom. When Jesus came proclaiming the kingdom, preaching the kingdom, and we as his followers to be talking about the kingdom, what is it specifically we're talking about? So those are the two things I'm hoping to accomplish in the last, you know, eight, ten minutes of the show. Got it. And uh that is the real purpose of my book, to try to define um The kingdom among us, which in my view, and in my belief system and faith, is the personage that we call Jesus Christ. The kingdom itself is, as Jesus himself pointed out, not something that you can point at and say it's here or it's there, as he said to the Pharisees one time when they were quizzing them about uh the same thing. Um the best way to describe the kingdom, in my view, is that it is a way of life. When you look at everything that Jesus taught Everything that he spoke to the people about and when he argued with the Pharisees and Sadducees always prompted these stories that we call parables. That all began with the kingdom of heaven is like this. And basically what he did was talk about the philosophy of his father and what his father believed about this. And so for example, when you look at uh the story of what we call the prodigal son, which is really should that's inappropriately titled because what the story is really about is the love, the unconditional forever enduring love of the Father. Because the reason that story came up is because he was arguing again with the Pharisees who were standing at the doorway because Jesus happened to be dining, God forbid, in a sinner's house and they wouldn't even come in the house. They stood at the doorway and argued with him. And he starts to try to explain to them. how the father feels about some of these people that these religionists didn't like and weren't accepting into the kingdom. And so that's when he tells this story. And uh and by the way, uh a lot of the parables um were very familiar stories that a lot of rabbis told. The thing that was different when Jesus told some of those same stories is how they ended. He switched endings on many of them. Because if you go back and you read people like Josephus and other historians and you g get into some of those texts There's a lot of those uh parables, we're very familiar parables. Almost every rabbi that caught in Palestine told these same stories, but he twisted them, he turned them And basically he turned them in a way that insulted the Pharisees. And there's a couple places uh in some of the gospels where it actually says that they got it, and they it ticked them off because they knew he was talking about them. So the kingdom is a way of life. I will agree with that. I think it's more, but I will agree with that. And what the Father felt. And the gospel of the kingdom says to people who are are down and out and know they're disgusting or believe that they are, you know, the father loves you. I mean it it it is a matter of saying, look, you can't do anything so disgusting that the father would quit loving you Are you talking about those who are the the elect, the believers, the the chosen? Are you talking about uh a universal salvation? No, I'm I'm talking um universal in that sense. Matter of fact, that's the other thing about the kingdom. The kingdom Is universal. Matter of fact, I have actually had uh a good many Muslims have bought my book. I just sold one to a Muslim down in uh Martinsburg. uh, West Virginia at a book signing that I did. Because she was intrigued by the things that I had to say about the kingdom. But that didn't surprise me because as she and I talked I said, you know, the kingdom is universal. I mean, perhaps you might decide to call him by some other name, but a rose by any other name is just a sweet. The bottom line is the kingdom is universal, it's to all people. Jesus came to spread the gospel message to everyone in the world. It's interesting because I would I would agree to a certain point and say that you know I Jesus is the king of the kingdom. Yes. And he is Lord and ruler over all. He is even those who aren't his loyal subjects, he is their king, whether they want to acknowledge it or not. But in emphasizing the love and and and that aspect of the life Oh no, no, no, we're not at all because Four minutes stations four minutes away from you. Next news top of the hour newscast. He leveled it to them because the the bottom line is that do you believe some people are going to hell Yes. And the hell's eternal. Yes. uh term because I'm gonna be very candid on this and very honest. Um I I am not settled on what hell is Sure. So um but do I believe there is one? Uh yes. And do I believe that some people are going to go there? And are they going to go there? And do you believe that wide is the path that leads to destruction and narrow is the path that leads to life? Yes, but uh again, let's keep that in context. Everybody thinks that that statement which which he made, which is a part of what we're doing. Three minutes stations, three minutes away from your Fox News top of the hour newscast. Uh to talk to sinners and it wasn't. He was you know the th the thing that's really confusing about this Sermon on the Mount is first of all people envision that because of the way movies have been made that a whole bunch of crowd of people come up there The bottom line is if you read Matthew carefully, it says he took his disciples apart and took them up there. He was explaining principles of the kingdom. to his disciples. So how does that change the fact that wide is the path that leads to destruction and narrows the path that leads to destruction? Well because a lot of us there's a lot of people on a path of destruction. uh there's no indication in that statement that he was talking about hell being the path to destruction. There there's a lot of people that are living destructive lives. Again, he was talking about principles of the kingdom. He was trying to get them to understand. There is a way that leads life. It was no different than where what we have in the beginning in Genesis with the two trees in the garden You got the tree of life and you got the first time. Two minutes station two minutes away from your Fox News, top of the hour newscast. So you think that he also went on to say many many are called, few are chosen. He's also talking there about the difference of that eclectic collection of people. So that results in in that you believe that many will be saved. And and that it's not going to be a remnant that is saved, but that it's going to be a majority, possibly? Um I think in the ultimate of of it all, that all will forever have an equal opportunity to accept uh who he is, meaning the Creator. and um recognize that fact. The uh a as as it is said So you're really not addressing the issue of how many what percentage. No, because I I have Well you wouldn't either, would you John? I mean the Bible's not doesn't give us percentages. Right, but the uses language that can make it language that gives that like Wide is the path that leads to destruction, many find it narrows the path that leads to life. Few people find it gives me the impression, at least that a majority don't, a minority does. Right. That's not quite percentages, but It's fifty one forty nine percent, you know, or or or uh other. Well see, but but I think you you're you're looking at that wrong. Jesus said I came to give you life and to give it to you more abundantly. So we we can end on a note of agreement. You have a problem with that? You had a problem with Ending in a notable agreement, you want to end on Discord? Come on. Yeah, I'm gonna disagree with you. That on whosoever will may come, may come. Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross the Valley Church. Thank you, my friend. Barry Robert Starlifer, thank you so much. The author of The Apostle Jesus, The Kingdom Among You. I am Froy Skinner, our sponsor, Footman Flooming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, I want to encourage you to visit online W