Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We're so pleased that you're spending part of your day with us here. I'm Troy Skinner, Pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith. in Christ dot com. Joined this week by Imran Razby and Daniel Razzi. They ask for a church in Thermont called the Church It Meets at Imran's house and they also have a ministry called Conquered by Love Ministries online at conquered by love dot org. You can connect with them through that website. So we've been talking about well, we started out uh several weeks ago talking about things that are definitively Christian and we should be looking for in a definitively biblical Christian church and then we um uh the Defense of Marriage Act came up and the Obergevel decision and all that and so we started talking more specifically about marriage and uh and that sort of thing and that's kind of what we've been talking about the last couple of weeks and we're going to clean up some thoughts uh on that this week and then swing back around to the questions you should ask your pastor and you're and look and what you should be looking for in a good church. So it's been brought up at least last week's show, maybe the week s before that I might have brought it up too. There's a bit of a movement. You see it mostly on social media, but it feels like it's getting some traction outside of just social media argumentations. It feels like there's some young men particularly that are drawn to this idea of what is called kinism or the kinist movement. And so the simplest way to think about this is You know, country folk, they talk about their cousins and their aunts and their uncles as you're my kin Right? You're you're your family, your kin, you're you're you're you're from the same place. Like you might meet somebody, you know, you're in vac you're vacationing in Maryland but you're from Alabama and you run into somebody else from Alabama. You're from Alabama Well you're like kin. Right? So you you're ethnically somehow connected, culturally connected. There's something about you that There's a sameness and you and and it it's kind of bloodlines though too in the kinist movement. So some people would would would talk about you need to s stay married within your race I don't like that language because I believe that there's physically speaking one race. One race. There is a spiritual race, right? Uh uh Peter talks about it in the New Testament that we are made a a royal nation, a holy people and uh and the Greek. And so there's a spiritual race, but the we're talking about physical realities here. So there's There's one race. We all descend from Adam and Eve. More specifically all from Noah. And all from Noah for that matter, correct, sure. Um so I grew up with some of this in the Chicagoland area where there were some people, people in my family actually, that you know, they were of the opinion that whites should marry whites and blacks should marry blacks and Hispanics should marry Hispanics and you know, and for that matter in the neighborhoods, Irish should marry Irish and German should marry German and you know? French should marry French, whatever. Um Now it's connected uh part of we've talked about this at length on a number of shows over the last uh number of months anyway, the Christian nationalist movement. And it seems like a lot of people that are drawn not everybody, so don't misunderstand me. If you're a big Christian nationalist person, I'm not saying that you're a kinist. But it seems like an off uh a certain percentage of the Christian nationalist people, the people who like that label, are embracing that label They're really drawn to in a big way this kinist idea, uh, because they're trying to preserve the cultural norms. They're trying to preserve their nation as they understand it. And so like needs to stay with like. We need to we need to do this. So in the context of marriage, I don't think that we given the cultural climate and things being talked about, particularly online, uh, and you know, the listener to this podcast, if you're listening to a podcast or listening to this radio show, if you're listening on the air You you maybe run across it. We're gonna spend two, three shows talking about marriage and we never bring up kinism, you'd be like, Okay, were they ducking it? Are they not wanting to talk? I feel like we have to talk about it. It's it's an emerging elephant in the room. It's not a large element, it's a newborn baby elephant right now, but it has the potential to grow into being a really, really large elephant. So what are your thoughts on that? Well I I think the left would immediately say, you racist racist person that would think that you can only marry somebody that looks the same as you. But a lot of the the left is is also pushing the same sort of thing. And they would say it's cultural appropriation if you marry somebody from a different culture. Right. So the whole thing is is it biblical or is it not And I think, you know, eighty years, hundred years ago in this country there was a lot more kinism 'cause you had to say within your culture Irish did marry Irish and Germans didn't marry Germans and blacks didn't marry blacks and whites married bla whites and that's how it w it was But we w came a long way, baby, right? And then then what happened? Then we elected the first black president and thing all went to hell. Uh I mean we got so many more racists after Obama got elected. And ironically he's not Not even well actually the whole kid's ideal right off the bat. But anyway, I'm sorry. that we are all descended from Adam, all descended from Noah. Now God did create different nations and he called Israel to himself as a people, and he did actually command Israel not to marry other uh you know uh uh other tribes. But specifically in the context of religion, right? Of faith 'Cause if another tribe, a stranger, comes and converts to Judaism, well now you can marry them. Right? It was all about what is the purpose of this person coming in? You c what you can't do is form alliances with other cultures. You ca or other other religions. You can't say, well, we'll well you can keep all your culture and your religion and your gods and stuff and we'll just marry. That's what was for forbidden and that's still forbidden for Christians You cannot marry somebody who is not a Christian and not just call himself a Christian but actually is a bib has a biblical worldview. You should not marry somebody, but it doesn't matter what they look like, more b more matters what they're committing to do And so if if somebody wants to convert to Christianity and then marry a Christian, that's that's perfectly fine. But what you cannot do is go and mix that uh it with with a different kin. And and really, I mean, w one of my friends talks a lot about uh, you know, the the heavenly polity. We are of a political uh um uh alliance which is a spiritual race. And so that's kind of guess what y what you said, you know, there is there are more than one race actually spiritually. And that's really where your focus needs to be. So, yes, you can only marry your kind, Troy, but your kind is Christian. It's not different colors or different nose shapes or ear shapes or you know, uh d different holidays, uh you know, when you celebrate Thanksgiving and what you eat for turkey dinner, do you deep fry it or do you br broil it, you know? Those types of things are not What you marry based on is you marry based on your race, which is the Christian race. And I think that there's some practical political cultural things that are behind that are driving this. I think it's a reactionary movement. By the way, while Daniel was talking, I was racking my brain because I I mentioned it's, you know, the Apostle Peter wrote it in the New Testament, but I wasn't that was rather vague. If you want to look it up I think I've now accessed that part of my brain. Uh I'm pretty sure it's 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 9 and 10 is where you'd want to look for the holy nation royal people. And if you look at the Greek you can see that that language there could also be translated as race. So it's uh i it's a people, it's a nation, it's a race, it's an ethnos, it's uh so anyway, so that's what's going on there. Anyway, um if you watch TV Now I don't watch anywhere near as much as I once did, but I still w watch some on occasion. My I have a son who's uh adult disabled and he loves some couple of game shows that are part of his routine and so I sit and watch those with him and so you see some commercials. And I'm telling you, there's an agenda. Uh a incredibly disproportionate percentage of married couples that are featured in these commercials. Are same sex. Are well, there's yeah, there's two men that are supposedly married or two women you feel like, yeah, they're probably lesbians. But but also Black husband, white wife. Different shades of or Chinese wife, Hispanic husband, like lots of uh inter ethnic uh households represented on TV and those exist and I don't think there's nothing wrong with that but as a percentage The overwhelming majority of people marry someone that has the same skin tone and a similar cultural background that they do. There are except a lot of that really is a percentage And it's like half the marriages you see on commercials. There's an agenda. And a lot of that really doesn't have to do I mean if you if you're if you try to figure out why do they marry people that generally look like them, it's it's not so much the looks Although it i i you know, that they may have something to do with it. You may just find certain people to be more attractive because they look like you and you do you're attracted to that kind of person. That's what you're using. Yeah. Right. All the people you've met are look like that and so that's what looks good to you and something else looks different and people don't like different. Um but that doesn't the most mo most often Culture does play a lot of a big role and the um the left and the media would like to w would like us to believe that culture matters not at all in the context of marriage because you marry for for sex and for love and whatever. But no, I mean you're trying to raise a family together. And so the way you treat that family and how you view the family and what you think marriage is supposed to be in the first place, all of that is informed by your r world view. And that yes, that should be religion first, should be Christianity first, but besides that just different cultural expectations of what the husband should do, what the wife should do, what the kids should be doing, how they should be trained and and taught That's gonna matter a lot and you should be discussing those things before you get married. Now you might meet somebody from China who has some of those similar worldviews and I would bet you could say You are gonna have a if you're listening to this and you're a uh man from Frederick, Maryland, you probably have a lot more in common with a Chinese Christian woman. than somebody who lives on uh you know East Patrick Street who is uh you know uh a a bleedy heart liberal that doesn't ever go to church. You have a lot more common this this some other range of pr but even though her culture is very different But d the w the the most important parts of the culture you actually do have something in common. But the rest of the culture does matter too, so you would want to discuss all those things. What does she think about uh kids, how many kids make sense? W the things we talked about last week. So I think that that's where I w where I would come back, but the it really the the primary thing needs to be Are you marrying within your race spiritually? Spiritually, because there is only one race physically, but with there are multiple races spiritually Yeah, now some of the people uh I I see 'em I don't know if you guys spend any time on social media really, but uh I'm telling you, the the whole idea about skinheads and the white supremacy move It really is there, you know. So I'm not gonna say, Oh, you're making that up those people exist and and they're pr they're a really small but very vocal uh group on cer on s certain social media platforms, particularly Gab, by the way, is is just And a lot of those kinds of people, seems to me that they're advocating these kinist ideas because they hate people that don't look like them. Right. They are white supremacists and black people are subhuman and Jewish people are the worst things in the world and you know, all that sort of stuff. But then there's these other these Christian nationalists types that are more reasonable minded Uh they're they they s lean in a kind of a kinish light direction. So it's more like well we're not saying that you can't or that it's a sin or there's anything wrong. But really you shouldn't because you wanna rebuild America and make America culturally what it was in nineteen fifty three and the way to do that is have, you know Ward Cleaver marrying whatever his wife's name was and and and giving birth to Beaver Cleaver. You know, and and leave it to Beaver becomes the uh the American ideal. So there's this like it's like this pressure, like well you don't have to and some of them say things like, Heck, I've got uh interethnic people in in my family, you know, my My uh my sister marries somebody that's different and so I'm not opposed to it, but it's not the ideal. And I think even that's going too far. I think people will naturally be drawn to like you said, they're drawn to what is familiar. Like attracts like in these sorts of contexts. I don't think you have to artificially try to promote it or push it. There's something that feels icky about promoting it, to be honest, uh to me. So anyway, that's my Well this country was supposed to be the melting pot, right? And uh it e even though it acts like that sometimes it certainly didn't act like it, you know, we as Americans abused Chinese, we abused uh Irishmen, we ab abused American Indians I'm saying we even though I Italians even though I'm a recent immigrant I mean. Well yeah, anybody that's from the Middle East, right? Yeah. But typically last twenty five years. Yeah, but yeah, that didn't happen until last twenty five years or so, thirty years. But um you know it's Uh, all around the world people had restrictions on who to marry. Kings could only marry other kings and their daughters or s sons and in India you you're part of a certain case, you can't marry outside your case, you have to marry within that case In uh i Islam there's usually certain families you can marry into and other other families you cannot marry into. In Chinese, there's certain families that are approved to be married and uh certain pam families that are not So it's it's been a worldwide phenomenon. It's nothing new. Um it it's the way that uh people try to discriminate against p uh undesirables. Whatever they f they decide is undesirable. And uh my wife is uh ethnically from um German descent and I'm from the Middle East and we were a mixed ethnic couple and uh you know, early on in our marriage we got a lot of looks. This was, you know, thirty some years ago and we got a lot of looks, but then that changed and became much more acceptable. And I don't see that as a problem. But again I as you're saying, it's moving back towards that And more recently. Yeah, you guys actually it it's not just you, other people in your family, right? It's it's then it's you know a lot of inter ethnic mixed things. And these kinists that are the kinists light, they always say, Well it's fine that you did that that it probably would have been better if you didn't. And I'm like, why? No. Why would it be better? No. They stop. Don't do that. I I think they're thinking they think that um the m the original American principles cannot be upheld by other people. And that's totally wrong. I mean look at um this guy that was running for president, uh Rabaj Swami, right? Vivek. Vivek. He had a lot of the Christian nationalist type of beliefs or no side of any issues that the bank won't take. But what but what he was definitely making known in in the famous part of his campaign was very much traditional Judeo Christian principles. And he's Hindu, right? He's not he's not even Christian. Right. Um and he's certainly not white. So the the point is j just because you look a certain way doesn't m d that doesn't inform your culture and your worldview necessarily. Um but it's important you're gonna be against the culture that this country used to be two or three hundred years ago. Yeah. Well I think we ha it it turns out that the the panel that we have for the faith debate is a really good panel to talk about the kidnapped question because of your family experience and And uh yeah, you're exactly right. You guys stand for what America's supposed to be about and stuff and okay, you don't look like a German or a Brit. So what? It's annoying 'cause some people that are really, really smart and good and right about other issues They they they tend to uh undercut their credibility in my eyes by going down these this kind of route We're a little past the halfway point. By the way, I'm Froy Skinner. Uh you've been hearing Imron and Daniel Razby speak as well. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. So in the you know ten-ish minutes that we have left You know, you can go as rapid fire. You can go as rapid fire as you want, but um over the last number over the last month of shows we've been talking about things you should be looking for in a church and some of them were obvious Right. Well we're talk we talked about the big things like uh what is church's stance on on abortion or marriage or women pastors and things like that, and those should be very easy knockouts that you should be able to determine right away. You don't need a lot of weeks to figure that out. But Daniel said there's some borderline red flag issue that we should probably bring up. So w so things that are not necessarily explicit in the scripture, you can't point to a a verse and pin it down. But these are some things I I want you to to hear as a listener. If your church has like multiple of these, it may be something that you want to be more uh cautious about. And it may still be a very biblically based church, but y you know, it there could be something uh starting in the ranks that's that that that's not good. So for example If you're attending a church or considering attending a church, you should find out is there enough i is there a small enough congregation that you could personally have every family over to dinner in your house in, let's say, less than a year Re realistically. Um, is it small enough that you could actually personally know everybody's name or all their kids' names in that congregation? If it's not, then it it's probably a big enough church that you're not going to get the proper discipleship and and you're not going to have the fellowship of the of the saints So you're basically saying like fifty or smaller. Kind of I think you can reasonably know maybe a hundred and fifty. The problem with that though is most churches that only have like a hundred to two hundred people in them, they can't afford fog machines Well, that will be another red flag. If your church uses fog machines regularly in the church service, I think that will probably be a red flag. And so that g that gets into you know we'll we'll get to that in a in a minute. One mark of a good church I know in in Nebraska there was a church recently that was very biblically based and they were getting to that big point. They had like two hundred, two hundred and fifty people And the pastors and elders made a conscious decision to have a church split, uh a amicable church split, saying we need to split into three different churches, and they did So that they could they're not a chance to do that. Better meant they planted two churches. Exactly. They had the one and they planted two more. And and so because they said we cannot disciple everybody Adequately with the amount and people can't know each other and go fellowship with each other to the same extent that they could have to do that. Why didn't they just like go meet in different places but have one pastor video conference in his message into the other locations? Well again your your pastor needs to know you. And if if you if you don't know So then your pastor becomes God. You're following this one pastor, ten thousand, thirty thousand, fifty thousand people are following this one pastor. Aren't there other pastors, other leaders that can be there and then that can minister to you? And those multi campus things where they video pipe it in. It's your church has more than one campus, it's probably another red flag. It's very celebrity. Yeah. So so let's talk about the the the worship service. You go to church on Sunday morning or Saturday if you're a Seventh day Adventist or Messianic, right? You go to church And what do they do before the sermon? Most of them have some kind of music. We either sing or they play some music. Maybe some people sing, other people listen. Um, if it feels more like a concert, that's probably a red flag Regardless of what you stand on the music question, I would say if there's a drum set and a guitar, that's probably a red flag also, um, for a number of reasons and and we probably will have a whole show on music in the church. But I ha I have personally witnessed multiple churches start playing more contemporary music as one of the first stumbling blocks before they start to d uh uh uh falter on some more weighty issues such as the the marriage and the and the uh you know, other doctrinal i i i yeah. Music is one of the first things to go time and time again. I've personally seen it. It's not a study I've done, you know, a scientific study, I just have witnessed a lot of and I think there's some good reasons why. When you're the more traditional the music is, the older and more boring you might think the music is if you have a a modern uh uh pop culture type of uh music taste If you think the music's pretty boring, that's actually probably a green flag. Um but b because it it really needs to be and and Luther a and Zwingli and a lot of the reformers had some interesting things to say about music. They said the purpose of the music is to honor God if you're focused on the music, you're not focused on God. The music should be uh helping you to be focused on God and if you're thinking about the person performing or singing or playing instruments then you're not on focus on God anymore. So that that would be a red flag if the uh if the church has a large focus on music as a centerpiece of the worship service. And especially if you're doing a lot of listening and not a lot of participating in in the music. And people said the music moves me. I feel spiritual with the music. That's not what there's something said for the older music and here and here's one of the reasons why. It's not that the music was automatically better two hundred years ago. Oh my my let me uh say something for a second. It's not that the music was uh automatically battery a couple hundred years ago. I think you're going the where you're going is for the uh I had to do something on the stream for half a second there. You talk about the lyrics, right? Well yeah yeah, the lyrics and and uh uh and and even just the singability and different things that are important in congregational worship, it's you know, uh got people have people hi have to be able to hit the notes. Uh so th th things like that. It's not like every song that Isaac Watts or Charles Wesley ever wrote was just a Grand Slam home run. But the best of their songs have survived to this day. So there are probably songs I don't know if Daniel agrees with it. There are probably songs that have been written within the last ten years that God's people Assuming Christ doesn't return in the meantime, will still be singing five hundred years from now. I agree with that. But the percentage of the songs that are coming out now that will still be sung in five hundred years from now is going to be very small. I don't know, was it 1%, 5%, 10%? The point is, the majority of the songs aren't good enough to stand the test of time. The songs that are in those old hymnals that are still being sung. Or the sort of the ones that have stood the test of time. And so those old same with old with books too, by the way. You read some of the the classics, you know, uh um uh uh John Owen or um um John Edwards or Martin Luther or John Calvin. I mean these are works that have stood the test of time and you might not agree with everything they say, but th this has been well vetted So what are some other what are some other red flags? We have time for any more. So you got like uh maybe a minute and a half. All right. So uh s some some other things you should be thinking about. If you're going to the church and you're never You go in and as soon as the church service is over, everybody scatters and they all go home and nobody ever stops to talk to anybody and asks them more than hi, how are you doing? uh you know, then that's probably a red flag. You want a church that has that is a fellowship. The commandment in Hebrews is for forsake not the fellowship. It doesn't say forsake not the church service forsake not the worship service. It says forsake not the fellowship. That's the purpose of a church service is to fellowship with other believers. And if you're going to a lecture and you're listening to a sermon or a lecture and you're listening to a concert then that's not fellowship. That's a concert and a and a lecture, which you could get on YouTube. You know, you don't you don't need to go to a church service for that So what you need to be getting from your church service is fellowship with other believers. That's not just from the pastor, it's also all the other congregations. So I think those are some things really To to to think about. That's a pretty good one to end on, I think. And you know, the the fellowship thing, remember, we we we don't use this language as much as we maybe could or should, but you know, we're brothers and sisters in Christ. And so when we come together, it's it's a family meeting It's a family reunion. You know, and so every week the family is coming back together so that they can be in fellowship if you want to use that word, so that we can love each other, we can be in relationship, we can talk to each other. That's why it's a huge red flag. It's nobody's talking to each other. What kind of family is this? What kind of family never talks to one another? Right? So it should feel like, oh, they're family. Like they love each other. They're involved in each other's lives. It's not just, hey, how's the weather? It's Hey, um how'd that job interview go last week? You should be able to overhear things where you can tell they know something about one another's lives. Like they're They're they're they're they're living life together. And that was one of the red flags that happened to you when you went to the uh the Capitol building. There was no fellowship. Yeah, going back like a month ago, yeah. The pastors were not talking to each other like they were brothers. It was it was a little it was a little shu stunning and discouraging to be honest. This with you, but hey, I'm over it now. Look at me all smiles. Anyway, so that the last voice you heard there was Imran Raz Razli. Before that you heard Daniel Razli. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We'll be back uh next week, probably a different kind of a panel assembled because uh we're shutting down this arc of shows and we'll have a different topic next time. I'm not sure what it is yet, but we'll figure it out between now and then. So until then, one hundred sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless