Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brothers City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the product face to base. Sponsored by footman, swimming, and heating, how can we make you smile? The faith debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find all sorts of interesting links and podcast. The links go to just about every religious tradition you can imagine. At least every one I could imagine. If I've missed some, let me know. And I don't actually I probably should Should be saying this on the show like like this, but uh it's been a while since I've checked to make sure all those links are still active and going to good places. So if you stumble into a link that seems like a dead link or Or you think you've uh got a better website to cover some of the same material, shoot me an email, troiskinner at iheartmedia. com, and I'll uh I'll be glad to make the update. So what have we got going on today? Well as we haven't had in the last few weeks, we don't have our typical panel put together. Uh right now just a whole lot of things going on in my life and in Jonathan Sweitzer's life and it's been difficult for us to coordinate schedules. I hope I imagine you can appreciate that Um but fortunately or unfortunately, depending on how you look at it, uh I am on occasion asked to preach uh the word of God from pulpits around the uh mid-Maryland area. And not too long ago I was asked to uh speak on Psalm 100. And so you're about to hear the first half of a message titled Know That Yahweh is God And then we'll hear the second half next week. So uh and if you're a podcaster, you can just listen to these back to back and it'll be just having a brief uh, you know, bathroom break in the middle of the message and then you can go right into the Um the second half of the message that way. But that's not to discourage you from listening to the first half this week. You know what I'm saying? So here it is. Know that Yahweh is God based on Psalm 100 Good morning, beautible beautiful, beautiful people. I don't know if you heard that, Ted said. I'll say good morning too. I'm wondering uh how many of you are familiar with the electronic newsletter that goes out each week? I think it usually arrives on Wednesdays. How many of you typically try to read that? Okay, it's a pretty good percentage. So Renetta and Jace will feel good. They're not completely wasting their time on that. I'm wondering how many of you read this week's newsletter. Okay, pretty fair portion, but not everyone. So part of what happens with that newsletter is there's a little paragraph at the top of it that kind of helps to set the stage uh for what the message is going to be on. And I'm going to read what was in the newsletter. in case you missed it, to help properly set the stage for what today's sermon is all about. Psalm 100 is one of the great all-time great rock operas and power ballads. This joyful love song of gladness and thanksgiving gives us words and attitudes for the proper praise of God, not just any God, but our God, the God who made us. And as Christians, the God who has remade us. This God has a claim on our lives because He is our Creator. And this God has a double claim on our lives as Christians because He has paid for us at a great cost to Himself. This wondrous, spectacular, and seemingly faraway God calls us to Himself. He invites us to come be with him where he lives, to see his face, and to call him by name. Not just any name, but his personal name, the covenant name, Yahweh. The name with no vowels. The name so magnificent that generations of God's people refused to utter it aloud. And so we're not even sure of exactly how to pronounce it anymore. It's a name that borders on being impossible to translate, but we often settle for the translation of I am. This is the God we come to praise together on Sunday today. As we do so in delighted obedience to his invitation to corporately praise him. I look forward to this Sunday's weekly reunion of God's family, which we're participating in right now. Our time together will be profound and filled with wonder. And hopefully you've already begun to feel that it has already been filled with wonder and that it is profound. So as I now jump into the actual prepared message for the sermon, we're going to open with a sort of two-line play, if you will. arm wrestled a couple of folks and they lost and so now they volunteered to help us to execute this two-line play. I present to you the PBC players. I can't wait till I move out. Then I can do whatever I want. But I gotta tell ya. When you're 18, you can move out on your own. Until then, you are the My Ruth, turn to my rule. Amen. Words like this have become almost cliche. Scenes like this stand behind popular teen runaway songs, teen angst novels, teen rebel movies. These pop tunes, books, and motion pictures resonate because this theme rings all too true And hence it's become cliche. Things often become cliche because there's an almost universal truth. Or at least an all-too common shared experience that gets repeated and repeated and repeated. This cliche is found in the Bible too. Of course it is. Because all of our life scenarios find expression and representation in God's Word for us. No matter where you are, God's Word can meet you there. And what's so spectacularly encouraging is that no matter where you are, God's word can lead you to where he has called you to be. And so we arrive at this morning's text, Psalm 100. And I encourage you to turn there so you can read along. If you're one of those modern folks that likes the electronic gadgets and that's how you look at your your Bible, that's fine. Grab that. If you're old school like me and you like the paper Bible because you can write notes and stuff like that in it, then grab your Bible. And if for some reason you don't have a Bible with you, That will not be a problem for you. There are plenty of them in the pews before you. So grab one of the pew Bibles. And if you're grabbing one of those, you will find Psalm 100 on page 427. I'm one of those who believe it's always important to reference the passage along as it's being preached, but today it's going to be particularly important for you to be able to follow along a little bit as we will be recurringly working through the passage in a variety or at least a couple of different ways. If you would, find Psalm 100, which says, a psalm for giving thanks or grateful praise. A shout for joy to the Lord, all the earth. Worship the Lord with gladness. Come before him with joyful songs. Know that the Lord is God. It is he who made us, and we are his. We are his people, the sheep of his pasture. Enter his gates with thanksgiving and his courts with praise. Give thanks to him and praise his name, for the Lord is good. And his love endures forever. His faithfulness continues through all generations. The very word of God, inspired, infallible, and inerrant. Let's pray. Lord God, Father in heaven, we thank you and praise you for what you have done to orchestrate this meeting here today, bringing us together. Pulling us from our busy, distractable, sin-riddle lives to come and lift up our voices to you, to shout To enter your presence and to feel you among us. So that we can give you thanksgiving and praise. You are good, loving, and faithful forever. And never has it been more beautifully illustrated in the life and obedience of your Son Jesus Christ. And it's in his name that we pray. Amen. Psalm one hundred is a hymn And as a hymn, there are those who would say that it was primarily written for when times are good. When all is well, when we're leading the charmed life, no cares, no worries, no struggles. And I don't disagree. Hymns generally have the gist of let the good times roll. They are celebratory, celebrating God's work of creation and his work of redemption. A typical hymn in the Psalms will invite us to praise God and give us some of the reasons that God is praiseworthy. And this affirms our faith and leads us to give God more and more praise yet again. In those moments that we feel we've ascended to life's mountaintops, a hymnic psalm will almost always perfectly capture our mood, and it will fill us with a swelling love for and a confidence in God But what about the other moments in life? What about those seasons in life characterized by the child shouting, as we heard at the beginning, I can't wait until I move out, then I can do whatever I want. And the parents screaming, fine! When you're 18, you're on your own. Until then, you're under my roof, living by my rules. What about when we're not atop the mountain? When we're in a valley, a deep, dark, emotionally charged valley, when life's surprises are not pleasant. Just weeks ago, a child in Hagerstown was killed three days after his ninth birthday. Perhaps you heard about this in the local news. He apparently snuck a leftover piece of birthday cake, and he was punished for it. Allegedly beaten to death by one of his parents. All because the child was living under my roof, living by my rules. And dying by those rules that said there will be no more birthday cake for you When even this sort of situation is your situation, do the Psalms speak to us? Even the Psalms are glorious hymns, do they? Yes, they do. In heart-changing ways, even, as we'll discover by the end of today's message. Let me take a moment to provide for you some context for Psalm 100. You might think that all of the Psalms they simply stand alone. They're not necessarily connected to any of the other surrounding psalms. And in a sense This is true. You can absolutely open your Bible haphazardly, flip to the start of a psalm randomly, and in reading, you can take in a word of the Lord for your soul. Yes, you can. But if you think that all of the Psalms simply stand alone and are not connected to all of the other Psalms, then well you're wrong also. The Psalms have been arranged somewhat strategically. It would appear that there are five books of the Psalms that Correspond to the five books of Moses, the first books, first five books of the Old Testament. There would appear to be a couple of psalms that serve to introduce this collection of 150 Psalms And it would appear that Psalms 93 through Psalm 100 comprise the theological heart of this photo. So the arrangement of the Psalms does seem to matter somewhat. The psalms surrounding a particular psalm appear to help us understand more fully the context of a particular psalm, and therefore more fully, the meaning of a particular psalm. And so what are the psalms before and after Psalm 100 all about? Interestingly, six of the seven preceding Psalms have an emphasis on God as king. He is royalty in a cosmic way. The one psalm among the seven that doesn't highlight God's cosmic kingship. Highlights God as judge. God as judge is a major emphasis, not coincidentally. of the following three Psalms, Psalms 101, 102, 103. Now I find this interesting. I mean not only interesting, but helpful. It helps to drive home the magnificent message of Psalm 100, which we're focusing on today. From Psalm 93 to Psalm 103, we have a string of 11 Psalms. Ten of them want to be sure to tell us that God is a royal judge. He is king He is judge. He is ruler over all creation. He is judge of all He is powerful. His magnificence is of a magnitude that is rather mystifying and unimaginable. Do you feel it? Over everything that is, God is ruler. Over everything that happens, God is the one who determines whether is right or wrong. He makes the rules for all. He stands above it all. He is bigger than Leviathan. He is bigger than Baal. He is bigger than the boogeyman. And he is certainly bigger than us He is unapproachable in his holiness, righteousness, and power. He is transcendent. He is way, way, way up here. We are merely lowly creatures who are way, way, way down here. And then we read Psalm One Hundred This is a psalm all about this huge and amazing God, and yet it is an intimate and personal song of invitation. Yes, God is transcendent, so utterly beyond us, and yet God is also imminent, so utterly Among us. We have a God who is the one true and only God, and He has given us. A personal name by which to call him. I am The name Yahweh, the personal covenant name of God, revealed to his people. Yahweh. You walk up to a person, you begin to know them by asking their name. Hello, my name is Troy. Nice to meet you. What's your name? Some suggest that in revealing your name to someone else that you somehow relinquish power over to the other person Sharing your name makes you somewhat vulnerable, doesn't it? There's some truth maybe to that. And parents, have you instructed your small children not to give their name to strangers? I hope so. And you don't have them run around town with shirts that have their name embroidered on them, do you? If so, he might consider rethinking that. Ladies, have you ever hung out on the social singles scene and had some guy come up to you that made you feel kind of uncomfortable? If so, did you easily divulge your name? You might have even lied about your name, right? I remember a time I was probably around twenty years old. I was at some tourist location with my longtime friend Scott, and we went to the Wax Museum, played some arcade games, ate lots of junk food that I'm convinced I probably still carry around my midsection. And we entered a haunted house. Wasn't particularly big, wasn't very elaborate, but it is quite possibly the scariest place I have ever been in my life. Want to know why? Because Scott and I were working our way through this magical maze of horrors, and we're not really thinking, you know, we're speaking to each other and thinking nothing about it, but use each other's names Wow Scott, did you see that holy cow? Yeah, Troy, that was scary. Well, for the final third of our path. We had to go past some knucklehead earning minimum wage, wearing a Freddie Cougar mask and some hideous zombie style costume. And it really might have been laughable, except he kept calling out our names. He knew our names How did he know? It was freaky. We didn't realize he was overhearing us earlier. I was absolutely petrified. I was in college and I was about to wet my pants I kid you not. Because this other college-age kid wearing some pokey outfit was calling out Troy, Scott, I'm going to get you. Now the moral of that story is don't give your name to just anyone, especially creeps, working their way through college in a funhouse. But seriously, we don't give our names to just anyone for these sorts of reasons. Our names are personal. They are pregnant with importance. You might say that some of our names can even be something kind of intimate. When a name we go by is known only by those closest to you. Those who are married probably can really identify what I'm saying, right? You have a name that's personal, intimate Not something you would easily share with others. Well for the God who created us, this intimate name Is Yahweh. And Psalm one hundred uses the name Yahweh Four times. In just five verses, the personal name of God is given four times. Amidst ten other psalms. Heavy on the transcendence of God, who is king and judge, we have the intimate covenant name of God used four times. It's harder maybe to really feel this in an English translation which uses the word Lord. Even when Lord is in all caps, it doesn't always jump out at us that this is the covenant name Yahweh. In the Hebrew language, it almost jumps off the page at you. And something else? That jumps off the page in the Hebrew text is the fact that there being so much repetition of the name in such a short passage In translating Hebrew into English, it sometimes requires using two or three English words to convey the meaning of just one Hebrew word. And so the word count can be quite a bit higher in English. In Hebrew, Psalm 100 contains just 36 words andor hyphenated words. Thirty-six of these four are the name Yahweh. That's more than eleven percent. On average, every ninth word is the name Yahweh. Maybe it's just me. I find this astounding Now, whether you're astounded like me or not, the facts are illuminating. They tell us something about this psalm. Psalm 100 is about our personal. Creator God. Not some abstract notion of God. Not a conceptual or theoretical God. Not some flitting or faraway God, but rather a God who calls us close to him. So close. are so very close, King and Judge And there you have the first half of a message called Know That Yahweh is God. Taking a look at Psalm 100. The second half will air next week So we continue with some special editions of the Freddy Faith Debate Show. I think that after next week's uh after we complete uh the two parts for this message, I'm pretty sure that the following week will be a more standard faith debate program with with panel discussion. That's the way things uh at at the moment anyway are lining up and and appearing to look that they're gonna work out. So what have I been reading lately? If you've listened to this show, you've heard me mention Ted Decker's name a lot because I'm a huge fan. Ted Decker wrote uh a a whole bunch of novels that I've enjoyed. He's written a couple of books that are not novels, and one of those is Tea with Hezbollah And it's interesting, Ted Decker uh has a very heightened view of of intimate personal relationships with God, uh and and the the the power of living in active faith and and th that stuff oozes out of his novels. Uh his uh theological view is interesting in tea with Hezbollah. So uh not that I'm not rec not recommending it. I I recommend just anything Ted Decker writes, but It is interesting. Let me just say that. Anyway, I want to thank you for listening to this week's show. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith Until next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. Have a great week. God bless.