The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. Well, I don't know they have a view on end times or not. We'll find out. This is the face debate of 930 WFMB. I'm Troy Skinner. The one you heard laughing initially was David Sporcy, and uh the one who commented real quickly after that was Daniel Rasby, we're all pastors of house churches in Fredwick County. Rasby Church is up in the Thurmont area. Um Dave I always forget the name of the town you live in, but it's on the south end of Frederick County. It's in Knoxville, but that doesn't me necessarily mean there either. Knoxville. Oh really? You've moving things around lately? And uh anyway, House of Faith in Christ is my church and we're right in the center uh of of the county. We're uh on the north end of uh Frederick City, so anyway Uh we were starting to talk about end times and uh we record these in advance, so I can't even assure you you'll hear this show because Christ could return in the interim. Uh but assuming he hasn't returned to the interim, you're gonna hear these remarks. And last week we jumped right in trying to talk about, you know, the rapture and That sort of stuff. And I think we came away from that that uh David's, you know, not really counting on there being a rapture Uh I'm I'm pretty forceful in saying there will not be a rapture the way it's commonly understood. And uh Daniel has a variant view that uh he I think he's okay with saying that there's a rapture of some sort, but it happens at the end of the tribulation. So not sure exactly what they're being raptured from, but uh that was the that was kind of where we landed on that question. And then we started talking about Some big theological terms that get thrown around and we didn't really define them very well. And you know, shame on me. Um I I need to do a better job of protecting you, the listener. So Let's talk about some of these different labels and terms and what they mean. I think we talked a little bit about preterism and partial preterism, but I'll start there. So proterism is the idea that uh that's the label that's assigned. And there's I won't get into all the reasons why the labels are what they are, okay. I'll just tell you what the what these different views are. Proterism is that Jesus Christ he promised to return and he did. in AD seventy, full stop. And so he's not coming again. So the way the world has been since AD seventy is the way it's gonna be, and we gotta work it out. I mean that's a a very Uh insufficient way of describing, but it's there's no more second coming, the second coming already happened nearly two thousand years ago So, partial preterism says that Jesus did return in AD 70 in judgment against uh the Jewish religion, destroy the temple, all those sorts of things, and Most partial preterists, and I would put myself into this camp, would say that all that needed to happen for Christ to return in any moment happened in AD 70. The fact that he hasn't returned in the over 1900 years since has been tr purely God's goodwill and his patient timing, waiting for uh all of his elect to uh come to salvation, and he'll come back when he's good and ready to come back But there's nothing stopping him from coming back before I finish this next word. That would be my view. Uh piggybacking on that would be aga I guess I'll go with my view, the uh millennial view Which gets parada uh parodied as uh you know, ah meaning non. So you're saying there is no millennium, that is not the almillennial view. The a millennialists That's a hard word to say. Did not label themselves. They were given that label, and it's kind of a pejorative, and so it's led to a lot of misunderstandings. The people who hold my view do not believe that there will not be a millennium Uh people who believe what I believe believe that we are already in some some sense in the millennium and there's an already not yet tension at play and so it's already here but not fully in the way that it will one day be. And pause for clarification. When you say millennium, you're uh what people usually mean when they say that is they're referring to a couple of verses in Revelation that talk about after a tribulation of some kind, which is there's many diff uh views on that, then the Satan is bound for a thousand years, whether that's literal or figurative is also up for debate. And during that time the Christians are living and reigning with Christ for the thousand years, and then when the thousand years are over, that's the final end of the destruction of Earth And New Heaven and New Earth. That's that's the those are the couple of verses that are and what you're talking about when you're talking about the millennium and millennium and a thousand years. And then so and that yeah, and that g leads right in nicely segue into what I was going to be talking about next to define the term millennium. Some people will take the idea that millennium is a literal 1,000 years as we understand them, 1,365 day cycles or 364 day cycles if you like the the Jewish way of doing things. You know, three hundred six whatever. But anyway, the idea is that it's it's a it's an exact measured period of time. And there are those others who would take it as more of a figurative uh period of time, just for a very long time And I won't get into the merits of either of those cases. They they each would have their merits, I suppose. Uh but the omillennial position obviously if Somebody like me believes we're already in the millennium and it's been almost two thousand years. Somebody like me takes it figuratively. It's not right an exact one thousand uh years the way we typically calculate things. But it's not just the Almillennialists that have that view of m of the thousand years, by the way, the figurative uh so we'll move on. Um there's also the uh very popular view in America, and I say in America because it's not the prevailing view throughout church history and it is not the prevailing view around the world even today But in America, most of the Christians you run into will be dispensationalists, whether they know that's the label for what they hold to or not. The dispensational view, uh well I'm doing a lot of talking, so if somebody wants to jump in, you let me know. But as far as it does with the end times, the the dispensationalists where they end because that's what we're focusing on now, so we won't get into all the different dispensations throughout time. But we can later if we want. Where they end is in a variety of places depending on which dispensational camp they're in and this can make things very complicated. So there's this idea of there being a tribulation period, meaning this this this period of great angst and difficulty and and God's wrath being poured out and and uh and demonic attacks and these horrible things happening in human history. And uh almost ever pretty much every dispensational I know believes that there's going to be a sev a literal, exact seven year period of time for that to happen There are those that say that there's going to be the rescue of the church that is called a rapture in their lingo, and they're going to say that Christ raptures his church away. Before the tribulation, those will be pre-tribulation dispensationalists. Some say it's going to happen in the midway point, three and a half years in, so those will be mid-tribulation dispensationalists. And then there are those that would believe that there's going to be a rapture, Christ coming to call his church out, uh, at the end of of the seven years. And those will be post-tribulation dispensationalists. Uh I'm not sure though that Daniel is a dispensationalist, so I gotta see where he fits in that scheme. But that's But most of the people you talk to are dispensational, th that's gonna be kind of their general idea. And they are Uh dispensate almost all dispensationalists are premillennialists. And I say almost because there's all these subdivisions. And premillennial means we believe it has not started yet. And most premillennialists would also hold to a literal thousand years. It has to do with the timing of Christ's return. So those that think that Christ is going to return and then we enter the millennium, he comes pre-millennial, previous to the millennium. So there then so and that becomes an important thing to keep in your mind to understand this next term, which is post-millennialism. There are those that believe that uh things are gonna get better and better and the world will become increasingly Christianized. And there's different groups here. Some of them believe that everyone on the planet will become a Christian before Christ returns Most of the ones I know say that no, that's just the culture will be Christianized and the governments will be very good governments and the people will be generally Christian. There might be some holdouts of course, but and after Uh a thousand years of that Christ returns or again the Omillennial view kicks in here with the uh the figurative language. A lot of post millennialists don't believe in a literal thousand years, it's just a figurative, very long time. And after a very long time of the world being very Christianized, Christ then returns and the uh the the millennium will have already happened when he returns. And then um there's historic premillennialism. Um which I don't know that anybody in this room is unless it's Daniel, because I don't know exactly where Daniel fits on the spectrum of uh of these end times views. Um and what am I leaving out? Am I leaving anything out that's important? I think those are the m majority of the there there's a lot of uh a lot of your the views have to do with Israel and how Israel fits in or doesn't fit in to Mostly a dispensationalist. Now as far as interpreting the Bible, particularly the book of Revelation, you've got the historicist view, the futurist view, the idealist view, and I'll and and other views. I'm not gonna waste everybody's time with all of that just now because I feel like I've just thrown the listener an awful lot of labels at once. But those are the big ones. And I I'd be willing to bet if you are Christian yourself Or if you know somebody who's a Christian, they are probably one of the things I just mentioned. Right? I mean that's 99. 9% of the people out there. So there's going to be some stray hairs here and there, but that's going to be. So Just for fun, next cocktail party, walk up to your friend who you know as a Christian and say, Hey, so are you dispensational or amillennial or what? See what they say. And all of these things together are eschatology Eschatology, eschaton as it has to do with the end time, so the study of last things. Eschaton, last things. So eschatology is a study of last things. That's where we're talking about when we talk about eschatology. Just to give you a little So what does historic premillennialism mean to you? Since you didn't really define that. Um Historic Premillennialism is uh there is a So again, the premillennial part has to do with Christ's return. So Christ returns before the start of the millennium. but that uh the the church history and the way things play out uh in history leading up to that moment Uh I'm not really good at articulating this. Is um is what is what guys are interpretation of the Bible uh uh guides our expectation of the future and it's not it it's it's it's meant to be different it's it's meant to be distinct from Um those who hold that view would make it a point to say that they're distinct from the dispensationalists. So there's one big long human history as opposed to these silos So that would be probably the closest then to what I believe. And he didn't change or end covenants, certainly not with Israel. Um, all of his laws are still in effect, the Torah is still in effect and should be obeyed Um, not for salvation, but just does the laws. So in that sense I don't see a separation there. I see Israel as God's chosen people and they always are and always will, and they're Always to the salvation is to the Jew first and then to the Gentiles. Uh I don't think the historic premillennialists uh are counting on there being a seven-year tribulation. Some do, some don't. And again depends on your definition of tribulation. But there is a seven year cycle that I believe in. Talk about Daniel talks about it. The last week the there's a d distinction between the sixty-ninth week and the seventieth week and I do think that's a literal time period. Um I'd actually say that it's already started, but you could say that it's going to start soon or whatever, but whenever whenever it starts, it'll be as seven year schedule. At the end of that seven years then the millennium starts and it's a literal thousand years. And at the end of that thousand years then Christ comes back again and destroys everything uh and makes a new heaven and new earth. case uh taste uh test case study uh for me because um I don't fit in any of the boxes. Well no no because well you don't fit into the typical boxes that I run into And usually you just have a conversation about these sorts of things with the dispensationalists uh and and end up, in my experience, end up talking about th they're defending their system, their dispensational system. And we end up talking about dispensationalism and not talking about the end time, the second coming. Right. We're spending so much time talking about the system we never actually In your case we're not we we're not gonna talk about the system. We can really focus on the end time, which is what I wanted to do here. So One of the things I find um dissatisfying, unattractive, which and uh uh it leads me to not accept that particular view, is the built-in idea that Christ can't return now. Right? He he can only return after the beginning of the seven-year tribulation cycle. And that's I feel like that's problematic. I feel like Christ could return. Well you're assuming that that that hadn't started. What exactly um is different Um six year for forget forget now. I mean it's just in general, right? Unless you are a hundred percent sure that everything has not actually happened around the world to be in place for Christ's return, then how can you know that the that he couldn't return right now Well yeah, but now you're making my arguments. I'm saying everything has happened, he could return right now. I mean the only thing that hasn't happened is whatever it is his secret own secret knowledge knows. But as far as thus need to check boxes before he could return it, it's happened. Sure. So but if we're t waiting for this great most tremendous tribulation period ever, like what's different from the world seven years ago compared to the world eight years ago? Like does something dramatic Some demarcation that happened where he could come now. So it's twenty twenty-two. So in twenty fifteen, did something really unbelievably dramatic shift in twenty fifteen years we could say we've been in the tribulation for the last seven years potentially I wouldn't say for the last seven years, no. So uh maybe two. So yeah, so that's what that that's my point I guess. So based on that view, w we would have to say, Oh, so he's not gonna come for the next five years. Well you have to define come, right? 'Cause that's that's a big thing as well. Oh Jesus Christ is coming back. Well yes, he's coming back. But what does that mean? You mean to judge the world uh and and to start the millennial reign? then that'll be at the end of seven years if you mean that he's coming back as in you used to he the witnesses are in the streets and and Jerusalem breathing fire and all that. I mean there's a lot of things that are happening. God is healing his um uh his the saved people. the the mark of the beast and all that. So d Christ is not actually here reigning on the earth during that time, I guess. So yeah, if if if you want to say at the end of the seven years, sure. I would say yes, I agree I would subscribe to that view that n that he wouldn't come back today in that sense. Um, maybe in a few years or a few months or whatever. I think but in in my view, the next the next feast to be fulfilled will be the feast of trumpets. So it'll be would be in the fall time frame. Um so we know the time of year. Um when the I wanna back up for half a second so I don't lose the thought. Yeah, the idea of y you y the the line I think was something like well Jesus he's he's not you know he's not here now ruling as a king now kind of thing, whatever. It's like a throwaway line you're thinking out loud. But that's another thing that makes me all millennial because the all mill all millennial position helps to emphasize the fact of Christ being king now. Mm-hmm. He's always king. But I'm talking about physically being without a kingdom? I'm talking about physically being on the throne in Jerusalem, like literally sitting there, you like you can go walk and say hi and shake his hand type of thing. physically on the earth during the thousand years. That's what I'm talking about. So what does Jesus mean in the gospels when he says the kingdom of God is at hand at hand as in here or soon or yeah. I mean there there is there's a kingdom of God there's and there's whole sermons about kingdom of God versus kingdom of heaven and and and so on. Um Yeah, well I think that's just uh turn of phrase. But the idea with the millennium is it says he they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. So there really isn't any of that going on right now. Christians are not ruling the world right now. There's a lot of evil in the in in the world, especially at the upper levels of government. But it also says Satan is bound during that time And I f uh a lot of a lot of sensational pastors like to say, Oh Satan's bound now, I don't want to see when he's not bound. Like it's pretty bad right now, right? The idea. There's certainly a lot of demonic activity and you would agree with that You maybe you would say that Satan is bound but his demons are not. I've heard that been said, but it it it doesn't seem to me that there is a suppression of demonic activity during the tr the age of the reigning. Actually I I do have some thoughts on that, but I want to get David a chance to jump in here. Well I was I was just going to say that it uh you know that Daniel, when you you know, when you said, you know, uh you're talking about the the reign of Christ, right? And and uh and Christians ruling with him. I mean that That in the way that you're talking about it, you're you're presuming a um like a a physical governmental a perfect justice systemic sort of sort of way. Um theocracy j uh uh perfect justice system. And that that that made me think about um I guess the uh the that second point that uh I was gonna mention last week that um that as uh you know one of the when we come to scripture one of the big things to to give a lot of consideration to. That that ends up being a a really a a key point of determining where you land on these issues is which which passages are uh are taken Super literally. And I'll say super literally because yes, we you know we would all say yes, we take the Bible literally, like we think it means what it says. Right. Yeah, that's That's good. Um but uh yeah, so uh you know, that that is something that uh Yeah, to to wrestle with, you know, and and um m so many of these passages, you know, is uh is is are we dealing with uh word pictures here? Are we dealing with Yeah, are we being given a a perspective of things happening uh that is from the heavenly perspective, right, a spiritual perspective of things, or is this from a an earthly perspective, you know, as we as we walk through these. So I mean all you know, whatever views we encounter come to all these particular passages with that that sort of presupposition and it and it's you know there there's no one who Takes uh you know, as Troy said, there's no one I don't think who comes to all of Scripture woodenly literal. And so so then it's a good thing. Um with and and and so my my my opinion is whatever th is the most plain thing that you can see by reading it, that's that's what it means unless you can be shown The text specifically says this is not it. Like Jesus says this is a parable. This is not literally happening. Well then okay, that's a parable. Um but I think the farther you get from a wooden, as as you say, interpretation, it makes it a lot easier to do things like we can do with Genesis and say, oh well it wasn't really six days, it wasn't really just a few thousand years ago, it was millions of years and it was maybe evolution and maybe there's gaps and all these things. Well if you read Genesis and you haven't been to school and heard about the theory of evolution You're not gonna get that from Genesis. I'm sorry, but if you read Genesis you're gonna see six days and you're gonna see everything created. So I say to interpret Revelation the same way. If if you get there, I mean and if you look at Dan. So Jesus looks like a lamb? So or does it look like a lamb? So so here's here's what I would say is that Uh uh so I'm I'm with you when it comes uh when it comes to, you know, read scripture, you know, expecting, you know the you know the just the most most plain interpretation. So uh and not, you know, allowing sort of, you know outside sources personal experience to to determine how you're viewing Or or interpreting what's being said. But you know, my thought is okay, but we we do let scripture interpret scripture. We we go to scripture to help us understand scripture. Um and so that that is what I mean that you know that's my recommendation to anyone with how to approach you know, if you're having trouble with one particular passage of scripture keep reading all the rest of it. Right. There's two things have come up in this show that I think we might want to spend an entire show on each possibly. One is uh interpretation uh principles and approaches to something like the book of revelation. That might be a really good thing for us to focus on. And also the the question of Israel. Which was a alluded to briefly, but is a big part of the conversation in this country when it comes to end times prophecy. So I I think we're gonna want to do that. But before we uh wrap up the show, I decided to brush up. So here's historic premillennialism Teaches that the church was in the forevision of the Old Testament prophecy, while dispensationalism teaches that the church is hardly, if at all, mentioned by the Old Testament prophets. Historic premillennialism premillennialism teaches that the present age of grace was predicted in the Old Testament. Well the this pose uh hold that the present age was unforeseen in the Old Testament and that thus there's a great parentheses now. Uh the historic premills teach that the uh millennium uh comes after the second advent of Christ but not so much concerned with classifying other epochs of history. Historic pre-mill premills. I'm going to just say that. Historic premills. They're post-tribulational. Um whereas the uh dispos are premillennial usually. Uh anyway, so yeah, I think that uh you you you definitely seem like you fit very nicely in the historic premolen premillennialism camp And one of the big distinctions is the Israel question. So that'll be uh an interesting thing for us to tackle when we when we get there. So I'm gonna have to wrap up. We've got like a minute left. So Daniel Razby, if you want to check out uh the organization that his church is uh have founded and very involved with it's uh conquered by love dot org. Uh we still haven't had any success in getting David Forcey or his church a website, but one of these days he'll have a website comment or some sort of social media page or something. I don't know. And then I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Of course the radio station is online at WFD dot com. Uh encourage you to check that out. And if you can't listen to us on the radio, you can take us with you. Worldwide. And you can listen not just at the AM at nine thirty AM but also at ninety nine point nine FM if you got one of those things the H D two radios. So kind of check your car, see what has one of the those two these days. Anyway Thanks so much for listening. Appreciate you spending part of your Sunday morning with us again. Happy Father's Day. I think this is Father's Day's recording, right? Thank you so anyway. Until next week. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at W-