Broadcasting for the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We're brought We're brought to you by Putman Plumbing and Heating. They are a longtime, I think nearly 10-year sponsor of the show. How can we make you smile? Is there a slogan? We are online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of stuff, including the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. We post what you send Simple as that, eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday, that's ninety. Do the math. John can't do the math, but I know that David Newman can do the math because he's an engineer. David Newman's good with numbers, and he's good with leadership, and he's all about the Greek Orthodox And I'm all about a good gyro. Lambda. Yeah, say it the right way. I can't say anything else, but I can say that. John Sweitzer, who just said gyro and gyro in the same breath, is the senior pastor of Cross O's Valley Church and the one applauding him for his Greek Uh my expertise accent or pronunciation is David Newman, who is a principal with Leadership Techniques. That's the name of the company, Leadership Techniques. And you're still involved, right, with Saint Peter and Paul. I'm a parishioner. I've I'm no longer a part of the leadership then. No. Because it turns out running your own company is The current president is Nick Damalakis. who is also the president and uh owner of uh Orisis uh web development company here in Frederick and he's a phenomenal leader. But if you're there you're a leader, right? And you have influence, you're leading. That's correct. Might not be officially recognized, but we're all leaders. Didn't we establish that in the very first show we did together? We sure did. That's a vital principle. We kinda had a a cliffhanger at the end of last week's show. So before we forget, uh we had some homework. Putting you on the spot a little bit, I know, but some homework here from and John you can chime in too, but I'm mostly expecting that uh that David's gonna have some good thoughts on the kinds of books that people should read because we apparently need to be readers if we want to be leaders. That was confirmed. I've heard that over and over. And David seems to agree with that. I do I very strongly agree with that. Why do you agree? Um because we need to continually move forward and we need to be able to stand on the shoulders of those who have come before us. And I'm not just going to say this because I'm here in the presence of the senior pastor and Troy, but the first book on leadership is in fact the Bible. And a lot of people don't realize that the Bible is very readable. But on a in a more modern sense, uh Peter Drucker is one of the greatest management thinkers of our time. He has passed away, and if you uh are thinking that Drucker is old hat That is not correct. There are some very modern books that are still based on Drucker's teaching written by his son and by one of his PhD students, lessons in Drucker. Um and then even more modern than that and standing on the shoulders of Drucker is Daniel Pink. And one of the books that Daniel Pink has written is called Drive. And that is about employee motivation and it's about the concept of uh getting a person's inner motivation to shine through. So using internal motivation instead of external or extrinsic rewards. So extrinsic rewards are if then if you do this, then you will get that. Whereas internal motivation is the kind of motivation that, say, a person has if they're climbing a mountain or running a marathon And if you've ever r run a marathon or seen someone run a marathon, you could stand at mile twenty-two and there is almost nothing you could say to get them to not go that last four miles. That's real inner motivation. Well imagine having that kind of motivation working on your team. And so Daniel Pink talks about the science. and the actual behavioral uh characteristics that we can put into play that can allow that motivation to show through. And um then a couple other books uh that are really good, uh modern books on leadership are switch and rework uh fairly recent books on transition management and change management. So John Maxwell comes to mind with all of his you know twenty one immutable laws of this and and all the right those Those a lot of his deal with leadership. That's a standard. It's you know it's it's a little bit aging. People are always looking for the latest thing. Sure. Right? And so and and there's a lot of people. That's right, Joel Wilson. Not a bad pit. They haven't read it. I actually have it on my shelf, but I haven't gotten around around to reading it. All right, so read it and then give us your impression. Yeah, but you've mentioned Ken Blanchard several times. Great books, very easy to read. And if people are looking for a short read, uh you mentioned the one minute manager Uh that the one minute manager is a great book. It's a classic. It's probably thirty years old, talk about aging. Blanchard just did one recently about David and Goliath. I haven't read it. I think my brother read read one just dealing with uh I forget which book it was, but I've been wanting to get it and haven't gotten it in. And specific to church and and uh and rather contemporary Humility by CJ Mahaney. The book about church. I mean, he he unfortunately didn't follow his own advice maybe on on some of that, but it doesn't doesn't mean the book's not good. Um It's hard to be the guy that writes the book on humility. I think Mark Deaver uh probably has some uh good church leadership books, part of the nine marks series uh out there that might be interesting for people particularly listening to this show that are interested in church leadership. Uh not that all these leadership principles aren't good in the church, but there are some that specifically they're gonna start they reference scripture and and talk about, you know, use case studies that are church related specifically and that sort of thing. And any others that you possibly mind, John? I'm not putting you on the spot, but uh Andy Stanley's got a couple uh good books out that I've been paying attention to the book. Chuck's boy. Yeah, Chuck's boy. One of the hot topics these days is diversity. Um at Leadership Techniques we espouse the principles of celebrating diversity, taking it to that next level. You know, there's three levels. So you have to do what's legal and what's required. And then there's sort of what you should be doing to make the workplace a a more comfortable workplace for everybody. And then there's what you could be doing. And what you could be doing is celebrating diversity. and really drawing strength from the diversity of the people, whether it's ethnic or religious diversity or age diversity or just geographic location. I'm originally from near Boston, so that gives me a different perspective on things than than some people that maybe grew up in Frederick. Uh but one of the great books on diversity is called Making Diversity Work by Dr. Sandra Theederman. And a great CD by the way, Toby Mack, Diversity. That's cute. Give Toby my love. Okay, so enough about the book. So if you read it we're looking to have an upcoming show on diversity, specifically dealing with uh Ferguson. And uh the differences the different perspectives right down the middle of the church on uh uh on w you know, who's right and who's wrong in that specific situation. We're looking to bring a lady on from right here in Frederick that uh uh is in a different place from I think where I naturally end up on on the topic and you know, uh th the reality is that diversity drives levels of of discussions and issues that we've said from the beginning that We gotta we gotta quit ignoring 'em and just kind of glossing over these things. We gotta start paying attention to where people have differences. That's right. Because one, it means that we stop stepping on each other's toes, but two it means that we know where we can get things done together and where we can't. And by knowing that you end up getting more done together because you you trust and you know each other instead of Again, there's been this this uh surface level approach to diversity that says, don't talk about your differences, don't be critical of anything, you know, and the result is everybody holds their convictions. you know, an inch deep and there's no moral backbone when push comes to shove. That's been a real driver for me, you know, on this show. Let's get those discussions out in the open. Let's not be afraid to disagree, but learn to do it in a way that is you know, respectful and forthright. Exactly. It'd be nice if that happened in the church, right? Without a doubt. So for me it's very confusing and it always has been and it always will be that there are different Christian churches. Whether it's Catholic or Greek Orthodox or Protestant, we're all Christian and so why do we have to have all these different Christian churches? Yeah. It'd be nice if we could actually be one. Well there's probably a way for us to be one and recognize diversity within the church as far as how we split hairs on certain issues and that sort of thing probably. that that pulls from all the different uh Christian traditions in Frederick. And um it's gonna be a real test to see if we can if we can a pr uh celebrate the diversity you know, uh in work together on the areas that are most important. So what is it? It's uh it's an all things charity, you know, uh in Uh there there's a phrase that uh I think it's tr uh uh John Wesley or Charles Wesley uh phrase that said said that in i i in Certain things unity and other things charity and certainly was a point you try to work. I know the phrase and I can't put that to drawing a blank on it. uh interpretations I've heard of the parable of the eye of the needle, whether it's literal or not. And you know, you know what I mean? Totally. It's as difficult for a rich man to get into heaven as it is to uh draw a camel through the eye of the needle. I've heard Several different interpretations of that. Yeah. So And that applies to unity in what way? In that different churches uh have different opinions of the different pieces of the Bible the interpret. So that's just one particular story in the Bible. But there you have all these stories in the Bible that are they Were Adam and Eve real people? Uh or are they um metaphors for the beginning of life? You know, all the stories, all the the The different stories that are told in the Bible are you know, are some of them real or or metaphors? And if they are metaphors, what's the actual interpretation of them? And I've heard different ones because I grew up as a Protestant. I explored different churches when I was in my late teens and early twenties. Um I was a little bit dissatisfied with the answers that I was getting in my own home church. So I was in the army and I had the opportunity to explore a whole lot of different religions and churches and uh eventually met my wife and and and I think that's part of the reason that I was so willing to become Greek Orthodox because I truly am Christian and for me that Greek Orthodox Church is the real answer. So Is this the phrase? I think this is it. In essentials unity, in non-essentials liberty, in all things charity. That's it. That's correct. Great memory. Yeah, great memory. Google is my friend. Uh Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Google's his friend too, I know. Yes. Um And uh David Newman, is Go Google your friend, David? Yes, absolutely. All right, he's with uh leadership techniques and also uh a parishioner no longer in leadership officially. with Saints Peter and Paul Greek Orthodox. Alright, here's a grid I want to use to talk about how to herd these cats and get the volunteers, particularly in a church context, to work. Okay. Uh there are different phases. There are probably numerous more than but I'm gonna focus on three different phases of church development. And the different challenges of getting volunteers motivated to get involved, to do a good job, to stay with it those last four miles of the marathon and so forth. So you've got the startups, the church plans, where they're trying to organize leadership. Mm-hmm. So what are the challenges specific to that? And then you've got the maturing churches, which Jonathan's church probably still fits into that zone. Maybe even the Greek Orthodox Church in Frederick does. I don't know when you cross over, but they're maturing, but they're not mature. They're not a hundred year old institutions. So the startup, what are the things in a church? situation, the things they have to think about. A maturing church, a growing young church, that's uh what are the things that the challenges they're gonna have to be focused on and what are the steps they need to take? And then those old, stale, dead churches, uh what do they have to do So can we walk is that a is that a helpful grid? Is that something you're can you can speak to, do you think? Sure. I think in in the beginning the uh God created the heavens and the earth. In in the beginning of the church of of the church organization, we should say, because the church, as we all know, is two thousand years old. The Greek Orthodox Church in Frederick is a little over twenty years old, so it is Uh I it's an infant compared to Christianity, right? And it'll be a long time before it's a mature church, in my mind. Um but what you have to be concerned about in the beginning is how you're gonna organize things and and how you How are you going to get people in place to do the things that need to be done? Operate a Sunday school, for example. People will not come to your church if you don't have a good, healthy um program for the children, which makes all the sense in the world, right? You need things like a Bible study program. In the Greek Orthodox Church we have a responsibility to the diocese, a financial obligation. And so we need to make sure that we can pay the rent, so to speak, or the mortgage, pay all the bills, keep the lights on, and meet our obligation to the diocese. That can be an emotional issue at times. Um so how are you going to raise money? And uh and are you gonna follow certain guidelines as far as raising money? For example, the Greek Orthodox Church does not or at least ours, and Frederick has never had bingo. Not that there's anything wrong with having bingo as a fundraiser. I won't speak for that or against that, but our particular I will Well, because there are a lot of short stories. Bingo. Bingo is my middle name owned, you know. But But then, you know, is the is the Greek church a restaurant? Oh, it's a Greek church that has yellow children. So you have to find ways to make money. in line with the dogma and so you're saying the early issues have to do with with identifying your your key um uh priorities and getting people into those positions starting out. That's right. And and put people in positions that will allow things to grow. And there's key positions for a church where you're saying a Bible study program, a kids program. Uh some fine kind of financial accountability where you're where you're paying attention to goals. Mm-hmm. Uh what else would be like the key early Fundraising. Fundraising. Fundraising is a big part. Uh for us having a priest was was a big part of it because our transitional f priest, our founding priest, Father Vlahos was from Cherry Cherry Hill, New Jersey. That's where he still is. Uh so he traveled down here. And over the years we had various priests that were part time. We we couldn't afford a full time priest. Nor was there the the congregation was not of a size yet that um commanded a full time priest. And that can be a hardship for a Greek church because the Greek church has services Aside from Sunday. It's interesting because that element of starting a new church is very different under uh some of the settings that Troy and I have been in where you know, a guy goes out to plant a church, mm, you know, and so it's not it's not like there's a a committee of parishioners that are starting the congregation or calling in a pastor. Rather the pastor goes in and starts the church and gathers people. And so uh it happens a little bit differently in that sense. And there's there's reasons for all of this. I mean the Greek Orthodox If you decide that you're going to be a Greek Orthodox church, then you are a part of the Greek Orthodox diocese. That means that you have a Greek Orthodox priest that has a certain level of training. Um you know in a certain thing. Now the need for fundraising, the need for having leaders to handle Sunday school and Bible studies and children's programs, that doesn't go away. So what changes in year five, year ten, year fifteen, year twenty-five? As far as a focus, something that they need to then they've moved past those initial stages and now we need to be focusing on this. Is it quality control issues? Is it just dealing with putting out fires at that point because that's all you're dealing with now is fires. No, it's more it's more l of a growth issue. The church hopefully continues to grow and ours has over the years continued to grow. Um, I would not say it's grown exponentially. It hasn't mushroomed into a huge, you know, a thousand person church. Uh we've sort of leveled off around the 400 members range, 400 families or so, I think is what we have currently Um but I think that the the growth issues uh take you in different directions. People have different opinions about how to grow. Uh as I mentioned on one of the previous shows, uh we had to decide if we were going to buy an existing building or build a new building someplace. And then once the decision was made that we would go with an existing building, there were two available. So which one do you go with? And that those are huge decisions. You know, and um growth issues in terms of the Sunday school continues to grow. So in year one we had a Sunday school, the very first year in nineteen ninety one. I organized for Sunday school and I was the Sunday school teacher and that was fine And then we had a couple of other people volunteer to be teachers, so we ended up having three grades. K through twelve. Is from just having Team players that one guy's over over kids, one guy's over the Bible study program, one guy's over each thing Now you have a team over each of those things. That's right. Right. And so the shift at that point is the shift from individuals running the the specific areas and kind of being a team together to this whole new level of Teams running each one of those things and needing to work together. That's right. And identify models. Yeah. And there's a lot of details, you know, and if you've ever We first of all invite both of you to come to a liturgy sometime if you'd like. They're very beautiful. They're very prayerful. And um when you come into the Greek Orthodox Church, we have icons. And a lot of people make the mistake of thinking that we worship the icons because we venerate them by kissing them and making the sign of the cross. That is a sign of respect for the icons which are the image of the saints and of Christ. And um so when we come in we venerate icons, we light a candle. Well, in order to do in in every Greek Orthodox church that you'll ever walk into, there are candles up front to to be lit There need to be candles up there. Right? You can never run out of candles. Somebody's got to make sure there's candles. And so there's all these little details. Right. Because if you have twenty or thirty people attending a service, a case of candles lasts For six months. All of a sudden a case of candles goes in a week. And so you have to have somebody ordering candles and making sure and that's just one of the Hundreds of details that there are. Sure. Um outside of the priesthood that the parish counts. So we we the way we talk about it is the priest handles inside the nave and the altar. The nave is the main portion of the church. We have the narthex, which is the front lobby, and then the nave and then the altar. The nave and the altar are the priest's territory. Outside of that, the maintenance and the operations of the church is what the parish council is in charge of running. And so as a part of that again is that second level I think of growth that you're asking, Troy, is it i is it has to do with the finding defining rather who's responsible for what, you know, and and and building some some boundaries and some lines internally where people kinda begin to understand what's the right way to Get things done and who who's in charge of what and that sort of thing. How's the church going to be cleaned? All of those things. And then all these logistical kinds of things begin to t dominate the thinking maybe and is if if we're not careful, is that what ends up you know, I think two shows ago you mentioned there's five phases to a project. the last one big adjournment. Yeah. So these old mature churches that have been around forever, mm-hmm, they're on guard against adjournment. Yes. Right. So what is it that's leading those churches into those dangerous waters and what do the older churches need to do to keep from closing their doors? They need to be open to new ideas, I think. That's That's the biggest problem that I've seen with older churches, even older Greek Orthodox churches. Um there there tends to be a uh That's a really interesting thing for a Greek Orthodox person to say. That there needs to be a new way of thinking. Because it's all tradition. Two thousand years of tradition, that's like the hallmark of Greek Orthodoxy. And then you're talking about yeah, but we need to have some new ideas. So what do you mean by that? Yeah Where do the new ideas come in? Not not new ideas in terms of changing the religion, but new ideas in terms of the way we operate the church. And the ch the church with a capital C is us, the people, right? We don't need to operate us. We are the church. But the way we operate the structure and the way we operate the organization needs to move forward with the times. We need to keep up. And so uh So so those things are not defined by orthodoxy in the church, but there's freedom to to adjust those aspects. Sure, every week I get a church bulletin via email. That didn't happen ten years ago. Certainly didn't happen two thousand years ago. Right? So we have this ability to communicate now that we didn't have previously, we need to use that to our advantage. We need to understand how how younger people are communicating. The change in communication methods has happened. Right? And and it's and it's constantly happening. It's a very dynamic world that we live in and we need to be able to keep pace with that and make sure that we're meeting people's needs. People come to the church Um, for many different reasons, but a lot of people come to church because of a need that they have. And that need is not related to their belief in God or Jesus Christ. That need is related to their um everyday world that they live in. And so we need to be able to meet their needs that are associated with the world around us. And so we do need to be progressive. while still respecting the traditions and and the basic beliefs that we hold. And having your core nailed down tight uh is really important because i I mean think about it. there's some controversy. There what's becoming increasingly popular because technology makes it possible uh and because of the cult of po of of personality being so powerful in today's culture, there are a lot of satellite churches Where they've got a a s a senior CEO style pastor usually who does all the preaching and they might have three, four, five campuses or more. where they're all getting video feeds. And I'm not this isn't a show a show about that. We don't have time to get into that. But that is very controversial. Those who support us say We're just moving with the times. This is what technology allows, what people expect. They expect multimedia presentations and who cares if the pastor is up on a video screen or if he's live in person And then there's those who are more traditional are gonna say, Whoa, you're like throwing the baby out of the bathwater. And so that becomes a really so it Yeah, sending out a b uh email bulletin is one thing, but someone push back on that. Like is that the slippery slope? Uh we're not gonna s it's in it's uh fascinating. Yeah, definitely there's um all kinds of ways that we could take it too far. Community at the end of the day is not just, you know, two people uh talking on a phone, but there's something you know that has to do with proximity that talking on the phone would be an improvement. Yeah. Hmm over what happens today. It's not just texting, you know. Oh snarky little hundred and forty character you know comments and things like that. Yeah. Yeah. Well I think we have to it's it's sort of like having ground rules. We have our fundamental beliefs and and we can never let go of those. You know. Though I have found that my married younger friends that that are just getting married, they talk to their spouse way more often throughout the day because they text like every you know thirty minutes they've they're they're texting again with their spouse and I might, you know, call like once during the day and that's it. And and I'm just saying that that there's some elements of of uh you know, modern communication that actually improves on the sense of the yeah. We've talked about that before and that we don't have time for me to really throw a wild thing out, but I'm just gonna say just Frequency of communication doesn't necessarily mean quality of communication, so some people sometimes I wonder if it's depth to the relationship, you know? Anyway. Jonathan Sweitzer Senior Pastor Across Ozway Church, he never texts me. That's how I know he loves me. Yes. Uh you're doing Hebrew. Davis David Newman is the principal with Leadership Techniques and it's been a pleasure having you on these last four shows. Pleasure to be here. He's a founding 50. Come on. Uh and I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. We are sponsored by Putman, Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. We have 167 half hours. They still have to live without us. But this podcast, until next week. God bless.