Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing paper because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Futman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Check us out online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find the Faith of A blog. Our blog is your blog. Just email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday is ninety times a week. And you can check out uh If you missed part of a show or all of a show and you want to follow along with what's going on, particularly becomes important, I think, if you didn't hear the last couple of weeks' shows and now you hear this show. We have a recurring theme. We have the same panel together, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. and David Newman who is principal with the Leadership Techniques Group that uh teaches people how to be leaders, how to build leaders And he was part of building a church that has become a standard bearer in uh Frederick City, Saints Peter and Paul Greek Greek Orthodox Church Um by the way, I haven't mentioned now two shows. This will be three shows in a row if I don't do what I've been reading, and I know you like to read along. John Greenleaf. Robert Greenleaf. Robert Greenleaf. Robert Greenleaf. So that's one that we might want to read. And there was another book too that you mentioned, right? Wasn't there another book that you mentioned? Crucial Conversations. I highly recommend that book. So he highly recommends those And I'm not gonna highly recommend this unless you're totally nuts, but if you're trying to figure out how to understand Old Testament Hebrew, then the simplified guide to BHS There's uh there's one guy listening to the show that is interested in that book on Hebrew. Yeah, William R. Scott. In fact, if you're that guy, write into us and we will give you And it's been updated a few times. I think there's three, maybe four editions out there, so you probably want to get the current edition. So I think it's the fourth edition is probably the most current. So a simplified guide to BHS. Not ZHS, not movies. Biblical Hebrew studies. Yeah. So anyway. We are talking about leadership. Yes. Yeah, so we're hoping that we've been doing this show for a little over ten years now. We're hoping that we can actually lead it into a direction that makes sense. And so David is here to help us do that. So hello, Newman. Hello, Troy Um we in the ther this is our third show together with this panel. The first show we talked a lot about your background and some of the early history of Saints Peter and Paul Greek Orthodox Church. We talked about some big picture leadership issues in last week's show. Um we talked about some positives to keep in mind, some things to avoid, how to avoid emotionalism, how to build consensus in a larger uh like a committee meeting where you got 10, 12, 13 people involved, that sort of thing. So now let's see if we can figure out some case studies. So so can I share a story that I got from Crucial Conversations Does it start once upon a time? A guy in like a a a top forty. Will they live happily ever after? I don't you're not continuing until they know if it if it ends happily. It does end happily. Okay. Yes. And so this guy is has a reputation that they they brought in some people to help them with leadership, you know, to grow leaders internally. They said who's the the best leader? Everybody said again and again, this guy is the most influ influenced guy in the whole company. So they tasked a couple of their people to follow him around, see what he does. He did nothing different from anybody else. And the you know, for weeks they're following this guy and they come into a uh a board meeting with the owner of the company and they're talking about a couple different places that they could move their headquarters to. And then and as the three options are being presented, it was clear to everybody in the room that the CEO wanted to go one place and was kind of shutting down the conversation. And this one guy that everybody said was the greatest influencer in the company speaks up and looks at the CEO and says, Sir I just gotta tell ya, I can I I can see very clearly and we can all see that you really want to go to that particular direction. And if that's the case and you just want to make that decision That's great, let's do that. But if you want us to work this issue together and to make a decision together about what is the best opportunity Uh I feel like we need to back up and we need to really hear out these options and not feel like if we disagree with you that that that we're gonna somehow you know, be causing a problem here. And the owner of the company responded to the guy, backed up, they went a different place from where the owner c of the company was thinking to go, and everybody felt good about the dis the the decision. And that was the situation where the crucial moment came up with high stakes, there was high emotions in the room, everybody was just lining up behind the CEO and wasn't sharing. what they really thought were the key issues involved until that guy spoke up, had the courage and the consideration to address it politely to call the CEO on it, and the result is that everything shifted not in the direction of where that guy wanted to go, but in the direction of everybody doing it together. That story like pounds echoes in my mind. I realized powerful while you were talking, I was sitting here nodding my head and probably people aren't realizing that I'm agreeing with you, but I strongly agree. And uh we call that uh leadership techniques we call that uh Starting with a clean whiteboard. In order to get team buy in, it's best to get team participation. We want everybody talks about getting team buy-in. They want in but in order to get their buy in, we need their participation. So what we'd like to do is start with a clean whiteboard and brainstorm and get everybody's ideas. So many times I see leaders say, I already know what we want to do. This is what we have to do. But I need the team bought in. So we're gonna start with a clean whiteboard and then we're gonna lead them in the direction that we want them. Right. Well and what I say to those leaders is So you've spent a lot of time and a lot of money hiring the best, the brightest, the smartest people that you can find, and now you want to treat them like they're idiots Totally. They will see right through that. And this is the reason why so many people are cynical towards this idea of leadership and vision and all these kinds of things. Because they've been manipulated so many times by people using leadership techniques in a manipulative manner instead of with real Totally. Well in fact that's the point is that even as I was saying, I was realizing that the point of your leadership techniques is that you're not just using them as as tool techniques of manipulation, but they're true techniques of of getting people to work together and to establish common goals that that genuinely represent the whole group. And so what we tell leaders is, you know, i exactly what you just said that that took place in that book. If if you really can't start with a clean whiteboard then list the things that are the real constraints and let people work with the constraints. It is entirely possible that your team will come up with a better idea than what you had to begin with. So let them But if you can start with a clean white the cleaner the whiteboard can be when you begin, the more participation you'll get, the more buy in you'll get. How then Do you keep things from getting off track? Meaning you've got a clean whiteboard and everybody's pitching their ideas. I mean what i is there a danger? in that environment of it just kinda turning into, you know, you just ended up going somewhere that kinda doesn't fit with the company anymore or or or with your basic goals. Like how do you How do you move that kind of conversation keep it from going off the rails? There are several techniques for that. Uh affinity grouping, uh nominal grouping. Techniques affinity are used to affinity grouping means if you're running a brainstorming meeting for instance and you get let's say you you brainstorm for an hour and you get a hundred different ideas. Okay. And you get people to say, write down their ideas on post-it notes. That's a v a very popular method of brainstorming. So everybody writes down one idea per post-it and you just Having a good time, everybody shouting out ideas, writing them down, with sticking them up on the whiteboard. So many times people walk away from the meeting then with a hundred post-it notes. Have an administrative assistant type 'em up Send the email out to everybody and now everybody has a hundred useless ideas. Right. The real outcome of a of a well-run brainstorming meeting is a few actionable statements. And so what we want to do is take all the ideas on the post-it notes and then assign different groups to start sorting them out. And so you sort the ideas into categories. Yeah. And then from those categories you start boiling them down. And uh by doing that some some of the categories will become irrelevant to the discussion. Right. For example, in the Greek church we've had discussions about everything from buying the church on seventh street, which we did in nineteen ninety four, three years after we started, right? Okay. To having French fries at the festival. Yeah. Big discussions over what type of band to have at the festival, over uh what the inside of the yeah. Did do you like the fries? I like the fries. There you go. Dave, he likes the fries. But what are the level of things that you trouble the whole group with It doesn't seem like French fries is the kind of thing that you're going to spend a lot of time brainstorming and discussing and trying to get everybody to buy in the right. So is that wise though? I mean I mean is there a level of some decisions that you should say, you know, let's give somebody responsibility for that area and let's let them take care of it and you know whatever they decide we'll we'll get behind them and go. In the church so to finish off the brainstorming discussion, you want to boil it down and and get those actionable statements and by categorizing you'll find things that'll fall out of the relevancy of the issue. So for example, if we're having a meeting about whether or not we should renovate the existing church or try to buy a new building. Then somebody starts talking about French fries, you soon realize that category is not part of this discussion. Yes it is. You have to know whether or not you have the ability to cook the fries in the building. There there is some of that because sorry. Anyways I get your point. There's a street view. See I'm a b I'm a problem in meetings like that because I can tie it all together. In in the church there are rules. So for example, if there's an issue uh related to the priest in a human resources sort of way, confidential, salary We don't talk about that with anybody outside of a very small assigned group of people that's specifically assigned talking about that. Um if there's There there are financial constraints, financial limits. So the parish council which is elected every year and and there's a rotating uh four people are elected each year, so there's a continuity on the council. So you serve for three years. So every year there's four new three three or four new people coming on and three or four people going off. And of course people can be re elected and things like that. There's a continuity. the president's role, what things should be done at the state level, what things should be done at the federal level. Right. You know, there's this constant discussion about how much those discussions should happen at a high level versus a low level And so in a lot of committees, uh the big controversial one in Frederick right now is the planning board, right? Big controversial committee, but it's an advisory committee. So y you know, it's great, it's a hard job, I'm sure, very difficult job for the people that are serving on that board. And and I think we all need to remember that the people on the board are serving on the board and and it's a very tough job to do. Um so that's just an aside, but they have their limits. You know, it's an advisory board, so for so the parallel of that in the church is if uh there there needs to be a spending over and above a certain amount of money, then that has to be brought to the General Assembly, the whole parish. has to have a meeting. So for example, if you're gonna buy a new building. One year we wanted to buy new dance costumes for the uh the children that do Greek dancing during the festival, and it was several thousand dollars. It was above the um above the permission of the council to approve that expenditure. So we needed to call a general assembly for it. Fortunately someone came forward and donated all the money. So if someone donates money for a specific purpose, you have to use it for that purpose. And uh I believe that's a rule of a 5013 C organization. Right? That's correct. I and and so uh that solved that problem. But if we hadn't resolved it that way, we would have had to have called a special meeting of the General Assembly in order to prove approve that amount of money. that the church has been dealing with this kind of stuff for thousands of years. But this is not o only a church issue. I mean every part of society deals with these kinds of discussions. Mm-hmm. And uh, you know, 'cause I I I guess I just hear echoing in my ears, you know, various columns that I've read mocking church and church structure and we need to get away from religion. We need to get away from organized religion, you know, because it it it messes people's lives up and this kind of thing uh all of which is merely people recognizing that uh there's a lot of church situations that blew it and were manipulative and handled things poorly, but no more so than the school system. And the companies, you know, that we're working for and uh I mean at at every level of society there's been those kinds of breakdowns and and so organized churches that have leadership is not uh something that that is bad in and of itself. I just hear our generation in particular the millennial generation wants nothing to do with organized religion, is leaving the church in in in you know uh pretty large numbers because of this anti organization approach. And yet at the end of the day everything that is of value in society at uh you know that where we live together is accomplished by people organizing around ideals and getting things done. And so I'm hoping that it'll just be a generational thing and that you know, that will move past that as a nation and and recognize the importance of organization. Yeah, I think we have to show the good in it. In in the Greek Orthodox Church there's there's a uh familiarity No I I have not done a lot of traveling around the world, but I've traveled around the United States uh to some extent, and I've been to several Greek Orthodox churches around the country. And no matter where you go, it's always the same. It's the same liturgy. It hasn't changed in two thousand years. Wherever you go, it's all the same. It is. It there's a familiarity. And not only is there a familiarity in that you understand the service and you understand what to do and what's going to happen next Everywhere I've ever been I was welcomed as if I were a member of that parish. And it's an amazing thing. And so that's why everybody who is in uh associated with the Greek uh with Saints Peter and Paul wants there to be Greek Church and Frederick. So When we get into disagreements, and this is true at work as well, when we get into disagreements, we can start talking about well why are we here We all want there to be a Greek Orthodox Church in Frederick. We all want, you know, at work, we all want our project to be successful. So we all have the same goal. We all want the same thing. We just disagree about the best way to get there. So let's first of all agree that we want the goal. Then let's agree that we will disagree with some things. Just like our founding fathers did in Philadelphia when they when they uh first established the Constitution. They said, when we leave this room, people will not know what we discussed in this room. We can't let them know that. We can't let people know that we disagreed with each other because they needed unanimous ratification from thirteen colonies because they were going to war with England. It was kind of a big deal. Okay. They needed everybody. And they knew they wouldn't get unanimous agreement if the if the disagreement were known. So I begin meetings, both at church and at work, with the establishment of agree to disagree. We all understand that we probably won't agree with every decision that's made. However, we need to agree that once a decision is made by the group, that we can all support that decision as if it were our own We're not going to leave this room and go back out to the parish. We're not going to leave this room and go back out to the company and say, well this is the stupidest decision I've ever heard, but that's what we're going to do. That's not leading. If you're in a leadership position you need to support the leadership decisions, whether you agree with them or not. So our responsibility as a leader is to diplomatically and tactfully let people know that we do disagree and let and let them know why and let them know what our reasons are. what we think the the answer is. You know, but when the decision's made, we gotta get on board. The more we talk about this, the more I'm I'm just reminded that our whole nation, this experiment that is the United States is is built on this question of what does leadership look like and what kind of leadership are people going to tend to follow. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. That was the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer. He's a senior pastor across the Pastor at uh Crossroads Valley Church, easy for me to say today for some reason. And David Newman, who is here in a couple of different uh hats that he's wearing, I guess. He's one of the founding fifty for uh Saints Peter and Paul Greek Orthodox Church in Frederick and he's uh I guess the founder, one of the founding two for leadership Co founder of uh of Leadership Techniques, uh a company that specializes in in leadership training and and and leadership issues. Uh I'm reminded of a story, I think it was in Gung ho, the uh the book, but it might have been in a different one. I uh uh a diff different book. about management and encouraging your people to step out and do the right thing for your company. And there's this story where this uh woman realizes that a business traveler who was there at her visiting her company for a business meeting He left in a rush or something to go catch his plane and she realized that he left behind his briefcase, it had his laptop and all of his notes for his next big meeting that he had somehow made mention to her, like, Oh, I got a big meeting in Hawaii And uh she realized, Oh my goodness, he's gonna need this stuff for his big presentation and is he's flying be and he was in a rush 'cause he's got a meeting like that evening. So she took it upon herself, so the story goes, to book a flight for herself to fly to Hawaii to hand deliver the stuff to the guy and then flew right back to Atlanta, I think is where the story is based. Sure. And some people think, Holy cow, how much must that have cost? And it's about three hundred dollars. You know? Well I don't know. I don't know what a round trip is like From Atlanta? Hawaii, okay. So we're probably looking what, eight hundred dollar round trip pick? I d I not these days. I I don't know, but the point is it's it's not Well gas is dropping again. Thank the Lord. It's not petty cash. It's tough to drive to Hawaii though. Yeah. And she was, you know, some people would criticize her and maybe fire her like, What are you crazy? And she got applauded for it. She got a bonus or a raise or a promotion out of it or something like that. Now that's the kind of thing. You gotta let people know, we've got to think about this and is it really worth the expense? Is it worth is it and yet she's the key she has some autonomy though to she was a and she knew she was allowed to to make those kinds of decisions. So how do we as leaders figure out how to assign autonomy and provide a grid or some sort of a template of how to make those decisions. Because in a different business environment she would have been fired. Uh she might have been fired, yes. She's done if she got a really big customer for the company uh to sign on to a uh you know, made your deal or not. There's a there's a few things that come into play there. One is that she had established a level of trust with her boss that that she knew she was allowed to make mistakes. And the only way that people will ac accept accountability a and autonomy is to know that they can make mistakes. And and and still have a job after they've made a mistake. And then the heart of that is the gospel of Jesus Christ. That we're you know, we're gonna make mistakes, but the Lord loves us and he forgives us, and so the freedom of that is huge in a Christian ment mentality. That's right. We we need to know that we're not going to be able to do that. We're not trying to make mistakes, but we do and it's not gonna kill us. Sure. And as leaders actually we need our people to make mistakes because we need them to be learning and growing. And we don't learn anything from doing things right. We learn from our mistakes. And so we need to establish a level of trust and respect for people. And the way we earn trust and respect from people is by giving people trust and respect. And so our job as leaders is to allow people to make mistakes without allowing them to fall off the cliff, without uh without allowing everything to fail because a mistake was made. I think we learned by doing things right though too. Do you? Yeah, I think you learned that that that was successful. I learned that that's a successful way to do that. Yeah, that's true. And and and that's the point though, is that you're doing stuff and you have the freedom to do it. So it wasn't somebody micromanaging you but you did it and it was successful and so you keep doing it. Or you did that other thing and it wasn't successful. Things may go right even though you're doing things wrong. And I've experienced that in industry. That's that's true. But if you continue to do things wrong Let's say things are going great because you're in an industry where things are just things are just going gangbusters, right? People are making money hand over fist and everything's going great, but you're a lousy manager. You're a terrible manager. But nobody notices because the company's making a lot of money. When times get tough, you will not be able to manage well because you haven't learned from your mistakes. You think what you were doing was right, but it wasn't. Right. And so pride comes. It's far better. Yeah, it's f it's far more educational to learn from our mistakes. than to try to figure out if things are going right, was that because of something I did or was it in spite of what I did? Right. But but and and I'm not arguing with you, I'm just pointing out You know, maybe a nuance because I think if as a if you're a manager, if you're a leader and somebody who is a subordinate to you in a particular situation does something good And you recognize them for that, they have learned that, oh, that was really good and I got appreciated and rewarded and thanked for it. So you they learned through They're not going to only learn when they get their hands slapped for doing something wrong. No, you're right. Does this have to do with something you and Dina were fighting over just recently? We don't fight. Did you did you not get credit? But all I all I'm trying to point out is that we need to allow people to make mistakes and that's one of the biggest mistakes that managers make is to be very intolerant of errors. And and it it really doesn't matter. Anyway. By the way, I'm did you guys read you must have read Gung Ho. Was that story from Gung Ho? Does that was that the right book I don't recall that story but I didn't read Gung Ho, so I'm not sure if that worked. Ken Blanchard, I think that wrote Blanchard. So Well whether it's not it's in that stories in there or not. It's a good book. You should read it. It's an easy read. I mean you could read that in like an hour and a half probably. I mean, yeah. So anyway, we have about um I don't know Mm two minutes or so left in this show. We still haven't gotten into what I thought we'd spend a lot of time talking about. So we might have to maybe do one more show and talk about the whole w the the the difference or if there is a difference between leading in that authoritarian top down role versus herding a bunch of cats and volunteers, particularly in a church context. John has to get people to volunteer to help set up for Sunday service maybe or uh point out where the visitors need to sit and follow up with those visitors and lead Bible studies and that sort of thing. And they have to be willing to Not just do it, but do it with excellence. And he has to inspire that when they have no they have an obligation as members of the church to do those sorts of things, and I get that. But it's it's a different not a financial motivation. Yeah. It's a different kind of a motivation. Uh and this doesn't particularly apply to the Greek Church, but in a lot of volunteer organizations, this really does not apply to the Greek Church But in a lot of volunteer organizations, you know, you have that 80-20 rule where 80% of the work is done by the 20% of the people. And so the obligation doesn't hold. Yeah. But in uh let's let's uh hold hold the thought because you know we'll we'll spend a whole yeah we'll spend a whole show maybe talking about that. Who knows? And but real quick, yes or no, I've heard this said a couple of times in different c a couple of different contexts. I'm wondering if you would agree. It's kind of a you know, uh uh bumper sticker slogan, but leaders are readers. You think that's true? Do you think if you want to be a leader you need to read? Yes, I think there's two very, very important skills for leaders. Reading and uh listening. We need to be able to process information very quickly. Hm. I didn't hear a thing you just said but We'll talk about that maybe next week. Actually think about that. Maybe jot down some notes between now and next week of some books you would suggest people read then. I can think of sixty-six right off the top of my head that people should be reading, but that's me. Jonathan Swift, your senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. But I'm not. So there. And David Newman, he is a principal with Leadership Techniques and uh one of the founding fifty for Saints Peter and Paul Greek Worth class. I don't know if that's what they call them, but they should call them the Founding 50. I kinda like that. And we're starting to like it. This is the uh Frederic Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Um did I mention? Yeah I did I think I'll make your website. I don't know. And just in case I didn't, WFMD. com keyword faith. Till next week. God bless.