Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMG. Brought to us by Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And Deer Valley, hardscape, landscape, masonry. Or is it Masonry, Hartscape, Landscape, or perhaps it's landscape masonry and hardscape? But you get the idea. Deer Valley, that's the way to go. Alright, um by the way I forgot last week I do this front now and again. What am I reading? 'Cause I know you care. Uh as you know, I've been on a Ted Decker kick for a while. Yeah. Uh this is a recommended by the way. I haven't recommended all of them, I've recommended most of them. This is a recommended skin. By Ted Decker. Skin, record hardly recommended. Somebody that you know has been reading Ted Decker. And he does not like the way that Ted Decker writes. And I told him, well Troy Skinner likes it, and he's like, Really? Why? Which book does he read? Um he uh it's it's the red, white, and blue I mean the red, green, black series. Yeah, I w I think that the first book in that series is phenomenal. Yeah. And the rest are a little bit tough. Those are not my favorite. It feels like it's too emotional and he d he doesn't feel like it i you know it's it's just funny. Yeah. Not all of his books are like that though. Yeah Okay. So if he wants to try something else, he give me a call. Okay. There's plenty of Decker books to pick from. Well he could he could read some Clive Kessler, because there's really no emotion at all in Clive Kessler. Ted Decker, part of his motivation, not that I want to get off on a tangent here, but part of his motivation with that series was to help uh I think he was working through in his own mind what it would mean to be in heaven and true Forever communion with God. And so he's trying to capture the emotional feeling that it is to be in heaven Yeah. But if you want something that's not emotional, have him read uh Adam That'll scare the socks off of them. So well that's emotion. It's just a different emotion. And at the end of today's show, I'll try to tell you about something else I've been reading. Jonathan Sweitzer, by the way, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Tom Cooper, who was principal at Bright Hill Group. Thank you for being on the show to talk about leadership. Now last week we determined who we were going to vote for Uh and I think the show ran out just as we were saying that. So sorry you missed it. Too bad. So you know so sad. Yeah, so next uh Split between uh b between uh Jefferson and Adams. Oh, he already served his two terms. He wasn't gonna run, he wasn't gonna do it again. Adams would be interested in another term though. So So anyway, leadership we're talking about, particularly in the context of the Bible, Christians, that sort of thing. I don't know if it was last week or the week before But one of you two says, or maybe both of you have concurred, that leadership, good leadership, good biblical leadership, basically equates to Christlikeness. Yes. So if we want to have a good leader as president, for example, or a good leader uh running our company or a good leader is governor or mayor or whatever, how much weight do we What would Jesus do? How much weight do we give to the fact that somebody is a Christian versus somebody who's not? And in this election it l uh The people in this room I think are Republican, and if you're not, you don't have to disagree or agree that you are aren't Republican. But um the front runners um during this state of affairs would be uh Michelle Bachman, Rick Perry, and Mitt Romney. Yeah. All of them very well known for their religion. Yeah. That's true. Right? Two are uh evangelical Protestants and one of them's Dominionist. Latter day Saint, a Mormon guy. Right. So can somebody who's not a Mormon vote for Romney when there's two evangelical Protestant Christians on the ballot. It does make it a lot harder for Romney. Uh at the end of the day, I don't think that that should be the deciding factor personally, uh, for whether or not um for who you vote for. I don't think the question is I don't think the religion should be the first one. You know, and and I think one of the questions you you asked was, you know, what do you look for? I think love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, gentleness and self control. You know, because those are the types of things that that exemplify good leadership. So if I'm hungry all of a sudden. I could go for a few pieces of fruit. Yeah. It's interesting that wisdom isn't included in that. I just thought about that. All the fruit of the spirit are are attitudinal and um moral in that sense, but certainly for good leadership the must have wisdom as well. All of those things would be elements of wisdom, right? Yeah, yeah, I'm gonna have to think about that one. What what how would you define wisdom? Um wisdom Well say wisdom's alignment with God's truth. The skill of living. Yeah, if you have skill in living, you're going to be patient and gentle and kind and have self-control. And yet I think that those are all Yeah, but those those end up being the characteristics of how you go about doing the final thing that you do. And so it's true that that that I think those character qualities, characteristics are important to that whole process. Alright, so this is getting pretty esoteric. Totally, right. I just know and I'm willing to go there. If somebody has all seven of those fruit of the spirit going on in their life, you're going to point to them and say, you know what? That dude there is wise, aren't you? There's eight of 'em. Eight, okay. I can't count. You're gonna say that guy's wise, not necessarily. I mean again, that's the point. Not necessarily. What are you gonna say they're unwise? Many people looked at Christ And they rejected them. All I'm saying is that at the end of the day, right. By the Bible by the Bible's standard Christ was wise. Yeah, certainly. Okay, I got what you're saying. And we can say that because he had all those things that we that Tom listed through. Apparently there were eight, not seven. If you're looking for a a b a biblical way to discern who to trust, I would agree that the fruit of the Holy Spirit's good uh a very good start Maybe not all of it, but a a good a very good start. So are those eight things are those the uh is that the biblical measure of good leadership? Is that what a good leader's gonna have? Is those eight things? Why don't you go for it on this one and Well I think that that those are definitely character qualities that you want to look for in a good leader. I think that you're uh if you don't love your people, you're not going to be able to to serve them. You're not going to be able to get them to to I mean people will will do for you if you have power over them, but they will do the least they could possibly do. And and the Machiavellian kind of concept of leadership says, Well I'm gonna I'm gonna use my power to use fear to motivate you. But fear only gets compliance with the minimum of what you have to do. But if Godfather But if but if People feel loved by a leader, they'll sacrifice everything for the for the leader. So they felt loved by the Godfather. I don't think so. No. I think I don't think they didn't? No, I don't think so. They feared him, but they also loved him. Don't we do that with God? We certainly fear 'em, but he but we love him as well. I don't think we fear 'em enough. Right. See my point? So fear and love is is uh anywhere. Fear as love casts out fear. It does. But how do we get there? Right? Because because what is the beginning of wisdom is the fear of the Lord. That's right. But the end of wisdom is love, and so somehow there's a very dynamic interaction between those two. So I think, you know, we're still very esoteric, aren't we? Well I think you know, talking about so we talk about love, then joy. Yeah. enthusiasm and a and a uh an opportunity to to really lead people to a better place. People won't go if you say, We're all gonna die, follow me Nobody's going, right? Christ did that. Well, that's true. And he said he said, I I'm gonna die and and follow me, right, to give every cross daily. I think you said it. And then he said, But I'm gonna rise from the dead. And so he led them to the a very scary place, but he led 'em through it. That's that's right. Um almost two thousand years ago Christ died on a cross. Yeah. But that's not the end of the story and that wasn't what Jesus said the end would be. Amen. He didn't say, Follow me, I'm gonna die. He said, Follow me, I'm gonna die, but I'm gonna raise again and I'm gonna I've I am right now establishing the kingdom of God. It is here, it is at hand, repent. Follow me. And then you read Revelation, we know it's gonna happen. Right? Well I tell you what, it's Christ wins. It's pretty terrifying. Follow me to victory. And the world's gonna look at that death and think it's a defeat and it's the greatest Victory. That's the point. His his death on the cross was not a defeat. It's a question of your vision. Follow me to the greatest win ever. If your vision does not include the cross. So when you look at it that way, isn't it Tom Wright? Isn't that what he isn't uh I think Tom's right. I think he's right. Tom's right. I love you guys. I I can come back all the time. If you're just gonna say tell me I'm right. I mean could Yeah. Or how about this? Are there things that we can know about leadership or that uh we would accept as truisms about leadership that are good that aren't in the Bible? Oh. That aren't in the Bible? Is everything we need to know about good leadership in the Bible? It's interesting, when I was at the um the Six Day Creationist Conference Uh there's this one guy that got up to speak that was dealing with life. Does that mean the conference was six days long or was a conference talking about creation taking place in six days? There's something theologically wrong with that. So anyways, the point it the point that he made, he was a logic he he was he was dealing with logic and he was arguing that that the world's best arguments always rest on something that they got from the Bible, something that comes from the truth that is revealed to us in Scripture. And so so I think I would say at the end of the day that And if he revealed to us how to live so that things work, then I think it's likely that you know, there's nothing new under Under the sun that everything that you need to know could be found. I would say that is true, but I think one of the things that's powerful to me is that You not only have exceptional leadership modeled in Scripture, you have abysmal leadership modeled. I mean, you you you see the warts and all, right? You see that the uh Nebuchadnezzar right who says, This is not the great Babylon that I have created by my own hand, you know. I mean that's he he was very successful from a world's perspective, right? Right. But then he you know and and then even even among the godly If you look at if you look at David, if you look at Solomon, you know, guys that you would say those guys are are pretty good leaders. And yet Huge foibles. And yeah, absolutely. Absolutely. or Jeremiah, I forget which one it is, um, they prophesied that because the nation had rejected God, that God was going to remove their leaders. They're they're commanders of a thousand, they're commanders of of ten thousand, they're they're prophets, they're priests. And it seems to be the case that if people choose to uh embrace the Lord and what he calls them to biblically that God himself will say, you know what? They're worthy of a leader that will lead them. uh to what is good. And so he raises like in the judges, he raised up s uh Samson, he raised up Gideon, he raised up, you know, Ehud, uh the left handed man, one after another he he raises up people. if we're really t willing to turn our hearts to him and and to cry out for his help. And uh and which is interesting because God himself chooses leaders. That's true. But it appear in fact Christ said he didn't say raise up leaders he said pray ye therefore that the Lord of the harvest would raise up wor raise up workers. We're not supposed to raise up workers. We're supposed to make disciples. God is the one that's supposed to raise up the workers. But but I agree with you, but I think you go back to the the question of If we are pursuing Christ's likeness in our lives, we will start to manifest those things that do tend toward good leadership Now, that doesn't mean that everybody who is a passionate follower of Christ becomes charismatic, but it means that they and not charismatic in a religious sense, but charismatic in terms of having the charisma to draw people to them. Because I think there are plenty of people who are uh James Thompson would say living a straight life, who are just getting up and going to work and coming home and serving their families and, you know, not the people you would say, Yeah, that guy, he's a real leader. And yet those are the people who are having the profound impact on on the culture because they're they're serving their families. Right. In fact what what we're told is that the meek will inherit the earth. And the definition of meekness is not often a quality of leadership that is uh magnified. That provides us a good transition to something I was hoping we'd be able to get to on this series on leadership. By the way, Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, also This week, Tom Cooper, who is principal at Bright Hill Group. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Freddy Faith Debate Show on 930 WFMD. Um If you pay attention to these sorts of things, most wouldn't, but uh I know Jonathan does, I pay some attention, I'm not sure Tom if you have, but a pretty high profile pastor. uh a leader of a very significant movement within the evangelical church within the last uh what fifteen, twenty years, whatever it is now. Yeah, probably going back twenty five years. Uh CJ Mahaney with the Soviet Grace uh Ministries. Um he wrote a book on leadership and how important it is to be humble as a leader. And now there are all sorts of problems with uh him and his ministry because he wasn't humble and because he wasn't behaving like a leader should behave So let's let's talk about the things we've been talking about for the last, you know, two and a half shows. Can I just can I just say real quick that uh that I think both Troy and I have felt like uh that in that movement that there's a lot of good stuff. So we wouldn't say that that there's only negative. So it's it's easy to say aha. You know, we had a we had a a failure. And and one of the things that really gets under my skin is that that the Christian Church tends to shoot our wounded. You know, when somebody has a moral failure or somebody has a failure in leadership, we tend to want to disassociate ourselves from that person. Whereas Jesus said, I didn't come for the healthy but the sick. And so we're going to be able to do that. that we gotta go to the cross and that we gotta die. Well because I think my sin is not as bad as your sin. Precisely. You know, because my I I'm better than you. Precisely. So I'm in I'm in better I'm in good shape. And I think We we really need to do if if we're gonna have biblical leadership is we're gonna take those people and we're gonna bring restoration, we're gonna bring reconciliation. You're gonna draw to a place where you can confess your sin, where there's going to be public forgiveness. Not only has he sinned against the Lord, but also sinned against the I mean I I don't know the particulars of this whole thing. I I know that there was a a split there and there were some challenges. I don't know the facts and I certainly don't want to bring judgment at all. But I think realistically in the context of church failure or church you know, church leadership failure There ought to be an opportunity to to bring restoration. And that rather than just say, you know, let's fire that guy and let's bring in the next guy, the next fair-haired child, you know Um I think we've really failed in the church by not, to your point, teaching it and then expecting it from our congregations. It's a little bit of the Hollywood mentality, because the Hollywood mentality is that you have to You have to look the part. That's right. And you gotta be the part. You you know, there there's gotta be this sense, you know, that that there's a shine coming off of you. Just like Saul looked the part. R totally. Head and shoulders above the rest. Right. He's good looking and and tall and strong and and everybody said, Well that's that's we that's we want a king. That's the king we want. So apparently David was a good looking man too, as scripture tells us. Sure. Which is interesting. Anyways, all that aside, you know, there's a study that just went out. I uh you know, I gotta tell you, it bothers me. that all of the leadership team at most big churches, including the pastor and his wife Again and again are like the best looking people in the congregation. Now that guy who was praying at the NASCAR race a few weeks ago that talked about his smoking hot wife, he was not in that category. What are you talking about? His wife thinks so. Well apparently, and that's great. And he he thanked God for his smoking hot wife. Uh and uh and then they showed his wife and and, you know, I'm sure she's a lovely person, but I'm not sure that I would use the the descriptor Smoking hot for her. I'm glad that he thinks so. I think that's wonderful for his marriage. Yeah, it's a whole different subject. I think that kind of prayer in your pr in your private life or in in a community of people that know you well is fine. But in a public prayer like that, uh you know, there's there's a But anyway, that's a different subject, I think. The question is legal. Back to and the the the sovereign grace deal is just is a a current example of what's going on. Well and there have been many over the years and and I think there'll be many to come. And and I I mean I it it it shocks me that you don't see the idea of of biblical restoration, you know, biblical discipline shown in churches. And you don't see that opportunity to restore the one who is in sin. But but if you look at the scriptural standard, it you look at the prodigal son You know, and and the father didn't say, You know what, when you get your act together or when you No, he was watching for his son's repentance and he went running to him And so there comes a place where you say, you know what, you've crossed the line and it's not appropriate for you to be in this leadership role, you need to step down. Um but then there's an opportunity I think for restoration and you've got to figure out what does that look like. You know, there's a guy that um is currently in my congregation that came from two congregations that split and he was really hurt by it. um and so actually left the church for a period of time uh and is now coming back to the church and um in the context of that He's learning this very principle because I know the pastors of the churches that split and uh and they have they have reconciled. They're not currently pastoring together, they're from two different congregations. But they've reconciled, they bless one another, uh, both in private and in public. They uh they work together in uh in the city where they're located for for good things for the kingdom of God. And uh and part of what this guy that's in my church his healing has been to see that even though there was the breakdown that the people that he saw the because he came from a broken family, you know, he's just like I didn't come to the church for more of the same. Right. You know, but but he's he now he's going back and he's saying, Wow, you know what? Um it's not more of the same It's true that that they're not, you know, uh uh planning church together now, but they are working together for the kingdom of God in the you know, physical location where they are. Right. I mean yeah, that that issue and it and it took another godly man, Barnabas. To come in and say, Hey, cut it out. We've got to bring this what's important? What's important is honoring Christ, and let's get behind this. You know, let's get this behind us because we can't Let that stand in our way. Okay, so coming back to the the other situation we were just talking about, I'm not going to name a name again. Uh with you know, this big church that was that was so effective um and and doing big things. But the one thing that was always true about that particular uh group of churches and everywhere that I've seen 'em is still the case, is that they refuse to work together with any other church and the location where they are. Like if they're down in Montgomery County, they will not get together with other pastors for prayer. They will not get together with other churches to do things for the sake of lifting up the gospel. They refuse to do so and And unfortunately, again, it's a miss leadership-wise, because Christ clearly, John 17, 21, said, My prayer is that they will all be one. and that they would work together and and it's a leadership issue as to whether or not it's all about me and my church and a lot of unfortunately the circles that I've been in that are leadership oriented Again and again, it's all about their church and what they're doing and and I I see an unwillingness for them to work with other parts of the body of Christ precisely because you know, well that part of the body of Christ doesn't look like it's successful enough or this or that and they d they don't fit our, you know, um uh uh atmosphere. They don't they they don't fit what you know what what we represent and and they're afraid for their reputation. Uh and again it's a failure of Christlikeness. Well I would say it's a failure of Christlikeness. I I'm not sure that I could go so far as to say that you You can know the heart, right? You don't know you don't know what's driving the the motivation that's causing them to to be set apart in that way. But I think it it you're right, there there was this prayer, I pray that they'd be one and and we ought to be one, you know. Um however there are there are times where you have to divide and there are things about which you say this is you know we're we're we have disagreement about this. There are things about which you say, you know what, that's not okay. You've crossed the line there and we've got to do it. So but I think that that within the the in house debate, if you will, th there ought to be a model of leadership that says, you know what, we screwed up here and we need to make it right. And and and look, in every breakdown of relationship There is sin on both parts in every breakdown of relationship that because we are sinners. And so this is what I was saying. In that specific situation, I think part of what needs to happen is for them to be reconciled with the rest of the body of Christ. Because a part of part of uh his failure was the fact that he would put people out and he would manipulate Uh and this is what came out in the in all the emails, he would manipulate to move other people out of his congregation, his circle of churches, and even other pastors would come and appeal for reconciliation. And they would not do it. They would not follow through. Well, and I think that that's that's one of the things that my my hope is that they will do that. Well, I I have to say that uh growing up in the in the church, I did not see Biblical discipline. Not in that church. No, no, I'm sorry. In the church, in a church, yeah. I didn't see biblical discipline. I didn't see a standard of of the biblical standard that would hold to that type of accountability on a personal level And I think that I have seen that in my my church that I um attend now. And I think that is so much of a higher call and a higher standard. Because it really calls for fundamental humility. Yeah. You know, to say, wait a minute. And and and you know, look, Paul, great leader, not very humble, right? Not a very humble guy. And and so I think That was one of the areas. The scum of the earth coming along at the end of the line. That's true. And at the end of his life in Timothy, he said I uh his he still was magnifying his testimony that I was a violent man And uh uh a uh what yeah, something you know chief of sinners, right? He summons up cheapest sinners. But but I and maybe I'm maybe I'm a bit cynical, but I tend to look at that and I think there was some pride in that And saying, Look how evil I was, you know, and and so He was caught up to the seventh heaven after all. Right, yeah, tell everybody about it. conceited about it. Well right. And so you know I think that it's a you know that that is a challenge when we start to have what what looks like success because of our leadership capa capability, then all of a sudden we we can become deluded into believing that We're more than we are. A man is tested by the praise he receives. That's I agree with that. So, you know, so what does it take to be a a good leader? I think humility is a fundamental requirement. Um and I think that's something we don't see enough of. Though it's interesting that you say that Paul didn't have it have it, but we certainly would uh identify him as, you know, next to Peter, the two great leaders of the church. I I agree with that, but I think it's interesting to me. But but I think it it speaks to the fact that we're not all good or all bad. Right. I mean if you look at the the as the per the the model of progressive sanctification we are that we still struggle with sin. Look at Romans seven, right? Wicked man that I am I mean, who will deliver me from this body of death? I've I got no hope, right? So I think that that it's more complex than that. And our world longs for all good or all bad, and let me join on the left or join on the right or or you know whatever it is so I can be with the good people. And that's going to put a wrap on this week's show. That was the voice of Tom Cooper, principal with Right Hill Group. Uh John Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Froy Skinner. Show's been brought to us by Footman Plummy Heating, How Can We Make You Smile and Deer Valley, Heartscape Landscape and masonry. I think I got it right that time. Woohoo. I think. I'm not sure. Uh thanks for listening. By the way, as proof that I'm not opposed to the ministry that's going on with the sovereign grace and all those guys A book book I read recently, uh Dug Down Deep by Joshua Harris, who right now has stepped in to provide the leader. At the one of the churches, not for the whole organization. Strongly recommend Dug Down Deep to anybody. Great book. So anyway, see that? I can be a good guy. You are a good guy. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?