Welcome to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. You find us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. And you can follow everything that I do. I'm Troy Skinner and uh all my social media and my church and this show and everything. One stop shop, go to householdfaith in Christ dot com. Household of faith in Christ Last week we heard a rather dramatic testimony, so the gauntlet has been thrown down, and this week we see if Daniel can top it. We've got a new uh a new kind of format that we started a couple weeks ago now where you're gonna hear the same panelists every time talking about different issues every time and to give you a sense of who we are, where we're coming from, why we think the way we do, whether you should think you sh should trust us or not, that sort of thing. We're spending time walking through a get to know you session. It's kind of like show and tell in kindergarten, you know? So last week, Imran Raz Razvi, who is the founder of Concord by Love Ministries and leads a a home church. Uh he shared his rather dramatic uh story. He has grew up uh Muslim and converted to Christianity. His son Daniel is part of this panel as well. He's part of that same home church. He's an attorney. He'll be sharing his story And then next week we'll hear from uh David Forcy. He is the pastor of a house church uh as well as I am. So all of us in the on this panel now are house church people. That's uh not really by coincidence, that's Uh that was my hope in trying to put this panel together that something like that would happen. So it's by design. We'll see if it was a good design or not. Um and I no don't want to forget to do it at the end, but Raz uh had a good idea in between shows and I figure I bet I I should mention it. I'm gonna mention it now so I don't forget. If you hear us talking about things, if you hear something in one of our stories that we're sharing in these weeks, or you hear something come up in a future show that sparks a thought and you have a question. You want some clarification about something in the Bible, you want to understand something about what's going on in the world and what the Christians think about that. Um you know because of um Raz is expertise really when it comes to things with Islam. You have a question of clarification on that. You can email me And if you can't remember this, remember just remember the website you can't get my email, but I'll give you my email in a second. But if you can remember household of faith in Christ dot com, you can find me. But if you want to f if you don't want to try to find the website first, you just want to email me, email me at pastorskinner at protonmail. com. Proton Mail is a new uh email service provider that's uh out there. So hopefully you can remember that. And my name is Troy Skinner and I'm a pastor, so pastorskinner at protonmail. com. Hopefully that's easy enough for you to remember. Anyway, so Before we jump into hearing Daniel's story, I think we're good, but we have some time between last week's show and this week's show. I have a zillion questions, but none of them need to be asked asked now. But is there Are there any other questions, uh David, that you might have, or perhaps Daniel, that you have for your dad, that you might have for Raz in following up last week? If not, we're going to move right into Daniel telling us your story. No? Alright. So I I guess we're good. I guess I'm up. So you are up. So everything we want to know your deepest, darkest darkest secrets, uh everything that the world never knew until now. Well, I have uh as I say a boring testimony uh which is somewhat of a blessing in that um uh I got saved at an early age. I grew up in a Christian home and my parents were both saved and they taught me about Jesus when I was young and I remember having a salvation experience at a very, very young age, at four years old, and and I know a lot of people as they pray a prayer when they're very young and then they they get older and they say, Well, I don't think I really ever meant it and and so on. No, I I believe I did and I am one hundred percent committed to following Christ. Uh he is my Lord and Savior and without Jesus I'm uh I there's I have no hope, so that's where I put all my faith and all my trust in the salvation. And so I'm I grew up in a uh Christian homeschool environment and I think that was a blessing as well. I'm glad I was spared a lot of the nastiness in the culture and uh we have uh modern culture and some of the things We'll get into it, I'm sure, eventually. Some of the things they teach these days to kids uh is even worse than it was when I was can't help. I can't help but talk about it. Yeah. But not right now necessarily. But yeah, so you can't help but uh if you're gonna talk about issues in the world today you'll end up talking about that stuff. So you're right. So I'm glad that I was spared some of that at at an early age and I had a good foundation. And so I was as as a you can say an accelerated learner. I graduated very early due to uh God's grace and some wonderful teaching by my parents, especially my mom. And so I graduated high school at eleven. Um, took a few years off, didn't really do uh much uh in the way of of schooling. I started a business at that point when I was eleven teaching piano and violin 'cause that I had my um I had a high school level of uh of piano and violin skills at that time, classical music. And then I went to uh music school and I got my bachelor's in classical piano performance. And I was seventeen years old and I had a bachelor's degree and I wasn't married yet, so I figured, well, might as well go to law school. Mostly encouragement, strong encouragement from my parents said, Well, you know, you should do something else G you know, you always like to debate and argue and so might as well go to ar go to law school. And so I I did. I went to Oak Brook uh College of Law, which I highly recommend. It's a Christian law school, which is mostly Uh mostly distance learning, the professors are all um actual attorneys that are practicing and uh they're uh strong believers as well and it's it's a very very good experience. Um Where are they based? They're based in California. They have you know it's only one or two weeks a year that you get together for classes in person. Mostly, you know, it's it it it's distance learning. Um but You get a a really good perspective on legal issues from a Christian uh uh a Christian view and also i it kind of feels a little bit like seminary classes at the same time. So I actually learned more theological uh information uh uh uh in that experience at Oak Brook than I did at the few classes I took towards my Masters of Div of Divinity. which I didn't actually complete and that's a full another topic, but I am actually very much against seminaries um now. Um there w I went to one of the most conservative Christian seminaries in the country for part part uh way toward a degree, but it got to the point where there were so many things that were being taught by the professors such as uh denying the deity of Christ, such as uh the Old Testament stories are just fables and not actual history, um, etcetera, etcetera, and multiple classes, multiple professors at again one of the most conservative seminaries in the country. So I didn't end up completing that degree, but that was very disappointing to see how much the devil has crept in and and is trying to sweep out our foundation. in did you share the name of the seminary? Are you comfortable sharing the name of the seminary? I didn't uh uh for for the main reason being I believe from talking to other people and other pastors uh around the country that this is actually a disease in almost every seminary now. So I think if you can fill in the blank in your in your head with seminaries, even seminaries that used to be very conservative, very Bible uh based are now becoming infected with that cancer. And I think that's that's really where what I want to focus on with that that statement. But I mean I we can get in more in more detail and I'm happy to talk about the seminary and and uh itself and and so on. But that's what I want you to you th think. You know, we all have our guard down. You know, you go to a Christian school, you go to a Bible school or b a seminary and you think, Oh, now is when we're gonna have discussions with other believers and and and they're gonna teach me things and I should just you know, soak it all in or you know, let it all let it all sink in, but there's that's where it you're actually more vulnerable because The devil doesn't have to take over all of our churches and he didn't. He only has to take over a few seminars and that's where all the pastors get trained and it really spreads like wildfire. And so I I think that's Something good, uh Rasmussen. I'm gonna steal the mic for a minute. Um I wanted to say as a father, I can't recommend Oak Brook College of Law more than anything else. This is an incredibly good school and I recommend that to any place I speak, any place I go, any parent I talk to I always tell them, hey, if you got an extra four hours in the day and you want something to do, go to Oakwood College College Law. You spend four hours a day and it's only like six grand a year and you get the one of the best educations in the world from a Christian viewpoint and I feel safe. sending any of my children. Two of my children have graduated from Oakwood College of Law, and I have felt completely at peace that they are being taught by Christians, they're being taught by conservatives, they're being taught from a biblical viewpoint that they're not being led astray. And I just wanted to point that out that I'm very proud of Daniel and uh uh for going there, but I am just very proud of that school. And many of Daniel's classmates were fifties and sixties. This is their second career or third career. They went to law school and uh at that age and w you know, some were as w some were pastors even. and going to uh law school. So you can ta get law law degree and actually be able to be in any uh industry. You can have a law degree and be an engineer and still have that uh you'll be more marketable. You can have a law degree and then be a doctor. Now do the Christians that are running that and teaching the classes, do they uh subscribe to a particular flavor of Christian tradition? No, they're all over the place, various denominations, but Bible believing and you talked a couple weeks ago about core principles and making sure that whoever you're discussing with and you're fellowshipping with has the same core principles and I believe they do have that at at Oakbrook. Um and And so uh I don't know if it might be a good thing. So that's that's something that was very useful and I I I think with the law school It's a little bit different than a the divinity school in that and a lot of times they used to be the same. Harvard actually started as a divinity school. Um you would go and get your law law degree and divinity degree at the same time. But with Oak Brook You have to w in the warrior training you have to argue both sides of every topic. So you'll get a topic and you have to explain you know, the the pros and cons of the different things and so you have to really get uh understand the uh the other side's perspective but there's not a wrong answer necessarily so you're not gonna get beat up by the professors for having a little bit different view like you do in many other uh colleges and I think that's that's important. Um but anyway, after Oakbrook, after I got my law degree, I wasn't ever really uh intending to practice the law per se. I do use uh my degree as a tax attorney. Um with my the family business higher ground financial group we do um the tax planning and uh risk management and so on. But uh shortly thereafter, um I guess almost a year ago, well I guess by the time you're hearing this it will have been a year, I got married. And so I did find a wife, and God has blessed me greatly with a wife and now a beautiful baby girl. And so we are very excited about that and my my dad is now a grandfather and I stole the microphone back from him so he can't say how I guess you heard it anyway. How sad he is. So that that's the newest thing in in my life and so we uh w uh now I'm I'm having the experience of training my daughter in the way she should go and uh by God's grace we'll uh she'll become a believer uh at some point in the near future. What was it like for you, um spending all of your memories uh in a not just in a home church but in a home school situation. How do you do you have any sense of How you is it are you able to even comprehend how your experience was different from ninety-nine point nine nine nine percent of the people that are in the world around you. So I do have an idea. I'll I'll clarify, the home church thing was a gradual thing. We uh I did spend a lot of my early years in mainstream church, some secret fundary churches. We we've kind of got more conservative as time went on. And uh more for the last ten or fifteen years it's been family integrated, so very conservative. But some of those were church buildings, some of those were home churches, so it's been a mixture. And with the family ministry Conquered by Love, we travel around and speak and visit uh speak at and visit at the different churches around the country, so we get a sense of a lot of different uh types of churches. As far as homeschool goes, yes, uh I was involved in a lot of activities as well as uh some community activities and so on. I played rec soccer, so I I could interacted with a lot of public school uh students. And I've done various classes and things outside of the of strictly pub um homeschool that give me a little bit of an idea enough to know that I don't want anything to do with it. Um of of how public school is, uh or even honestly uh a lot of private school, um, but particularly public school, I think h home school is God's uh uh best plan for family if you can if you c at all manage it. I read from statistics um recently that if a mother only has a third grade education and she does her best to teach her kids they will actually uh test uh a average or better at high school graduates compared to nationwide public school graduates. So you don't need to be a high uh highly educated, you know um the a college professor to be able to teach home school to your kids is not a big the only more um Yeah, most important thing is to be able to give them the spiritual guidance, you know, and I think you get a you get a lot more time with your kids if you have 'em all day instead of just, you know, a couple of hours in the evening. Can you share a little bit about the uh the wedding? Because I know that the the way that your family uh celebrates a wedding is quite a bit different than what most people would be used to. Yes, so I had a traditional Pakistani style wedding. And it's actually in many ways very similar to a Jewish wedding and very simil similar to the weddings in the Bible. Um all the Middle East celebrates marriage in a very similar way. And it mirrors our relationship with Christ, in fact. And so there's several days. That's the biggest thing that a lot of Americans see the uh you know, when they see a Pakistani style wedding or or in this case, uh I'm gonna call it a biblical s biblical wedding is So it's a lot longer than a Western wedding. Um so the legal ceremony in fact happens quite a bit early. Um in at my case it was about a month. In some cases it's close to a year or more where you are actually legally married. You have the vows and and go before the uh pastor and and he uh pronounces you married and the marriage license is signed and all that if you're doing the um the marriage license, all of that's done ahead of time. But the marriage is not consummated yet. You don't move in together, there's no um uh relations, it's The legal ceremony is done and then the actual wedding c happens later. And the legal ceremony is a very private ceremony for you know me, uh it wasn't even my entire uh family that was there. It was it's very small. Um Uh, you know, a few witnesses and and so on. Very intimate ceremony just to get the legal part done, say the vows and so on. And then The actual wedding is a huge celebration where on the night before there's some uh festivities and and uh dancing and and uh celebration for the bride's family. that they they put on a little party for their uh for for the bride family and uh a lot of women but also s there's some men there from uh the family. And then the actual wedding day is when I come to get the bride to take my bride home. and that night is the wedding night and after the the next day is our first um uh it's like a state dinner. It's a it's a formal event for the bride and groom to host as the married couple. And so it actually mirrors our relationship with Christ and what you see in the Bible. So if you remember in the in Matthew where uh when Joseph And Matthew two, when Joseph heard that Mary was pregnant, he was thinking of divorcing her. Right? But they hadn't slept together So to a Western mind that's a little weird. How are you going to divorce somebody you haven't even succeeded with? So you're not not married? Well yes. They were married. They were legally married. They were betrothed. But when you get engaged or betrothed, you actually had the legal ceremony. So it would be a divorce to break that off at that point. And that's how serious it is. They they were already married. but they hadn't consummated the marriage yet. What happens in the meantime? Well in in Jewish culture and in a lot of the Middle East um ceremony he is legally married and now he's promised to care for this bride for the rest of his life. He's gonna go back to his father's house, build more rooms onto the family compound, and uh prepare a place for his bride. And then the actual wedding cer ceremony is when he comes at a time that is not set in stone. It's a general time, like when it comes around this time of of day or time of year or whatever, but it can be without notice. And he comes to get his bride and brings his whole family and friends with a a big celebration and and uh feasting and he comes to bring his bride home. And that mirrors our relationship with Christ Uh Jesus betrothed us uh to himself on the cross. We are legally his. Nothing can separate us from the love of God. We are going to be with him in heaven when we die. But we have not consummated that. We have not drinked that fruit of the vine in heaven with him. Until he comes on the clouds to meet us at a time that uh is not announced previously, a s a set date and time, he's gonna come to take us home as his bride, the bride of Christ. And so I think the the way the wedding ceremonies in the Middle East are performed is actually very, very similar to the way God has a relationship with us. And I think it's a great witness uh to be able to have have had a wedding like that. uh with me and my wife. If I remember correctly, the very first time I met you in person, you weren't married yet, and if I remember correctly, you had some concern about how you were going to be able to find A wife that was suitable who would who who would share your worldview and your commitment to the Bible and that sort of thing. So what did Finding a wife and and courtship and and arriving at the decision that yes, this is who I'm marrying, how how did that happen So a we actually met online, which is interesting. And it wasn't even a strictly Christian website, it was e eHarmony. Um I was on a few different Christian um connection websites. uh but this one was eharmony and you can put in in some of these secular sites you can put in theological parameters that you only want to be mashed with people that are of a similar viewpoint. And even so most of the people that the software will find for you are not not even saved, first of all. But you can weed them out pretty qu pretty quickly. You send a message. So I always uh you know my my first message um to anybody uh on one of those uh uh softwares would be like, you know, what is your eschatology? Because I always like to have a deep theological question to start something off and I'll know by the answer somebody gives whether it's somebody that Is a community Christian or not? You know, some i or if if they don't know what it means or why have one one uh girl respond with, you know, her astrological sign. Um when I say what is US Cathology, I'll then I guess that's that's as far as we need to go with that one But um we had I had a couple of uh people actually give me uh uh um some answers, uh superficial answers and and my wife actually came up with a well researched uh and thought out answer on her eschatology. And I thought that was that was great and it was a good sign somebody is is committed to, you know, studying the Bible and learning about it. And so we spent the first uh month or so of that relationship talking strictly on deep topics, um, not only theology but also our vision for marriage and family and so on, before we had any um focus on you know building a personal relationship. We wanted to make sure that was the foundation was there that this could be a match for marriage. That was the whole purpose that was on the the the website for. And I think I've actually met some other people, uh and similar to me that they're very strong conservative Christians that have found spouses on um but for lack of a better word, dating websites. Um but you have to be careful with how you do it. And I think it's important first many messages and questions and comments, the uh those need to be on deep topics. You gotta have to agree on the core principles. Coming back to what you said uh a couple weeks ago. You have to agree on the core principles. If you don't then there's really no point in moving forward and getting your emotions wrapped up in something that this is somebody else's spouse. This is not somebody you're gonna marry. That's the only purpose in in dating or courting is to marry somebody. I know that um in my experience with some Pakistani families that their tradition was for the parents to be very involved in helping select uh the future spouse. Was that the case for you guys? So uh my my parents and and uh her parents were in involved ev every step of the way. They were all aware of what we're talking about, what's the going on, you know, we we talk about the the pros and cons and try to be as as um uh as is uh from a s from a place not of emotion, you know, step back and look at this logically, does this look like a good match? And once we've identified, okay, this Uh this person does appear to be saved. They appear to have similar um views to you. So now it's up to you guys to decide if this is gonna work out and you need to figure it out right away because there's no reason to drag things out with somebody that's not gonna be your spouse. And so that I think that was there was encouragement on of to do that. Now because your wife w met you online, she's not necessarily local. She might be but she's No, she's actually from Arkansas. Okay. Yes, it's uh definitely a little bit of a uh culture difference. But we uh we're live I mean we're in Frederick. Frederick County, so we're in a conservative Before you actually got officially legally married. In the first month we exchanged the equivalent of a novel of fifty thousand words um in text message and email So I think Publishing it any day soon? Never. But yes. Um So that's what we did. Um and someone's knocked on the door Yeah, I'm not sure uh when they're trying to get my attention, but then they walked away. I don't know what's going on, but uh the the the the record light is lit. The on air light is lit, so I'm not sure what that's about. Might be a cleaning crew looking to get in here. I guess if it's important enough they'll break down the door and tell us that you're not going to be able to do that. um strictly and you don't spend time trying to get to know somebody you're not going to marry. The purpose of courtship is to marry somebody and you don't want to get your emotions involved. So we wanted to Daniel to really investigate and find out where the uh the uh the background is what they're looking for and get that resolved before they even met. And then Daniel did go meet them and and so forth. So it it worked out and they got to know each other pretty well. And uh again Uh the chose to love each other. Again, we'll come back to that sometime at the end. Yeah, that'll be a show that we'll do in the future. That's gonna put a wrap on this week's show. So uh last week we heard from Raz and his testimony and his life story. This week we heard from Daniel and Uh both of them are part of the Raz V family. Uh heard their story. And next week we're here from uh David Forcy. Uh all of us in this room are uh pastors of house churches or involved with pastoring house churches And next week we'll hear from the pastor of the Church of Meet the David No with our churches outsourcing. The easiest thing, the one-stop shop, is to go to the household of faith in Christ dot com website. That's my church's website and I'm linking to everything that has links that's related to what we're doing. So you can find my email there. You can find links to this show there. It's the easiest thing. Households of faith in Christ Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMB. com. This is nine thirty WFMD and WFMP. com. Now WFMD News. Violence and abduction case was handled by the Frederick County Grand Jury on Friday. The panel indicted Junior Anthony Francis of Walkersville for first and second degree assault. Third and fourth degree sex offense and kidnapping of a child under 16. State's attorney Charlie Smith said on Saturday, June 20th. The Sheriff's Office responded to the sixty one hundred block of Murray Terrace and Frederick for a domestic incident. Once again, they found The Sheriff's Office was able to locate Francis and the baby in Gaithersburg after pinging his phone Francis was taken into custody. The grand jury returned 13 indictments. These cases now move to circuit court where trial dates will be scheduled To read more, go to our website at WFMD. com. Incumbent Mayor Michael O'Connor continues to maintain his lead in the Frederick City Democratic Mayoral Primary with more than 2,200 votes. That's according to the latest count of mail-in and drop box ballots that took place on Friday. Number two is former Mayor Jennifer Daugherty. Followed by Alderman Roger Wilson and John Funderburg. In the Republican primary, Steve Hamrick is in the lead with 472 votes. followed by Steve Garrihe with 369 votes. The Democratic Aldermanic race is still showing newcomer Katie Nash out in front, followed by incumbent Alderman Derek Shackleford.