Welcome to the Fate Debate. Thanks for spending part of your day with us here at News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner have been hosting this show for far too long. I don't know why they let me keep coming back, but I'm not sure they let me keep coming back and they sneak in when they're not paying attention and record some shows and get out of town And my partners in crime on this uh adventure are Imran Razby, uh Daniel Razby and David Forcey. All of us are Our pastors in the area, you can connect with the Rasbies through their website, concordbylove. org. You can connect with me and the show through Household of Faith in Christ. And of course you can go to the radio station website, wfmd. com, and there is a faith debate landing page there that gives you a whole bunch of information. But kinda also the faith in Christ. com is a one-stop shop for connecting with all of the things I just mentioned. And uh I would promote something social media related or online presence related for David Forcy, but David is uh he's a Luddite. What can I say? And why would you want to connect with us? You might say, you might ask. Well because It's back to the Bible, back to basics. Not all this garbage that's going on in the culture. We want to really know what God is saying and what God is talking to us through His Word. And that is the kind of the the thrust of what we try to do on this show. We've been doing the show, like I say, I I mention I I'm feeling my age, so I mentioned how long I've been doing the show a lot of late. Uh but from the very beginning we've invited a whole bunch of different kinds of people onto the show. In this case we're inviting different kinds of people onto the show uh in abstention, right? We're having the He Gets Us campaign featured on the show and we're we're playing portions of their campaign and responding to it. And we were jokingly right before we got started with last week's show, Imran was like, Well, we're giving these guys like a platform, we're gonna give them publicity. Well It is a faith debate. We im we invite different worldviews onto the show, but the idea is to have them be in in contrast to what we are firmly committed to being the truth. Um God knows reality, he created it. And so His Bible tells us what that reality is and it is the only fully sufficient inspired source that we have for determining those things. So everything is related to the basics of biblical foundational teaching and that's what we're measuring things up again. If you disagree with us, it might be because you don't agree with the Bible, or it might be that you disagree with how to understand the Bible, and it's very possible, I mean Imran and Daniel and David would never be wrong, but I'm sure I'm wrong at least, I don't know, sixty-seven and a half percent of the time. So if you disagree with something we say on the show, it's probably because I'm misunderstanding the Bible. But hopefully that's your reason for disagreeing with me because I'm not getting the Bible right. If you're disagreeing with me because I'm getting the Bible uh and I am getting the Bible right Then uh you know Repent. The kingdom of God is at hand. And that is the message of Christ, right? Repent. You know, the message of Christ is not, oh, I'm coming to wash feet. he may have washed feet, but that wasn't his his message. That's not what he's he was coming to do. And I think the response of many of the pastors that we all um uh have uh affinity for th that we that we respect has been that this campaign the He Gets Us campaign is at best a very watered down, wishy washy version of like a hippie Jesus type. At at best it's a seeker friendly message. And at worst it it is completely heretical and I lean much more towards that and uh we I'm sure we'll get into that more. And I think part of what happened uh with this campaign, he gets us, which we're gonna focus on again. We focused on it last week, we're gonna focus again for this episode. Uh they're part of what they're reacting to is against the uh the accusations of the tone police. You know, Christians you're so hateful, so mean, so whatever, and they're like, No, we're nice, we're warm, we're fuzzy. I think they're trying to strike the right tone, but in the process I think they lose the message. Imran was leaning in to say something to look at. is washed away and this washing of feet. There's nothing left of it. And Troy, uh in uh we were texting back and forth before the show about this the topic and um I I'm I mentioned something about well, they're trying to get people to see uh that that may not be interested or or in Jesus, you know, to come come uh and see more about him. And I think you made the point that Well, the people that they're marketing to, which are um very uh unchurched people that that have don't know much about God, they may know very little about Jesus, but what they do know is actually this stuff already, so this is nothing new. They already think this about Jesus. Most of our culture already believes that Jesus was a cool teacher who has some Peaceable loving things to say two thousand years ago. Well, and apparently according to some research and you know polling that's been out there, even those who identify as evangelicals. the majority of them hold this particular view, this unbiblical view of Jesus. But I mean just just a little bit of it I mean if That aspect alone is true. Jesus did love and he was kind and he was good and and still is. And he was a great teacher. Like and still is. Like all those things are true about Jesus. It's a very small piece of who he is. And if your point is to tell them this so they'll like it and then come to church and hear the rest, that's one thing. But the people in our culture, in American culture, they already believe that about Jesus like they're and they're and they're not coming to church, right? So they That's not going to be what turns the tide and and gets people to repent. We need to actually be preaching repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Yeah. uh gets people to take another look at Jesus and hopefully reading their Bibles in order to do that or finding a Bible and reading actually about Jesus and what what he says. Um and I I mean they walk a real real thin line and I mean the So there's there's a difference between uh like validation and compassion. Right? And so i in a lot of ways it seems like they tend to want to make people feel like they're they're okay in their sin, right? Like they are and and Jesus is okay with With them being And I think that the defenders of this campaign might say, No, that's not what they're doing. Uh you're taking those pictures, which was the focus of last week's show. We were looking at the images and they were left to a lot of interpretation because they were artistic and they might not have meant what we took them to me, I think that they do, but they could plausibly argue. No, you're a misunderstanding. This next one that we're going to be turning today, I think they don't have a a rock to hide under. And we'll get to that in a second. I I would I would say If you listen to what the spokesman of the campaign, the leaders have been saying about it, they're not even making that case. They're not saying, Hey, on our website you'll find a much more a traditional gospel message or we're gonna connect you with a church that's gonna teach you that. They're not doing that on their even on the if you read the articles on their website, it's still that wishy washy stuff that's only about love, only about acceptance, and nothing about the actual condemnation of of sinners, that the eternal hellfire that you need to escape by becoming saved. That's not there anyway. Yeah, no, their website is not. There was an interview on CBN's Christian Broadcast Network uh where one of the marketing campaign leaders was being asked saying, Hey You know, are you gonna be telling the gospel message? And he his first answer was basically, No, the gospel's in this in these ads, like you could see what Jesus' message was, which is not true. And then number two, she asked him, Well can you show any fruit that's been uh from this campaign. He's like, Well some guy on the street said, I'm glad you're showing God's love to us and when he and but th that that's it. There's no conversion stories, there's no, you know, stories of people coming to church. and and and hearing more about the true gospel after Steeny's action. And it's interesting in the campaign he gets us, you know, there's an old cliche in church circles, that that which it takes to get 'em is that which it takes to keep 'em. And if this is the kind of bait, if you will, that we're throwing at casting out there, uh, this is our lure, and this is what they grab on to, like, you know, to David Forcey's point, you know, saying, hey We were trying to introduce them to Jesus, maybe they'll check out the Bible. Well, if this is the Jesus they're getting, and this is the Jesus they find to be attractive, which is the Jesus they already kind of know and like anyway If you give them the actual Jesus, they'll rebel against it. If this is what drew them in, like it's a bait and switch at that point. We've got to be careful. Alright, so this next one is a different kind on their website, they've I mentioned this last week. They've got two different kinds of campaigns on their website. One that's designed clearly to be an ad. It's a fifteen, thirty, or sixty-second ad, and it's very tightly uh edited to to to fit those prefab lengths that uh that advertisers buy. And then there's these kind that are longer form and they're more interview based and But just because it's an interview, it's not a talking head. They're highly, highly produced, very slickly edited, lots of use of music, and I'll be curious to hear Daniel Rasby's thoughts on the music, by the way. on on this one a as we go. So I'm gonna um this one we stopped and started last week a lot. I'm gonna do the same thing this time, but the sec the segments will be a little bit longer. We were we were stopping and starting like every five seconds last week So this first one, there's a guy, Giuliano, he walks in, he's middle-aged, he's ethnic looking, and now he's going to start to talk here in just a second. All right, Giuliano. In English, what's the hardest thing to say? It's probably Okay, now right there he gets emotional He doesn't know how to answer what's the hardest thing to say. And I think it's interesting. It's almost like a bait and switch there. In English, what's the hardest thing to say? He's an ethnic looking guy, so you're thinking he's gonna say, Oh, I have a hard time saying potato salad or you know, something that's it's difficult to pronounce. Yeah. But that's not really what they're setting up here. Yeah. And he knows it because he's getting all emotional and verklemp, like you can see on his face, you can't on the radio, I'm describing it for you. He's he's having a hard time answering the question. And so then um in the screenshot here now as it says, I forgive you. So that's the that's the thing that's the hardest thing for him to say. And now he's going to be talking about I always try to find connection with my family So here's gonna be talking about his background and what he discovers about himself, okay in a deeper way. But then you have to accept that uh The connection maybe is not there. It's very difficult to be a Catholic guy and discover you're gay. and they don't accept that. Alright, I'm gonna pause there because that's that's all of a sudden like a bomb just got dropped. Yeah. So what's your reaction? Well, clearly this is n this is uh any organization that is promoting that you can be gay and be a Christian You know But it's saying I forgive you for being gay. Isn't that wrong? Well that's yeah, m you could take it certainly in this context you could take it that way, but that they're gonna spin this uh and it's a di it's him being forgiving by the way is what they're getting at here. That's what they're doing. Forgiving the people that are hating him for being gay. Pretty much, yeah. Yeah. So so um you'll have some Christians that'll really try to mince words and say, Well You could be gay and be a Christian if by be gay you mean that one of your n natural sin struggles that you particularly struggle most about in your life is the attraction to men. But you're not actually living out that lifestyle, you're constantly asking for forgiveness for for that, which is a sin, then you somebody w might say, Well, I'm a gay Christian, but very few people are are are gonna be uh defining it that way. So normally when you say something about oh I'm a Catholic and I'm gay, what he means is he's actively living a homosexual lifestyle. He's a practicing He's a practicing homosexual, right? Yeah. And what Daniel has articulated for you, for those who are in the know, you're recognizing uh the categories here. Uh there are basically three categories on this issue that get bandied about and and discussed and debated. Here's the biblical view, uh, which I playfully call side C theology. Because side A is um what we think this guy he he he's he's homosexual and he's embracing it, he's practicing and he thinks it should be okay. That's side A. Then side B is I can't help it, I'm born this way, it's uh it's it's just the way I am, and so I'm gonna have to surrender myself to to celibacy. That's side B. And then there's side C which says, well, Paul says so such were some of you and you're a new creation in Christ. And even the most besetting sins can and ultimately will be overcome in Christ. Even if it's in glory. But even on this side of glory, we we don't just throw up our hands and say, Well, I can't help it. I'm a You know, I'm a porn addict uh Christian. I can't help it. I'm a murderer. Yeah, I can't help it. You know I'm a I'm a I'm attracted to three year old little girls. I can't help it. You know, y no, y y you you can help it. And we as a church are gonna come up alongside you and work with you so that you can help it. And so anyway, those are the debates and I would God can God can help it more specifically. Well yeah but he use yeah, exactly. But he works through means and we can be partners in helping through that. But I would personally and I think all of us probably and if we would have that discussion right now would would reject both side A and side B. But anyway, that's a big discussion in the church these days. Right. Well at least I don't see why people can't see the s similarity with, hey, I'm a Catholic but I'm a bank robber. What's the difference between that and being gay? They're both since. Well I'm a Catholic and I'm a murderer. I murder people on weekends. Well the the did I I agree with you but their answer is gonna be well bank robbery has nothing to do with love. See this love is love And he can't help but that he loves somebody that we I love money. Actually Especially other people's money. But there's some truth you love money. You're a financial advisor, that's what they the love of money isn't in itself uh an evil thing. Now the love of money is a root of all kinds of evil, but it doesn't have to be. There's a healthy respect and regard for money. There's a proper love for money and there's a proper love for But I kill people on on weekends because I love them. They should be dead. Yeah. Yeah. Anything can be it's quite twisted to be love. Yeah. And and and I think I mean a lot of times people say, Well why are you singling out this sin if if you're saying this is a sin, why not all these other sins? Well this is the one that you're pretending is okay in the culture. And this is the one that the keynote campaign has put before us and so Uh let me let me play this next segment here. When I was kid, my father would scream at me and it continuously charge you. There was this machismo about everything. We went to the church for the mass and my father would stay outside the church. The feeling was like, oh, this is things for women or this is things uh that stupid things. It's not a masculine thing. You cannot be sensitive and if you don't swear You are not the man. This is what I get. So this is what we're talking about. It's not about um others forgiving him. It's about him being able to forgive those who don't agree with his uh So now he's not talking about homosexuality, he's talking about masculinity or supposed supposedly or allegedly. Is he giving a fair representation of what the Bible would say, masculinity? Well he's not even he's you know, it sounds like he's not even saying his father was a Christian. Yeah, his father he says his father is a Christian. So there's a whole bunch of things getting conflated here together all at once without You know g parsing them out and actually dealing with each individual issue. And if his father was professing to be a Christian, he certainly doesn't understand what the Bible teaching is because if you have an out of control tongue and you're just cursing up a storm like a sailor all the time, you can't control that. You're not a man, that's not masculine, that's a child, isn't that tough work? He wasn't even going to church, so Yeah. Right. Yeah. So anyway, I think his father and his family doesn't accept him and he's trying to figure out how to forgive them for that and he's mischaracterizing what their accusations uh well, maybe not, but they were mischaracterizing what masculinity is and their concerns about him. I don't think that their problem with him wasn't that he was sensitive and that he didn't curse a lot and that he uh maybe was artistic or whatever. I mean that might have been his father's problem with him but again his father was not a Christian by profession. But uh but I also think that this um they're subliminally trying to put down masculinity by giving it bad characteristics. They're not explaining what masculinity really is, they're giving it characteristics that are not right. I mean they're building up a straw man and tearing that down and saying, see masculinity is bad And this culture has really demonized maleness or masculine uh characteristics. Now this w next one I think really gets in my view of this really gets to the crux of what's going on in this uh man Giuliano's life of how part a big part of how he ended up where he is now. See if you guys agree with me on this. He didn't want to connect with me. He wasn't able to connect with me He didn't want to have an one-on-one relationship with me Not only with me, I have to say with everybody. He wasn't able to establish connection with people. But I was his son. And many people say that that is what causes homosexuality. They're not having that connection with a father figure that is uh able to connect. It's all almost always the case every case it's what when there's not a strong uh male father figure And there's a crisis in the church, there's a crisis in our political landscape, there's a crisis um just in the world, society, cultural in general, right? Cultural problems all over the place. And man If they had to pick one uh tangible, practical kind of a thing that's a cause for that this is it. The lack of fathers. Weak men in the home. Or no men in the home. Right. Either one of those I mean the lack of of of fathers being involved and if they are involved, being involved in the right ways, being being joy filled and bringing a sense of of of uh of love into the home so the children feel what are those uh there's the five I think points that you always talk about the emotional needs the emotional needs They have to be um uh wanted, needed, secure. Fathers need to be bringing that to the table for their kids And in Giuliano's case he wasn't getting that. It sounds like his father wasn't giving that to anybody, wasn't he wasn't picking on Giuliano. If you're if one of those dads is sitting around, bring me my beer And that's all they ever hear from you. When's the football game on? You gotta get engaged, you gotta step up, you've gotta make yourself available emotionally and everything else to your to your kids. I think that's the crux of the issue in this poor man's uh life. Uh this next segment's about, you know, thirty, thirty-five seconds long. This is talking about his struggle to forgive. So emotionally it's difficult to Forgive. And then at some point uh it was too late. And I didn't forgive him. So I don't know is it fair to forgive him now. And he's very emotional. And he's got tears in his eyes and he's really having a hard time. And that music, I wanna I want to make sure we touch on that. It's the kind of like one sustained held note on a keyboard kind of a thing that drones on. You hear this a lot of times in some of the churches actually when the pastor's praying or something and it's Very manipulative. Very emotionally manipulative. We'll probably discuss more of the show we've done in the past about different types of music, but specifically Uh well you just mentioned a lot of times they play music during prayer and one thing that I'm very strong on whenever I'm uh uh we're holding services or whether we w I go and preach somewhere else and I'm gonna if there's a prayer going on Nobody sh no music should be heard. It should be silent. Uh unless possibly maybe the one praying is also playing something while he's praying. But uh To me music is is a language and it's there is something being said and you cannot have two messages being shared at the same time. You you you cannot cannot conflate those and and you are, like you said, is very manipulative. And I think a certain youth preached as well, and I I I make it uh a point. Usually it hasn't been an issue very often. The only time it's been an issue, thank goodness, or pr praise God. Um uh quite literally, uh I've been drawn my attention's been drawn to it beforehand. Like, so how do you want to do this? How do you want to do that? And they and they talk about what they're what they normally do. And I was like Like when do you want me to start the music? Like as soon as when you when's your sermon over, so when you start to do your closing prayer, I want to bring in the music and I'll be like, Oh, thank you for giving me a headset to be honest. Uh I I prefer no music under the prayer. And I oh and they're like surprised. They're like uh oh okay, that's fine. It's never been contentious, but I've been able to stay ahead of it. I'm sure one of these days I'll get surprised and I'll be in the middle of a prayer. If that happens, I'm just gonna say in Jesus' name, Amen. I'm gonna my prayer's gonna be short. I'm not gonna be having that manipulative music going underneath my prayer. It it it bothers me So not only play the uh the the basically the to be to be fair to the the the campaign, this is not a prayer, this is an interview. Oh yeah, but they're having but they're using those same manipulative tools. I I I feel. And then they put on the screen, Blessed are the merciful, for they will be shown mercy. Jesus. They don't give you the scripture reference, but it's Matthew five, uh, verse seven. It's the fifth Beatitude. And then it's difficult to say, I forgive you. I'm not sure. I forgive my father. He passed away. I'm working on that. I think it takes a life to understand how to solve uh And then they end up with the he gets us all of us Jesus and that's the end of the campaign. And I'm gonna say this and put that we only got a couple minutes left because Might not even have a chance to respond to what I'm about to say, but he's having a hard time finding his way to forgiveness because you you only can really truly consistently get there by the power of the Holy Spirit. By being forgiven. And this man is an unrepentant sin. He does not have the power of the Holy Spirit in him. He professes as a Christian, Roman Catholic. But I don't think he understands uh the gospel and so he doesn't understand yeah, he's not he doesn't understand that he's forgiven, so he doesn't know how to give it to somebody else. I think that's his core problem. I think he was damaged by his father. That's not an excuse But I think that's the reality. Forgive us our trespasses as we as we have forgiven. So we're we're it's all comes with God forgiving us and and we're forgiving. Like it's it's it's one Yeah. Uh is there anything more that you guys want to say on this issue? If so we can bring it up on next next week's show. Otherwise we'll probably pivot to a a different topic for next week's uh episode of a hybrid show. We can start with finishing up thoughts on the He Gets Us campaign because there's some other campaigns you wanted to talk about, Danny, right? There's some other ones, but I mean they're all in the same vein. They're all showing at best a very hippie version of Jesus. This this he gets this campaign I'm convinced is completely heretical and it's it's evil and and it should be fought against. Uh it's not a Christian campaign. Yeah, and maybe we'll uh these these uh interplaying with those segments took a little longer than I had anticipated and we didn't get a chance to uh opine as much as we might have wanted. So we'll we'll leave that an open question. We might start next week by finishing up some thoughts and transition to something else. So uh we'll we'll see. I don't know. As the Lord leaves. Uh Imron Razbeek, uh thank you for participating this week. Daniel Razby, David Forcey, it's always good to see you guys, my brothers I'm Froy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. And you can connect with me and us through Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We'll be back next week, every Sunday morning, live on the radio. Well Taped to Air Live on the radio later Sunday mornings at nine o'clock. Till then, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMB. com