Good morning, welcome to the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We're joined this week of course by Daniel I say of course because he's here pretty much every week. Daniel Razby, he's with the the pat one of the pastors at the church that meets at Imran's house and they've got a organization called Concord by Love Ministries and they're online at ConcordBylove dot org and David Forcey, he's a pastor in the area and they they kind of hopscotch around the the the the counties around this area to to see where they're gonna meet from week to week and so if you ever want to catch up with him he might be meeting again next week Your neighbor's house, you don't even know it yet. Uh so if you'd like to find out, reach out to me and I'll put you in touch with David. You can you can crash his party one of these Sunday mornings. Uh and we're also joined, of course Uh if you've been listening the last couple weeks, you know it's of course. Dan Cox. I'm gonna do it this time. You can find out about Dan Cox and his run for US Congress at Coxfor Congress dot org. That's His last name, Cox, and then the word for as opposed to the number four, uh Congress. org, and you can find out all about the w what he's trying to to accomplish in his run, even though he's not a politician, he's running for office. Because he doesn't like being called a politician. So we're not gonna call him that anymore. I gotta see if my research is okay on some of this. Let's see Undergrad from Maryland, uh uh University of Maryland, is that right? You got your undergrad from Maryland? Uh law degree from Regent University? Yes. Okay. So really liberal school, really conservative school, back-to-back there. Attained rank of captain in the U. S. Civil Air Patrol. Yes. Supporting my s my children that who were taking uh who were using that that uh great organization to get training and get opportunities l such as flight lessons and things. So do you fly? I do not. My m my brother is a a pilot, but not me. So you're you're a captain, but you can't fly? No. No, we did a lot of groundwork. You know, they they trained so the Civil Air Patrol trains both for flights over the bay to watch out for uh potential terrorist or drug activity. Um And they also though have ground recovery teams. They train the kids how to go to a crash site or to a disaster site to help out. Obviously not frontline stuff because they're kids, but um certainly uh great training. They they they teach them everything that you would want to have your kid know, just like Boy Scouts. And um then they actually do deploy and help out with things like water distribution and other non seriously dangerous activity. So I did more of the ground work for that. But cool. And local boy grew up around here, I think Tawnytown is officially what your hometown was growing up, correct? That's right, Frederick County side, believe it or not. And uh now we live in western, uh northwestern Preterick County, so Grew up on a farm. I was honored and blessed to get out of the city and as much as we love the city, um I had a dream to to be out in the wide open spaces and um So part of the vision that my parents had in launching their uh ho uh statewide home education program was to actually do a microcosm of training for the family. So our education became uh home based and uh I became a a small businessman at age fourteen when I had my first sheep flock and developed that and learned at age sixteen that in order to sell lamb I had to compete internationally with the Australians. Believe it or not. And so I had to compete, learn to run my business, uh making sure that I could beat their dollar per pound um price. So that was very very good for me as a four H or as a as a farm boy and learn a lot of hard work and that kind of I think created a lot of groundwork for me to to be able to um do the calling God had for me and to go to law school. So your your parents were very involved in the in the home education movement. They were on particular. Still are, yes sir. So were you home educate you were the oldest Yes. Of their children. Were you home educated for for all of your your years? Uh most. So I I was a student at uh the Frederick Christian Academy um until uh my father launched the first home school program in Maryland which was a statewide educational administration. And uh in that process, that was um nineteen eighty-three. In that process, he worked with the state of Maryland to uh create the regulate regulatory um permissive sphere so that uh the um uh the attacks uh that that some were making uh would go away to say, no, th this isn't an academic program. And it's been very successful. Uh I ended up uh graduating, went on to college and I came back and worked for my dad for about ten years in that administrative uh school administration as the uh registrar and we helped Over a thousand young people uh graduate high school and ninety-five percent um were able, as we know, homeschoolers are very smart, ninety-five percent. either were accepted to college and went on to college or went to a trade school or um got another kind of certification became successful. So very few graduates from homeschooling um didn't have opportunities. So that was My uh yeah, my dad was a pioneer in that. Still is. He's still at it. So very, weren't you, at a high school? Yes, with the uh with the home education program we had AP level courses. So I taught church history, American government, and the Constitution. And I as part of that, for ten for the ten years, um I would lead tours of my students if they would make their grades. then I gave them a promise I would lead the th the three articles tour. And you know, most people when you ask them what are the three articles they can't name Was that purposely playing off of Gilligan's Island? No, actually. Oh. The three articles tour. No, I'm not even a fan of that show. But no, uh What Who doesn't like Gilles? Um when you read the Constitution, when you ask you, anyone on the street about the Constitution, you ask them to name Article I, Article Two, Article Three, they can't do it. Most of us c could not. So my remedy in teaching it for high schoolers was I wanted them to see it because one of the ways that I learned uh very very well was not only by reading and absorbing and and memorizing, but of going and doing and hands on. So I wanted them to see Article One and they They would see Congress. I wanted them to see Article two and they we toured the White House. And I wanted them to see Article III and we toured went into the chambers of the Supreme Court. And they got to see those three branches of government, how the federal system is supposed to work, and then obviously we would go down as well to Annapolis. Um and as a state delegate I I continued tours for for my constituents um of the state house so that a lot of a lot of kids don't understand, you know, their their learning process is growing to to learn and a lot of adults don't know this, that we have a federal system of government where you have the three branches in the state and you have the three branches in in the United States and so and watching how and studying how that interplays um under Article five of the Constitution as well and and um and the Bill of Rights. Hey the cross paths with David Barton I have not. Okay. Because he does tours and stuff. I didn't know if uh Yeah, no, I have never crossed Well my tour was not really um a a a tour per se. It was a teacher led educational day. Right. By the way, I I shouldn't have just named him. David Barton, uh he's uh well, I think he's a historian. People think he's a quasi historian. He's a very controversial, he's very conservative. Um he's got a number of like DVDs and streaming things you can watch about American history. He had a founder's Bible that they published, his organization published, and he does tours throughout DC, mostly I think with pastors and stuff, if I'm not mistaken. And so I was just curious if you're not going to be able to do that. historical American document collections. Yeah, and he's and I think that's what m really endeared him to Glenn Beck. He's you know Glenn Beck's a huge fan of his. He's been a guest on Glenn's show and I think that was the hook Hey Glenn, you want to come see some of my cool stuff? So I think that was his in with Glenn. But anyway. Um you had that question that was kind of a dangling participle from last week. You want to bring it back up again? So you know, speaking of being in Annapolis and you spent a bunch of time in Annapolis, you were a delegate there. for several years. And I I uh I I think we had a conversation once, something to the effect that you know it's really difficult the way that It's one thing the way you want politics to work. You know, you wish we could say, Hey, you know, I want to have a bill that that, you know, bans killing puppies or whatever it is and and they're like, Okay, you know, I second the motion. All right, the bill passed And that was like one line, don't kill puppies, right? Like in that would be wonderful if bills got passed that way. But they don't, because I'm not gonna vote for your bill unless you vote for my thing, which you hate. And so we end up with this omnibus package that's three thousand pages long that has a lot of garbage in there. So no matter who votes for it, you can be sure that somebody's gonna go and do a snare campaign, see he voted for this But if you don't want to participate in that, then nobody really wants to work with you or get help you get anything done. So how are you able to get anything done in that kind of system without compromising your principles and saying, look, I will not vote for killing babies, I will not vote for, you know, transgender uh, you know, garbage stuff, which are things that I I believe your campaign has has has said something to that effect. So how how do you how do you deal with that? Well you pass puppy bills because they pass unanimously. Seriously, uh in my committee, uh the Republicans learned to pass bills that everybody Uh everybody appreciated and one of them were were uh can almost every year there's a dog bill of some kind. Um and they tend to pass unanimously without a lot of um back and forth because people like dogs and animals and it's fuzzy and everybody's happy when the and nobody fights. That's funny. I I made up on the fake law as a d as a example that's the way Why why do PSD folks have the right to take their dogs in court now? That came through my committee, it was unanimous. You can take your dog into court if you have PTSD. Um if you have a you know a need for a a dog. Um anyway, what your p your question is excellent and it is a problem in politics and that is uh twofold. It's always been there Yeah. Um but it's sometimes gotten worse lately, uh I think with the uh incredible, uh intense hatred on the left towards the conservatives on the right. Um What has happened in the last I would suggest maybe the last ten years especially is we've had a lot of the Republican base awakening to the fact that they've been voting for leadership that has lied to them in many respects and has led them potentially astray in in some respects. And so they've become much more aware I think social media has a lot to do with this as well. They become much more aware of the issues in politics, instantly finding out the what the votes are. For instance Within a second of when those votes would post on the board in Annapolis, somebody would snap a picture and it would be on Facebook or Instagram or Twitter and a thousand constituents would be Texting that delegate saying, How dare you switch your vote quick Um that's the big change. Um and the intention. Uh during a certain period of time, yes, you have to uh if if the speaker calls the question then you have to do it in writing and you have to have a reason there's rules and you have to do it within there's a whole process of the rules. But but the point is, um what you're saying is, what about the big votes? And uh the intensity of uh the push for compromise with the party politics and yeah, it's there. I mean I I have experienced it. Uh the way that I've sought to deal with it as somebody who felt called to lead in the politic political circle is you do a lot of backroom discussions. So for instance we would have legislation that the caucus would put forth and say we want everybody to unanimously support this. And as somebody who was a chair of one of the committees, I was the chair of the Second Amendment committee for the caucus, which meant that They were looking to me to vet a lot of bills to make sure they didn't accidentally vote for a bad bill. So I had a lot you know, every time you're in charge of one of these areas of policy We look to each other and so you have to trust the committee process also because your ranking members on the committees are supposed to tell the rest of the caucus about bad bills. However, occasionally a a bad bill would get voted out of committee with the Republican support, and it would be flagged by one of us in the back room where we would have our caucus meetings Um when I say backroom, it's a public I mean it's it's there. We have our caucus meetings, um sometimes public, sometimes closed, but it's smoke cigars? It's a no. Well actually we you know off campus. But um I I would, you know, occasionally myself and some others would occasionally flag some bills and I'll never forget, um, on my first I think my first week or two in office, um It was like gonna be a unanimous vote. The committee had supported it. The the Republicans on the committee supported the bill. And it was gonna be something that that everybody was gonna vote for. And if I r recall it might have even been uh Well, I don't want to get anybody in trouble, so I don't want to say the the issue. Um but at the end of the day, uh I looked at it and I thought this violates a constitutional principle of due process. You can't be held guilty for something without an adjudication of guilt or a finding of guilt. And what they were doing was I on that particular bill was charging people up front for for uh fees and costs. um before there was any adjudication of any wrongdoing in a both a civil and a potentially criminal as atmosphere. So it was geared as a civil issue But all civil charges can turn into potential criminal charges, which totally ruins your due process if you just were dragged into the mud and you had to admit things or do things that that may have uh compromised you. But anyway As Republicans who are law enforcement supporters, we believe in the Constitution. And a lot of times Republicans don't necessarily see the Constitution as supreme They don't get it sometimes because they're either not trained for it or they just it's too easy just to go along with what they're afraid of having something happen that would expose a an embarrassment to make them look like they're supporting the bad guy. And so they're willing to vote for bad legislation just so that it doesn't look and this is not just Republicans, this is across the board. Any politician has this problem. Any elected official I like the term elected officials. They're all people like us. Somebody challenges you on something and you don't want to you're you want to make sure your judgment is not mistaken and misunderstood by by others. And so you have to kind of weigh how that is viewed in the perception as well as what's actually being done. And I I flagged it. I was like, is anybody here? I think they the call came out. Is anybody it's gonna be unanimous, right? Let's report this unanimously. And I had to raise my hand in front of forty two delegates and say, no. I'm not signing on that bill because it violates the Constitution. And of course it was like, What? Oh no. This is gonna make us all look bad because if you take a position uh in opposition to your caucus, you have to be sensitive to the fact that your friends might look bad to their constituents because why did Dan Cox vote this way and now that makes them look bad and that's not my intent. That's not any Republicans' intent. And that's the beauty of our party, by the way. Republicans believe in freedom of conscience on votes. We don't hold it to each other's account. Democrats, man, if you don't vote the way you're told as a Democrat I've watched it happen. You will lose committee assignments. Boom, you're out. They they will take you off a committee. So um Long story short, in that context, I've had um you know the the necessity of having to stand up and say no for the budget. For instance, you can look in the Frederick newspaper. Um the Republican caucus supported Larry Hogan's budget I did not. And there were about twenty of us Republicans out of um out of the forty-two who did not. And it created a little bit of controversy in the caucus. Like, how dare you? This is a Republican governor. How how could you not support his budget? And I was like, Look I think a lot of it he's trying to do what's right. There's some good stuff in there. There's there's boost money for the kids that get him out of the public schools and give 'em opportunities 'cause these schools are killing 'em and there's this, that and the other. But at the end of the day it's full of pork It's not constitutional because it's full of pork. It's lining the coffers of groups that should not be receiving it, such as Casa do Maryland, which is a communist organization, and we're funding it And all these other aspects that um for instance I found one point two billion dollars in the budget going to serve uh sanctuary state status in Maryland Over $1. 2 billion going directly to fund EBT cards and other benefits for those here illegally, which in six jurisdictions can vote. Illegal aliens can vote in Maryland. Now, I'm a very compassionate person when it comes to immigrants. My brother-in-law is from Mexico City. He's here legally. He's got his green c he's got his citizenship. My my niece, or excuse me, my my nephew's um wife is um I helped her get her green card legally. Um she's here legally from the Ukraine. Her family is a Christian uh outreach. Her father's a pastor there. They're doing house church outreach in Ukraine in the midst of war. Um, but they some of them had to escape and You know, I get it. This is the land of opportunity, but you better do it right under law or else we don't have a country. And I'm tired of This whole mantra of Christianity saying that well we have to have compassion, love one another. There's a song on the Christian radio that came on that said open borders It's I couldn't believe it. I was like, you gotta be kidding me. And um that's not that's not love. Love is when you uphold justice and law for people because then they have a sense of security and understanding that they're not gonna have their stuff you know, robbed, raped and destroyed. Yeah, y you know, a couple of things. You mentioned the Christian radio station in name only probably. Uh most of the Christian stations, the the stuff that we pass this Christian worldview, it's I mean it's very secular and Uh so and then you mentioned the uh Republican governor in name only probably. But anyway, um I gotta say, and I don't know if you guys would agree, I'm I'm I'm listening to that that litness that litany of how you know, how the sausage gets made. And it f I felt like I was just emotionally put through the meat grinder. It's so discouraging. I mean, you got people in the caucus that are worried about like their friends walking through the halls of Congress or in the delegates or whatever more than they're worried about their constituents who are back home. So we've got this huge country with over three hundred million people in it, represented by, you know, of you know, hundreds of people. And yet those hundreds of people are running a an albatross that's tens of thous hundreds of millions of people probably working for the the federal government system in ver various ways. So we're not really a nation of that's constitutional anymore because these things that are unconstitutional get passed. Right. Well how does it get passed if it's unconstitutional? So what hope is there? And then where's the accountability? Because we're not really it it feels like It's not we the people, it's we the nation of a bunch of middle managers that are running all these agencies that we never really wanted to and it's unwieldy and you can't get rid of 'em. Right. It doesn't seem like there's a way to get I mean th you g you have to new Congress but the staffers stay there so throughout many administrations and and the career uh still there. So walk walk me off the off the ledge here. Why shouldn't I now just jump? Well that's one of my first that's one of my first bills, by the way. I I would if I'm elected, God willing, to Congress. uh I want to submit a bill that uh provides term limits for staffers. And I the reason of I've seen this for years as a attorney I've represented uh government officials and in my judgment it doesn't matter what president comes or goes, it's the staffers that think they run things. And they have targeted the presidential powers to appoint someone and if they don't like 'em, they will bring them down. And those staffers can't be removed. So if we pass term limits on them, they're out. We've got to uh reform the civil service law. Um the whole reason it was passed back a hundred years ago was because presidents were using the government wrongly They would come into power a hundred years ago and all the workers were fired and they would bring in all their family and friends. It was just total corruption you can imagine. So they passed the Civil Service Reform Act where you can't fire anybody. Well, that didn't help either. It went the other way. So we gotta fix that. So I I uh but I I would encourage Christians to not jump ship because of this. This is the greatest country I believe In the world, uh, for our voices, for our freedom, for our abilities, we have a constitution, and it's not a self-executing document. You can't just sit around and look at the Constitution on the wall, no matter what country you're in. You have to have someone actually execute the Constitution, and that means use it or lose it. And if you are sitting down and not overwhelming the vote, whether or not you believe people are stealing your vote. If you're going to sit back and just give it to them anyway, you're basically lighting a match to your own constitution, to your own family's uh heritage, to your own future. And that's never good no matter what country you're in. I mean you our founders didn't do that and the people who came from England never did that. Look at the way the Mayflower got here. I mean those Dear souls um risked life and limb and and half of their members died getting just to the soil and to the control and and that Mayflower Compact was something that they used to establish that government, that first government here. Um but they did not sit back and just idly let uh anything go or or let things happen. They took charge of their own families, they took charge of their communities. and they established constitutional law, which was the historic rights that we had and that we I believe that we have naturally. And I it's sad to see that judges and and lawyers especially and politicians don't believe in natural law. Uh they they believe in positive law, which I I would love to have conversations with them and I sometimes do. Say, you know, when you when you don't believe in natural law, guess what you're doing? you're undermining truth and justice. Can you do we have time? Can you break that down? What what do you mean by natural law versus positive law? 'Cause I think some of the listeners may not So yes, so positive law is basically whatever the top dog says it is, and that's what most people believe nowadays. In other words, most judges will say if you if you review the U. S. Senate confirmation notes Um they will y be ri uh asked questions like Ted Cruz asks, grills them with questions, great questions. He's one of the best constitutionalists in America. on these issues and he will grill them and you read their responses. He says, Do you believe in the constitution and the rights of man and w men and women under God, under natural legal principles? In other words, that supersedes whatever Congress might pass. And their answers are always similar, not always, but most of these judges will say, No, I believe in The Constitution, as interpreted by the Supreme Court, I will apply that only, and the statutes of Congress, period. Well, welcome to the Third Reich, because that's exactly what they did. So how are you going to differentiate this? Positive law can't answer this question. You have to get to the greater principles that are behind the rights of men and women, the rights of mankind. And uh this is, you know, lock in theory, but it's more than that. It's a sense of our Creator. It's the understanding of why we got the Magna Carta. It's why do we have these rights? They come from things that are in each of our hearts that we know They come from God because God made us. And uh that's gonna be the last word for this week's show. Hopefully we can impose upon you to maybe join us for one more week's episode or if if you can do that, because I've got some other things I would like to try to do some uh some some tying up some loose ends and that sort of thing and pick up on some things that were said within the last five, six minutes of of the show. And and and uh David's been saving his the his best questions for last So maybe we'll get those in next week. Thank you so much, Dan Cox online at Coxforecongress. org. You can find us online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. David, Daniel, I'm Troy, Dan, the two Danes here. Thanks so much. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com.