This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all form. Hua! We're Faith Tune. Community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yabba do in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to run boy! Let's get ready to rumble. Ah. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron here. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweister. I'm just getting warmed up. Welcome to the Faith Debate. This is gonna be a fun show for me. I hope it's a fun show for you. You know, a lot of times we do these shows, we've got people on that I'm meeting for the first time. Like moments before we go on the air for the first time, I just met them You know that's why you'll hear me sometimes stumble over their name or how to pronounce the name of their church or I get some very you know obvious fact about them wrong like Troy, didn't you know what you were talking about? No, typically not. I don't know what I'm talking about. But in this case I had the pleasure of sharing the studio for the Faith Debate this week with two dear friends of mine. Dear friends. Dear friends. Thank you, dear. Um my job is gonna figure out how to make this dear friendship circle or triangle because there's three of us uh into some sort of a faith debate. Yes, we'll see. I I I'm guessing there's going to be a lot of common thoughts on some things, but there might be some nuances. It'll be my job to turn those into And what it means though is that we could dig deeper into some areas that we can't dig deeper into when we're dealing with people that we disagree, which is nice. I I love to go there. So that's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer. He is the uh the former pastor of of Crossroads Valley Church in Frederick and now it for the last almost a year or so I guess has been running an organization called Crossed Bridges which uh seeks to bring different churches together uh along with uh s social service agencies and government entities to serve needs in the community that everyone can agree need to be. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's two social services oriented. So I'm gonna have to just kind of add to that. Yeah. Right, i. e. , we should all be praying for the for the kingdom of God to come together. So so uh the two kind of uh concrete parts of what we do. One would be kind of the social services, but the other is is the prayer canopy that has 40 plus churches participating in it right now and others that are considering. Uh and so, you know, it's a recognition that that there's a place for the body of Christ to be bold uh as we're walking in the unity that Christ had for us, recognizing, you know, that there's still boundaries, you know, we we we don't just unify with everybody that calls themselves Christian, you know, and so what what are those, you know, proper boundaries for this. Well I'm encouraging you have found forty churches willing to pray and that there are others considering starting to. That's nice. And David Force is also on the show and I'm gonna let you give a little bit of your bio as far as your your church background and leadership and that sort of a thing. Um but what you're doing now I don't think has a name Right, you you've begun a a house church in your home. N nourse. We just call it the church that needs There you go. It does, yeah. And so you gotta get the picture here. Here's Troy Skinner in his suit, you know, nice blue shirt, his tie that has blue in it that matches the shirt, you know clean shaven and and uh here's uh you know with the beard and uh coming out of uh you know cutting down trees and in uh a very earthy kind of a kind of a look and so between the two I am. Yeah. So he looks apart. That's right. I'm I'm a um a production arborist. So that means I I don't have a knot I don't have an office job or just go give estimates. Production operation. I go. Sounds like a capitalist to me. It's funny, before the show we were talking, I have a tree in my yard that's called like the tree of heaven And some people call it the tree of hell, you know, because it smells or whatever. And so he was giving me some instructions, you know, about what to do and how to do it's an invasive species. that I decided I wanted to go ahead and let grow my garden. Uh and so it's beautiful tree, but you know, he was uh giving me the four one one on uh what that tree's all about. Now before David gets into some of his background, uh Jonathan mentioned my wardrobe, so I have a a fun story. Yeah. So Really, it's a nice match. Far too often today being one of them, far too often I have to dress myself. But it it wasn't too long ago when Nine times out of ten, tragic, you know, my clothes were laid out the night before by my wife. She likes some like a life size kendal, you know. So And she is like an amazing, you know, uh interior decorator. She just gets it, you know. So she puts together combinations like I You know she would she chooses a shirt to go with a suit that I would never choose and yet she finds just the right tie to work shirt work with the suit. I would never think of it. Yeah So anyway, yesterday I was uh supposed to have some uh headshots uh done. Actually w they were done. Nice. And so I mentioned to my wife Dina, I said, you know You are always good at this. I'm not sure what I should wear for the headshot. Could you pick something out? Well she forgot. Oh. So I had to fend for myself. And so I tried shot day. So I tried to put myself like You know, you know, what would Jesus do? What would Dina do? What would Dina what would she put together as an ensemble? So I I picked something out and I thought, this looks pretty good, but I thought that a lot of times and people are like, Oh did you dress yourself? I don't think Dina picked that out, did she? So but To my credit, I was at a store yesterday and this uh wonderful woman, you know, uh sixty-five year old woman probably. Yeah, she went out of her way to walk up to me and said You that that outfit really goes well together. Are you serious? Yeah. Out of the blue? Out of the blue. And she didn't ask for a phone number right now, right? So I so at least So I said to her, I said, you know what? I didn't know who she was, but she was bold enough to give me that kind of a compliment. So I was bold enough to respond with a little bit of chatter, and I said, you know, I really appreciate hearing that because For once in my life somebody complimented an outfit that I chose and she said, Oh why? It's usually chosen for you and she was kind of joking. I said, Well actually yeah, my wife used to lay out my clothes because she had respect And she kind of gave you a look like how old are you? Oh no. Right. Now there's something charming about that though, 'cause I don't know if the name Ray Meyer means anything to you, but if you're a college basketball aficionado, Ray Meyer was the legendary coach of the DePaul Blue Demons uh in the uh city of Chicago for years. They went to the final four a couple of times, they won a national championship way back in the day. Okay. He's he's dead twenty years now probably. But he was still coaching well into his older years. I don't know exactly how old he was when he retired, but he was probably well into his seventies, maybe pushing eighty when he retired, I don't know. And part of the charm was his wife laid out his suit and his tie for every game day. No his whole career, all the way to the end. Wow. So I'm in good company. You are. You should have been a NBA coach. Yeah Maybe that's why he was so good. I guess right. Right, yeah. So we're like way off topic and I have a story. But I'm thinking I shouldn't go there because it's gonna keep us off topic. My nephew was a terginite uh for the University of Maryland. Like the coach wasn't uh so well liked. And there's a whole bunch of students that decided that they were going to stand with him. I don't know what a turgit. And they all started to dress like the coach you know, with suits and ties and then they would get up and they do like like choreograph dances, a bunch of guys, you know, doing choreograp choreograph dance And uh and so eventually the the cheerleading squad uh you know, they got so well known at University of Maryland, the cheerleading squad pulled them down on the court. to do a routine along with the cheerleaders, you know, as a as a way of standing with the coach at the time. So is that Turginite? Turginite. Maybe I'm saying it wrong. I don't know what that is. University of Maryland coach What was his name? Oh, the coach's name was like Turgeon or something? Yeah, yeah, yeah. So they uh they were the Turgeonite too. Gotcha. Yeah. And so anyways, it was they would dress like the coach That's how I'm relating to this. Canaanites, Moabites, Turginites. This is always a risk with doing a show when you have friends and the show has nothing to do with the faith debate hours on end. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. You're listening to it on 930 WF FMD online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith or the drop-down menu of the online lineup. You can find the faith debate that way. Once you get there, by the way, you can find uh a little teaser of the kind of shows that are coming up in the future, and you can find direct links to recent shows. I'm not sure how far back the podcasts go, but they go back a stretch. So you could listen for hours on end. It's a great way to keep yourself entertained while you're on a long family road trip. That's what I think anyway. So anyway, Jonathan Schweitzer, uh the founder of Cross Bridges on the show again this week, uh co-founder of the Faith Debate Show. And David Forcy, he's about to tell us who he is. Why are you here? Well, uh I guess if we're talking about church-related experience, I'll just start with my my growing up years. Um my father was a pastor And uh and so I grew up as a a pastor's kid. And what uh tradition, what faith what church tr denomination? So my My dad is a um I guess he's a essentially a dunking Presbyterian. A dunking presbyterian right, yeah. So uh baptism by submersion. He's not into Infant baptism wouldn't wouldn't agree with that position. Uh and but but otherwise it's not a good idea. Now I have no idea where to place your dad, you know, in that hole. But anyway, so dunking Presbyterian. matters. Uh most Presbyterian Presbyterianism has to do with the style of government that they have, the organizational structure of the leadership of the church. So it doesn't really have anything to do with the baptism question. And yet for some reason Almost every Presbyterian you're ever gonna meet believes in baptizing infants. Yeah. Which you know is distinct from the older mainline denominations tend in that direction. So it is interesting That uh he was a dunking Presbyterian. Is there a denomination for that? Or he was like an independent church? No, no, it was an independent church that he he pastored. He actually So he was reformed kind of? Is that what you mean? Like he was a Dunking reformer Yeah, I think that's probably more more accurate. Okay, like a John Piper kind of guy? Uh yeah, I I think they'd probably go uh be a pretty Pretty close and match. Okay, John Piper, very well known American pastor in uh Minneapolis, I believe, right? Uh I don't know. Somewhere somewhere somewhere in Minnesota. Uh yeah. I don't know that he's pastoring anymore. Oh yeah, he's probably a pastor emeritus or something. Um which is funny, my dad now works for um an organization called Training Leaders International that came out of Desiring God Ministries or was started by them, which Desiring God and uh and training Leaders International goes around and gotcha. Okay. Yeah. So then what what what came next then in your church experience? So um so that that's sort of what I what I grew up in. Uh I went to went to Bible College and um and while there um sort of had Um I don't know, my my perspective broadened a little bit just on always. Uh, you know, what was uh out there in the the Christian the Christian world, uh sort of the the range of possibilities there in in a lot of ways. Um and I guess then after after college went and I Um was a a youth minister at a um a Baptist church. Uh and I was ordained there. And was that uh a Reformed, more uh Calvinist Baptist? No, no. Calvinist was almost uh uh a bad word there even though not everyone understood why. So what did your dad think about you going to that church? Right. Um becoming ordained to that term. Right. Um I I think he was well, so uh so so things having to do with soteriology weren't a part of their um their statement of faith. And so uh yeah they had a very, very broad, very general um statement of faith. And uh and so I could uh I could agree with that, and I did agree with that, um, and I was very much able to um To work within the church there and with uh with the people and gotcha. reform direction, but you didn't have to make a stand because they were rather ill-defined on some of those kinds of questions. Yes. Gotcha. And they were purposely ill-defined in order to not make Uh theology a sticking point? Uh I was purposely ill-defined in order to uh not be divisive. Oh. And Yeah. I I can get that. I mean I've lived um you know my story a little bit. I've lived in that world where, you know, don't pick a fight if you don't have to. And as long as you're willing to be um under someone's headship, you know, if the church overall is teaching something, just make sure you're careful not to go out of your way to teach against that. You know, try to navigate that carefully. Uh for for them was more so um like particular If you use particular theological terms that would they they wouldn't like that. But if you like the elect, if you said the elect a lot, they'd get uh yeah, some people would be very offended by that and then uh the pastor would tell them that they should read their Bible more because that's it's a biblical word. Or predestination obviously if you use the word predestined they probably didn't like that, even though that's a word that's in the Bible too. Right, right. And so Um so you know, I love those words, but I'm nowhere close to being a Calvinist. So but we're not gonna go there. You're closer than you used to be. It was It was totally fine. Um, I resemble that at Remark is that was just Joy and I were just gonna have a debate if you could just kinda host that for us. We appreciate it. We were uh we were talking about me singing earlier. Yeah. I could do that. A mighty fortress probably. Yeah, clearly. Um as long as I uh they they were they were fine as long as you taught what the Bible said, which is what I would want to do anyway. So I was asking that just to get a sense for where you're coming from. So then you came from that church to Frederick, is that right? Um yeah, I guess from there we moved out to uh Frederick's. Yeah, me and my wife. Five kids. Yeah. And uh You guys have that in common, a lot of kids. That's true. And actually so we homeschool together. That's how we know each other. That also. Yeah. Yeah. You're a couple of homeboys. Homies. So which yeah which could lead some people to believe that my Uh my leaning towards church in the home is just, you know, all of the all in the same sort of it does seem to fit fits together reasonably well. Yeah, so so when we came out to to Frederick, we uh came out actually to um to to open a new church uh in downtown Frederick and um I guess I guess I you know, I I sort of understood it to be uh more of what I grew up under um and what was what was interesting is that the longer we were there the more um The more it was uh not not necessarily what uh exactly what I thought it was going to be. Yeah. Yeah. I mean it was sort of uh Uh figuring out what what it was. Um the whole group that came in to do that were all transplants into Frederick right about the same time? Uh we are We were the only family besides the um the pastors family and the worship leaders family that moved to Frederick. Uh, there there may have been some other people but nobody else real like long term or or very committed. Yeah. Um And so Yeah. Alright, so then in terms of your church kind of history, that brings you up to where you are now. Yeah, and and that was that was much more um Anglican in its in its operation and uh and sort of overall. It kind of grew into that. It didn't start out Anglican, right? Is that what you meant by it? Yeah. I don't even know what I know what Anglican is. Like Episcopalian. Yeah. Yeah. More liturgy, more dependence on the church calendar, you know, those kinds of things. A little more high church. kind of thing. Right. I visited that church and the very first thing. But y it was n it's not uh or it wasn't a a purebred Anglican experience. So I walked in and when it was over I turned to my wife Dina and I said I'm not sure, but I think they might be trying to be Anglican. I couldn't quite put my finger on it. Yeah. Yeah. So Yeah, that was uh And so the the communion service was kind of at the center of the service Is that what high church means? Less emphasis on the the preaching Um I guess I guess it means like very um a very orderly particular order of you know charismatic service uh being a lo more loosely organized. That's not going to happen. Yeah, very very guided. Very Huh. Uh very lead and um And you didn't anticipate that coming in. Um n I I knew that it was going to be uh liturgical. Um but we we sort of became more and more and more liturgical as time went on. Okay. So And then you breaking from from that or well it didn't break from that, I mean that kind of just went its own direction. And so and but you in response to that went in a very different kind of direction from something that was aspiring to be more high church, highly liturgical. Highly structured. High house church situation. I I guess I'd say sort of, uh because our you know, the our meetings on Sunday are very uh they're very structured. We have very purposeful sort of set structure to uh to what we do each week. Um and in the context of a home church. Yeah. In the context of a a home. Yeah. Um yeah. Now I'm just gonna ask you a quick I got questions. Because of the home church and homeschooling thing, you've homeschooled your kids. Did you ever lean in the direction of doing house church I mean you when you started your church as a church plant you started in your house. Right. But you ultimately, you know, uh left that environment Do you do something that looked more like what a mainstream people expect a church to look like kind of thing? There's there's definitely uh a r a uh a a constant group of people that were that were uh inclined in a in a home church direction, uh with the emphasis on relationships and bearing each other's burdens and and the ability then to to to have closer, more intimate, more uh fellowship, you know, kinds of relationships, you know, getting back to kind of what the church is supposed to be kind of an orientation. that I I'm sure we'll get more into, you know, kind of talking through the ins and outs of that. So uh that's the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer and uh you you've you've Uh even if you just met him for the first time on today's show, you get a sense of what he's all about. And we certainly got a a sense of uh where David Forcy is coming from. uh on uh beginning this house church thing. So on next week's show we're gonna get more into the meat and potatoes of you know, what are the kinds of things One that motivate a house church idea, like why why that and not some other kind of church idea? And the kinds of things you have to be thinking through, the kinds of issues, you know, how do we do house church? You know, what is that supposed to be? So we'll get into that on next week's show. I'm Troy Skinner, and this is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Again, we're online at WFMD. com Keyword faith gets you to the Faith Debate page. You can also go to the WFMD Facebook page and you'll find uh Faith Debate posts there uh and links to the Faith Debate page that way as well. And if you caught this show in process and you would like to hear it from the beginning Wait not too long, maybe a few hours I think, or certainly by tomorrow morning, uh go to the website and you can listen to the podcast and it'll be there for at least, I don't know, a year No promises, but let's say a year. All right. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.