We are involved in a war. Whether we want to realize it or not, we are required to become warriors in defense of truth. Quoting Martin Lloyd Jones Let us be clear about what we mean. This is not argument for the sake of argument. This is not a manifestation of an argumentative spirit. This is not just judging one's prejudices. No man should like argument for the sake of argument. We should always regret the necessity, but though we regret and bemoan it, when we feel that a vital matter is at stake, We must engage in argument. We must earnestly contend for the truth. Stay committed to the truth. Don't waver. Ultimately, only what is eternal really matters. And that means the truth matters. Infinitely more than any of the merely earthly things that tend to capture our attention and energies. And there with the help of words from John MacArthur we have the foundation. That is The Frederick Fates Debate. I'm Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to us by Deer Valley Hardscape Masonry and Landscape. Jonathan Sweitzer is here today. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Our show is also brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. And David Hughes, former pastor at Adamstown Community Church, also once known as, let's see if I can get this right, Trinity Evangelical Reformed. Church. Huh? No, I think it's Trinity Reformed and Evangelical, isn't it? It was ch it was Trinity Reformed and V and Yes Oh, I forgot the ants? I forgot the ants. I swapped the ants. Man, I can't get it right. I was so proud of myself. Ah, pride goes before a fall. Martin Lloyd joins. I like that Martin Lloyd Jones guy that you quoted from. That was a great quote. Yeah, you like that? Yeah, you don't argue for the sake of argument. Amen. You almost want to hate to argue. But at the end of the day, you're not going to be able to do that. Hate the argument. Not the arguer Anyway, not the debater. Uh so your first time listening to this show, where have you? Bang, we're coming up on seven years. Seven years. Almost seven years. We seven years in November. How would we do that if we were going to take a Sabbath year on here? That means we're just gonna come on and we'll do what we've been doing last year. Exactly. We've been taking the Sabbath year for six years. So last year or last year, last week we ended the show talking about David being a hater. Or something that's to that effect. Yeah. Good to have you on, David. Thank you. It's been a pleasure being here. Oh, and so I don't forget what I'm reading. Yes, it's still more Ted Decker. Oh man. Uh this is actually I've decided to try this and I I don't recommend this at home. It's uh all by the so for the record, when I say I'm reading it, I'm not necessarily recommending it. For example, the books The last two books I mentioned I wasn't recommending. I'm not recommending this. It's the Circle Series Visual Edition. He's written a series of books, uh uh Well they I think it starts with black, red, white, and ends with green. And there is a graphic novel version. There's no mauve, there's no purple, there's no you know, cream colored. Well it's might not be done. Maybe he'll write more. But there's these four and they've written a graphic novel version of these. Yeah. And I'm just I don't get it. I'm not a fan. I don't like graphic novels apparently. I found it bored. I couldn't flip through the pages fast enough just to say I finished it. Well, I'm reading the story of Abraham all over again from Genesis. Oh, so you're reading the Bible. Yeah. Show me up, why don't you? Yeah. I'm reading a graphic novel by Ted Decker, a suspense novelist, and you're reading the Bible. Okay, yeah. Yeah, I'm trying to memorize the the the I was wrong last week. David's not the hater. Jonathan is. The chronology of his life. It's very interesting. So us Christian haters Uh we don't like people who are Muslim, right? We want to kick them out of the country, wanna behead them all. Okay, just for those of you that can't figure it out He's he's he's being ironic. He doesn't really think that we're Christian haters. Just in case you were wondering out there. Okay, go ahead. So uh David has uh well you uh let me start with Jonathan and then we'll switch over to David. Jonathan has some some history. Being a hater. Being a hater for sure. Uh and and trying to reach out to uh the Muslim community. Yeah. Form some bridges. Yeah, actually we played on an indoor soccer team with the president of the Islamic Society, Frederick. Past president now. Yeah, past president, and he w came on the show. And uh that was a little frustrating because we caught him a couple times and a lie that was uh that that left us feeling like we couldn't trust him so much anymore. But now there's a new president and uh in the context of uh doing the whole forty-eight hour fast thing, I've I'm kinda reconnecting, so I'm kinda hoping that we can bring him on again. And actually we're gonna be bringing on an Hamadian guy, Muslim guy again. And they're the group that tried to come into Frederick a couple of years back in Walkersville with that big uh meeting. Complex. And then the imam of the local mosque is uh Gabad Nemi Yahya Hendi. Yahya, interestingly enough, is is uh the Aramaic term for John. Huh. So I would be Yahya Sweiser. Oh I like that. Do you? Yeah, that's our word of the week. Yayah. Yeah, I don't like you calling me it, but it's a good thing. So could you do this like Man, I had one too many beers. I gotta go z visit the Yaya. Right, right, right. So you can do that if you're talking about me, but We want to respect Imam Yahya Hendi. And uh in anyways, I debated him down at Johns Hopkins a couple times uh on on various issues uh for a class that he was teaching down there with uh with another Jewish guy And so that's kind of been our interaction with the Muslim people here locally, uh outside of uh though I will say this, genuinely, every time that I go to a gas station I will greet the uh the guy working there with Asalaam alaykum, you know, which basically says, you know, the Lord give you peace. Right? And uh and I'm okay with that. And uh and then invariably I'll try to talk to 'em. I'll ask 'em whether from Pakistan or Afghanistan or wherever it is. And I am amazed that they will talk to you and they appreciate it. uh because so often they have felt uh you know ostracized and uh they they really appreciate your attempt to you know really try to connect like if you talk to a uh Latin American guy in Spanish, you know, they always get a little smile on their face and they appreciate it. You know, same kind of a thing. Yeah, they smile like he doesn't know what he's saying. It's one of those smiles. Isn't he cute? Yeah, isn't he cute? He thinks he's speaking Spanish. Now uh David has some history uh with the uh Christian Islam question as well. Now uh it's been I think it's been a little bit l uh as I understand it you can correct me, but I think it's been a little bit less about trying to reach out and s talk directly to Muslims. It's been more about getting the Christian community, Christians and Christian churches to be more aware of what the differences are, to know how to interact with uh on their own. Um so you know, Jonathan's uh two hundred thousand Muslims in the DC area. Two hundred thousand? Two hundred thousand and there's there are This is from Bertie Abdelmassi, who works at the Barnabas Fund. He's starting an organization that is specifically geared towards reaching out to Muslims. and uh helping those that are doing that in the DC area to work together. And uh there are twenty-five Muslim institutions in the in the Frederick I mean in the DC area, some of them that have thousands of Muslims that come to them and uh I guess you have to if there's two hundred thousand play. You just do the math. And the one here in Frederick is not one of the largest, but it has a history of being one of the most active uh mosques in the DC area. Huh. And what does active mean exactly? Uh doing outreach, trying to connect with uh in fact their imam was just promoted to they they brought in a new me imam because the previous imam was promoted to to a more national role because he was so effective in doing outreach and connecting with um, you know, Christians and Jews and other uh leader uh religious leaders uh in the area. So now uh David Hughes Ministries, what you do is you go you visit churches or church groups or whatever and you put on a presentation, I guess, for lack of a better uh word, uh explaining what historical Christianity is versus Islam and how the two are different, maybe where they're similar, how we should understand them, each other, whatever. So what are some things we should understand about Islam as a Christian Hater? Yeah. Egg the debate on it. Yes. Yeah, okay. Well let him give it the conservative evangelical response. Put up your dukes. Yeah, here comes the evangelical Well first of all I have a background in police work and so I I looked for evidence and and when after nine eleven I received a ton of mail from evangelical Christians, liberal Christians as if if we were talking about earlier I received uh information from Muslims that said, no, we're not like this, we don't do this. This was outside of the uh of the context of Islam. Islam means peace. And so I started to do a systematic study of this and uh using uh the the methods that for for that historians use for for um for authenticity and so on and so forth. And the very first thing that I came upon was that when when uh Islam was being developed uh um Muhammad was asked a question. He says, he says, is it okay, or he was asked, is it okay to deceive your enemy or to deceive. And and so when when Muhammad answered it was yes, it is okay for them to deceive. So we are considered, outside of Islam, we are considered their enemy And the guy he was answering might have been his enemy, so he might not have given the real answer. What he really was saying was no. This was one of his follows. Uh-oh, here we go. If are you being smeagal right now? Yeah. If I'm at war with somebody, I mean even David in the Bible uh sent when when Absalom his son kicked him out of Israel, chased him out of Jerusalem David sent back in a couple of his servants to lie and to act like they were they were loyal to Absalom instead of David and then to feed David information about what was going on. So lying in the context of war is really not that big a deal. I mean, come on, you lie in the context of war. Lying in the context of war, if if the the net this is the whole crux of the situation here. If we're at war with Islam and they look at it as at war with Islam, then Islam does not mean peace, it means submission like uh uh like a very various uh Muslim uh commentators and Muslim scholars have told me that it means submission and the word Islam means submission. And Muslim is one who submits. So if you're at war with me and you but you're telling me that you're peaceful then that that argument would not hold up that we have to we have to be a uh uh deceiving you. We have to we have to lie to you. We have to to uh uh to do those types of things to get our goals Uh establishing the first time. Okay, this is another issue that would that that came up during my study. If you are a conservative Christian, then you would think that every Muslim has a potential. If you're a liberal, more of a liberal Christian, then you can embrace Islam, you can br embrace the Muslim if as long as he don't kill you. Evidently even liberals don't like to be killed. So if he don't kill you, then he's okay But what I came to the conclusion with my studies was that it is absolutely a certainty that every Muslim has the potential, has the potential and the calling to uh to um to propagate Islam and to advance Islam no matter what the method is Yeah, but you're just talking to fundamentalist Muslims that have hijacked a peaceful religion to uh to uh extend their political goals to to set up, you know, some kind of a um you know worldwide caliphate. But most Muslims aren't that way. Again, during my study, every Muslim, and this is why, and this is another reason, every Muslim has that opportunity and has that mandate. It's in their writings. They may not do it But what they do is they accept it because they know that it is going to propagate and it is going to advance Islam, which is a command of of Muhammad. Yeah, but as a liberal Christian I figured out a long time ago that we don't have to interpret uh those fundamentalist passages in such a strict manner and that we're free to interpret how we want. And so, you know, not everybody interprets it that way. You know, the Quran's a good book if you just interpret it the right way. He's rolling his eyes. By the way, this is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick Fuse Radio, 930 WF FMD. Uh in case you're just tuning in, Jonathan Sweitzer is not a liberal Christian, but he's playing one on the radio debate. And uh David Hughes is the founder and president of David Hughes Ministries. And up until just you don't like that label, Libya. Label me that. You're an other Christian. Yes. A professional Christian. You're an evangelical Christian. Oh okay, I got the problem. I'm hyphenated. Islam is never is never assimilated into the society in which it it it uh it plants itself. Islam has to take over that society. They are not satisfied by living with religious freedoms of other religions They that is their that is their goal. That's what Muhammad said, that Islam is a the religion of the world and Muhammad is the prophet of the world. When Christians live in Muslim lands, they are given safety. This is why I, you know, when I talk with Imam Yahya Hendi and when I speak with um Khalil El Slazli and Dr. Doctor Raza here in uh Frederick, the president of the Islamic Society, Frederick, they assure me that that Christians in in Muslim lands throughout history have been treated with respect. And with dignity that they have not been required to change their religion and that they've uh that they've been uh, you know, uh given freedom. In Pakistan today, if a Christian, there is a death penalty for trying to convert a Muslim into Christianity, and there is also called a tax that we talked about earlier. uh you and I talked about earlier then you call it the Medina tax. Is that it's actually a s a submission tax. And to show that it's called it the Demi Tax. Demi tax Okay. I thought you said that. No, I'm sorry. It's called the Jizya tax. And uh if you're allowed to live in the lands, you're you're called a demi. So you're a dimitude. Dimitude. Demi. Exactly. Okay. I thought yeah, because we're at the at the banquet. But you have to pay that tax. And the reason that you pay that tax is that to show that Islam, that you are in submission to Islam, that Islam is over your religion. In Saudi Arabia there is no Christian church. How do you know that that's really happened and that's just not a bunch of Christian apologetics, you know, from people that are uh that are fundamentalist Christians that just can't uh can't uh think in nuance and don't have the ability to appreciate the fact that that there's other religions around the world that aren't exactly like theirs. I have met and spoken to Christians who have lived in Muslim countries, and I've also spoken to other Muslims who are not as as uh we would say as radical or uh uh what did Hindi tell me they the extremists is what he said they were that uh have lived there and when I have spoken of these things and when I have have pro showed the evidence of these things they haven't agreed with me. There is no Christian churches in Saudi Arabia. You are allowed to worship in your home, but you cannot o uh have a Christian service, even if it is underground, as we we would call it, uh w without the penalty of of death. That is active today. There are no in any any any society. Okay, but who are we to impose Western mindsets on the Middle East. Don't they have the right to decide for themselves how they want to live in their country? and and and to establish their laws. What right do we have to impose, you know, Western imperialistic, you know, that they have to be just the way that we are? Christ told us to go and make disciples of the world. If you are a Christian, we should have that freedom to approach you just as Islam has the freedom to approach us. And and I realize that in this in this country we have the religious freedom that other countries do not have, but it's fastly disappearing But we should have that same uh same ideal that we should have the dialogue between one another. And if you are coming to a different country and you are living alongside religious uh religious people, Christian people or Jewish people then your idea should not be imposed upon us uh either, but you can also be a disciple of and we should be able to Yeah, but as a liberal Christian I'm i i'm of the opinion that it's all yeah as another Christian. You know, why why should Christians be trying to go change them anyways? You know? Uh I don't believe that Christ came to to try to force everybody to to uh to to worship, you know, in one way. Christ was loving and Christ was embracing, he cared for people and accepted them for who they are. I've heard that before. Let me tell you something. Jesus had a a mandate, and that mandate was that if you're going to get into the kingdom of God, then you have to come through Him and only through Him. And plus, he gives us something that someone else that no other type of religion or belief system gives. He gives us the guarantee, and that is through the Spirit of God, that we are changed. We become a new creature in Christ. If you propagate that there is something outside of Jesus, the Son of God, who claims to be the Son of God, not only in the Bible, but has has uh extra-biblical writings about his about his virtue, extra-biblical writings about his his miracles, extra-biblical writings about his his ministries and how he started the church. There is something there that is different from any other uh any other religion or belief system. Oh I don't know. All religions were formed the same way. Some priest guy heard something special from an angel and when they heard it from the angel they began to they began to tell their followers about it. And you know, reli religion is us reaching into the deepest part of who we are and recognizing what we all have in common and uh and and living in that place of of holding those things in common and loving one another. It it it's supposed to unite us instead of dividing. All your talk is is just trying to divide, paint them out to be to be evil and and and bad and and you're creating a fight where there's no fight. As we again we go back to the nature of the religion. It's pretty good. We propagate the religious freedom. But when you come to Islam, they do not propagate that same type of or reciprocate to that with that same type of uh uh philosophy. They are conquer They and if you are not willing to accept Islam as a uh as a a disciple, then you are to be either uh eradicated, killed. Taken out or that you were brought under submission. When I see a teenager that is always fighting with everybody else, my experience is that all he needs is somebody to sit and listen to him and care for him so that he's no longer at odds with everybody else. And everybody tr everybody talks about Islam this way. How are they not supposed to stand up and and defend themselves and to defend their honor? You know? Somebody needs to come along and accept them for who they are, love 'em, and and when we do that then what's gonna happen is we'll all just be able to live at peace with one another. We'll recognize that we're all just worshiping the same God and we just need to get along. They just need, you know, they they need us to to treat them with a little bit of respect and a little bit of honor instead of coming in trying to change them and tell them that that you know, fifteen hundred ye uh yeah, is that right? Fifteen hundred years of thousand hundred years, fifteen hundred years of history of Islam was somehow wrong. I mean, how rude is that? How arrogant is that for us to always be sp you know, putting that in their face? I understand what you're saying and with this dialogue that we have here and uh you're playing the devil's devil's advocate here, but One thing that we have to r remember, first of all, if you're under an Islamic system, then your rights and your freedoms are restricted by the Quran and by the the uh the other writings of Muhammad. The second thing that you have to remember is that Islam is a is a religion of the sword. And if you do not willingly bow a knee, you will be forced to bow a knee. Okay, but Christianity clearly used the sword plenty of times in history. The Crusades uh uh the Old Testament, you know, there's all kinds of using of the sword to to exp extend, you know, from Constantine on down, uh that was the case. And so All Islam needs is an opportunity to uh to be accepted and and you know, they'll move past those things. They they just need Uh they they need to be given an opportunity. And if all we're ever doing is telling them, you know, that that's the way that they are, we're just creating a self-fulfilling prophecy that they're gonna end up that way all over again. I do understand about the crusades, but the Bible itself has never uh wa had never mandated for individuals to be revengeful and they had never mandated any uh uh uh killing of of non-Christian people by individuals. It was a government, and I understand the Old Testament is a little different. You talk about the Canaanites and you talk about Jericho and you talk about the promised land But that was a command by God at that point in time. It was a government type of situation. It wasn't an individual. And no individual is is now commanded and today in the New Testament Bible is now commanded to kill for their faith. We are not commanded that way. As a non evangelical Christian though I look at the Old Testament and I say the problem was that they weren't enlightened yet and so they were living in their culture at their time, the same way that Arabs in are doing in the Middle East today. And they the you know when Christ came along, he realized that all that killing was wrong and that it was inappropriate and called to the higher standard. And uh and that's all that you know that's happening with Islam, just like it happened with Christianity. It's normal for a religion to go through these growth pains as they're going through through life and and becoming uh something better. So why why don't we uh give them the space to do that instead of trying to change their religion? Mandate Fifteen hundred years ago, Islam with the mandate was to conquer, divide, and destroy. The mandate today is exactly the same. An individual can take upon himself to conquer, divide, destroy. In fact, jihad If you are a jihadist, you are guaranteed paradise. If you are not a jihadist, then you are not guaranteed paradise by any means through the Islamic system, belief system. I've seen plenty of Christians that are willing to die for Christ, you know, and if it and there's plenty of Christians that would die uh defending, you know, their own homeland here in the United States, you know, they're just dying defending their own homeland. Uh the the the popes in the Middle Ages uh guaranteed people heaven if they went and fought in the crusade. You know, they're just going through through a stage and they need to be given time and space, you know, to to come to appreciate the fact that we're all just worshiping the same God. I understand what you're saying, and but what the Pope may have guaranteed it, but the Bible never did. What happens between the Bible and the Quran is this The Bible guarantees salvation or paradise or heaven, whatever you want to call it, through Christ and Christ alone. The Quran guarantees guarantees guarantees paradise very quickly guarantees paradise through a violent act. Well I'm gonna have to rescue Jonathan from himself. I would make sure I have time on the show to say this. Jonathan Schweitzer is not a liberal or other non-evangelical Christian. He is a conservative evangelical pastor at Crossroads Valley Chapel, playing the part of uh a contrarian uh on today's show. And David Hughes is the founder and president of David Hughes Ministries. I'm Frey Skinner. This has been Project Faith Debate. It's been brought to us by Plumming Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? And Deer Valley Heartscape, Masonry, and Landscape. Well done. Finally got a good idea. Yeah, he's there. God bless. All right. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?