Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County, where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Our sponsor is Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? We are online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. There you'll find the Faith Debate page and we don't have quite as much stuff going on there as we used to because we're posting more stuff on Facebook, so visit WFMD's Facebook page. And the occasional blog updates and and things like that. So I encourage you to go check it out at least from time to time. Um on the show today we have He ha he's gotta be tired for swimming across the ocean twice now. He swam across last week and now sw and swam over again at three Passages swimming across the Atlantic Ocean. Yes. Uh ac well those Germans they can really swim. I'm I'm one of us ride. I've seen them in the Olympics. What was that guy's name? The uh the the he The the albatross? Oh Michael Gross. Michael Gross, oh my my re my hero. German hero. Anyway. That's uh Echo Gartner, who is the pastor of the Free Evangelical Church in Elric, Germany, Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley uh Church. I was a uh uh chapel again there. You did? I don't have it. That was very couple of years ago you changed it to Crossworth Valley Church. That's correct. Uh and you still doing your Twitter. Uh parlor, so yeah. People go there to die. That's right. It's just anybody fit one to community. Anyway, I don't know if I said I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Faith of Eight Show. So last week we got kind of a cultural lesson of of what it's like to be in in Germany. I gotta tell ya, what a neophyte I am on this sort of stuff. I had no idea there was a state church in Germany. Oh, right. So I learned that in last week's show. Yeah, I kinda like knew it, but I You know, to hear the details of it like it it's a whole different orientation, you know. Of their state church here in the in the States would be like totally It would never happen. However At the beginning, it used to be in Maryland that they collect and there are several colonies early on that collected taxes for the church. And so there were state churches state by state uh here in the colonies in the early days and so it really wasn't terribly different from that here in the States. I probably do have to fight for the Lutheran Church uh this time. Okay. Because uh probably it it had been too bad last week. So I I would like to do it. Well he knows when he swims back across the ocean he's got a bunch of angry Lutherans waiting for it. Probably no I I I really uh uh think it's a good uh something very good that we have in Germany is that uh it's very normal that religion is being taught in school And most of the pastors of the Rutherland churches would do that. Or the Catholic churches. They do the teaching in the school system. Yeah, they do the teaching in the school system. Okay, so so that feels to me like it could be a double edged sword Because if that means that they're teaching liberal Christianity in the school system, well liberal Christianity would say that Muhammad is just as good a way to get to God as Jesus or that Buddha is just a good approach to finding God as Jesus is. So is that what they're teaching in the school system? They have a curricula they have to go through. Yeah. Uh and they have to teach other religions as well. But the major part is uh their uh Christian faith. So probably they don't investigate or they don't invest that much into this debate. Yeah. Uh which is the right way. Yeah. They Their their um task is to present the religion uh they belong to. That's so so they're presenting it as You're a a German and you're a Christian. And it's part of your culture. And it's a part of who you are. And they teach that things like Jesus is the Son of God. That he was born of the Virgin Mary, that that he died for our sin to save us from our sins, you know, so that we can have eternal life. They teach these They teach these things and they started with the first grade. Yeah. And she uh teaches these classes as well. They have a curricula, but they uh they uh really go through the Bible um text uh and Bible passages um just to learn wow what the Bible says. It's interesting though. There's some sort of a myth though That's right. So they're teaching it in the school form and yet more than nine out of ten people don't go to church. And that's that's amazing when you think about it. Yeah, but it means that the secular state in Germany is very different from the secularism that's being driven here in the United States. Right, 'cause you you might have you might have heard we that you know, just uh out west there was a um a football coach who after the games would go out to to to center field after after the football games would go out to center field and just pray and s and teammates and and other students would come and pray with him and they just fired him because he's praying as a teacher and so therefore he's giving the impression that uh they're afraid that he's giving the impression then that that other students should be a Christian and pray like he is. And so so uh this is a very different environment here in the United States. You know, if a teacher were to teach anybody with an impression that they should be Christian uh in a public school here they would get fired. Did you know that that was the case here in the United States? No. You didn't know that? I didn't know. I didn't know that you don't uh have uh religion classes They do teach some religions, but but this is actually where it's at right now where they will teach Islam and in many places even encourage people to like dress up like um you know w with a hijab or or encourage them to to to do the um the the prayers and to say the prayers but they won't allow Christian in in the in the Christian the the part where they teach about Christianity, they won't teach those kinds of things and they really downplay and speak negatively about all of the horrors that Christendom has brought to the world around the world and how bad colonialism was that pushed Christianity on the world. And so uh and so in general In the school system, Christianity the senses is that Christianity is mocked and and made fun of, and that Buddhism is A good thing, or Islam is a good thing, or atheism is a good thing. And there's a sense in the science classes that uh that uh Darwinism has proven that you can't trust the Bible anymore. Which isn't a whole lot different from most of liberal Christianity. So I don't know, does that tend to be the case? You think in German public schools? Well we we had this uh discussion um in um amongst uh Protestant and Catholic um uh Christianity in in Germany a lot. How to deal with these uh science scientific um aspects? Um is there a possibility to to um to uh have both? Uh to read the Bible and take it as God's word and to be and and to trust the the scientific. Um and so you're still having now that disc that discussion in the school system? Yes, definitely. And this is something that's it's um because uh I've I've been hearing isn't uh Angela Merkel, isn't she a part of what they call the Christian Democrats? Yes. So what does that mean? Because here in the United States we just don't have you know, you're either Democrat or Republican, and at this point the Democrats in the last election cycle almost refused to include anything about God in their platform. Like they they literally were like shouted down about it, you know, because they didn't include God in their platform. And uh and so Right now it's very interesting we have with Angela Merkel, uh a daughter of a Lutheran Angela Marsh, she's the daughter of a uh Lutheran pastor. And um our Bundespresident Bundes? Bundespräsident, the President. Of Bundes. Um of Germany. He who this means Germany? Joachim Gauk. Joachim Gauk. Keep going. Sorry. These are names. These are names, uh Jochen Gauk is the name. And uh he uh has been a Lutheran pastor. Uh pastor of the Protestant Church in Germany. So But again some of more liberal and some of more Yeah, definitely but uh it really um matters in Germany. Now I do want to ask you a question about your about your church and and and that sort of thing. But before I do that I want to ask you this, and that is, do American names sound as strange to you as German names sound to us? Like for instance. No, I I well I had uh a lot of English classes in in school and I went uh several times to to um America and I had a lot of contact to Americans. So I'm now I'm used to it. Yeah, it is strange. Interesting. Wow. So it's strange for you to hear a German. A friend of mine recently went to Australia And uh while she was there, um uh she anyway, she was a dating guy down there and and uh so she's hanging out with all his friends and she said uh happy birthday. And everybody's like, Oh, that's great. Say it again. Say it again. And she said it in just normal American. And so apparently our accent is uh very distinctive and uh enough so that they get real excited about it. That's funny. Totally unexpected. Alright, so anyway, so now you have a past you you left the state church, the Lutheran State Church, because you didn't like the way they uh elected or selected their leaders and how that was. Now talking about it I don't know. So now you're the pastor of uh the free evangelical church in uh in Germany and um Some of the theological differences between what you teach in your church and preach in your church from what the Lutherans might be teaching and preaching that you're not squaring with. What are some of those differences? Um it starts directly with uh uh the the name church. We would uh really say um it's very important to look in the bible what is really meant. But this word used in the Greek, ecclesia. So we this is very uh typical for our church. Um only those can be member of our church who confess their faith um in Jesus. That is so interesting because uh The Baptists, which my background is the Anabaptist background, back at the time of Martin Luther, uh said that Martin Luther didn't go far enough in separating the church from the power structures and they were grappling with the exact same thing, saying, What is the definition of church? You know, and and the implication being that you needed to choose to be baptized as opposed to your parents just baptizing you. And so uh for there to be for you to be kind of in a similar place right now almost am am I right in kind of associating it with echoes of of that even back at the time of Luther it's it's a similar scenario that that you're saying the church is too worldly still to be separated. Because it really depends on the pastor. We have in our In Auch we have one um pastor of the Lutheran Church uh with whom I uh work very um um closely together. Okay. Because we have the uh the same um Well opinions to to many um subjects of of the faith, uh Christian faith. So we can really work together very fine. But there are Like these issues, um how who is member of the church? Um how do we do a baptism? Sure. Um Is your church elsewhere? Is your is your church elder led? Yes. Okay. We are elder led. And it's uh just a local body of elders, or are you connected to other groups of elders like regionally that come together at a at a larger, more regional conference. Our church is um locally uh um let's so that's a difference then too given the state church which is the whole country and you're just a local church in your proximity. That's right All right. How many uh other churches um in American parlance we would call you, you know, a uh an a uh evangelical Bible believing church? Like that would be a label that would be thrown in your church. Totally. How many other churches like that are, you know, within ten miles of you? Fi within ten, fifteen miles of your church? Um three. Okay, so it's very different than here. Yes. That's what I found out in in Frederick, uh the time I stand here. Yeah, there's there's hundreds of churches in Frederick, yeah. Yeah, so many. Very interesting. And um well and again there are some um amongst those in the Lutheran and Catholic Church which are strong Bible believers as well. Yeah. But um You can't really say it from from the whole body uh of the Now you uh mentioned off the air that the your church, the free evangelical church, is uh sisters with are part of the same denomination that in America is called the Evangelical Free Church. Mm-hmm. Is it you're closely aligned or it's the same denomination that just calls themselves slightly different names in different parts of the world. It is the same denomination and um it is because of the um importance of the local church um there is no Um what what do you call it? Like we don't have a confessor. W which would uh which every church uh that is member of this denomination has uh uh would have to unders underscribe. uh a unifying confession that everybody signs off on. No I don't find the words that is super important thing. Yours is not a quote unquote confessional church. You don't sign off on some sort of a creed that everybody has to be on board with, right? That's correct. But there are distinctives about the group of groups the group of churches that we associate with that uh that are drivers of why we associate with them. So for example, do you guys like maybe vote every now and again as a church to say we still want to be associated with the evangelical free? Or is there like an ongoing like Like a a review process to say that these are the guys that we most want to associate with? Like why would you associate with them as opposed to not somebody else? Um right at the beginning these uh this judge has chosen the this denomination. Yeah. And uh it is a d denomination which is very open. So you you can uh just associate with them. Um they help you in doing your your pa uh the w the work. For example, they do uh l a lot of administration work in the background. staff member of the denomination, um which have a location in in the middle west of Germany And and they help uh the local judges a lot. Like what kind of like they do your bulletins for you or they they uh do well, that's um what what they do and they have somebody uh who is in charge for the youth ministry, for the teenager ministry, for the children's ministry. We have um several um Hospitals that are were run um with the help of all churches belonging to this denomination. So they're evangelical free hospitals. Yeah. That's right. And um So we have uh like a mission mission uh missionary um board. Um A missionary effort new children. Some sort of an organization that's a very important thing to do. Yeah, that's all right. Yeah, yeah. Like an agency, ascending agency or something. At the beginning it was uh separated, but then it um associated with our denomination and now it is part of our denomination. Okay. Group that is aligned with your denomination, it sounds like and we as a local church we could never do what they do. So uh but together with the stuff and and background we can do it. Yeah, yeah. That's that's now that uh our guest this week, uh the one that doesn't sound like he's typically uh your typical American, he's not your your regular old Fred Nekian Axel Gartner is the pastor of the Free Evangelical Church in Elric, Germany. Jonathan Schweitzer, another good German over here. Actually, Frederick. Is it German? Yeah, we have a couple of German sister cities. And it was founded. Did you know that that Frederick was founded by one hundred Germans that came in and their the first building they built uh was a school that also housed both a reformed and a Lutheran congregation at the same time. So as I was saying that's Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So a couple of real quick questions and answers. How long have you been the pastor of your church? Twelve and a half years. Okay. And what size church are we talking about? How many members are we? Eighty members. Uh eighty? Eight zero? Eight zero. Okay. Yeah. Um and what was the when you twelve years ago is that that's when you left the state church to go in this direction, or had you pastor another church in between? No, I've I've been uh Well on my journey I then after Bible college I went um I I became a physical therapist. And I worked as a physical therapist for four years. And these are the same thing. Wait. I come. When he lay hands he lays hands on being praised, it just makes a difference So these seven years I have been a member of a free evangelical church. Well what sort of examination is you have to do that. Very good question. Uh I think almost nobody in our denomination is able to to answer right now. No, I'm I'm I'm kidding. It's a free for all. Evangelical free for all. Uh exactly a problem in our denomination because we don't have this uh over uh overbought um of of uh people who So heretofore what's ha gone on is somebody comes and they demonstrate they have a heart for being a pastor of a church and there's no reason to there's no obvious reason to kick them out of the club. So we'll ordain you, you can be a pastor, come on, we'll help support you. But we are a very small denomination right now, so um everybody knows um almost everybody. So the teacher they they knew me and uh those who are in charge uh of the denim uh our our preses for example and other they they knew me very well and they had uh a talk with me And after that they decided uh I could be pastor in the church and um then uh the first service in my um new church I was being ordained. Hmm. Okay, so it happened fast Yes, yeah. You know, uh there there's so many uniquenesses to Germany compared to the United States that that like I don't even want to jump into too much like theological discussions just because the you know the theology ends up being Uh you know, it it feels less significant. Well I'm wondering as I'm grappling with Germany, like like does the evangelical free in in your denomination do you also have churches in France and in Sweden and Denmark. That's right. Yeah? And and and you're pretty like strongly in in uh Scandinavia. Yeah, and you all interact with each other a lot. Because again you have different languages there but you're a lot closer to these other states than we are, you know, like if there's a Canadian pastor There's still a good chance that he speaks English pretty well. Uh Latin uh uh Mexico not so much, but that's a long way away from here. And so Uh we we uh invite each other to uh congresses, mm but that's mainly it. Uh so as uh local. Yeah, for example. If we do a big conference in in Germany, everybody is invited. From Scandinavia. But we Uh apart from that we don't have that much um interaction or or interaction, sure. The the mix of uh theology around here is why a show like ours can exist here, because there are so many different splits on on some micro issues. How common is that in Germany? I mean i are there a lot of Pentecostals who think differently than charismatics, who think differently than Presbyterians, who think differently than Baptists, who think differently than Anabaptists, who think differently Th you know, just go right down the line, the Lutherans, the Methodists. Is there that kind of a mixture? Uh or it's it's n there aren't quite as many choices and therefore maybe not as many opportunities for debate Like we had to do. There are as many, I I assume. Yeah. Probably not that uh much as here because you have so many churches and the f so many opportunities, but we have uh Any kind of uh denomination. And actually, um would you describe yourself as being charismatic? I I'm I have the uh the charisma, the Holy Spirit uh given from God. Uh so I'm uh charismatic in this sense, yeah. But my church for example is not uh very extreme charismatic. So we ha we don't have uh for example the speaking in tongues in our services right now. Sure. But we are not clear. No but you have told you you've told me previously that you have had discussion about whether or not you should allow it. Yeah. And if so, you know, and so you're open to it, you're not like theologically opposed to tongues. That's right. Uh and do you allow people to speak up in the context of worship like spontaneously? Um after they uh had uh spoken to an elder or me as foster, uh we would after discerning uh allow it probably. Yeah. Yeah, and so that happens like every week or that happens. No, once a month Perhaps. And we are on a journey as church in this area as well. So we we try a little. Uh we figured out uh which uh is the frame we need uh to to make it Easy for everybody. We're very close to the end of the show, so I don't know if you can answer this if this is a quick and easy answer or not. But I'm wondering what is the view from across the pond? uh you know among German Christians of of American Christianity. Because we actually comment about European Christianity quite a bit over here I'm wondering, do you comment on what's happening in this country or you don't pay a whole lot of attention to us knuckleheads? Oh we we uh rece we re We receive a lot of input from American uh theologians and uh practical theologians like Bill Heibels, R Rick Warren. They are very well recepted in evangelical churches. Several books like Max Lucado and so these authors are quite famous in Germany as well. Chuck Swindahl, uh Charles Smith. Most of the evangelical Christians would assume that Christianity in in in the US is more conservative than in Germany. Oh really? Yeah. I think that's probably true, but not but not not for long. But you've described yourself as as on the conservative side of Germany's oh yeah religious spectrum. And so does that mean then then they would view that a German would view you as being more similar to American Christianity overall? Yeah, probably yeah. In terms of conservativeness. So we'll see we're all of like mind here. Jonathan Speister is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Axel Gartner is a pastor of the Free Evangelical Church in Ulrich, Germany I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor of Footman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? This is the Faith Debate online at WFMD. com keyword faith, also on Facebook. What have I been reading? I mentioned a Glenn Beck book. I actually got into a little bit of a rhythm So I wrote another Glenn Beck book as well. They're fast and quick. You blow right through those in a weekend. Dreamers and Deceivers. Which one are you, John? A Dreamer or a Deceiver? These political books or both? Religious. They're political books. Anyway, till next week. God bless.