I just want to say I love mice. Yes. So a little behind the scenes with there are two mouse type objects in the studio. One of them actually looks like why they're called mice. It's got a little tail on it. It's hardwired into the board so it looks like a mouse. The other one's one of these wireless gadgets So it it looks more like a pet rock than a mouse. And the pet rock version of the mouse has a mind of its own. It it refuses to uh operate under the sovereign will of the Lord. Anyway, so I I've switched mice and I'm loving mice right now. And I'm loving life as a result. This is the faith debate on News Radio Nine. The I well, yeah, that's true. In a sense, I guess natural state it could not be chosen for your a your mouth. So that's Daniel Rasby trying to get us back on track. I'm Troy Skinner, this is the Fate Debate on News Radio nine thirty WFMD and I say get us back on track, but you sort of show you trying to get us on track We're also joined in the studio this week by Imran Razby as Daniel's father. They co-pastor a church called the Church that meets at Imran's house You can find them find them online at Concordby Love dot org. And Josiah Bonjawani, he wrote a book called The Head Covering. You can find that online. Just go to your favorite search engine and put in the head covering, Josiah And you'll find a connection to his book or his website and all that sort of stuff. And we've been talking the last couple of weeks about uh the doctrines of graces are sometimes called, or tulip uh Calvinism, Reform theology versus Arminianism, all these theological buzzwords. Uh a couple weeks ago we talked about total depravity or radical depravity. Last week we were talking about unconditional election which is also sometimes called unmerited favor. And this week we're going to try to transition a little bit into limited atonement, which is also sometimes called particular or definite redemption. And these have different labels because the labels have been problematic. So what's at issue is the theology and the labels labels can be helpful But when the labels are misunderstood, and over time our understanding of words and language changes, which is why dictionaries get updated over the years, right? So what somebody meant by a particular word four hundred years ago might not be precisely how we understand that word today Uh last week the uh the qu the the word for knowledge came up actually and uh we would understand for knowledge. We think about in i uh uh intellect and knowing in advance something in our mind what's going to happen. But biblically that word would be used differently. And so maybe our English Bible translators should think should maybe think about a slightly different English translation there so that we would better understand what the Bible is actually saying uh by that phrase or word. So anyway We have a lot of ganggling participles from last week's show. So uh I don't know if we want to kind of pick up and and continue our thoughts on total depravity and unconditional election or if we want to try to transition into limited atonement. Uh Josiah had a lot of things to say in between shows about the unconditional election, so maybe we would do want to start there. But Imran's leaning in now, so what do you think? Well I want to start with an analogy. And maybe get us thinking a bit differently. Again I again I am talking about relationships and we talked about that a few weeks ago. I think it's all about relationships, right? So Troy, I'm gonna pick on you. You've been living in this neighborhood of yours how many years? Twenty three years. And you have a relationship with all the people in that neighborhood? Not all of them. Well Relationship. Speaks to the depth of relationship, right. Uh but to be honest, some people have moved in in recent years, I don't know every single person who lives on my street. Okay. Not even the whole neighborhood, right? Right. So How does that happen? I mean you're in the same neighborhood. We're all separated out, no relationship. And when we moved into our place we wanted to have you know, get to know the neighbors. We went and talked to everyone. We invited them over for dinner. We reached out to them And i we uh tried to get to know our neighbors. Okay. But not everybody came over. Most people did not. Yeah, yeah. Okay So that resonates with me that story. So what I'm saying is if you put you in the picture of let's say you're God and these are your people over there, you went out and reached out and opened the knocked on the doors And said 'cause they're not gonna they're not gonna come up to come to a relationship with you. They don't care. They haven't they haven't they're not missing anything. They don't know any better. Okay? They don't know who Troy is. They don't know that, hey, knowing Troy Troy would would enrich my life. Okay? So they're in their little house, closed doors, you go and knock on the door, you make that initial step and they open the door and they can reject you. They can say, No, I'm not coming over for a barbecue. I'm not coming over for dinner. This is what it is. I don't want that relationship and they're gonna be nice about it or whatever. And I think that really feeds into this tulip that we're talking about God is gonna come knock on the door. We're gonna open it. If we're gonna see him, are we gonna reject, are we gonna move uh it's better than how God works I mean you could go in there and force yourself if you put your foot in the door and and make sure they listen to you and and do that. Again that's a humanistic type of view. I'm just trying to say is that unless you go and initiate that relationship, it's not gonna happen. How many people actually go out and initiate a relationship? They don't? And I think the same thing with with us as being totally depraved We can't really initiate that relationship with God unless God knocks on the door and says, Hey, I'm here. Search me. Come to me uh g for you know, give up every all the other relations you have for me. He's doing that and he's moving in that direction and he's giving you specific instructions to do that, but he is orchestrating that move. He is It's not for everybody. Uh whoever he elected and whoever he foreknew and it's uh uh it's uh by his choice, not by us, and we don't understand why why he chose that but And I often wr uh wrestle with that, uh, statement with why did he choose me? I'm the only one saved in my Muslim family. And my father was well exposed to the Bible. In fact he knew many Bible verses by memory. He m he memorized them, he d r knew them, but he was never saved as far as I knew. And my mother, my brother, my sister, none of them are safe. Why me? Why did he choose me? And I know they chose me because he came after me and I could feel the Holy Spirit coming after me. I didn't know what it was at the time So why did he choose me? And that's often a uh it's almost like a you know, if you were a survivor, survivor syndrome, right? Why did I survive? Everybody else is going is dead when I survive But I think to understand Tulip it really is about the relationship. W are we do we have original sin? Yeah, we don't have a relationship. There's no relationship when a baby's born. There's no relationship with God Okay. They're an open book, they can have that other ship, but God will move them have that othership. And then is it conditional? Well God's gonna decide that. So I I think I just want you guys to think a little bit more on the relationship side and how God's relationship works with us. And if you're looking at Tula, if we're looking at uh Armenianism and choice and whatever whatever you want to look at, whatever theology you wanna really go into Look at it from the viewpoint of a relationship with God. Because though that is comes back to the two most important uh commandments. The most important plan is love the Lord your God. Second mo and again, as uh Josiah would say, Well you're doing it. God is not making you do it. But I mean that's the first one. Second one is love your neighbor Okay? A as results, so those are both about relationships and all the law is based on those two things. All the law is based on the relationship So b so I think if you look at all these things when you're looking at Tulip or look at Armeniism or looking at any kind of theology, look at that look at it through the relationship. Well the God somehow, for no reason whatsoever, wants a relationship with us. You should it's amazing that the God who created the whole universe wants a relationship with us. Why? I'm nobody, I'm nothing. In fact, I'm depraved. My thoughts are evil all the time. I'm always falling and doing what I don't want to do. I don't do what I want to do, even though I know what God's told me to do and I should be doing it. I don't do it. Why would he want a relationship with me? I am so bad Just think about that. And what he just ended with I alluded to last week. I mentioned uh you should probably read sections of Romans, particularly I guess centering on chapters seven through nine. If you do that Or if you've done that since last week's show, what Imran just ended with, uh he was basically quoting Paul there in that portion of Romans. So the people in the uh in the uh on this panel, um are mostly in alignment so far on these these questions. I might be the most staunch, although I haven't found any reason to think that Imran isn't in full alignment with me so far. Uh Daniel's mostly in Very close alignment, if not full alignment. I think the things we said so far he's been in full alignment, but there are conversations we had off air that uh there's some things coming up that uh we might have some distinction in our thinking. So the one that's we often joke that he's a pie eating uh tulip. Yeah, three point one four five. So but the one who's been the most uh uh at odds with with the uh the reformed Calvinist point of view has been Josiah Bongiolani. So what are some things in response to total depravity, unconditional election, or as we now transition a little bit into limited atonement? On any of those areas of tulip Uh again, tulip, each uh each letter of the five points of Calvinism start with letters that spell the word tulip, that's where that comes from. What uh of the first three uh on the doctrines of grace. Anything that you want to go back two weeks ago, last week's show, or start something new. What are some things that you've been itching to say Well, I guess most people would call me an Arminian. However, I do sometimes self-identify as a zero point or half point Calvinist. And I say that because I kind of agree with the the the first point of Calvinism, which is total depravity. So I do think that, you know, people are totally depraved. I don't think it's sense birth necessarily. Um Otherwise, uh Jesus himself would have been depraved from birth since since he was fully human? No, absolutely not, because he was not born of a man. There was no the it that that's where a lot of people get that wrong. He did not have man's blood in him. He was fully human, so he had to be a man, but he was born of a Virgin Mary. There was no man's um d DNA. Are you saying that the syn gene only passes down through men and not through women? Yeah, well say that I mean that's passed down through through the thing. You're not thinking to be fully man and fully gonna be able to do it. I don't I mean it's it's an analogy and it can work to a certain degree. It's not so much about it's built into our DNA. It's it's it's built into the spiritual reality 'cause we're much more than just our DNA. Well I thought I would just throw that into pushing buttons for the fun of it. Clarification I really liked what you guys say about relationships. So he's not born without that relationship. He is the only one That was besides Adam that was born without a relationship. Adam was created with the relationship intact and he threw it away. Jesus was born with that relationship intact. And only on the cross when God stepped away was he did he felt lonely and said, Why have you forsaken me Mm-hmm. So that's where I but in fairness, uh based on how you've articulated what you mean by that uh a a true blue Calvinist would say, no, you don't agree with that one either. So you're zero point. And if you're a zero point and you're you seems like you're agreeing with the arguments that the Calvinists of the day four hundred plus years ago were responding against when they came up with their five points, you're agreeing with the arguments they were trying to refute or correct. So You you don't have to call yourself an Arminian, but your theology fits somewhere within the Arminian camp. And I'm not saying that as a pejorative. I'm just trying to make it simple for us all to kind of get a sense of where we're coming from, particularly for the listener to have a sense of where we're coming from. Um but Imran jumped on that right away about Jesus and his sinlessness and him not having a uh a natural biological human father. And that ties to the federal headship idea. Who's the spiritual head of the family? The father. Right? So the so the the lineage, the spiritual lineage is tied to the man in the husband-wife relationship. And so Federal headship says that Adam sinned and all of humanity coming through Adam share in that s shame and guilt. uh in Adam. So that's why uh it's one of the reasons why Christ is uh comes into being as a human the way that he does. So he has a human mother, so he's fully human. But he has a uh a deity, father, so he's fully God, and he's not sullied by the original sin because his spiritual head isn't Joseph. His spiritual head is God Himself, the Father. So uh I don't th uh I don't know if that's helpful in helping you to understand at least where the Calvinists would be coming from. on that so you could probably tell tell any Calvinist i if you continue to want to think the way that you're thinking, you can say, Yeah, I I reject all five because I don't agree with even a half a point of the total depravity thing. So Um I don't think that's I'm trying to not come across adversarial. I'm trying to respond in a concise way which sometimes We could have this conversation over hours and we're trying to squeeze it into twenty five minute episodes, which can make it feel a little more terse. And I'm not meaning it to be terse, so I hope and and you have Uh you're really easygoing guy, so even if I was being meaning to be terse, I don't know if you would take it that way. But anyway, so what else do you have to say in response to any of that? Well, I probably could have a lot more points to um to do with uh original sin. But just skipping on to unconditional election, I also I'm I'm totally not on board with the Calvinist um opinion about unconditional election. I believe there are conditions that we have to meet as Christians to um to be chosen be a god to live for with an eternity. He's not an arbitrary God, he's a God of wisdom, of foreknowledge, of understanding, omniscience. So I think those attributes come out when God chooses wisely. And why is it you think that the Calvinists would disagree that God knows all things and sees all things that are not the same thing? It doesn't play into this doctrine of unconditional election. God chooses to be the disagreement like even a little bit. So that's why I was asking that question. So how is it God knowing all things, how is that like a knockout blow against uh unconditional election? Can you repeat your question? I'm sorry. I understood you to say that you know God's omniscient, he's all knowing, he has all this foreknowledge, all this intellectual understanding of the creation that he's made and and all this wisdom. Yes. And so therefore unconditional election can't be true. Well that's how I'm hearing it anyway. I'm saying in God's wisdom well in his foreknowledge he knows what's going to happen in the future. And in his wisdom he chooses those who are going to respond Um in um but again I want faith and repentance. I don't want to come across as being a dead horse, but his foreknowledge has nothing to do with his intellect. I would beg to differ on that point because I think a single word can have multiple um meanings and you can see that when you open an English dictionary. You might have a single word that has like four different meanings. So knowing could have to do with relationship, you know, Adam knew his wife Eve, it could, but In this context I think that the translators have done it. Okay, but in context, let's use the Bible context as opposed to a Webster's or Oxford dictionary context. In Romans chapter eight And we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good. That's one of the favorite passages that Christians quote all the time, right? And uh and then they kind of stop there, but For those who are called according to his purpose. And then this is verse 29 now in chapter 8 of Romans. Because those whom he foreknew So if we if for no there means what you're saying, it's about his intellectual understanding, his omniscience, the mind of God, of the future, right? Then How does that flow? Because those whom he foreknew, those who he saw in the future, he also predestined To become conformed to the i image of his God. So did he predestine them or did he already know? Like it seems like those See this is if he's outside time, those two are one and the same. But if this is a distinction that's actually it takes a bit of thought to think about. But I would argue that the Calvinist actually reverses the words in that in that phrase. They say God For knows according to what he predestines. Because they see them as kind of a competitive. I'm getting frustrated now because foreknowledge doesn't mean intellectual Well I believe it does. And you are biblically on thin ice. So i if let's put it this way, if foreknowledge means relational love I have set my heart upon this person in advance of the creation. If it means that I'm saying for the sake of argument If he loved these people, he therefore predestined those who he loved to be conformed to the image of his son, so that he would be the firstborn. And those whom he predestined he also called, and those whom he called he also justified, and those whom he justified he also glorified. This is called the the golden chain of redemption here. They're all tied together So, how is it that foreknowledge, the way you're defining it, sits there? Well I wanna uh qu also add in a little bit and then have you think about this. Okay. If you're if it's only of intellectual knowledge, uh then it makes God a puppet. Well I believe God has relationship too. I just don't think this verse is specifically speaking of that aspect. Your interpretation of saying this was intellectual knowledge, God knew that these people are going to be uh saved, and so he saved them That sounds like God is doing the will of man, not his will. And I knew that they would exercise faith in response to his calling them. Right, and so he is basically responding based on human And he's and it's all uh the humans are in charge. And that that's where I have to disagree, the humans are not in charge, they cannot. So so so let's look at it like this. We have uh a election and like a like a political election. Mm-hmm. Okay? So if I'm running for office and I go informed time and I see who's gonna vote for me Mm-hmm. And I know who's going to vote for me, so now I choose to only canvas and only advertise to those people. Why would I bother advertising people that are not going to vote for me? But then I'm basically making decisions based on what the other people are gonna do, not what I want. And so that's I think that's the argument you know, we're we're we're we're putting God in that position where we're saying he's now a slave to man, he He is deciding who he's gonna save based on what he what man is gonna do. I don't think he's a slave to man, he just set conditions. He's like, You're the conditions, if you meet these then you can you can go to heaven. Right, but then he's he does then he's choosing only to show those people who He's the one who initiates But only those people that he knows are gonna you know, r rather than he's causing it to happen. It's more like he he knows that'll happen, so he's he he's initiating away with those people. It'd be like me as a politician Only advertising to those people that I already know are gonna vote for me. Only to my base. Um but I'm not showing yeah I don't know Maybe the analogies can only take us so far, but in fairness, I uh you know I probably should mention some too, so that we're arguing scripturally here. Um in Revelation chapter seventeen, uh It's it's talking about uh well I'll just read the whole verse here. The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to come out of the abyss and go to destruction. And those who dwell on earth whose name has not been written in the book of life, and here's the key phrase from the foundation of the world will wonder when they see the beast that he was and is not and will come. So if their name is written in the book of life before they had any opportunity to meet any conditions, how does that fit your framework? Well, I believe God is outside of time, so he may have written the book of life way before the worlds existed, or you could look at it as way after, it doesn't really matter because he's outside of time. But um Uh in other words, it doesn't it's not like he um how am I how did my one didn't come before the other because it was outside of time in the first place, is what you say. Thank you. Yeah, but in this kind of saying it's in the book of life from the foundation of the world. So from the foundation, there we uh when the foundation of the world is established, there's already a book of life and people are in it. Right? I mean that's how it's present to God, so it doesn't really matter. In okay, in Acts chapter 13, and when the Gentiles heard this they began rejoicing and glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life believed. So those who came to belief who met the conditions met so because they had been appointed to that eternal life. How do you understand that in your framework? So I understand that as God has certain conditions. He's like, You have to believe in me, you have to repent, and you have to forsake your evil ways and follow after Christ in order to be a Christian. And he knows ahead of time What people are going to choose to do. And if he's the one who initiates it. Can God be wrong? Um, God cannot be wrong. So if he knows in advance that you're gonna choose him Aren't you bound by his to use your way of understanding the word, his foreknowledge, his omniscience, aren't you bound to make that decision? So I don't believe you're bound to. You have free will that you can exercise. God just happens happens to know how you're going to exercise that free will And so he makes his decisions ahead of time. But he wanna look at it that way, even though he's outside of time. He makes his decisions before the creation. Yeah, so before the creation he's like, I've determined that these people are going to heaven For very good reasons because namely they're not going to be able to do it. Could he have made the universe uh he could he have looked down the quarters of time and and saw a situation where you believed uh but your next door neighbor didn't but then decided in his wisdom that, you know, I'm gonna have the next door neighbor believe and not Josiah believe, could he have created Differently in that way and made that sort of thing. So God could have made us robots where He controls whether we believe or don't believe, but He wanted us to be people who have the ability to actually love Him from the from our hearts. And to express, you know, be in the image of God. So he created us in his image and that means specifically that we have free will and can exercise that free will. That's how I view it I mean and how what about that verse about uh God loved Jacob and hated it hated Esau? So once again, what type of character these people would exhibit so before they were even born he could say I love Jacob and hate Esau because he knew what types of lives they were going to live and how they were going to respond to his offer of of of grace or or whatever. In his foreknowledge he was able to predestine. Yeah. So just to clarify a little bit and maybe I'm gonna be on a different page than than Troy, uh as we said earlier, is I do believe in in free will but under the under the authority of God. Mm. And I think God gave us free will to an extent. And that he built us that we chose and and there's room for free will and for a predestination in the Bible. I think and that's one of the things that uh struggled with a long time. You know, how do how does that how do they harmonize? And it also comes down to as a human I'm offended that I don't have the free will to choose what I want to choose. That's my human issue. It creates a creates less semantical disagreements because it's it's it's a different label. But in this context I'm fine saying we uh we have a freedom of the will, but our will is in bondage to sin. So we are dead in sin. And so we are free to choose as we want, but we want to choose against God because of rebellion. So until God changes the heart, takes away the s the heart of stone and gives you the the heart of flesh, you do You choose what you want to do. And until you're in Christ or until you're given the gift of faith, you're choosing to be in rebellion. But once he gives you the new heart, once he sets his affections upon you Jesus says, those who the Father gives me, I uh are the ones that I have. So God gives the people, and then their will is changed because they have a new heart. They no longer have the heart of Adam, they now have the heart of Christ. And I would say I I struggle with sin every day still. I'm saved. I know that I am sadly too I'm going to heaven and I have no um n no question about that. I'm not at all concerned where I'm gonna end up. I know I'm gonna heaven Yet I struggle with sin every day. I struggle with my sinful nature of of longing for sinful things and not godly things. And that's why as Paula said, I do what I don't want to do, I don't do what I want to do. Because even though intellectually I understand it. So why would God choose me? I'm an evil, nasty, terrible person. And I struggle with that because again me only in my Muslim family he chose. Why not anybody else? Well why me? I'm not any better. In fact I I think my mom's a better person than I am. Yeah, she's very nice. Yeah, at least I don't see all the evil that I see in myself. Why didn't he choose her That's Imran Razby. That's Josiah Bonjuani. We've also heard from Daniel Razby this episode. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We'll be back 167. 5 hours from right now. Until then, God bless.