This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of Divinities from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. Thank you for tuning in for what's gonna be round four of a panel discussion and round six on a particular theme. I had the privilege of sharing in an email exchange with a listener uh late last year. I th I think it was in the month of November if I'm not mistaken. And we went back and forth a handful of times and uh I shared that interchange uh on the email. It took two shows to do so. Those are the first two shows of this new year. And now we're having our fourth panel discussion to talk about the email exchange as well. On the panel again this week, our The Razvis. We have Daniel Razby, a legal scholar. His mother, who is uh a fin a family uh relationships scholar Um she's uh w along with her husband uh Imran Raz Razvi uh lead a ministry called Conquered by Love online at Concordby Love dot org. They lead a uh church that meets in their home and uh I mentioned in the very first show they have thirteen children and so they understand the dynamic of relationships and and uh how to understand and experience love and all that sort of stuff and so they're are I think uniquely qualified to talk about some of the things that we've been talking about. What are we talking about? Here's just a taste. This is part of an email from a listener that I went back and forth with quite a bit. She says I've spoken to several pastors and they appear flummox as if they've never seen anyone with my problem before. They all say that they think I'm saved simply because I'm worried about it. In his book Around the Wicked Gate, Charles Spurgeon addresses this and writes that conviction isn't salvation, and that only trust in Jesus, resulting in peace, saves. My many references to self, I I had kind of uh uh pointed out to her that she was putting so much emphasis on herself and maybe not quite enough emphasis on God and his promises that could be causing part of her problem. Well she says in defense, my many references to self and no mention of Jesus in my previous email simply illustrate my dilemma. I don't have a personal relationship with Jesus, and I'm terrified because of it. I can't connect with him. He's always seemed abstract and distant and no amount of Bible reading, prayer, church going, etcetera changes that. That is my problem. And when I'm honest about it with friends, pastors, counselors, they give me blank stares and don't know what to say. Now before I turn it to the panel, last week One of the lines I read, she said something similar. She says, I'm terrified that I'll die and go to hell. In my experience, that's half the battle. I mean, trying to get somebody to understand their need for Jesus is like huge when it comes to evangelism and sharing the gospel. People, particularly in an area like where we live, in Frederick, where the median household income is relatively high. Uh the schools are decent enough, I guess, based on most people's standards. Um the commute stinks, right? Traffic's kind of a mess, but our houses are big and beautiful and our lawns are well manured, might even have enough money to pay somebody to manure them for. I mean, I don't have any need. My life is good. I'm a good person. Yeah, I've made some mistakes, but on the whole, I'm at least fifty-one percent good versus forty-nine percent bad, so I'm I'm good to go. I got no problems Who are you gonna tell me I got problems? Uh you you're talking to me about hell? I should be terrified of going to hell? You should be terrified of telling me I'm going to hell because I'm gonna bop you in the nose. The fact that she's already there is like The game's almost over, it feels like, and yet she's struggling to she's really, I feel, terrified. I think in the email exchanges she uses the word afraid and terrified, what, a half a dozen times probably She truly is. And so this week, uh, Razi Clan, um what do we tell this listener and someone who's like her to give them some hope Well, start off with not having hope. What a place to start. Well, she talks about Judas. Judas lived with Christ. What I read last week she makes the mention to uh to Judas having been with Jesus and uh but him being in hell. And then you're referencing that part of her email. Right. Yeah. So Judas walked with Christ, he ate with Christ, he uh spent time with Christ had the r supposedly a relationship with Christ, yet he's going to hell. And your listener is is thinking, well, what about me? I could be doing all the same things, spending time in the Bible, spending time in prayer, spending time in church uh wha how am I different than Judas is? And I think that's where the c crux of the problem lies is she sees that example and sees herself because she doesn't s have uh feel that peace that supposedly comes you know, from that close relationship that she's read about, that she's heard other people say that they have had, and that's the problem. Okay, so now he's uh he's uh he's helped to clarify the problem. That's helped set the stage for the encouragement. We're gonna turn to mom For some encouragement, some love, some hugs, some cuddles, a little tussle of the hair. So you got the dad and mom post right out here. If you uh i i if you s set the stage of this is uh what I need in order to be comfortable to be sure. Um you're you're not letting God be God. And if you can let go, the place of surrender, of saying, it's okay if what I have is this It it feels like she n needs to see something else. Well Judas walked with Christ. He didn't have a heart for Christ. And we're seeing in this lady's emails that she wishes to have that relationship with Christ where she can be in his family. She wants to be his daughter. Um uh and and so she's asking Uh, why why don't I feel these things? But she's putting in on God this place of I need these things. If she can just surrender And say, if this is what you have for me, God, that's okay. Instead of I need to have something more. Uh her something more might be great. Um but if she's if she's where she is and she has that desire for the relationship we're got with God and she has accepted Jesus' salvation, then just rest in where she is We don't have to have a different place to be than where we are. The surrender is an important thing. fireproof because I thought the the marriage analogy might help her to see something in her dynamic of her relationship because you know uh the church is a bride of Christ and that might somehow click. Uh she then volunteered that she's not married and she wasn't sure that would mean a whole hot tour or not. But I think you could still learn from it, you know, vicariously But there's a line in that movie that I've used a zillion times where the Kirk Cameron character is talking to one of the other firefighters in Fireproof about um you know, trusting his heart or something like that. And and the Christian firefighter says that y you can't trust your heart. I mean your heart is lying to you all the time. The heart is deceitful. And so you need to lead your heart Well what do you lead your heart with? You lead your heart with God's word, with the truth of his promises, with his with his reliability, what he says about you. Because she's saying recurringly in these emails That she doesn't feel like she has a heart for God. She's not having the experience that she feels, the emotional connection. She feels abstract and distant and okay, but That's your that's your heart speaking there. And our culture, I talked about this last week. It's lying to us all the time. How many times we hear, you know, we've got to follow your gut, trust your heart. No. Don't you can't trust your heart. It will lie to you over and over again. Don't believe the lie of culture that says that. Trust God. And what he says about your heart, and if if you're asking the question and saying, Man, I I know I don't deserve heaven. I don't deserve salvation. I need God to rescue me. If only he would rescue me Well, when you get to that place, to my way of thinking, that's repentance. When you when you stop looking for it in yourself and realize that God is the solution He's doing it for you. It's not something you work up within yourself. God gives you the gift. You just surrender to it. When you get to that point of surrender to my understanding of scripture, that means you're saved. So I think she's there. So I don't Daniel, you're you're gonna have a different perspective. Here's a twenty four year old talking to a sixty-six year old uh uh listener who's w written these concerns What does the young generation have as a a word of wisdom for somebody that could be your grandmother? Imagine it's your grandmother. What do you say to your grandmother when she comes to you with I don't know, I I just keep keep going back to the one sure thing we have that's objective. It's not subjective, it's not based on the feeling, it's it's based on facts. The scripture is God's word. And what God says That's that's what it is. There's no um there's no denying it, there's no doubting it. This is scripture, this is God's word, and he he does not lie, he cannot lie. So if he says, if God says, if you can uh there's Romans uh I think I said at the beginning of the panel discussion, Romans ten nine, if thou confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus Christ And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. There is no other uh peace necessary. It doesn't say if you confess Jesus and uh believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead and you feel at peace every day of the l in your life and you're happy all the time and uh you you have good friends And you have a good church home, then you're saved. You know, it does doesn't say that. You y y all you have to do is confess Jesus and believe in your heart God raised him from the dead. As James points out, y that will result in some fruit and some works. But That's all that's necessary is just to believe and to make him Lord of your life. And I think there's a also a misunderstanding about peace and joy and I think we're saying um I I don't have any problems, I don't have any strife, and I'm not And and I'm happy all the time. And I I don't think that that's uh I was in a Bible study years ago and people were going around and you uh um If you've never been to a Bible study, it's not just all analytical, you know, scholarly study kind of stuff. There's there's personal sharing and there's time for prayer usually and things like that. So it was one of those personal sharing kind of moments and people were sharing some of their struggles and others were encouraging uh uh some of the people that had s had particularly acute struggles in those moments, were encouraging them and And and talking about how they had had struggles too, or they're currently having struggles right now as well, blah blah blah going on and and then somebody said, Well, you know I don't know if I can really identify. I mean I I don't really have any struggles. You know, my my life is is good. It's always been good. You know, I've got a great husband and great kids and you know, we've got all our needs met and I don't understand this we people talk about suffering and persecution and problems and strife and doubts and I don't have any of that And I kid you not, everybody in the room was like, I don't think she's a Christian. Because if you're a Christian, you're gonna experience doubt and suffering and I mean the the the enemy will attack you And and and try to tempt you with doubt. And we'll and and uh you know Peter, uh first Peter talks uh second Peter two. Uh It's like a theme in the letter about, you know, we have the privilege of sharing in Christ's suffering. If you're not suffering, there's something wrong with your walk. You know, so if if she's feeling like she's not having joy, uh you know, w what she understands to mean as joy Uh and by the way, Danny, you said something that reminded me of the uh of something that the now late R. C. Sproul used to say quite often. You talk about a bumper sticker. that he used to see. And I think we've probably all seen this bumper sticker or variation of it says um God says it, I believe it, that settles it. You ever seen that? And R. C. Sprouls says that's one of the worst bumper stickers ever. You gotta get rid of that middle line. God says it, that settles it. Whether you believe it or not, it's true. And so that's an interesting thing in this context. If God if she is elect, if he has chosen her, if she's predestined by God Whether she really wants to kind of understand it in her heart to her own satisfaction doesn't change the reality. If God says it is true There's a r another really good analogy I heard recently. Um uh i is about imagine that there's two guys getting on an airplane. And they're gonna fly we're here in Maryland, so let's say we're gonna fly from Maryland to California. All right. And the first guy is desperately afraid of planes. He thinks they're all gonna crash. He's scared is scared to half to death. Um and you know, he he he he kinda knows how planes work. It's been explained to him, you know, that they're not gonna fall out of the sky, but You know, he's still worried that he's gonna crash and but but he really needs to get on this uh plane 'cause he needs to get to where he's going, he needs to get to California So he gets on the plane and he's just shaking all over. And there's the second guy that walks onto the plane. He flies every day for work. He's he's in fact he uh more spends more time in the plane than out of the plane and he knows the pilot personally. He's good friends with the pilot, he knows how safe the guy is. and how good a good of a pilot he is. And so so he has no worries. He gets on the plane. Um The plane lands safely. Both those guys get to California safely. The opinions of each of them about whether they're gonna get there have nothing to do with whether the pilot will land the plane safely. So your opinion, your doubts, your uh your own heart and belief about God does not change what God did for us in sending his son to die for us. It uh it doesn't matter at all what uh what uh whether whether we believe it is still true. Now of course You can choose not to get on an airplane. But if you're on the airplane, it doesn't matter whether you're scared or an or you're uh joyful, you're still gonna land safely. You're still gonna get to heaven if you believe Jesus died for your sins. We have less than ten minutes to go, so I think we have time for everybody to give at least one, you know, lengthy final shot of encouragement or whatever. uh to this listener and uh anybody else who might be like this listener. But first let me uh reset the stage. My name is Troy Skinner. You're listening to the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. We're online at WFMD. com Daniel Razvi is the voice you heard right before mine. He is the son of Tammy Razvi and Imran Raz Razvi. So the Razvi clan is here. What gives them the credentials to be on this show? Well, if you've been listening for the last three and a half weeks, I think it speaks for itself. Uh but as far as a resume Uh they lead a uh a house church for years. Uh they lead a ministry called Conquered by Love online at conquered by love dot org. They've been on this show. um I don't know, ten, twelve, fifteen times collectively now over the fifteen years we've been doing this show. And if that's not a resume enhancer right there, I don't know what is. So um who wants to go first? Is dad gonna go first? Raz, you're gonna Go I'll I'll go first. I think um everybody has doubts. And if you don't have doubts, uh as you said, if there's no tribulation, y you may not be saved. Having doubt is when you have under special attack because you have are making an impact for God. Well you may not see it. But you're making an impact. And uh one of uh my close friends, Bernie Beal, he's been on the show many times, um, he has friends in China and his friends uh have s has said on many occasions that we're praying for tribulation in America. Why would you be praying for tribulation in America? Well, because without tribulation, you don't have any growth. You don't have uh many times people have to hit rock bottom in order to turn to Christ. And that really is an issue in America. We have so many things. We're a rich country and your listener said she is fearful. Well that's good. I'm glad because if you're not fearful then what a purpose is there? Um, you know, the f fear of God is the beginning of salvation, it's the beginning of wisdom. And I think that her being fearful is actually a great indication that she is saved and that she could continue to pursue that relationship And have the peace that God cares for her. He cares for each one of us. And uh I think knowing that and feeling it are two different things. Yeah, so we need we need a stir, uh stir. We need a straw that stirs a drink. We need an agitator, right? But you talk about you need tribulation, you need something that's like a almost like an activating agent uh that helps us to feel like the rubber's meeting the road. So it doesn't mean that the that the elements of the salvation uh aren't there and in place. But to maybe feel it and experience in the way that this listener's hoping to, she needs something to kinda stir it up. So maybe she should do something that is outside of her comfort zone. Put herself out there in a way that might challenge her faith which would give her an opportunity to then demonstrate and prove e just even to her just herself that wow I g I really do have a faith 'cause I wouldn't have been able to do what I just did if I didn't trust God to help me try to do it. Right. The the Lord's Prayer starts out with honoring God and giving God the respect and then ends up with our needs being met. And um and I I that's that's the key to this piece that she's looking for, I think. As long as we're not identifying peace as happiness You can you can find a way to be at peace even in a in a sad situation or a really challenging situation. Um and th that way is is just clinging to Jesus. It's not It's not expecting a specific thing from him. No um expectations. This this is the encouragement. Let go of the expectations. Let go of the expectations that my life as a Christian, if I were a Christian, would look exactly like this. Just let go of the expectations and say, God, I'm here. Have a relationship with me in the way that you see best. And that's where you're gonna find peace. When you don't have any expectations, you're letting God design your relationship. And you made a point before we got on the air for this show, uh talking about, you know, if if we're not careful, we the the the enemy, Satan. King and his his minions can use these sorts of problems to not to steal your salvation, but to minimize the impact you're going to have for the kingdom. Right. Right? And so we want we want all believers to be uh fruitful and multiplying in the sense of expanding the kingdom, of of proclaiming the truth, uh you know, and being a part Christ wins no matter what. We know that's true. Amen to that. Amen. But, you know, there's a privilege to us being able to participate in that. So uh Daniel? Yeah, I I think to piggyback on that, if if you're feeling like you're under attack and maybe she's not identify it as uh she's under attack by uh a a spiritual attack, but if you're having doubts, yet you are a believer Um maybe it it is because you were you were doing something effective for God and and Satan is trying to distract you from that. And you know, maybe maybe think think back in your life, you know, what what things are you doing And w when these uh when these doubts start to come on more strongly, maybe you you want to think think about is is that something that you're, you know, uh furthering God's kingdom? And Satan likes to try to distract from us. He can't take away our salvation. But he can stop us from or he can try to stop us from being as effective in instruments of proclaiming God's or Christ's salvation to others um and to increase his kingdom. Um but again if if you are believing in Jesus, you read in the Bible that As you said, God God said it and that settles it. Um but y you w you want to always there's always gonna be a process of sanctification. You're gonna grow closer to Jesus throughout your life. And you know, eventually we'll be with him in heaven and then we will have, you know, perfect bodies. With no no doubt, no fear, uh, or no uh um no crying, no sadness. And I don't think that, you know, she needs to beat herself up because of her doubts. Um it it's part of our present Condition we have doubts, at least on occasion, sometimes there are abiding doubts. They're long lasting doubts that just they they take hold that the you can have really significant doubt and still be saved. So uh don't th don't I don't want this listener or anybody uh else who's listening to feel it. Well I have lots of doubts I'm probably not saved. And defining terms has proven to be an important thing on this show over the years, and so you touched on something really quick in the final moments of the show you're talking about as long as by peace we don't just mean like happiness, you know happy, happy, joy, joy. Kind of thing. And what the Bible talks about is peace. What we use as an English translation for that word, it it's shalom and we don't really have You have to write a paragraph to properly explain what the Bible means by shalom. It's this this wholeness, this this completeness, this fulfillment, this everything that's good about our existence wrapped up into one l neat little package, that is shalom. And we will not any of us experience that this side of heaven. None of us will have that perfectly until Christ returns. So if you're looking for it now, you're on a fool's errand, and maybe that's part of the problem. You know, don't look for something that God hasn't promised us now. There's already uh benefits in the here and now, but they're not yet all fully realized right now. So if you're if you're expecting everything to be exactly the way you imagine the way a Hallmark movie, if they made Christian you know, truly biblical Christian movies the way they would portray it, the Not gonna happen. Not gonna happen. So if that's what you're looking for, be sure none of us has that. And you're not alone. Maybe that will give you the encouragement and the uh the confidence and your faith. that you're looking for. Well I hope that these six shows and these four panel discussion shows have been helpful to you, my dear listener, and uh to you who has been eavesdropping on our uh conversation for that dear listener. I want to thank the Rasby family for uh coming in. Uh Daniel Razby, Tammy Rasby. Razvi, uh Raz, Imran, Razvi. Again, their website, conqueredbylove. org, if you want to learn more about what their ministry is all about. And if you want to learn more about us, It's WFMD. com, keyword faith, or just go to the drop-down menu and uh find our show on the website that way. And if you've missed uh any or all of the six shows then you can listen to the podcast. All the podcasts are stored in our audio vault and you can link to them through the Faithabay page on WFMD. com. So until next week, I have no idea what we're talking about next week. We're going to give these dear friends a a rest so they have to deal with me again for another round. But until then One hundred and sixty seven and a half hours from now, God bless