This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The fate debate is on the world wide web at WFMD. com. Keyword fate. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble in this corner, weighing in with a master of Divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Oh, yes. Troy Skinner. Stories. We love stories. True stories. They're the best. Don't you uh appreciate movies that say based upon a true story and actual events? Well those are the best stories, the best movies. Last week we began to hear some stories from our guests, true stories. This week we're gonna hear more stories. And I imagine they're going to be true stories, uh you know, no pressure, but don't tell me any fibs. Uh what are the most dramatic, most mundane, most fear-inducing, most challenging, most rewarding aspects of spending years of your life ministering the gospel of Christ. To hurting people by actually living among them. Raising your children alongside their children, learning their language, their customs, their dreams. That's what we're talking about today. I'm Froy Skinner, here for another go round back from last week. the husband and wife team of Scott and Susie Wearsma, Christian Missionaries to Albania. So thank you for coming back on the show. And uh last week we kind of laid the stage for the call, you know, what it was like to uh to to feel And you were already doing min ministry, professional ministry, um, but you felt you were called to something different. And you ended up in Albania. Uh and we talked a lot about the process, um, but we didn't talk uh about every part of the process. So the parts that that might be interesting that you left out Uh you mentioned that you had some disagreement o over where you were gonna go as a couple. Yeah. And neither one of you initially wanted to go to Albania. Wasn't even on our radio. We didn't even know it existed probably, right? Didn't you know anything about it No? So where did you want to go? So um in 2002 I took my one and only um mission trip that I had done in my life and that was to Scotland And Scott and I had both gone on that together. And as we stood overlooking the city, I really felt this this sense of like we need to be doing this and but we need our kids with us. And very strongly felt we needed to have our kids with us. to do missions. And so when it was time to fill out our application with the Assemblies of God, they asked, you know, what country do you feel like you should go to? And for me it was like Scotland. You know, I mean like if I had to start with somewhere, that's definitely where I felt again a confirmation from the Lord that we should go into missions. And and Scott, as you know him for forty years, tends to be a man of extremes. And so his mindset was Mozambique You need to go to Mozambique and live in a hut, you know. And out of all fairness, we both put Scotland and Mozambique on on both of our applications. Correct. And uh and we said we'll let the Lord direct where he wants us to go. Correct. And we sent the application just like that. And so And you ended up in neither Mother Scotland. No. And so um the Lord You know, that's where you just kind of cast lots and like wherever it happens to go, then that's where it goes. So they're laughing to themselves as they ask you the question. So where would you like to serve? How like they're gonna end up there. Right, right. And so it our application ended up going to the Europe office. And so they have different sections, you know, Europe and Africa and and Asia and so on. And so it went to the to the Europe office. And then our application is then sent out to all the missionaries. Hey, if anybody here this couple and their you know, this family that would like to come and help serve, here's their qualifications. If you would like them to come serve along, you that and that's how we got invited to the four different countries. Scotland being one of them. So we were actually given the opportunity to go there. Now it's interesting that because you know Mozambique is the kind of place you automatically would think of right when you live in the grass hut near exactly you know and you're using face paint and you know and walking around with spears and grass skirts and things, right? Um In Scotland you would think, well, I mean they have a long, uh, rich uh Christian heritage and history in Scotland. Why would they need missionaries? However uh unless I you know p you listening right now, there are missionaries who come from other countries into the United States. Right. They see the United States as a missions field. Even though we have a long quote unquote Christian history and heritage. Um there's um there's a lot of work to be done and if people c are called to a particular people group, then that's where they go. Exactly. And if people come to the United States uh to do missions work they might actually be coming from countries where they live in grasshopped right and they're living on a dollar thirty a day Where th and so they come here and they uh not only are they doing the work for the kingdom, but they're actually living a higher standard of living. Exactly. So it's not always necessarily entering into poverty. Right. That's mostly what we think about. Right. But that is your situation. In Albania you guys have entered into poverty. You y I mean you guys aren't necessarily in poverty yourselves, although you have some limitations I'm sure. But you're you're in a Uh you shared w the other day with me, was it like a third of the population is unemployed? below the poverty. They live on less than five dollars a day. Yes. I mean well that's you know that's poverty. Right Yeah. Right, right. So you so that's the so i talk about Albania. Talk about what if what what the what it's like there, you know, the the the state of the economy, the kind of housing, just the the cultural things, you know. Your your normal spiels probably. Well I'd say you have to make the difference between we live in the capital city. um which is very different than uh a good portion of the rest of Albania. There's there's several larger cities um and then versus the village life. So the village life is way different than the city. So since we're in the city we we have a um a fairly stable electric um and water um and and stuff like that where you don't have that stability if you're out in the villages. So it's very different out there. Um but I mean uh go ahead. No, I was thinking right in the capital city alone, the statistic is whatever it may fluctuate a little bit, but about forty-eight percent unemployment in the Capitol City. I done some teaching a few different years in a um city that's two hours north of the Capitol. I was talking to them about jobs up there, them being the Albanians the Albanian males, and they said it's roughly about seventy to seventy five percent unemployment in that particular city. Uh so it can be rough and certainly outside in the villages they live more off the land. For those that live more in the mountains, again, it's more off the land. They just grow their own potatoes, allow their own fruits and vegetables, etc. And now this is Europe. Yes. E Southeastern Europe. Yeah. So this isn't you know you you don't usually think about, you know, things being so desperate in Europe. Right. So, you know, you probably know a little bit of the history of it. How did that happen? How did they get to be so desperate? Right. Um, you know, um probably the isolation of communism was really uh a a big effect on the way that they are. They're many years behind in in certain sectors. Um they were under harsh communism from nineteen forty five to nineteen ninety one. and um isolated really from the rest of the world. Um they were taught, you know, that they were blessed in what they had, you know, as they had their rations for their food and their oil and their bread and the different things um and didn't realize just how much they had gotten behind the rest of the world until communism finally fell in ninety one. And then so twenty eight years ago they discovered that they had been lied to for over forty years. Yeah So was there revolution in the streets or something? Like what happened? Sure. There was. It goes into a lot of detail. Communism was falling throughout that area. You know, and so I think it's just kind of a ripple effect and so does that open the door to people being, you know, receptive to hearing about you know, what what God can do for them or you know, because they realize that they couldn't trust what the state told them and so they're open to the truth. Or are they so suspicious or so jaded or maybe so indoctrinated in spite of themselves with what they were taught under communist rule? that they have like a, you know, atheistic uh um kind of approach to life. I mean, is it easier or harder? to share the gospel in a place like that. I find it hard. I I say it's a rough ground. I mean that very positively, but you've got the mix between those that uh either just don't believe in God from the communist time. Uh there's others that just say, well there's a God, but he's somewhere way up and out there and it doesn't really affect their day to day life. Their mindset for some of them is just like the survival mode. We need the food today. Uh so it can that from that aspect it can be rough. Also you were talking about trust and trust is a can be a huge factor and you really have to uh develop a relationship with people over time and show them that they care to develop that relationship for them to start to kind of break down that trust issue if I can put it in those terms. Uh and then slowly then you can introduce uh the gospel to the simple gospel to them. And uh all within a time of just interceding on behalf of them and going, Lord, please open their hearts, please open their minds. uh praying for them even if that be very privately and asking the Lord to work in their lives. So let me back up a little bit. So you had mentioned last week that you you initially felt a call to forward missions back in nineteen ninety five uh things didn't play out very quickly. So twelve years later it's two thousand seven and now you know you're gonna go on foreign missions and at that point I guess you knew it was gonna be Albania probably. And so now you have to start the process of going. Right. But the process isn't pack that doesn't begin with packing your bags. No, it doesn't. Would be nice if that was that easy. So yeah, talk about that process that you had to go through for a couple of years before you actually got to Albatia. Sure. Well, once um our application was approved and we had all the things in order, then we're given permission to begin raising the funds that we need to be in Albania. And so we are considered self-employed And so we are responsible for raising all the necessary funds uh for us to to live there and have our needs met and um and take care of all the all the legal stuff and everything. And so that meant going around to different churches, sharing uh our heart for Albania and basically looking for churches and individuals who were uh willing to uh be part of our team that would be supporting us in prayer and finances so that we could go and And follow. And that's called itinerating, right? Yes, itinerating. I was an itinerant preacher basically, sharing your message and saying, We want to go, you know, you got a few bucks in your pocket to help us. Exactly. Right. And so every Sunday pretty much you you know, on average pretty much almost every Sunday you're at a different church sharing this message. Correct. So and that went on for a couple of years? Um well we We had very limited services that first in two thousand seven because Scott was still on staff at the church that he was serving at, still working, doing concrete, still working, bus driving. And so we were limited to how many Sundays we were allowed to go. Being in a smaller church, the responsibilities we carry Um and then once we started that full time, yeah, it took just over a year um once we we were able to really start going on our fundraising cycle. Now what was that like for you as a family for a little over a year or about a year let's say not having a regular home church that you were interacting with on a week in, week out basis when you've been so used to that. Yeah. I'd say it was hard certainly on our children 'cause our girls m were much younger at that point, so it was a lot of travel Uh so that traveling and being in in a different church and being in even different Sunday school classes with strange children, strange teachers. I I mean my our girls worked through it, they were flexible with that, but it was also hard for them So then in 2009 you go. Right. We get the funds and we get our plan. I imagine that was hard for them too. Sure. Yes, devastatingly hard the first time Yeah. And you've got culture shock right off the bat 'cause the language is different and you're you're very limited in your communication. Yeah. I've heard you give a few samples of of speaking Albanian. So let let me let me hear something. Say how wonderful I am and wish God's blessing on me or something. Well, zote to bake off the following derit. Which means God bless you and thank you. Uh I have to trust that you didn't say dirty words, right? No, he didn't. He didn't. So the girls, did they learn Albanian as well while they were there? They did. You know, uh Angelica was really only with us, um, the that first two years. Uh and and uh and then Krista was able to spend two terms with us. So she was there a total of four years. And she did pretty well with learning the language. They did language classes with us the first couple years And picked up on that quite well. So And Albanian's a it's it's a unique language, right? There's there's no other language quite like it. You seem to think so, yeah. No, it really and if you look up the language tree, Albania has its own branch on the language tree. Uh there's certainly some words that can sound like they're Italian for even though I pronounced them wrong for I wouldn't say like policea, which can certainly sound Italian just by the ending of it. But it's really their own language Uh and uh they mix some with some Turkish words uh within their sentence and because many of them over there, I should say certainly in the capital city can speak or understand Italian and so sometimes a word or two of Italian may end up in their sentence of their own language Yeah. Going to Albania you learn that it's not just learning Albanian because they have a lot of products that are imported and so you're learning you have to learn Um, you definitely need to learn some Italian words. You know, you try to go and get shampoo and it's like you stand in the aisle staring at everything 'cause, you know, nothing's in a language that you know. And uh so you're learning a lot of different languages as you're over there. So yeah. This is the Faith Debate at 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner joined this week uh again from last week by Scott and Susie Wearsma, missionaries to Albania. So how old were you girls? Uh with the first one those first two tours when you guys were Angelica was fourteen and Krista just was turning eleven about two weeks after we got there. And now you you you've done more tours since then and you have two more children, boys. Yes. Uh and they're not that different in age from what the girls were. You know, you have a thirteen year old and a seven year old. So it's kind of similar. Sure. So how would you talk about the difference between life in Albania as a foreigner for the girls versus the boys. Is there a difference? Oh very much. You know, I think just um the girls had so much for the life in America. And so they had a such a different base. Caleb was three when we went to Albania for the first time. And so just the way the way that he's learning things. Um, Albanians are wonderful with children and the child the world revolves around kids, especially from birth to age about five. And so going over there with Caleb, people just loved him and were drawn to him. And I can remember our first landlords, um, they absolutely adored they used to call him King Caleb. And uh and I can remember them Why why do they call him King Caleb King Caleb. He's just the king. Oh that's just the way that they treated him and anything he wanted he could have. And I can remember see like the the landlord's wife that was in her forties and Caleb wanted to to dance on our couch and pulled her up and she was dancing standing on my couch and I'm like, There's a grown woman standing on my couch and But that's what Caleb wanted. So I mean like so you have these boys and trying to have that balance. You know, to try and that's not how we would raise the boys if we were living here. That's not the way life is. And trying to keep some of those boundaries because No matter what the boys do, it's like, oh that's okay. No, no, it's not okay. And that's how their culture is, right? That particularly, you know, firstborn boys I imagine. But boys in general are treated like kings in general, right? Yes. And are cared for like their whole lives, I think everybody's saying that very much so. You can ask any i you know, um Any foreigner that's married an Albanian man, how life is like and yes the expectations for the way a man should be treated. And uh it's kind of a chauvinistic society over there, is that fair? Um Yeah, you know, I think there's some fairness to some of that, but So has it been hard uh more difficult I mean it's hard in general, but so has it been more hard for you as a woman over there as opposed to Scott as a man Um, I definitely found our first term very difficult because it was certainly one of those things where I'm used to being kind of outgoing and you know, in in America as you walk you You look f you look at the people and you smile at people and you do that and and you don't know what city you're in. Yeah. In America. Okay, well I guess from where I was in Illinois. And uh and so um it was one of those things that, you know, I was kinda told like you don't do that, you don't smile at men that you don't know. You know, because you're giving the wrong impression. Oh, and they might think that it's an invitation. Exactly. And so then it was like for me it was a little bit of a struggle because I You know, this is what defines me and who am I? And I felt a little bit pushed down and and it's very easy to go inward with stuff like that and like, oh I can't I can't look at people. I need to be careful on that and Um and I think some of that's just learning how to um to go into this culture. I don't think that I would still feel that same way. I'm more careful with that. You know, but I don't think it w had to be as extreme as what we were first told when we first got there. So now as as a dad, you know moms have these concerns too, but I know you know, I have a a a son and a daughter and uh and I care for them both and I protect them both but I have an instinct that is a little more protective towards my daughter. Because I just maybe it's the cultural influences growing up in America where women are portrayed as being more vulnerable Um so right or wrong, that's kind of my mindset. I imagine you might have somewhat of a similar mindset. Did you as a dad have concerns about The safety of your daughters. Absolutely. All the time. And wherever we would go, basically our children were with us. Uh so I had to come to a balance of that because also human trafficking is an is an issue, not only in that country, but in the Balkans area, I'm sure in many countries. Uh to the point that I had learned uh from other people there. Some of the signs of uh human trafficking and like houses that the bars would be on the inside of the window instead of like the outside to keep people out. It was keeping people in or vans that would go around that had no windows because they didn't want people seeing what was inside the van. So just knowing that and keeping an eye on our children as we would go walk around the streets For sure. Uh, but also that balance came in because another missionary told me, Look, your children, it's rough for your children, they're in a different culture. And you know, if they're asked to let's say have a sleepover at someone that you know, other girls' house that you know it's a safe environment, just say yes and let them experience that and go with it because they need that kind of They need that friendship and that time as well. So it was kind of that balance of that. Yes. All right. And and you feel like the boys are because they're boys are less at risk? Is that fair? Uh less perhaps still at risk maybe but not quite as much quite as much as can I say females and I'm saying that in a general context. But also at the same token when we're out we're the boys stay right with us. There's a lot of organized crime there, right? You mentioned the trafficking. I mean it's Sure, sure. The the um what did you call it? The uh human trafficking Well the human trafficking. Oh, and the mafia. Did they call it the mafia? Is that what they call it there? Sure. Yeah. Yeah. People know that the the mafia is Has its power. Yes. Okay, and it's a mafia that's involved in human trafficking? Uh maybe. We have drug issues. Because they grow it in the mountains. But it's it's one of those things like there's there was a a town called Lazaret and it was known for being like held by um the drugs uh I don't know. Like the the drug lords, the kingpins? Sure. And I mean very heavily guarded and stuff like that where Uh as the Albanian government was moving towards becoming a candidate with the uh European Union, um they finally had a crackdown to show them that they were willing to do something about their drug trade. And they went in, I don't remember how many eight hundred police officers or whatever it was that went in and surrounded this place and and I don't remember how many tons of marijuana that they took and burned and whatever the case may be. But everybody knew that was going on in the city. But you just nothing was ever done about it because it's just The corruption and they're beginning to crack down, but there's still a lot of Europe. The Columbia of Europe. Correct. Say no more. Right. It's the marijuana gateway to Europe. I mean there's many little coin coined phrases that they have for Albania. That's amazing. Well guess what? We've reached the end of another program, so Uh we'll be back again next week. There's I want to talk next week, get you guys mentally ready, uh and you listening, get mentally ready. We've talked a little more about the spiritual climate over there, you know, what the mix of religious beliefs are or aren't um you know, and spend some time on, you know, the history of that and and what that means for Christian missionaries over there. So Scott and Susie Wearsma Missionaries to Albania on the Faith Debate Today. I'm Troy Skinner on 930 WFMD. I want to thank you for listening and I encourage you to visit us online. Go to WFMD. com. You can find the Faith Debate page there by typing in the keyword faith. And then hitting the search icon or you can hit the drop-down menu of the on-air lineup and find the Fate Debate page that way. And once you get there, you're going to see a list of the shows that have recently run with some descriptions of what those shows were. You'll see a little teaser of what's coming up next week. You'll also find a real easy link to the audio vault section of the website to listen to all of the uh podcasts for the Faith Debate show in case you you missed part of a show or we tend to do two, three, four, five shows in a row on the same topic And if you caught one or two of those won't hear the rest, you can grab the podcast and do that. Thanks again for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.