This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremony And the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Face Debate is a free-for-all forum. Community leaders wrestle over the truth. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Clash of ideas, are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Ah! Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a more on here And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. Ooh, mama. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. Now I'm just getting longed up. On social media, a self-professing Christian who grew up in the church said to me, quote, do I think You or white conservative Christians are less likely to oppose murder? No, absolutely not. However, are you less likely to recognize the longstanding systemic problems that have led to these killings? Are you less outraged when there is no accountability for officers involved in these killings. Are you as concerned about insisting on accountability in these cases? Perhaps you could tell me I think we're going to start to tell people what we think about those sorts of things on this edition of the Faith Debate. Here to help us do that, Jonathan Schweitzer and Darren Gerald. Darren is the pastor of Strong Tower Christian Church here. in Frederick. And we'd teased last week that we are and actually the week before that too, we never got to it last week, about talking about Black Lives Matter, the movement, the phrase, the organization And uh I uh I thought we might get there last week when I started talking about us feeding too much ground by using the language of the enemy of the gospel and we lose the argument before we started, but then we never actually got into talking about it. So I'll let you guys talk about what you think the the merits of some of the the language and the ideas behind uh um B L M and all that it might stand for. I will tell you, I don't think it's a secret now based on what we talked about last week's show. I'm not a fan of of uh of borrowing almost anything from the Black Lives Matter uh movement's language, uh, because I think it's primarily rooted in uh in cultural Marxism. And cultural Marxism is an enemy of the gospel in my opinion. So but I'd be curious, I'd be willing to hear some nuances that might uh I might find some um be able to give some birth and some movement uh allow for some movement on my thinking on some of that. But you know, um uh I'm still a Trump supporter. Who by the time the show airspeed Uh maybe that won't still be the case, but at this point I still um I'm willing to openly admit that that's admit uh that that's the case. And for what it's worth, I've had three opportunities to vote for Donald Trump and I haven't voted for him once yet. Yeah Um and so uh but I'm not an ever Trump reader. I say that to say that my impression, Darren, you and I have had a couple of these discussions. My impression uh is that for those on the right in our culture, right? And so we're not trying to be political here, but for those on the right, that what Troy just said about cultural Marxism, um, that that that is is the big boogeyman. Would you define that please? Cultural Marxism is the idea I I would say extreme secularism that we need to keep religion out of the public square, that the uh nuclear family uh should be deconstructed, that that we you know, moms and dads and uh i is uh are uh is no longer an important thing in our culture that um take from the rich, give to the poor, you know, uh socialism, uh that that any kind of Christian uh morality is inherently hateful and um and uh self righteousness And as I understand in the simplest terms, you know uh classical Marxism, Karl Marx in the eighteen hundreds, you know, he basically had an economic idea. Uh and that economic idea has now been applied to all areas of life, so all of culture, not just economics. And Marx was all about hitting Well actually his his book Um the Communist Manifesto hit the entire thing. It was it was far from just f uh economic. But for for a long time when people talk about Marxism they are talking about it purely for the economic piece of it, but you can't have the economic piece without the rest because the economy affects all of life, all of culture. But anyway, Marx basically pitted groups against each other, you know, the has versus the has nots, you know, the the the the rich and powerful against the poor and the oppressed kind of thing. And so cultural Marxism now has taken that idea and has created all of these cultural groups and made us prisoners to our group and then we're supposed to wage war against each other. So I can't escape the the white group. You can't escape the black group. And we and by definition, the way that cultural Marxism has played things out, um the particularly a a uh white, you know, Northern European descent uh uh uh male is is by definition part of the oppressor class, and somebody uh who's black is by definition part of the oppressed class. Uh even if the person who what you know a Candace Owens, for example, is pretty outspoken as a black woman saying, I'm not oppressed, don't but she's she's not allowed to to to opt out in cultural Marxism, she's just denying a reality or she's a sellout and she's currying favor with the oppressors kind of thing. So we have no choice but to do battle with each other as groups. And I don't think that's what the gospel calls us to do, is to do battle with each other because of some group we've assigned them to. So my point in bringing that up is just that Black Lives Matter. uh in in the pol in its political platform, right, that it that it openly um talks about, puts out on on all its websites, um calls for pretty much right down the line all those things that that people on the right would argue are uh uh culture Marxism except for the fact that they're calling at the same time for black lives to to matter. So how do we how do we parse that out? How do we how do we um Speak to the moral issue uh because traditionally black lives because I feel like you handle this really well. I I love the way you define these things. So so why don't you go ahead and and and call for why it should why that language is good and and the meaning behind it that is righteous. So I I think when you you talked about the forming of this country, yeah. It was a it was a it was a war, it was a political movement. But underneath that, underneath that, God was doing something in the culture. He was establishing a nation that would be founded on uh these these great truths and these great ideas. Uh the gospel would be kind of central to that, not fully realized yet But the gospel will be central to that. And so I think sometimes we need to look below beneath the surface and see where God's moving and how what God is doing and what God is creating in the culture because that what man is doing versus what God is doing, I think we can be so fixated on what man is doing and get so uh upset and out of balance with with these terms, but God I think God is doing something beneath this. Yeah. Uh and what is that? I think that he's I think that he wants to send revival. I think he wants to awaken his church and awaken society. I think that this is a justice issue and a righteousness issue that is for for for t too long has gone uh unaddressed and I think that he's he's determined in his sovereign council that he wants to address this now. And uh there's gonna be there's gonna be man is always gonna try to get in there and mess that up. But I think if we will listen to God and follow God and and and and then visually l say, okay, God, turn the spotlight on me Uh where where are my blind spots? Where what am I not understanding? Where am I where does where does the gospel begin and where does this these man-made concepts of race and So what is that all where is all is how is all that mattering and is getting mixed up? Because I want to hear from you. And so then what is the issue about the value of black lives that apart from the political movement that that speaks to African Americans in a way that is righteous and uh that would uh would use the term uh uh to call us to an issue of righteousness that we have been blind to. So uh again j just traditionally we They have not. And it's been the it's been the it's the been the great sin of a of our of our nation, right? I think the church needs to speak into that. I think that we need to we need to lead the way because we have the third way, right? We have the gospel. Yeah, meaning not right, not left, but the third way that is the gospel way. So we're not we're not uh slaves as it were to these political parties but we're because each one of them is is run by men and each one of them has its own weaknesses and his own strengths. Yeah. Uh and From a gospel perspective, you know, I b I believe the gospel is progressive. Jesus spoke to issues from a cultural standpoint when he talked about Samaritan. He s he spoke things when he elevated the the stature and the and the value of women, uh he didn't totally upset the uh apple card as it were during his time. But I think the imp the implications of the gospel are progressive in that way. It's like this seed that star turns into the big tree, right? And all the all the uh birds of uh the I think is a progressive nature. And I think this is one of those times and those seasons where God is determined. I love the I love uh uh Abraham Lincoln's second inaugural address where he talks about this. He says, you know, i if maybe in the providence of God he's determined that uh this this this uh evil of slavery has to be dealt with and uh he's giving us this terrible civil war, maybe till the blood of of those that were spilled uh righteously is spilled in in civil war. Uh he really uh and I you know, I I think about that. I think this is one of those times uh I I get concerned I get concerned because uh I think that nobody can take a moral superior high ground on this. Right. As Christians, the the you know, we say that the ground at the foot of the cross is level and we've got to speak speak to the another from that position uh because we're as we said we're all sinners but we've got to we've got to communicate that. But I don't I think so much of the gospel is being interpreted through political a political lens rather than through a gospel. Yeah, there's definitely the politics and there are a lot of people that are professing Christians that aren't in fact actually Christians in you know, it would seem to me. Uh but those that are, you know, we have every reason to believe are real deal that fruitful Christians are even divided over how to handle this. And it's been discouraging. And I'd be curious to get, you know, a take of somebody who maybe is thinking about these things. Maybe both of you are thinking about these things differently than I am. What was what's the guy's name? Uh Martin O'Malley during the two thousand sixteen uh campaign. Um The Black Lives Matter movement was was beginning to get some steam back then and he was at some sort of political event and he was asked a question about whether or not Black Lives Matter and then he said well Oh well of course all lives matter and he got booed. And I don't know if you know the name of Grant Napier, but uh Grant is a uh uh or was a play-by-play announcer for uh an NB NBA basketball team, Sacramento Kings, and hosted a call-in sports radio show in Sacramento. And uh somebody tweeted at him saying, Hey, what's your take on the BLM thing? And and he responded back saying, you know, well, hey, all lives matter. And he got fired from the NBA job and from the radio station job. And I understand it f it it comes across as tone deaf and I get that. And in a moment when we're trying to highlight the importance of uh you know, a particular uh um person or or group of persons, I get that, but anybody who says all lives matter is speaking biblical truth. So why should somebody speaking biblical truth lose their jobs? Or why should a political candidate speaking biblical truth be booed by his supposed supporters? Uh to me it seems like Black Lives Matter pre precisely because all lives matter. And it seems like politically speaking Uh and this is why I'm not a fan of the movement and what it kind of stands for is they're so inconsistent and I feel devil devilishly so. Not all li black lives matter in the Black Lives Matter movement because millions of black babies have been aborted and there's no outrage from the Black Lives Matter movement on that. How many of black lives are ended on uh uh on the streets of some of our most populous cities and the Black Lives Matter movement isn't outraged over that. They're only outraged about the kinds of things that are happening to uh people with darker skin tone at the hands of police officers. So why I feel like there's an in th they're not they're being disingenuous. So so I feel like I have more regard for a black life than the Black Lives Matter Basic. Back though into a political perspective and um and so so moving it back from because I think you're you're right that that that there are genuine arguments back and forth, you know, at a political level, but driving into what we do in the body of Christ, right? We we heal the sick. We mourn with those that mourn. We rejoice with those that rejoice. What I've heard, Darren. Pastor Ronnie here in Frederick, different ones saying is is look, uh there's some aspects to what's happened here in the United States that Nobody's really mourned with us about it. Nobody's really taken the time to hear the stories to appreciate how it plays out. When I hear Darren's stories, when I hear Ronnie's stories, when I hear the stories of uh guys like, you know, Vody Bacham and Tony Evans and and uh you know T D Jakes, uh, you know, all the different ones, um, for that matter, Larry Elder and and Candace Owens, I mean they've all got their stories. When I hear the stories of of how They have personally been uh been treated uh in a in insulting and demeaning ways based on the color of their skin. Um I uh it leads me to mourn. And I think it's right. And the Bible does something that I don't know that our American history does so well. And I wonder if I'll get accused of being uh being a um somebody inclined to rewrite history, but the Bible does something amazing It tells the good and the bad of all the history of the people of God. Right? The United States can't claim to be the people of God as much as Israel was the people of God. But the Bible's perspective on those that were the people of God was to tell the honest unvarnished truth about the good and the bad all the way through. And I've been told a version of history coming through Christian schools that really um what's the word it it it it mythologizes, you know, George Washington and And Andrew Jackson and and um uh you know uh Abraham Lincoln, you know, like right down the line, you know, there there's this this you know glorification and I didn't hear growing up uh the reality that cotton was our number one national uh uh moneymaker uh the top driver of textile industries. I must have had a better history teacher than you because I remember learning about that. Yeah, so uh and and that comes into play, right? So I probably wasn't paying for that. In fairness to how I mean But to recognizing then that that meant, you know, when the first uh seven of nine presidents that we had came from the South probably partially because of the three fifths amendment that that uh gave them in three fifths compromise that gave them, you know, extra influence. Right. Like those kinds of realities um are are things that but I think we gotta tell because it's not that far back. I agree too. But I could I could I could be any I think the in Uh f to be intellectually honest, yeah. I think that um there are we have to acknowledge um things like the murder rate in the in the black community. Right. Um uh the abortions, uh which um I think the the the person who created uh Margaret Sangerhood, Margaret Sanger, Regenetics and and absolutely uh so Prejudices against black people, absolutely. So I think I think I think to be able to acknowledge that and and I try to do that in the conversations that I have one on one. Right. Um I talk about it from a standpoint of trauma. Um you go there. That we should use a trauma approach when it comes to this. Um I love the the illustration that uh Christine Kane used. She's they rescue uh sex trafficked young girls. And um when they rescue sex trafficked young girls who have gone through these traumatic things and they bring 'em in, uh, they don't seek to bring in the person who caused the trauma to reconcile at that moment. It's a trauma and f intrinsically we know a trauma informed approach, they've got to restore that person uh and bring because they've been hurt and they've been traumatized by that. Uh and and if there were men that were in this safe house, they would they would understand if they threw a shoe at that that that man because he or what he represents to them because of the trauma that they've been through. So I think part of part of us having a dialogue and understanding one on one is to understand that we need to have a trauma approach. That not that we excuse uh violence or looting or burning or rioting or any of the things. I think we should be I think I think w we have we have to don't do the the uh Democrat Republican thing. Because one can come up with a good idea, but because you are on the other side of the aisle, we're not gonna go with that good idea. And I think sometimes in the church uh we'll each have a a a a truth that we're sharing, but we won't the other side won't acknowledge it or won't ex you know, say, okay, yeah, I acknowledge that. And that's because I think that's probably I think that's why we can't hear one another. Because when either side doesn't seem to be willing to acknowledge the what the other is saying and the truth of what the other person is saying. So I think that we have to within the church We have to get to that place where we're acknowledging that truth to one another so that both of us are lowering our walls and our defenses so that we can hear one another. And we can move forward. That's Darren Gerrell, Pastor at Strong Tower Christian Church. Jonathan Sweitzer is on the show. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. We've got just a few minutes actually left on this episode of the show. And so I just want to add a biblical uh point. Um and I don't mean to offer it as a defense of how uh American history maybe has been sanitized more than it should be. But biblically speaking, you know, sh sh certainly we read about Moses murdering a guy. Right. And yet the overwhelming impression and what we remember and think about Moses mostly is he's a hero of the faith. Right? David, an adulterer, had a guy killed, and yet a man after God's own heart, and we celebrate that. We don't hide from the warts necessarily, but we recognize and we celebrate the goodness. And I think that that's appropriate in our national context too, to say, okay, that person did some bad things, had some blind blind blind spots and things we should not ever celebrate, and yet there was a certain goodness that they stood for. Martin Luther King's a good example of this, by the way. I mean lots of sin in his life, and theologically not very sound, in my opinion. And yet He advanced a cause that was so big and we celebrate that. So when we celebrate Martin Luther King Jr. , we're not celebrating his bad theology. We're not celebrating his womanizing. We're celebrating his civil rights cause. And so I th I think that that's okay and I think it's problematic when that stops being okay. You know, um if we're only gonna judge people by their negatives, we can't celebrate any accomplishment by any human ever other than Jesus Christ. And and that's I don't think that's healthy or good. So uh okay, so I would uh agree with that, but I would add what I think is an important caveat qualification that um that repentance is at the heart of the reason why um why David ended up still being you know considered righteous and and and Moses. Right, like take Asah, King Asah, we never hear about him. Why? 'Cause at the end of his life, even though he started out good, did a bunch of really righteous things. uh he ended up not repentant. You know, King Ahaz is another example in in uh Manasseh, you know, there's certain ones that that they they stayed unrepentant. And so um So uh again, but that that means that, you know, our history would have a moral uh you know, foundation to it that that puts their their sin in the context of righteousness and then repentance and you know that's asking a lot of uh you know the United States And we end up making a bed we have to lay in that's unfortunate. We've talked about this on the show in the past. ill considered to want to refer to the United States as a Christian nation. And uh we have too much of an idea that it's like a modern day Israel and that's problematic and w and so we've we've we've made this bed that now we're culturally asked to lay in and I never asked to make that bed. So anyway, we have to wrap up the show. Uh and we're gonna have another I guess we'll have one more round of discussion next week. Jonathan Sweitzer with Cross Bridges on the panel again. We're joined this week by Darren Gerald, pastor of Strong Tower Christian Church in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find us On the WFMD website, go to the Faith Debate page. You can get there through the drop-down menu. You can click on the search area and do the keyboard search and do faith there. It takes you to the Faith Debate page. Why would you want to do that? You'll get a teaser of what's coming up on future shows. You'll have uh quick and easy access to podcasts of previous shows. There are several hundred podcasts up there now, I'm not sure how many, but You could take a like a two week vacation and do nothing but listen to Faith Debate podcasts the whole time and probably not run out of podcast. I highly recommend it. You can binge listen to the faith debate. That's a good vacation right there. Right there. Your trip to the beach. Anyway, thanks for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now