Welcome to the Bake Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, our Panel has gathered once more. We've got uh Daniel Razby, M. Ron Razby, his friends call him Raz. So I guess he you've been on the air long enough, you can call him Raz. And uh David Forcy is uh on the show as well as usual. Four of us are pastors of house churches in Frederick County. If you'd like to learn more about that, connect with one of our churches, reach out and be glad to talk with you about it. We spent the last three weeks talking about things happening in the news over the last two years and so much of what's been driving what's happening in the in the world these days has been driven by politics and political worldview things. So we spent a lot of time there I think we might have a little more to say on those fronts and perhaps we'll have an opportunity, we'll see, to to shift into broader concerns than just politics. Um but uh we will see. Um Where where we leave off last week? We're talking about retirement. We're talking about whether capitalism or like uh uh a regulated free market is the is the biblical model. And I feel like we might have begun to reach a a consensus that it probably was, depending on how we want to define our terms, but am I am I because if so then we can move on. If not we probably should flesh out where we were last week. Um do we want to talk about what's the so the the contrast to a regulated free market is A not free market? A very regulated, so regulated that it's no longer a free market? Yeah, so a a controlled market. Yes, a controlled market. Right. Exactly. A controlled market, which would be, you know, the the the depending on your flavor, socialist or fascist or communist or something like that. So maybe instead of regulated it should be civilized free market. So a completely free market with no regulation whatsoever would probably lend itself to some sort of uh Yeah. But but you know, the principles that that we're trying to include under this umbrella would include uh personal property personal responsibility, uh you know, protection from theft. In those days there was no king in Israel and every every man did that which was right in his own eyes. Right. Right. Very free market. I think Jeff Bezos is a very big fan of the very free market by eliminating all competition And the other thing is if it's not regulated properly, you have the problem that I think we we have right now is is cronyism, which is basically uh another word maybe for fascism, you know, where the the the government interests and the business interests are so deeply entwined and codependent and they're all paying and and buying each other off that uh special favors and all that sort of stuff And we saw that play out with what's happened in this last, you know, couple of years with all those shutdowns. It it's Main Street. The mom and pops got kicked in the cheese. But those multi-multi-billionaires that own these big corporations, they had record setting profits. How'd that happen? You know, everybody's struggling to pay the rent and uh the stock markets that rap record highs. How'd that happen It doesn't add up. Something doesn't make sense. You know, that's that's cronyism. Like there's something the the right the wrong kinds of regulations are in place. So we need somebody regulating the regulators at that point. Uh so I guess we're we're probably pretty good on on that front, right? I I think I'm still I'm still more of an advocate for a family being a lot more intertwined financially than what most conservatives would probably have in in America. But that's a different topic than The well regulated um But the economy in in at large, yes, I think w more more free the less government involvement, I think that's even at the family level, the family should operate as a regulated uh free market. Sure, right. Meaning that like you you indicated last week, it's not like the patriarchy of the family has all the money and and controls everything and tells everybody what to do. Yeah, well in the in the family it's uh it's relationally regulated. Right. And I think that the regulations should be relatively minimal, by the way. I agree. Regulating to keep people from doing things that are dishonest uh you know b basically some sort of theft or grift or you know that sort of thing partiality being so uh being shown Those sorts of things should be stealing intellectual property. Exactly. Yeah. over regulated. We're regulated on steroids. We have so many regulations that you can't even keep tabs. That's part of our problem. You can't keep tabs on this beast that's been created. Yeah, um was it Ben Carson that said uh the regulations add what forty percent to the the uh cost of a house? Wow. I hadn't heard that, but he he's in charge of HUD, so he knows. Wow, yeah, wow That's crazy. We have a lot more homeownership if you could knock the price down by forty percent. Yeah. Yep. Yeah. All right. Oh you had to do that. No, I just uh This is a long this is a little bit of tangent but I think it came up and uh as I was thinking about what we're talking about is I wanna uh maybe go into the direction of compromise. and define the word compromise and how it's used because we're talking about cut politics and talking about you know cronyism and I think compromise is is really where it starts where I believe as a Christian and I define the word Christian as a believer in Christ as my Savior that will save me from the sin that I cause because I am a sinner, um, what is compromise from that standpoint? We are not allowed to compromise when anything that is biblically stated do this or do not do this. Like if you know if God says do not kill, there's no compromising in that. If God says do not covet, there's no compromising in that And the and the political system is really built on compromise and and I've seen so many movies and articles and books and but if you're in politics you have to compromise. And it's held off as an ideal Absolutely. And that is absolutely wrong. And and I've seen the left not compromise, but force the right to compromise. So as the left goes further and further, the left The right is moving along with them because they're being forced to compromise. If they don't, they're evil. But what happens is this is the game that they play because they they give the appearance of compromise. So what happens is um Daniel's already brought up about, you know, give you a king and he's going to tax you to death, right? He's writing up that passage of the Bible a couple of weeks in a row. And so you got somebody who says, I want no taxes And somebody else says, I want to tax you ten percent. It's like, no, I want no taxes, ten percent, no taxes, ten percent. Oh, that's compromised, five percent. Okay. Now all of a sudden you've got taxes where there were none. Right And so they've moved the needle and then five years later, fifteen percent, no, five percent, fifteen percent, no, five percent, compromise, ten percent And within five, ten years they're where they want it to be. They just gradualized it into place because we compromised our way there. And left them more brilliant at that. Uh more recent um uh example of that in the that that many people listening may may have remembered from the news is this um uh build back better plan that the so called that uh Biden's been been pushing and Democrats have been pushing and they said this is gonna be a three or four trillion dollar spending plan for social priorities and and so on. And there were a whole long list of things in the bill and some of them many people were upset about and so on, but it was a lot of stuff. and it was a radical increase in spending and increase in programs and and so on. And so they launched this idea and they get a lot of pushback and then they compromise to say, oh well we're only gonna spend now one trillion out of this And they're still gonna have a lot of the really bad stuff that everybody was uh w worried about, but it feels like an achievement and a victory for the right. Oh, we talked 'em down, two trillion dollars less in spending Well, they're still doing all the stuff that they were gonna do and probably what they expected to get done in the first place. They just ask for a lot more, so when you negotiate them down, they're still getting most of what their agenda is. Imagine you're in a marriage or counseling session And uh the wife wants to not be beat at all. And the husband wants to beat her twice a day. And so the marriage counselor says, Look how it's compromised. How about your husband just beats you once a day? And that's what happens when you compromise biblical principles, right? You y y you y at some point you gotta say, no, wrong is wrong, right is right. Same with adultery. How you know the husband wants to go or the wife wants to go and speak with other people. Well, it's just compromise. Let's just do that every other Tuesday, not every Right. Yeah, we'll have a a regulated open relationship. So that's why I I I really feel that compromise is what's really been causing a lot of downfall. You cannot compromise on biblical principles. And the breakdown of the family unit in America has what's caused the great shift and compromise of our principles, compromise of our um beliefs. And you know, one of the things my wife is adamant about saying when when all of these um Conservatives are raging about this bill in Texas about abortion or this thing in Georgia about abortion. We won a vic victory, we limited abortion to this. No. Uh we gotta go back to abortion is killing a baby It doesn't have to be six weeks, doesn't have to be twelve weeks, doesn't have to be first or second or third third trimester. It's killing a baby. It's by conception. And when you give that argument over and compromise that Oh, but what if it's rape or incest? No, you're still compromising. You cannot And because they're willing to compromise the I mean in certain states it w it would be impossi like Maryland it would be impossible uh to do what I'm about to suggest, but in other states, let's use Oklahoma as a really good example. They almost always have a Republican governor who runs as a pro life candidate. They have an overwhelmingly re Republican uh uh legislature. I mean a a a filibuster proof, veto proof, I think, uh, majority of Republicans uh in Oklahoma. Why couldn't they abolish abortion not limit, but abolish abortion in their state? Maybe like slavery? Abolish slavery, abolish abortion? Yeah, Slavery's actually better than abortion 'cause at least you get to live. Abortion you're dead. Right, right. But they they don't have the political will to do it and they end up compromising and and there's only th flavors of compromise along the way, which is why even the political bases get so fractured. That's why we had close to twenty Republicans run in two thousand sixteen in the primary, had somewhere around twenty Democrats run in the primary in twenty twenty. Even even the political bases are incredibly fragile. It's starting to look like Central Europe. A little bit there with all the political interests and uh we don't quite have the the multitude of political parties that they have, but we're heading in that direction. So let let's but speaking of compromise, let's do a a a transition and talk about where this leads us culturally. Because if you're willing to compromise politically and fiscally and those sorts of things, you compromise other principles and we see that play out in our culture in in with some big high profile names that have been involved in sex scandals We talked about, you know, um you know adultery. You know, so let's talk a little bit about we're shifting away from the politics and maybe hope this is our chance to uh shift away more into some some cultural uh issues that have been dominating uh the Western world, the American world, our world here in in Frederick, Maryland even uh in recent years. And you know, Donald Trump A hero for many on the right, you know, an adulterer. Right, he had some personal uh compromise there. We can't let him off the hook. But on the left you got, you know, Harvey Weinstein or Weinstein on how he uh I can't remember how he's supposed to say his last name, so this is no disrespect is meant to Harvey there, but I don't remember Um and then even inside the church or f depending on how you want to define the church's uh high profile uh problems with Roman Catholic priests uh over the years with uh pedophilia and uh homosexual behavior with with underage minors. Um and more recently the Southern Baptist Convention has had some uh accusations. One of the guys that uh that ran for president was accused. It seems now like it might have been a false accusation, but some some accusations about some sexual uh improprieties there. I mean it's it's all over the place. And then the most wild story we've heard in recent years, I think, is a Jeff Jeffrey Epstein story, where they had a bunch of sex slaves on an island somewhere and high profile people were visiting there and Um this open-ended. What do we say, either generally or specifically, to that culture as pastors who are trying to lead people to Christ but in the process influence the culture for good at the same time So I would say that especially when you have some of these high profile examples of so called pastors or religious people, people in the in the church the media loves to jump on those and say, Look, here is this Christian who's a hypocrite and he did all these things, he's a problem Well actually, um that that's that's kind of the opposite of being a hypocrite because if y if if uh assuming the person is actually saved, they would have preached something to the effect of, I'm a sinner. So the all they proved by sinning was that they were correct in their preaching, that they were themselves sinners. The question is what happens after the sin is is discovered or noticed or what happens w whatever. I mean you get example example in the Bible of David David committed adultery as well. Not only did he commit adultery, he committed adultery with one of his best friend's wife. Uriah the Hittite was w actually one of his mighty men. Um and then he burnt out of murder. So there uh just because there's a sin doesn't make the person n uh necessarily uh unbeliever or ungodly, it is how you deal with the sin once you're convicted and hopefully you are convicted about it. Um but certainly people can make excuses for bad behavior and say, oh, it's not that bad when it really is. There's a difference between making excuses for behavior and recognizing that behavior will continue to exist because we still are in a fallen world. Whether it's adultery, whether it's, you know, taking ten bucks from a a cash register, there's there's a you know, i it there's still sin I think the things we were talking about before connect here too. We were talking about a regulated free market and trying to define what we meant uh define what we meant by that. Uh hopefully we did an okay job by the time we got through all that What we're talking about with a regulated free market is regulating the behaviors within the economy, within the economic uh happenings economic practices regulating the behaviors that individuals and groups of individuals uh uh engage in. So we're talking about regulating behavior economically, and now we're talking about regulating behavior in this particular case sexually. You know, people need to have personal responsibility and families need to hold other family members to account and you know, we need to because if we don't properly regulate and we say, well You know, sex before marriage isn't really that big of a deal. Well, the Bible says it's adultery. And if you're gonna compromise on that issue, well then it gets an awful lot easier to compromise on sex uh inside of marriage with someone who's not your spouse And having that kind of adultery. But even that's not as frowned on as it used to be because we've got the rise of uh of open marriages and getting And then you start losing your mind on stuff. And so we've got uh you know, our our first openly uh homosexual uh cabinet secretary with a Pete Buddha judge right now. That would have been culturally unacceptable when I was a kid. Uh and yet the the needle on that is moved. We got uh transgenderism. We got a transgender who's involved with uh leading our health uh decisions in this uh country. Isn't that an oxymoron? He's mentally ill and he he's leading the health But that's where we end up. You got people who are celebrated for it, you know. Um uh formerly Bruce Jenner, now Caitlin Jenner. Uh he's you know living the life of uh or trying to live a life or portray himself a as a woman and is celebrated for it and I'm gonna get a bunch of hate for the way I just phrased that um by referring to Caitlin as a he. Um I mean I'll call I'll call them Caitlin. He can call him whatever he wants. I don't care whether you call you can he change your name. I have no problem with that But you can't just you can't force me to enter into your psychosis. Right. So we get we get lost. And and then Women's sports, collegiate sports and high school sports are gonna be destroyed by this if if if something's not done about it because you've got young men competing against women. It's it's a slippery slope because if you recall back in two thousand eight Obama ran on a platform that was anti-gay marriage. Obama ran on a platform that was anti-gay marriage. As recently as less than fifty uh less than ten oh less than fifteen years ago, twelve years ago, thirteen years ago. the the Democrat Party official platform was pro-traditional marriage at the time. And not only have we gotten rid of traditional marriage, we've now had we've gotten rid of male and female And it's only been twelve or thirteen years. Um so things change rapidly and there's a there's a very slippery slope when you compromise on one thing then you start compromising on other things. There's many Christians who aren't really bothered You know, if you cornered them on it, they'll say, Oh yeah, that's wrong. But they're not really bothered when they see a gay couple in public or otherwise as they might have been fifteen or twenty years ago. And I think we're desensitized to evil that's in that's existing in the society. And Many people are still angered or um uh you know uh revol re uh revolted when they um See, you know, somebody that's pretending to be a pedophilia or somebody that's claiming to be a woman when they're a man or vice versa. Um But how how many more years is it gonna be before Christians are desensitized to that and they say, Oh yeah, that's I mean that's bad but it's it's kinda normal now. Yes, but if you are um grow stop by or or uh reject it, then you're a hater. So to change the vocabulary to make it anything that uh you are against and you're biblically in the right you become a hater or uh it's hate speech and so forth. So I want to bring this back a little bit. We went back into the politics and into the general and to the leaders, but how is your life? Have you ever lied? Well, then the Bible says you're a liar. Have you ever slept with somebody before you got married? Well, then the Bible says you're an adulterer. Have you ever hated somebody in your heart? Well Jesus said that you're you're a murderer. So you're a lying, murderous adulterer. I mean those are real live sins. If that is in your life, there is hope for you So what we're talking about is not that that once you've done this you're beyond hope and you're terrible and you're labeled something something and uh everything's gonna go bad. Yes, everything is bad, but there is hope for you. You must repent and that's what Daniel was saying earlier is how do you react to it? When when this happens, when you're found out or when you realize how did David react to his sin, you can also react that same way and repent What does repent mean? Repent means that you will make an effort to change and to please God. Now, that in itself is not going to save you. No matter what you do, you cannot save yourself from your sin and your evil. Only Jesus can. So what you have to do is repent and seek Jesus and ask for his forgiveness. And you are a new person and you will have life eternal. And there is hope. So those all of us who are mired in sin Recognize it. And how do you recognize it? You must pick up the rule book. Where are the rules? In the Bible. Get to know who God is and what he says. Find out and seek him and he will come to you. So my thought to the you right now is yes, all these sins, these compromises, we have them all of us have them in our lives. But when we see them and and recognize them we need to repent. And that's where the difference is between somebody that is out there pointing fingers and somebody that says, Oh, thank you for pointing that out to me. You're right I should not have done that. I'm going to repent. I'm going to spend time in prayer. So I would urge you, if you don't know how to do that, reach out to Troy Skinner through this uh radio station and he'll tell you all the all the details on that. But this is a very real problem and only you can fix that. Nobody else can fix it for you. And only you can fix it through Christ who's gonna fix it for you, because you can't do it yourself. And that's where the truth is. Obviously all four of us are committed. The truth is found in God's word. Uh somebody who hears us say that who doesn't believe in God or isn't a follower of Jesus has ever read the Bible, they're gonna want to reject that And that's what has has ended up happening in our in our world as well. Um the the the rules of engagement get changed. They have the American Medical Association uh that uh says that science says that gender is not binary. And it gets back to what David said uh last week or the week before that show. uh talking about the worldviews and the Bible shaping the worldview because that is the rule book, right? That is the guidebook. Um but that seems to be one of the challenges you have the the science whether it's true science or not, the science versus the Bible. And we have to clarify and I think we can if we're willing to engage and have those conversations We can actually persuade people that you know the science isn't really always very scientific in its method. And you can sh because it's going against the natural order of things, it's going what we've we've known for a long time, it's going against proven discoveries of things And uh and the and if we can get them to understand that, okay, what they've been told is the science isn't true, maybe they'd be open to hearing what the truth is. um in the Bible. We don't have to fall prey to using different pronouns and all those sorts of things. I by the way it popped into my head, I uh I don't know if it was this week or last week we were talking about the Covington uh uh boys uh and um Uh Nick Sandman being stared down by the Native American. I said, I thought his name was Nate and it popped in my head I it might his friends might call him Nate, but his name is Nathan Phillips. So just for the record, uh my my my my brain fog uh lifted for just a moment and I and I remembered his name. Um we've got about a minute left, so I guess we're gonna wrap up Hopefully we can pull this panel together for for next week to continue these sorts of discussions. I I I think we're going to shift pretty pretty much further away from political stuff and get more and more into the cultural and worldview and and uh and applying some of these philosophies that we'll be bombarded with, you know, applying a Christian perspective to some of these um as we move forward. So if that sounds good to you guys. Thank you for for for joining us again. Imran Razvi is uh on the show and Daniel Razvi is on the show and David Forcy is on the show and oh I'm on the show I'm Troy Skinner. And you're listening You were also on the show, well because you're listening. That's right. This is your show. This is a regulated free market show. Anyway, till next we find us online. Find me online. The easiest way to do that is household of faith in Christ dot com. You can find the show online also at WFMB. com. Tell next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless.