Broadcasting from the police state that is Frederick City where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement, so I'm told. In the gridlock that is Frederick County Where people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. In the socialist state of Maryland, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America where religious freedom is increasingly a wistful memory. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com, keyword faith There you can find links, podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's Troy T-R-O-Y Skinner, S-K-I-N-N-E-R at clearchannel. com what you email to me, I'll post. I post what you send me. It's as simple as that. After I remove the curse words or anything like that. I mean I do clean it up a little bit if I need to Forty-five blog updates go up there every week. Nine per day, each weekday, Monday through Friday. So if you don't email me, can we go online and see what other people are sending to me, see what other people are saying And then you can comment if you like. There's a comment section too. It's we're very cutting edge here at the Faith Debate. Again that's uh at WFMB dot com keyword faith. On the show today, uh no panel. Uh we've done this a few times recently and my apologies if you're not enjoying this, but hopefully uh you you're getting something out of this We've had some scheduling issues. Uh earlier um when we were scheduled to tape, Jonathan Schweitzer, who's my regular partner in crime here, uh had some some s uh serious matters to attend to as a pastor. And then the next time we were getting ready to to to do the show, uh he had to back out because of uh some uh personal matters that that came up and that that happens And so now this time Jonathan's all ready to go but I ha couldn't do it and so things are all messed up and so I was able to but the show must go on and so I was able to find a time in my schedule with wasn't exactly very copacetic for Jonathan's schedule and just get something going on the air. So, back by popular demand Uh I've had a chance to uh share some messages uh in in the area over the last uh few years. People know I do the Faith Debate show and I I get asked to speak every now and then here and there And uh recently delivered a message on 1 John chapter 4, verses 7 through 21. The message was titled, Love Is, Love Is Not. So you're going to hear the first half or thereabouts of that message now and we'll wrap it up next week the last half of that message, and hopefully that'll work Sometimes it's it's tough to break it in the middle, but I think we'll be okay. So here we are. Love is, love is not, on the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. There was a best-selling book in the 1990s that was called Conversations with God. It was extremely successful. It spawned two sequels. Together, these three books by Neil Walsh. Sold more than eight million copies in 37 languages. Few years ago, Hollywood turned these books into a movie that was released to theaters worldwide. It's now on DVD, and it just so happens that as I was preparing this sermon message, I watched the movie, and I realized that the movie is a pretty good representation of what so many people believe these days. And also what some people believed in the first century. I think the majority of Americans in this generation would probably find some sense of connection with conversation with God and what it teaches. Maybe not all the details. But at least the general ideas. So I thought it'd be a good place for us to kind of jump off from, use it as a starting point for our message today. Conversations with God is a story of a lonely down and out radio DJ. He's in dire straits and his life has dramatically changed when he decides to write a book about suddenly hearing the voice of God in his head. The books in the movie have done well, I think, because spirituality, not necessarily religion, is popular in contemporary society. People are looking for answers. What is the meaning of life? Why am I here? Are we alone in the universe? Is there a God? And if so, does he care about me? Does he love me? And so on. We want answers to these questions. Mr. Walsh says he has the answers. And so many people have gobbled up his answers But are they the right answers? How could we know if they're right or if they're wrong? As Christians, we are called to correctly proclaim the faith of Jesus, and so we should start by turning to a book that has sold even more copies than conversations with God. God has given us his written word as a fixed testimony of what he has revealed to his people. So let's open our Bible and read the final section of 1 John 4, beginning with verse 7. First John four seven through twenty-one. Dear friends, let us love one another. For love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Whoever does not love does not know God. Because God is love. This is how God showed his love among us. He sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. This is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. Dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us. This is how we know that we live in him and he in us. He has given us of his spirit. And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them and they in God. And so we know and rely on the love God has for us. God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in them. This is how love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence. On the day of judgment in this world, we are like Jesus. There is no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear because fear has to do with punishment. The one who fears is not made perfect in love. We love because he first loved us. Whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister, whom they have seen cannot love God whom they have not seen. And he has given us this command. Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister. Let's pray for a moment. Father, I offer a simple prayer today. I pray that your word will be delivered with clarity and the intricacies of understanding will be made simple, and that our hearts and our minds be open to receive it and to apply it. For those who already know you, that they would be encouraged by it, and those who do not yet know you would be moved by your Holy Spirit to accept it as truth. In Jesus' name. Amen. So before the prayer, we read four paragraphs from John's first epistle. Verses seven through ten tell us the source of love. Verses eleven through sixteen tell us the inspiration of love. Verses seventeen through twenty. highlight the practice of love, and then verse 21 kicks off a section that focuses on the command of love. Now keep these 15 verses that we just read, keep these in mind as we quickly go through the basic viewpoint that is found in conversations with God and see if you can agree with these statements. Okay? These are from conversations with God. All of our choices are either choices of love or fear. Those are the only two options. The love you feel inside of you, well, that's God. Don't concentrate on what others think about you, but rather on what you think about you. The universe is conspiring in our favor always, because essentially we are part of God. God says, you are my creation and my product, my purpose and myself. What do you think about these ideas? Likely there are some that sound pretty good to you, and there are others that offend your Christian sensibilities. The ones that offend you, should they? The ones that sound pretty good to you. Should they? Working with the premise that the truth about these sorts of things would be found in the Bible, let's see what we can figure out from Scripture about fear and love. About the presence of God's love inside of you, about the meaning of God in us, us in God. I mean, does the universe love us and therefore conspire in our favor? If so, that'd be kind of cool, wouldn't it? Well, let me be clear from the start what you might expect from the message today, all right? To the supposed declaration from God that you are my creation and my product, my purpose and myself. Neil Walsh gets the first one, right? We are God's creation. The second point, it's confusing, I think, but we might be tempted to give him the benefit of the doubt. I personally don't like the idea of being God's product. And it seems too impersonal a word for the special and loved place that humans have in God's heart. And the idea of God's purpose and personal identity being entirely wrapped up in us. Well, that's simply wrong, according to biblical Christian teaching. Yet there's enough truth in those first two statements among the three that we could get pulled into buying the Walsh philosophy. Well, it's not really the Walsh philosophy exclusively. It's the New Age philosophy, the esoteric psychology philosophy. to a large degree. It's what passes for spirituality in mainstream American culture, even some mainline Christian churches. Many Hollywood celebrities might endorse this philosophy. So what many of your coworkers believe, and your neighbors, even your friends, your family, maybe you What about you? Do you believe the same thing that the Apostle John teaches in chapter 4 of his first epistle? Let's find out. 1 John 4, verse 7 says, Dear friends, let us love one another. For love comes from God. Everyone who loves has been born of God and knows God. Dear friends could also be translated as beloved. What a great way to start a section so intently focused on love, a section that uses the word love 27 times in just 15 verses. One way that we, the beloved, might look at this one verse could be to say that since love comes from God, when we love others, this means We are God when we love these other people because I mean love is coming from us. We are born of God in a way that means we are now God ourselves. If you've been coming to church for years, then this sounds strange to your ears. But taken by itself, we must admit that this verse, verse 7, it could mean this. When we love, we are God. This illustrates the problem of looking at just one single verse in isolation. This verse could mean this if we ignore the rest of the Bible. I'm no big fan of ignoring the rest of the Bible. I'm not saying verse 7 isn't a great verse. It might be your personal favorite verse. It certainly inspired an important part of the canon, but it's not more important than the other 31,000 verses found in the Bible. In understanding love and God, I think it's important, it's smart, to find out what the other verses of the Bible have to say. Don't you? So let's start our investigation with the very next verse. Whoever does not love does not know God, because God is love. Right away we can see that not all people are God, at the very least. Some people do not love. It's implied in the sentence, whoever does not love. There are people who do not love. So they're not God. Gee whiz godly. They don't even know God, much less exist as God. After all, they can't know God if they don't know love, because love is God. Now wait. That's not what the last part of the verse says. It doesn't say love is God. It says God is love. But is there a difference? Is there a difference between trees are plants and plants are trees? How about water is liquid and liquid is water? Gold is metal and metal is gold. There's a difference to be sure. Otherwise I'd go take a one ounce piece of scrap metal and sell it for fifteen hundred bucks. Of course, if all metal were gold, wouldn't be worth fifteen hundred bucks, would it? And if all liquid were water, well, we'd just be down on a gallon of turpentine with lunch later today. I won't bore you with the minute details, but in addition to this simple logic, there is a grammatical reason why flipping the phrase doesn't work. A more exacting technical reason that we can have confidence that we're correct in saying that this doesn't work. Love is God does not work. Even at the risk of having to say it's all Greek to me. I think it'd be helpful for me to point out that in the original Greek language that John used to write this letter, we are left with no doubt that love is God is significantly distinct From God is love. The two are not the same. There are at least a couple of reasons for this. I'll just give you one. And it's harder to see this grammatical point in an English translation because in English we sometimes see the word is as an equal sign. This is that. We take the mean this equals that. Right? Two plus two is equals four. 4 is or equals 2 plus 2. Is simply marks the center of an equation in which both sides are the same no matter which way you flip it. But in the worst verse that we're studying, the original Greek word theos or God is the subject of the sentence. It must be the subject based on the rules of Greek grammar. And in the original Greek, the word agape, or love, is the predicate of the sentence. Following the rules of Greek grammar, this must Be the case. The predicate cannot become the subject of the phrase, and the subject cannot become the predicate of the phrase without significantly changing the sentence structure, and thereby dramatically changing the sentence meaning. So God is love, is God's word to us. Love is God, is a distortion. It's wrong. A lie from hell. If love is not God, then what is love? Love is a verb. We can see that. Verse 9 of 1 John 4 illustrates it. This is how God showed his love among us. He sent his one and only Son into the world that we might live through him. God showed his love. He took action. He sent his son. Remember John 3. 16. Love is known primarily through God's historical act of revelation in Christ. Love is what we do. Now hold on a minute. There are lots of people who seem to be doing lots of loving things, people who are not Christian. People who might even say, I don't believe in God. But they appear to be able to forgive and forget, to care for others. What should we think about this Well remember that all of us humans bear the image of God. And by his common grace, we all have some capacity to love But due to sin, our God image is marred, and our ability to love is distorted. We can all show glove in a watered-down way, but none of us can do this in a perfect way the way God does The way we'd be able to, if not for sin. The way that we will one day, when Christ returns, bringing his believers to the finish of the sanctification journey, the journey toward Christ-likeness. Now today's world, today's world thinks of love primarily, I think, mostly as like merely an emotion Wouldn't you say that's true? A warm and fuzzy, a touchy feeling, makes us sing. I'm hooked on a feeling. I don't believe in that you're in love with me. Yeah. Sorry, channeling a little BJ Thomas there. Everybody over forty knows what I'm talking about. Everybody under forty right now scratching their head saying, BJ Thomas. What what's a B. J. Thomas? But that's a sort of mush that we mean by the word love in today's world. Even in John's day, there were people claiming to know God without having an active love for others. That's not what the Bible means by love, though. It's not just an emotion. Love suffers long. Love thinks no evil. Love does not rejoice in iniquity, but it rejoices in the truth. Love bears all things, it endures all things. Love never fails. These are words from the New King James Version of 1 Corinthians 13. Let me read to you verse 4 through verse 8. 1 Corinthians 13, New King James translation. Love Suffers long and is kind. Love does not envy. Love does not parade itself, is not puffed up, does not behave rudely, does not seek its own, is not provoked, thinks no evils, does not rejoice in iniquity, but rejoices in the truth, bears all things, believes all things, hopes All things, endures all things. Love never fails. Love suffers long. Rejoices in truth, bears and endures all things. Love is tough It's not marshmallows and lollipops. It's beef jerky and leatherhide. John tells us that really, truly, knowing God means living out this Active and sacrificial understanding of love. Don't believe me. Look at verse 10 of today's passage. This is love. Not that we loved God, but that he loved us. And sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. God loved us. He took action for us. What action? He sent his son as an atoning sacrifice for our sins. He became a man himself to be brutally beaten, mocked, stripped naked, whipped, ridiculed, nails driven through his hands and through his feet. And worse than this, made to feel the separation from God, apart from the favor of God, because Jesus became sin when he had never ever even committed a sin, not one. Wrongfully accused. He gave himself up to absorb the punishment that he should have been dishing out. And he knew all this was coming. It's why he was sweating blood in the garden the night before his execution. He knew his friends would turn on him, his followers would abandon him, his closest disciples would deny knowing him. He knew his earthly mother's heart would break. He knew he would practically bleed to death before suffocating to death on the cross. From before the dawn of time, he knew. He could have decided never to create us He could have called upon the angels, those same angels that ministered to him in the wilderness. And they would have protected him. But he couldn't. He wouldn't. He shouldn't have been accepting the judgment. He should have been handing it out on us. But he didn't. Instead, he was patient and kind, opting to dish it out on himself for our benefit. He didn't parade himself rudely puffed up and envious. He didn't seek his own welfare. He wasn't provoked to think evil. But he bore it all, believing and hoping all things, enduring it all so as to prove that love never fails. That's a far cry from marshmallows and lollipops. And that's going to be the conclusion of part one. of a special message. Love is, love is not, uh preaching from first John chapter four, the final uh half of or two-thirds really of uh of that chapter. uh in the New Testament. Uh hope you're enjoying this. Uh it's you know I'm glad that this audio is available for me to find ways to fill the time when we've got scheduling conflicts. We'll get back to the regular flow of the Faith of Age show uh soon enough, I'm sure. And by the way, it occurred to me at the conclusion of our last uh re uh time that we got together to record the show 'Cause we record the shows sometimes weeks and weeks in advance and and and sometimes not so far in advance. And we ha have a tendency to to lose track of when the shows are actually going to air. And it occurred to me after we got done with the last shows that they were airing right around Thanksgiving, the week before and the week after Thanksgiving and We never wished everybody a happy Thanksgiving. So now I want to wish you a belated happy Thanksgiving and thank you for your support of Christmas Cash for Kids. Always uh uh it it it's humbling to he the the kind of support that we get from our listeners. for for uh Christmas cash for kids is unbelievably amazing. Uh what have I been reading lately? I'd like to keep you up to tabs on on that in case you want to read along Um if if y if you read more books than me, then uh you shoot me some email. Or if you'd like to re uh read more books than me, read uh different books than me, shoot me an email and say, hey, here's what I'm reading and what I like. I always like to do uh grapple with uh new stuff. But anyway, uh Eric Alexander The author of What is Biblical Preaching? Uh it's a short little uh Diddy, only thirty-one pages. Uh whipped through that sucker in I don't know, like an hour or whatever, maybe maybe two hours, something like that. Hour and a half. Uh anyway, so might want to check that out. Eric Alexander, what is biblical preaching? Speaking of checking things out, you can visit us online, WFMD. com, keyword faith. That'll take you right to the faith debate page. On that page you'll find uh all sorts of links to to different uh uh religious uh websites. You can learn all about the different religions, all the different faith traditions, uh pretty much all of them that are out there. If you know of a faith tradition that's not listed email that to me as well and I'll and I'll post it. I'm not excluding anybody on purpose. I wanted to make it as inclusive as possible. Now on the right hand side of the page you will find um the Faith Debate blog and my blog is your blog Uh Monday through Friday, nine blog postings go up there and it almost never is it my thoughts or thinking. It's simply what you email me or what you forward to me or whatever. I copy and paste it right in there. Sometimes it's a recipe. Sometimes it's something about politics. You know, love the Republicans, hate the Democrats. Hate the uh hate the Republicans, love the Democrats, whatever Uh sometimes it actually has something to do with w uh with faith. Or news items uh that have to do with faith and that sort of thing. So every day it's a pr pretty good potpourri, a pretty good mix. Uh if you were to check it out you would I'm sure you'd find something uh enjoyable. So again you find that at WFMD. com, keyword faith. Next week we'll wrap up with the second half of Love Is, Love Is Not. And then after that, hopefully we'll be getting back into uh regular scheduled uh type of faith debate shows with panel discussion on on all sorts of different um uh issues of of debate. Uh and since I gave you a belated Thanksgiving, let me be one of the first to wish you a a Merry Christmas, a uh happy Advent season uh at the very least. That's that's very timely in apropos, right? Uh want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing Heating. How can we make you smile? Say hello to Patrick and Marlena if you give them a buzz. They always appreciate that. And uh I want to thank you for listening. 167 and a half hours from now, we'll be back with part two of the message. Thank you so much for your continued listening and your continued support of the Faith Debate Show. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930. WFMG Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs. But we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?