Broadcasting from the police state that is Frederick City. In the gridlock that is Frederick County. In the socialist state of Maryland, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America, where I'm told the preaching with impact is like plowing pavement where people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things where we've really religious freedom is Increasingly a wistful memory, this is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? The Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links, podcasts, news items, the Faith Debate blog, a link to Jonathan Schweitzer's blog, and on the uh speaking of the Faith Debate blog, my blog is Your blog. Nine blog postings happen every day, Monday through Friday. 45 blog postings a day. How do I keep up with such volume? Because my blog is your blog. See email me Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. com and what you send me, I post. Pretty much unedited Sometimes an embarrassing misspelling I'll correct. If there's a you know, harsh crass word that I'm just not sure belongs on the Faith to Bay page, I'll I'll excise that. But 99. 9% of the stuff that goes up there is uh is just unedited, unadulterated, unedited stuff that you send me. So if you don't send me stuff but you want to see the the stuff that people are sending, go visit WFMD. com keyword faith and check it out. This is a special edition of the Faith Debate Show. We had a few of these. I explained last week. Um I don't know, a couple of months ago we had an issue where Jonathan had some some real important issues to deal with with his church and his congregation and that happens and so we had to reschedule. But we were up against it on getting the show uh on the air. I had to get something on the air and so I put a special message that I had a chance to share recently and put that on And then a little bit later Jonathan had an issue with a personal matter and the same thing happened again, so I put some different message on that I had a chance to share. People keep inviting me to share messages. I don't get that, but you know, you guys are crazy. Anyway, now the conflict's been more on my end, but I have been able to carve out some time to get in here and get this done. Unfortunately it doesn't doesn't jive with Jonathan's availability. Anyway, what we're hearing now is the last half of a message that we heard last week. Last week the first half aired Love Is, Love Is Not, uh from 1 John chapter 4, verses 7 through 21, the last two thirds of chapter 4 of 1 John So we're now going to hear the last half or thereabouts of uh of Love Is Love Is Not. Hope you enjoy it and uh we'll get back to uh regular programming probably, I would imagine, either next week or very soon. Here we go And because God loves us, we are to love him back. This is true, to be sure. But this is not what John writes next. He writes, dear friends, since God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. That's verse eleven. Since God so loved us, since God in this way loved us, we ought also to love one another in this way. None of us do this. None of us really love in this way. And probably never do we love in this way, but certainly not all the time. If this is what love means, this tough sacrifice it all for others' commitment, then there can be no doubt that we are not love. Even if you wanted to hold the idea that love is God, that ain't us. We ain't love. And we most definitely ain't God. We haven't even seen God. In verse 12, John writes, No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us. This idea that no one can see God is also found in Exodus chapter 33, verses 20 and 23, and in John 1. 18, John 5. 37, John 6. 46. Lots of references from John? What's up with that? Some people think that John is purposely drawing attention to Exodus 33 and the teaching found there to make a point against the proto-Gnostic mystics of his day. The Neil Walshes of his day, if you will. People who emphasized visions and special knowledge as the high point in religion, thus excusing themselves from any need to love other people. John is telling us the high point in our religion is experiencing the practical demonstration of love for others. So make sure you don't withdraw from the world into the world of spirituality, but engage with people and love them as God commands, and then God lives in you and his love is made complete in you. I want us to recall that John has an extremely high Christology. What he's written for us is arguably the loftiest language about Jesus in the entire New Testament. And rightfully so, mind you. So it's critical that we not only follow Christ's example, and not only say that we trust Jesus, meaning really that we're trusting in our own level of personal enthusiasm that this manifests in us. You do realize we can be enthusiastically wrong, don't you? We can fool ourselves when we place the sights of our love on the worldly, on mere examples, on mere heightened personal experiences. Because the spiritual can be divine. Or evil. Those who claim to be inspired must be tested. Those who claim Christ must test the confession of their own lips. 2 Corinthians 13, 5 says, Examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. So it's an absolute must that we know what Jesus we claim to love. Are we loving some concept of Jesus that we or others have made up on our own, saying that in this experience we saw God? Or are we loving the Jesus of the Bible? Are we perhaps loving ourselves, our divine insights, our loquacious language that we hope bolsters our claim to have seen God? Are we maybe even believing that when others see us They are seeing God. Or are we loving who John witnesses to us, the authentic Jesus, who is the Word, and the Word is God who created all things? Now don't stumble over a pebble in the road here. John does say Jesus is God, and John says God hasn't been seen. And yet John told us in chapter one of First John that Jesus was seen and heard and touched, and we know that God the Holy Spirit was seen descending from heaven like a dove at Jesus' baptism. And in the old testament, Moses and Elijah they'd both see the glory of God pass by as they're protected in the rock. So what's going on here? Do we have a contradiction? No. What John means in this section of his letter is that no one has seen God as he exists outside of time and space, in the absolute maximalist experience. That our minds cannot fathom, even in fractional part. But if we love one another, if we love one another, Love one another. God lives in us. God lives in us, and his love is made complete in us. It's magnificent. It's humbling and exalting all at the same time. And this is how we know that we live in Him and He in us. He has given us of His Spirit. And we have seen and testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. If anyone acknowledges that Jesus is the Son of God, God lives in them, and they in God. And so We know and rely on the love God has for us. That's verse 13 through 16 of 1 John 4. Note that we rely on God's love for us, not our love for God. Note also the Trinitarian nature of this passage. The Father sent his son and has given us his spirit. Do you know that you're in Christ? That God is in you? If so, it's because He's given you His Holy Spirit. How can we know if we have His Spirit? Earlier in the same chapter and in the previous chapter, John warns us to test the spirits. We need to make sure that when we are spiritual, we have God's spirit and not the spirit of the devil. And we can know if we have God's Spirit, or rather we can't know if we have God's Spirit, merely by having undergone a spiritual experience, even if you believe that you've been given a spiritual gift or a spiritual insight. We must test the fidelity of these things against the apostolic witness. It's not only that we profess true belief. It's not only that we love others or have charismatic experiences. It's all of these things tested against the witness recorded in the Bible The witness that says the incarnation is historical fact. That the Father sent his son, that this son is Jesus. And then we demonstrate obedient trust in him. If you testify that the Father sent his son to be the Savior of the world, if you acknowledge that this son is Jesus, if you rely on God His love, his provision, his plan for your life, his standard for living, his lordship. If you rely on his love, Then you have his spirit. Because as the final verse, final part of verse 16 says, God is love. Whoever lives in love lives in God, and God in them. I implore you not to accept the counterfeits vying for your loyalties. Your feelings are not God. Just because it feels good doesn't mean it's love. Just because I meant well doesn't mean I haven't hurt you. Just because it meets our standard doesn't mean it's God's best for us. You are not God Other people are not God either. And don't forget, God is not only love. The Bible tells us he is also spirit. 1 John 1, verse 5. God is light, all holy. Gospel of John 4. 24. God is an all-consuming fire. Hebrews 12. 29. So one million years from now, will it matter more what you think about love, or what other people think about love, or what the Creator Of everything in the universe knows for certain about love. God is bigger than us. God is bigger than the universe The universe isn't conspiring for or against anyone. The universe is not a being with a mind and heart of its own But God is living, personal, and active. The universe is God's physical creation, which he brought into existence With a mere word out of a formless void. God is not an abstract notion. He is deeply involved in his world. Why settle for a small God, a false God, a fake God, when you can worship the real God who loves you? Remember when I started, I said that Neil Walsh sets up a dichotomy for us. He says that all of our choices are either choices of love or fear. Those are the only two options. That's what he says. I'm going to take a little latitude for a moment and then swing back around to center, so hang with me for a second while I say that we do have a choice, but this is not it. What Walsh has given us, understood a particular way, is a false dichotomy. We are not to choose between love and fear. We are to choose both love and fear. Love God. Fear God. Love Him by obeying His will. Fear Him. Reverence Him. Respect Him by obeying His will. We do have a choice. Obedience versus disobedience, gratitude versus ingratitude, surrender versus stubbornness, life everlasting versus eternal torment, the torment of knowing we have chosen poorly, sinfully. Chosen against love. But wait, you think? Doesn't John set up this same dichotomy between love and fear? Yes, actually, John is in fact telling us emphatically, fear there is not in love. That's a wooden translation. He has in mind here a servile, slavish fear, a self-regarding fear. And this sort of fear does not have any place with love. That is totally true. But I want to make sure that while we're studying this passage, that we recall that the Bible defines fear a couple of different ways. One negative, one positive. Depends on context. Unfortunately, people sometimes neglect to recall both meanings and makes fear one of the most misunderstood words in the entire Bible. So even though John does use the word negatively here, let's take the opportunity to clarify our understanding of the other contextual usage of fear. We must always be careful to make the distinction and recognize The positive uses of fear or the negative verses of fear when we see them. So positive uses of fear, here's some examples. Luke 1. 50 says, His mercy extends to those who fear him. Acts chapter 10, verses 2, 22, 35 tell us that Cornelius and his family were devout and God-fearing Acts chapter 13, Paul addresses the God-fearing Gentiles. Ephesians 6. 5 gives instruction that we are to fear, have respect for those in authority over us. Philippians 2. 12 famously tells us that we must continue to work out our salvation with fear and trembling. These verses and others like them leave no doubt that fear can and often does mean obedient reverence. We demonstrate our love for God by obedient reverence. Now of course thinking about damnation can bring about different particular kind of fear. In our minds that fear says, I'm afraid to go in the basement when it's dark. I'm afraid that bully over there might beat me up. I dread the thought of approaching God's throne of righteousness. But this is a fear that can be simply defeated, says John. He continues in his letter with the following thoughts, beginning with verse 17. This is how love is made complete among us so that we will have confidence on the day of judgment. In this world, we are like Jesus. That's how love comes to full expression. If you want to have confidence on Judgment Day, be like Jesus. As an important aside, what we often think about Judgment Day, or just God's judgment in general, how do we think about that? Too often we think of judgment as being the unloving part of God, right? We have a stereotypical view of the Old Testament God, who is some old man in the sky angrily shaking his fist. Contrast it with the New Testament God, who's nice and safe, and opening his arms to give us all a big hug. Talk about a false dichotomy. God's love and judgment go together. Turn to Psalm 89, 14, and you'll read these two truths side by side in the same verse. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of your throne. Love and faithfulness go before you. Turn to Romans 3. 25, and you'll find a surprising turn of phrase. God presented Christ Jesus. As a sacrifice of atonement through faith in his blood. He did this to demonstrate, what would you guess? To demonstrate his love. The verse reads, he did this to demonstrate his justice. Turn to Isaiah 54. 8, and you'll read of the kindness of God's wrath. In a surge of anger, I hid my face from you for a moment, but with everlasting kindness, I will have compassion on you, says the Lord, your Redeemer. See, John is not making this stuff up. He is fully in accord with the rest of Scripture when he attests to God's holiness. In 1 John 1. 5, and God's justice in 1 John 1. 9, where he tested God's justice, and then in God's truth in 1 John 5. 20, and then God's love here in chapter 4. God judges evil out of love. Do parents reprimand their kids and follow through on imposing the consequences for bad behavior out of love or not? And consider human love as inadequate by comparison to God's eternal, historically revealed, and continuous love. God is the perfect parent. So we can feel safer in his arms than anyone else's Verse 18 of chapter 4 says, There is no fear in love, but perfect love drives out fear because fear has to do with punishment. The one who fears is not made perfect in love. Live like Jesus, submitting to God's will by demonstrating tough, tough, tough love, sacrificing your well-being for the well-being of others. If you can do this, if you can fear God in this way, then you will drive out the fears of this world. And your love will be perfect in heaven. Again, we must love as Jesus loves. So what will an honest examination of your life reveal? It will reveal that we do not, in fact, love as Jesus loves And John seems to be going out of his way to make the point that if a person is seen not to love his or her brothers and sisters, then it is unlikely that he or she loves God This is the thrust of John's final three verses in chapter four, which he begins with a reminder that we are able to love at all only because God loved us first. We love Because he first loved us. Whoever claims to love God yet hates a brother or sister is a liar. For whoever does not love their brother and sister whom they have seen, cannot love God whom they have not seen. And he has given us this command. Anyone who loves God must also love their brother and sister. We run the risk of feeling defeated if we stop here. But it seems that what John is doing here is holding out for us a Christian ideal and calling us to it. None of us do what John writes here perfectly. And even John himself has said so elsewhere in this same letter. But he's aiming his thrust at the pretenders, people who say they love God, but they do not. They say they love God, but We can't see God. So it's pretty tough for us to see if what they say is true. But Their heart is exposed in a way that we can see as we observe the way that they treat other people. We can see if they love or hate their brothers. If they do not exhibit love to the people that we can see around us, then we can get a glimpse of the dark condition of their heart. John is exposing this deceit. Is he exposing your deceit? Say that you love God. Say it over and over again. I love God. I love God. I love God. Here we go. I love God. I love God. I love God. I love God. So if you say, I love God, but you fail to love people, what you've just done is lie. Over and over again. We can't love God while hating people, failing to love people. It's impossible because loving both God and people is the great commandment. We don't love only because it's a response to what God has done for us. We love because God commands us to. But alas, we are disobedient. And don't serve and care for others like we should. We don't encourage and pray for others like we should. We don't spend time in fellowship or approach the lost like we should. We are lost causes, apart from Christ. And therein lies our hope. We are being changed. At the start of chapter 5, John will have words that encourage us. Those of us who honestly acknowledge that we are totally unable to love the way that we are called to. In the start of chapter five, where I'll pick up the next time I have opportunity to preach, So for right now, we'll just paraphrase, drawing us to a flourishing and victorious conclusion. Followers of Jesus Christ, we can have assurance. We are able to love by trusting the source of love. God Himself is love and has loved us. His spirit indwells the believer so that we are able to love others and reap the spiritual benefits that come with doing so. Christians take heart. He is in us, we are in him. A mutual indwelling exists because of what God has done. In his love the Father sent his son. This is doctrinal truth, and we are to do with this truth what? We are to love one another What are we not to do as a result of this doctrinal truth? We are not to continue in the sins from which Jesus came to save us We know that we live in God and He in us because we share His Spirit, and we know that He has given us a share of His Spirit because we acknowledge Jesus as God's Son and we live in love. So those great and difficult questions of the heart, what is the meaning of life? Why am I here? Are we alone in the universe? Is there a God? And if so, does he care about me? These are all answered in Jesus. We are not saved by knowing all the answers. We are saved by trusting the answer. By faith and in love. Amen and amen. Father, we thank you for pricking our consciences, for revealing your truth to us in a way that we can understand and apply. We thank you for the glory that awaits us. We thank you for the promise of Christ's return. We thank you for the sacrifice of your Son. And in His name we pray. Amen. And that draws a close to that message. Love is, love is not. Again, preaching under 1 John 4, verses 7 through 21. Thank you for your indulgence as we uh juggle our scheduling conflicts and uh and hopefully make good use of the time by by sharing these messages on the faith debate. These are Atypical usually, but of course lately it seems like they're more typical. We'll get back on track soon enough, I'm sure. Uh what am I reading these days? Glad you asked. Christopher Ash's The Priority of Preaching. Very good book. It's uh pretty accessible and uh not too long, only about 120, 130 pages, something like that. So Christopher Ash, the Priority of Preaching, I give it two thumbs up. Encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. It takes you right to the Faith Debate page. If you uh look to the right hand side of the Faith Debate page, you'll find uh Monday through Friday nine fresh blog postings. Every day those nine fresh blog postings come from you. My blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at ClearChannel On the left hand side of the Faith Debate page, you'll find uh information about what the upcoming shows are, uh links to access the podcast, uh, links to Jonathan Schweitzer's uh blog. Uh and a whole bunch of links to a variety of different uh pretty much all the variety I could think of for world religions and faith traditions and stuff. Uh basically apologetic pages, if you will, if you know what that means. Apologetics to give a reason for, to give a defense for. Um, you know, even atheism. You know, there's uh a link there for a page that advocates for athe uh atheism. So if you wanna know what people think uh and different traditions It's a good source to try to go do that. So anyway, I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? I thank you for listening. Uh look forward to getting back together with Jonathan Schweitzer and uh and one of our guests to hash out the finer points of uh religion and faith matters. Until then That was really Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service. Because we believe you deserve it. Pop in plumbing, how can we make you smile?