Broadcasting from the police state that is Frederick City, just outside the Capitol of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of religious links, including links to podcasts of previous faith debate shows. This one will make it on there within a few days of its airing as well. You'll also find the Faith Debate blog on the right hand side of the webpage. My blog is your blog. So email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's T-R-O-Y-S-K-I-N-N-Y. No dots, no dashes, anything like that. Whatever you send to me, I copy it and paste it right onto the webpage. Whatever you send me, within reason. Nine fresh blog postings uploaded each weekday. A total of uh forty-five, right? Yeah, forty-five a week. And some of it is actually very good stuff. I appreciate very much some of the stuff that y'all send to me. On our show today a special edition. Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Fancer Crosses Valley Chapel, my uh colleague on this show for what is it now, coming up on eight years, uh got called away on the scheduled date for the taping of today's show, but we got a schedule to keep. Uh he had an emergency within his church. That happens. He's a pastor, you know. So he can't be here, so we're rescheduling. The guests that we had lined up are rescheduled, we'll have that uh coming up for you uh in the next couple of weeks. But in the meantime If you were listening a few months ago, you I know, you were shocked when I mentioned that uh somebody actually asked me to to to show up at their at their church and preach. What were they thinking? And then they have me back again. Well, believe it or not, I've had an opportunity to share a third message, and we're going to listen to that message, uh at least the at least the first portion of that message today. It won't quite fit within the confines of our uh little over twenty-minute long show. So um anyway. Topic of the uh uh loosely I guess anyway is an unpacking of Luke chapter two. Who is this Jesus is the title of the uh message that I delivered And I'm gonna forewarn you now and almost apologize up front. This is a was a very, very personal message, a very difficult message for me to share. And so you'll hear me struggling uh through the personal uh portions of this message a little bit. I got choked up, I you know, what can I tell ya? Repeatedly got choked up. It was It's uh it was tough. It's tough for me even now thinking about it. So I'm gonna stop and I'm just gonna let you listen uh to the uh to the message who is this Jesus based loosely at least on what's taught in Luke chapter two Before we launch in, I want to say what an honor it is to once again be asked to share. an awesome responsibility it is also to be asked to share uh God's truth with you this morning. Um especially today focusing on a favorite and admittedly emotional uh topic for me Chase introduced me, but he left something out perhaps because it's understood. But yes, my name is Troy Skinner. What he left out is I am a sinner, a horrible, depraved sinner. Saved by God's grace through the blood of Jesus Christ. And my hope is that today you will acknowledge that for yourself if you already don't right now. If you don't already know that to be true of yourself at this moment, my hope is that 30, 40 minutes from now, that that's where you will be. Please pray with me. Father, we praise you and glorify your name for who you are. What you've done, what you continue to do, and what you will do in the future. We ask that your Holy Spirit open our hearts To receive your truth as you open my mouth to deliver, and I pray that you will keep me faithful to your word and make up for all the shortcomings that I bring to proclaiming the message of the gospel. Please put to rest the distractions facing many of us here today. We are here to worship you in fellowship gathered in this place. Help us to do both well, worship and fellowship. In the name of our one and only hope for salvation, we pray. In the name of your eternal Son, Jesus Christ. Amen. Daddy Tell me what it was like when you were growing up. Mommy, read me a bedtime story. From the time we're children, we just love stories. And the best stories are the true ones, and especially those that still affect us today. This is why when you have company over, our young sons and daughters are so anxious to encourage mom and dad to tell those sometimes embarrassing stories about how they met Their courtship, their rush to the hospital when the kids were born. They hang on every detail and they correct you if you make a mistake, right? But what's your favorite story? Maybe it's Lord of the Rings, perhaps Harry Potter, Star Wars, maybe, or is Jace? At one time my son Tyler might have said in answer to that question, speed racer. Now these examples are all fictitious. But not all stories are fiction, of course, and maybe you have a favorite story that is not fiction, like um the Reformation or the story of the American Revolution or perhaps a biography about the life of somebody famous like Gandhi and other historical stories that are re rooted in reality like that. Well what kind of a story are we given regarding Jesus? This morning you'll hear about the greatest story ever conceived, and you'll hear a personal story that illustrates in an intimate way. How this greatest story ever told continues to be retold in new and wondrous ways, even now, in the lives of those seated around you. After the message this week, you will know my family quite a bit better, and by God's grace, you will know in the marrow of your bones what it means to be part of God's family. It's a powerful, powerful truth. And I have truly barely been able to contain myself in preparation for sharing this once upon a time with you so that your heart will beat stronger for the hope. that is happily ever after. So if you would please turn in your Bible to Luke chapter 2. And while you're finding this third book of the New Testament, I'm going to tell you about a couple of other passages. But you're looking for Luke chapter 2 But I'm going to reference now Matthew chapter one where we're given a genealogy and it's broken out into three sets of fourteen generations. And these generations take us from Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob to Judah, David And Solomon, uh through Ahaz, Azor, and Joseph before uh wrapping up with Jesus himself. And then in Luke chapter three, which is the chapter after the one I just asked you to find, uh we're given a genealogy that works backwards through seventy seven names, including Levi, Amos, And Judah, Boaz, Jacob, Isaac, familiar names, right? Abraham, Shem, Noah. All the way back to Seth and Adam before wrapping up with God himself. And then Luke chapter 2. Hopefully you found it now. That chapter begins, in those days, Caesar Augustus Issued a decree that a census should be taken of the entire Roman world. This was the first census that took place while Quinerius was governor of Syria, and everyone went to their own town to to register. So Joseph also went up from the town of Nazareth in Galilee. to Judea, to Bethlehem, the town of David, because he belonged to the house and line of David. He went there to register with Mary, who was pledged to be married to him and was expecting a child. While they were there the time came for the baby to be born, and she gave birth to her firstborn, a son. She wrapped him in cloths and placed him in a manger because there was no guest room available for them. So what's one thing that we can gather? From the lists of forefathers in Matthew I and Luke three and this little story in Luke two about Jesus Jesus is a real life human. This is one of the reasons the Bible provides for us the genealogy and gives us details about his birth. Like you and I, Jesus has grandparents. Great-grandparents, great-great-grandparents, and so on. They really truly existed. They were real people living in real history. Just like Jesus, just like us. Now the stories about Jesus represented in the Bible is historical. He really lived in the real world. This isn't a story in a make-believe land once upon a time. The story that takes place within historical context. Like we just read in Luke chapter 2, it was when Rome ruled the political world. It's when Augustus was Caesar, it's when Clinius was governor. Is it not some mysterious land far, far away? This is Nazareth and Galilee, this is Bethlehem and Judea, just like us Poolsville in Maryland. The Bible gives us the story of real people in real locations taking place in real time. Jesus is real. Just like you and I are real. He's human. He was born a baby. He uh grew and became strong, filled with wisdom, as it tells us in Luke chapter 2 verse 40. We're not told much about his childhood, but we're told enough to know he had a childhood. And we know that he lived as an adult, even from non-biblical sources like the ancient historian Josephus. And of course, we know about his adult life with some detail from the Bible. In the Gospels of the New Testament, we can see that Jesus lived a life much like ours. He went to parties, where he turned water into wine. He needed rest, sleeping even during a violent storm on a boat. He ate and drank both before and after his resurrection. He felt stress, coining the phrase, perhaps, never let him see a sweat, blood. He got angry over turning the tables of the money chambers and changers in the temples temple. And he cried more than one time. Of course, ultimately, he even died. Absolutely. Jesus is a man. This is what the Bible tells us. And most actually will grant this point, saying perhaps only that Jesus is a wonderful teacher and a great prophet. But in addition to this, Jesus is the real life-giving God. The writers of the New Testament, they tell us that Jesus is God by his words, and show us that Jesus is God by his deeds. Matthew 123 tells us, in fact, that Jesus' name means God with us. And we see this demonstrated over and over again. Three dozen specific miracles. are recorded in the four gospels. We have twenty or so described in Matthew, Mark, and Luke. They're not all the exact same all different gospel uh miracles rather because there is some overlap in what is called the the synoptic gospels. And then we're given uh Eight miracles in John's gospel account. Most of them are unique to John. But I mean the point is, God authenticates his word throughout Scripture through supernatural occurrences, through miracles. And like the plagues in Egypt vouch for what Moses was saying to the Pharaoh. Like fire from the sky proved that Elijah served the one true God. Like the Great Flood, the destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the tumbling down of Jericho's walls, the pregnancies of really old women. Jesus is the Word, and He authenticates himself by His miracles. So what we see throughout the Bible, we see specifically with regards to Jesus. And this shouldn't be a surprise because the whole Bible is about Jesus. Jesus himself tells us this. The Bible is of course about God and his relationship with man, and this relationship centers on Christ. The Bible is about Christ. Now if you still have your Bibles open to Luke chapter 2, it'll be easy enough for you to thumb forward to Luke chapter 24. But in case you can't get there that quickly, while you get to Luke chapter 24, I'm going to read a short verse from John's gospel account. In John 5. 39, Jesus says, you study the scriptures diligently because you think that in them you have eternal life. These are the very scriptures that testify about me, Jesus says. Now Luke 24, we're going to read verses 27 and 44 together. Verse 27 says, Beginning with Moses and all the prophets, he explained to them what was said in all the scriptures concerning himself. He said to them, This is what I told you while I was still with you. Everything must be fulfilled that is written about me. In the law of Moses, the prophets, and the Psalms. The Law of Moses that refers to the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Old Testament, and the Prophets and the Psalms is a shorthand reference to the rest of the Old Testament. So by this phrase, Jesus is talking about the entire Old Testament. We still talk this way today. Like if we say, from New York to Chicago to LA, we're talking about the entire United States of America. So Jesus is talking about what was at that time the entire Bible. So consider: the Bible is about Jesus. What does it say about him? And how what does he say? What does he say about him himself? Jesus claims to be God Nineteen times in the four gospel accounts he says that he is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies which point to God saving his people. Twenty-three times he calls himself the Son of Man, and this is a powerful claim on deity when understood in the context of Daniel chapter seven with the image of one like the Son of Man coming on the clouds of heaven. Sixteen times he says he's the Son of God. Thirteen times Messiah Christ Savior and only God saves. Twice he says that he's able to forgive sins and only God can do that. Three times he refers to himself as Lord, and dozens of times he says, I am, the name God announced to Moses. From the burning bush in Exodus chapter three. No, admittedly some of these I am statements might be accidents of grammar. I am hungry, I am thirsty, whatever But more than a handful are clear claims of deity. Perhaps most famously we have John chapter 8, verse 58, where he says, Truly I say to you, before Abraham was born, I am. Jesus says of himself that he is God. And he backs up what he says about himself with his miracles. And ultimately his death, resurrection, and ascension. Now the resurrection is sometimes said to be God's Greatest miracle. We talked about this actually last week in uh Carl's uh Dugdown Deep Bible study, uh Sunday school. I like to say that the resurrection is God's second greatest miracle, with the greatest miracle being creation. I mean God made everything out of nothing, including time and space. And he brought order. Without him, there's chaos. What a miracle. Well the opening of John's gospel tells us that Jesus performed even this. Greatest of all miracles. John chapter one, first four voures, and then skipping ahead to verses seventeen and eighteen. Here's what we read. In the beginning was the Word. And the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was with God in the beginning. Through him all things were made. Without him nothing was made that has been made. In him was life, and that life was the light of all mankind. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God but the one and only Son, who is Himself God, and is in closest relationship with the Father, has made him known. From before creation, Jesus has been God. Amen. Amen. But I want us to remember right now, in earnest, in this moment, Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King. Right now. Right now. Back then Yes. But also right here. Right now. In the future. Yes. But also right here, right now. Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King, right now. Can I get a hallelujah? Now, I want to share a personal story from our family that helps to illustrate that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King today. My son Tyler was born very sick. One of my earliest memories following his birth is this breathing, his entire body convulsed. in and out so violently that his rib cage practically touched his spinal column. I wouldn't have thought it was possible for a human body to do that if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes. He was struggling to force down every breath and he was failing in that struggle. Because his lungs weren't capable yet of doing their job. I thought for sure he would die within minutes. He didn't. Over the course of a few days his breathing steadied, but now his skin had purple dots and was yellow. Really yellow. It's caused by elevated bilirubin in his blood. You might know this as having jaundice. Birirubin is the junk that's supposed to be cleared from your blood. Normal bilirubin count I've been told is something like 0. 00001. I mean basically zero. Now sometimes baby has a bilirubin count where it's one or two, maybe more dangerous three or four. The doctors placed these lights over the babies to help bring the number down somehow. Well Tyler's Billy Ribbon was well over three or four. And it kept climbing. The liver is what cleans this garbage out of our blood. And Tyler's liver wasn't working. So it was John's number. Kept climbing. Now the doctors could see how concerned we were, and they were concerned too, but they assured us that as long as his number didn't go into double digits, we'd be okay. And then when it's double digits. So then they explain, well, there's two parts to Billy Rubin. There's direct and indirect. And as long as the direct doesn't go into double digits, we'll be okay And then the direct went into double digits. Now his skin wasn't yellow. It was green. Seriously, it was green. Sometimes he had this scrunched up look on his face. He looked like the Grinch of Stole Christmas. Night joke. Not easy being green. The Billy Rubin climbed to well over twenty. And I asked the doctors, how high can it go? They didn't know. They said they checked. They couldn't find record of anyone ever having a Billy Rubin count as high as Tyler's was at that time. And they kept going up. All the way up to 30. 5. Tyler Hadoff. Liver biopsy under what? Liver surgery? Consultation with sought from medical experts? All across the nation. Nothing helped. We thought for sure he would die within weeks. He didn't. Tyler was sent home from the NICU after two months, and we thought for sure he was being sent home to die. To this day we're still convinced that that's the case. He had eight specialists who needed to see him every week, some of them two, three times a week. So we took him to several doctors appointments a day. Give him twelve different medications, and we had to feed him by using a syringe to shoot the food down the back of his throat. He was too weak to suck and swallow. She'd be back in the hospital in about a month. Yeah, biliary atresia surgery and bilateral hernia repair and hypostatia surgery and therbismus surgery and exploratory procedures and Gastrointestinal intervention for reflux and esophagitis and thrush and other issues, both serious and relatively minor. And because of his condition he needed to eat every two hours. And we'd spent an hour getting his food ready and all of his medications prepared and then into his stomach, that syringe. Well I'd spend the next hour cleaning up this projectile vomit. All day. Every day. Tyler was sick. Everyone thought for sure he would die within months. He didn't. And the biggest threat to his life I hadn't even mentioned yet. Tyler had hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis. His arteries way too narrow. The wall of his heart muscle were way too thick. Four times thicker than it should have been. He weighed five pounds and the heart muscle was as thick as that of a forty-year-old man. We developed a relationship with our cardiologist over these months and we asked him, please should stray with us for our sanity. We need an honest prognosis, and he wasn't comfortable answering the question. But he did. After some hesitation, he said, There's no medical reason why Tyler's alive right now, at that moment. And there's no way that he saw him saying his first birthday and he definitely would not see his second. Tyler should have been dead in less than two years. He should have died. He didn't. Why? We will answer that question next week's show. Thanks for listening. Thanks for our sponsor, equipment plenty of heating. How can we make you smile until uh 167 and a half hours from now? God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service Because we believe you deserve it. Put them in plumbing, how can we make you smile