Are you guys rolling? Okay, well we may want to leave that in anyway. Okay, uh good day and this is our oh, we should even start the album with like wait, wait, I'm behind the mic. Okay, did it? Good day. Hey there, hold it, ya, hit. But I never won't eat you. Here I am, the one that should love it, as you for another day. Dear I am playing with those memories again. I'm a go-to payer holder jack! We have also met on the AM radio dial. Hey, broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gribblack County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. People continue to play fair and open unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and E. How can we make you smile? We're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you find links to podcasts, to this show, news items, the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me troiskinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me. Eighteen blog postings go up each and every weekday, Monday through Friday. You don't have to read them all, just pick one that you like And go from there. What you just heard was a show open I used to use back. I would say it's gotta be twenty-five years ago when I was a country and western DJ. That was last century. Yes, it was. Uh it was it was even outside of the last decade of the last century. That was before the internet. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Sure. Was it before microwaves? No. Before cell phones. It was shortly after the introduction of s uh compact discs. Yeah, how about that? My goodness. We are old. Walkman. It was before Obama. It was before Bush. It was before Clinton. The Reagan years. It might have been before the other Bush Yeah, probably was the Reagan years. Yeah, you're probably right. Anyway. Last week if you also say mine is more like five inches. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossos Valley Church, and Dina Carroll from the Morning Show with Bob Miller, the Morning News Express. Also, my lovely and talented wife. Um, we last week uh went down memory lane, listened to some show uh some show material. Um we opened a show similarly last week and closed the show similarly. I got another little special treat for the end of today's show if we have time. Um but Back in the mid nineties I was hosting a a call in radio show that was a sports face show, but at the time there was a big controversy that had religious implications and I stumbled upon that audio. And we were listening to it and there's some more. I'm gonna play that and we'll continue our conversation and we'll have a chance to bring up what Jonathan started to steer toward the Hobby Lobby case, because there's some connection to the issues still uh that are going on with this. So I'm gonna pick up with um with kind of where we left off in last week's show. Are you gonna give a br a brief sense of like what you talked about last week? Back in the nineties. He was a a good player, wasn't an all-time great player, but was a good player. And he uh became a Muslim and after he converted to Islam he changed his name from Chris Jackson to Mahmoud Abdul Raouf. That brought with it a little bit of controversy and notoriety, but it be even more so when he started refusing to stand for the national anthem, saying that to do so was a violation of his religious conscience. He felt like he was worshiping the flag and he should only worship, you know, Allah his God. And so he sat down, the league cracked down, and uh there was a firestorm of controversy in sports talk radio back then. And this was the infancy of sports talk radio, by the way. There were only a handful of sports talk radio stations in the entire country There are hundreds of them today. There were only like three television stations back then too. Yeah. No, there was cable tele there was cable television at the time. But it wasn't as big as the And there was no satellite television back then. So um w so compare it to Tebow and all of the controversy that he created. Tebow was that was long religious. That was longer standing because it was longer standing. for you know for years really the T bowl thing is still fascinating. The league never came out against him but plenty of newscasters used you know they still are derogatory some of them toward him and the whole mocking of his T bowing when he gets down on a knee to pray and that sort of thing. Anyway, let's see. I'm not sure where we left off exactly. I had gone through a few points. Yep. For s for days people uh were calling in to various shows and com and making uh a bunch of what I thought were idiotic uh arguments against my political. So I was taking a point by point. It was. Last century. It was. And I was taking point by point all the arguments people were were spewing on sports talk hate radio at the time and addressing them one at a time. So I had addressed two or three or four of them in last week's show and now we'll pick up with where I've left off. Eight out of every nine people in Denver support the league. And of those eight that support the league, most of them have hatred in their voice. Again, he played in Denver. So you can tell when it takes I would be frightened for my life. In the voice. And that's frightening to me that somebody should be frightened for my life because he's stamps on his personal beliefs. And some of the people that have the most frightening perspectives on this are the people that serve in the military. A lot of them say, not all of them, but a pretty significant majority of those that I've heard speak out anyway have said You know, I five put my life on the line defending this guy and you know, he's disrespecting me and and I'm gonna take a grenade and shove it down his throat. That's ironic, defending the right for freedom. If you are a member of the military or you have any idea about what the military is about, what do you think they're protecting? What do you think they're defending? See? What is the purpose of our military? Sure, defend our borders, defund defend our political boundaries and all that sort of thing. But on on a more philosophical level, what are they defending? They are defending our individual personal freedoms. They are putting their life on the line to defend my personal freedom, your personal freedom, your mother's personal freedom, your brother's personal freedom, and Mahmoud Abdul Raouf's personal freedom. Is Atlas going to shrug the bigger? They are putting their lines What was that? Is Atlas gonna shrug any moment now? You're very libertarian at this stage of your life. Defend his personal freedoms probably more so than the rest of us. Because his personal beliefs are a little bit more away from center than most of us. And if they have a problem putting their lines on a light for the personal freedoms of somebody like Mahmoud Abdul Raul And they shouldn't be in the military because that's what they're there for. His beliefs are more popular right now. Are you kidding? A hundred percent Absolutely. Right alongside of Rue Paul and the others stand for. I think the store well, in the immediate aftermath of 9-11, I think it would have been a pretty bad deal for him. in today's context and we've now over Really? I think we've overcompensated. And Bush as well trying to magnify that we're not saying that Muslims are not a part of our nation. We're not saying all Muslims are bad. I mean almost immediately the entire But don't you think they've swung now to the other way. Yeah. Well I think just our society has swung to the point where We make sure to give them every bit of pardon at and then persecute Christianity as a result And so now a top executive at Google has been removed because he uh supported Proposition Nine in California uh against gay marriage and the gay marriage lobby found out about it and they went after Google and made Google fire the guy and the guy got fired. So how is that right? That would be the exact opposite. Back then we're against Well, it was a patriotic thing. It wasn't just a religious thing, it was a patriotic thing. But it happened to be in the context of his religion. I mean, we didn't have any Atheists, you know, if if Mahmoud was was uh you know, Darwin Raoul, you know, instead of Mahmoud and he was an atheist and he had Stood against the flag in the handled differently. When this when this Mahmoud Abdul Roaf story uh was taking place with the NBA, the overwhelming overwhelming majority I mean like tidal wave proportion majority of the media coverage, the sports talk world and the callers and the public reaction was against him. I think that now We'd still have some pockets of people who would be anti-Islam and and and and that's unfortunate. And jingoistic in their uh hyper jingoistic in their worldview and that sort of thing that would would still come down on him But I think the overall tenor would be rising to defend either rising to his defense or if not doing that, at least be using this as an opportunity to come down hard on the evil empire that is the NBA and these corporate behemoths and They need to be put in their place. It might not be defending his religious freedom so much as an opportunity to take a crack at capitalism You know, I I d I think that there has been a shift in the last twenty years. Well capitalism now has come under attack. I mean that's definitely something that's come under attack. Oh it's very chic to be communist. Absolutely. Right right. So we have to remember this is before in in uh in you know Russia. But right around the Germany rather. Right around the time of the fall. Eighty nine? I thought it was ninety. Like ninety, I thought. I thought it was ninety two. Oh well this is after this is after that, 'cause this is ninety Five ish. Oh, then that's way after that. No, you're getting teased with my show open and close. Yes. The fall of the wall. Alright, so let's let's pick uh back up where he is. Let's not confuse the issue. Yeah, let's not do that. Also I keep referring to him as Mahmoud Abdul Raouf because that's his name. His name is not Chris Jackson anymore. He changed his name. You want him to respect your custom Can I respect the Push and the United States? If you told me, hey, my name's John Sweitzer, I said, Okay, butch, is that respecting you? That was my point. He sang his name is Mahmoud Abdul Rufi, once he called that. And people were insisting that They were gonna call him Chris Jackson. I think that's disrespectful. You don't agree? Well, but my but that's my point though, is that the class of ideas uh according to Lady Bird Johnson, is the sound of freedom. You know, that it's it's the very sense of people looking at him telling 'em, hey, I think It's foolish that you change your name. You know, you could you you're allowed to change it, you know, but but I think it was foolish to do so. The point is that If ninety percent of the nation at the time thought it was foolish for him to do so, they've got a right to say that as well. They're not the government taking away his right to do business or anything else. They're people with opinions. expressing their opinion openly. And when it happens to be ninety percent of the people it feels like it's the government, but it's not the government. The only people that would be critical of him changing his name from Chris Jackson to Makbub Ab Abdul Raouf, it seems to me, would be motivated by bigotry. What other reason would they possibly have? Why would they even care otherwise? And so by bigotry you mean people that that have a religious concern that he's foolish because he's walked away from Christianity, he's walked towards Islam. Right, exactly. That's not the way to endear him and to um What's the word I'm even looking for to woo him back in, you know. and used it by the call of God. But that's the point, and I think we've been hitting this a couple of times, is that each situation has to be handled separately. Exactly. Yeah. And the people that were critical of him I don't think were prophets. That's That's my suspicion on that. Right, but I'm arguing previously what I'm arguing is that they still had a right to their opinion. Sure, absolutely. Oh yeah, absolutely. That everybody says that democracy is messy. They had a right to their opinion and it happened that it was n you know, eight out of nine people at the time that had that opinion. They also had their right to say what they had to do and you had your right to be the guy that stood up and said, Well you guys are the ones that are the bigots. You know, that's the that's precisely the discussion that is so American. So let let's continue and see if I say anything else earth shatteringly and decisive. Back in the day W uh when a man takes a wife, that the wife takes on the man's last name, takes on the surname. And from that day on, for the rest of her life She is referred to by that man's last name. That was fresh in your mind. You got a custom year or two before that. It is very rarely questioned, very rarely made fun of, very rarely challenged in any way, any form, what any shape whatsoever. This was a clever argument. Nowadays it's not so much that you automatically take the name. Yeah, but back then it was still pretty much. I'm an old soul. No, you are Why do we ridicule? Why do we mock? Why do we make fun of? Why do we refuse to respect his name? His name that he was given by his parents at birth was Chris Jackson. That is true. But he changed his name to Mahmoud Abdul Raoul That is his name now. That is what he wants to be called. That is what he should be called. Or his parents still calling him Christmas. Don't be so childish. I don't know. If his parents were still calling him that, would it be a good idea? Well I think he's now an ordained Baptist minister and he works at the Religious Coalition. I was like what? Right over my head. This is gonna sound s insulting, but so be it. Don't be so stupid. Ooh. That's not a nice word, dear. Not a good word. Kids don't say that word. Another issue. He has no problem taking American money and spending it and that has, you know, United States and the American flag and presidents and everything all over it. He doesn't have a problem with that. Again, a different issue. You have to have a little bit of depth to you to understand what's going on here. He doesn't want to stand during the national anthem because By doing so, in his mind, again, I'm not going to say he's right or wrong, but he has the right to think this. In his mind, by doing so, he is bowing down to, he is paying homage to. The flag and the anthem. And his religion tells him that he can't do that, that he can only bow down to and pay homage to his God. So I have to ask you, do you take the uh do you pledge allegiance to the flag? I've I've done it by rote most of my life. Haven't really thought about it as a conscience issue. I mean at the level that you were saying that. So it's okay. And that's what makes it Yeah. The difference I think for this individual. The here's I don't understand. Call me crazy. I don't understand why this was a controversial issue. He was willing to pay the penalty. Okay, let him pay the penalty. Move on. Do people have nothing better to do with their time? Oh my gosh, it just drives me crazy if they're making a deal out of something that doesn't need to be a deal. So do you think uh some cultural warrior somewhere was trying to use it to manipulate? It's aggravating. Yeah. It's aggr because it's it's not they're they're totally missing the heart of the matter. Which is the constitution that he has the right to stand for what he wants to stand for. Don Henley said the heart of the matter was forgiveness. Even if you don't love me anymore. Alright. What's funny to me is that as a twenty five year old young man, you're telling everybody to grow up Rich. I've been an old school offer my whole life. I was ninety-three when I was five. Does anyone not see my point though? That there really didn't need to be this hubbub? Well that's kind of the thrust of the argument I'm making throughout all of this twenty years ago is why are you guys making a big deal about this? Leave the guy alone. That was kind of the let him do his thing. Okay. Alright, here let's continue Money, he's not bowing down to it. He's not paying homage to it. The money. Right. Now maybe he is. I'm speaking for, maybe I'm out of line. Maybe he is bowing down to the money. And if he is, then he's a hypocrite. But that doesn't make his flag or his national anthem stance Anymore right or wrong. He still has the right to believe what he wants. He has the right to be a hypocrite. Amen. Doesn't that need to be wrong? If not, then If you want. We all better look in the mirror. We're all hypocrites just a bit. And that's another thing. We go and we turn, we look to Hakeem Elijahwan or other or Mike Tyson or other famous Muslims and say, Hey Is this true that you can't do a stand up for the national anthem and they say, No, it's not true as far as I know and so everybody says, Ah see? Aha He has an ulterior motive. He is not being honest with us. He's lying to us. He's not telling the truth. It's not for religious reasons, it's for some other reason. How do you know? Have you ever known two Catholics to disagree on a point of principle in their religion? Have you ever known two Protestants to disagree on a point of principle in their religion? Have you ever known two Jews to disagree on a point of principle in their religion? You were gonna say. Um I was gonna say that oh it's amazing the different style of radio that is. kind of thing. It's different than the round table discussion thing. It's amazing to hear the tonality differences. But anyway, you were gonna say my point, so it was something to do with the fact that uh you know Um when people have I'm forgetting what what the It'll come to you. I'm sure it'll swing back around. If not, then you don't know enough people. Get out of the house more. Oh, a sassy one. They don't all agree. They all have different ideas and different interpretations of what they feel is important. And who's to say that Akeem Olijuan and and those who they aren't the hypocrites? Maybe if they were to research a little more and do a little more Bible study or whatever the heck it is that they read, their their their book that they read. I don't know. What do I know? I'm just saying it's possible. So why do we go to them like there's some sort of religious leader and and they speak for Moslem and Islam? All right, so so this is the thought that I had. The reality is that even then, you know, and and we still face it today, that we we kinda because we have so much access to knowledge, you know, we get to hear about people's stories, but we only hear the part of people's stories that whoever it is that controls the media, you know, at that place decide to show. The point is that we end up developing opinions Whereas, you know, I know you guys a little bit m uh better personally. When you guys talk about certain things, I'm able to read nuance into what you're saying and even still I'm uh you know I'm getting it off and and I'm not understanding completely. And this is part of the problem that even some of the founders of our nation had way back when is that democracy means that everybody has an opinion about everything even when there's no way that they've had enough time to really develop a sophisticated opinion, to do the study, to do the background work so that they really know what's going on, and yet everybody gets to have an opinion. and even vote on things that they uh have only heard scary, isn't it? They've only heard caricatures. Sure. You know, and and so from the very beginning, you know, this whole idea of political cartoons, you know, where the where the entire sophisticated, difficult, complicated um a decision that needs to be made is boiled down to some caricature that is designed to stir us emotionally. And this is precisely the issue that we're facing here. You know, the wall had just fallen, uh, there was all kinds of significant and tif intifadas that were going on. You know, over in Israel, people are trying to figure out do they follow Israel, do they follow, you know, whoever. Uh there's a whole number of issues that are coming into play. And then this guy decides that he's gonna take a stand in that's the point, you know? Sometimes somebody's gotta take a stand and get Get ripped up for it for all of us to see. Oh, yeah. Well let me go back to you taking it. I got ripped up at the time, by the way. I'm wondering if I'm making enemies even now, replaying this, but uh a lot of people. I was uh a beloved caricature uh caricature almost, uh, on the radio station back then. I had uh went by the name of Mr. Cub on the air. And that was just this lovable, laughable and then I came out with this stand and a lot of people stopped being big fans of a guy that just did that about the Redskins name? uh that came out in the middle of a game saying that the Redskins name need to go. He's a sportscaster. Who called Bob Haskins? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean he didn't say no jinx. No jinx back. Yeah. Yeah. You guys must be married. How about that? Yes. Alright, there's like ninety seconds left in this uh diatribe, so let's uh listen to the the last part of this and then we'll have final thoughts. They don't know any more about it probably than the average Catholic or pr average Jew or average Protestant knows about their religion. That's still true today, by the way. Most people don't know anything about their religion. Sadly. What else did I want to give you and I love it or leave it? Well if you don't like it, you can just leave. That's not right. If you love it, fine. If you don't love it though, you work to change it. You look work to make it more lovable. That's what's supposed to be great about this country. You don't have to love it to live here. That's why people from Cuba and the Eastern Bloc countries want to come live here because they don't want to love us, they just want to be free here. I have more, but I'm running out of time. Simply showing respect, what's so hard about that? Why can't you do that? That's what people say. All he's doing is it's a simple show of respect. Why can't he do that? Because it's his opinion that it's too much respect to have to be shown It's his opinion that only that much respect should go to his God. We want him to respect our beliefs. We want him to respect the fact that he should stand up during the national anthem. He has beliefs too. Why can't we respect those? If it is as simple as him simply showing respect, why can't we simply show respect? It goes both ways. Okay. But anyway, that's that was the the last bit of tape I think I had that. I don't know if you're gonna your headphones aren't working, are they? Yeah, I heard maybe a third of that last part. I'm gonna actually because John, you you actually brought this up with the Bob Costas thing. Yeah. And I'm probably 'Cause I'm I'm not supposed to be the opinionated one. But I do have opinions. And I am entitled to that. I'm traffic girl, so that's how people know me as traffic girl, so I don't really have opinions But I'm gonna now put forth an opinion, if I may be so bold. With the whole bombassis thing and the red skin thing. I am of the opinion, again, it's just my opinion that you look at the heart of the matter. And I did research this because I work with someone else who was adamant that it is wrong, they need to change their name, it's racist, it's offensive and on and on and on and on and on. So I did some research, kinda was like, hmm, I really wonder what the issue is. So I kind of looked at both sides of it from the research I found The initial um setup of the name, the the the way the name came to be from the research I found was that it was to honor the Redskins. It was done out of respect, out of honor, out of and it was received that way initially. So why all of a sudden, many, many, many, many, many moons later Is it a big controversial thing? What changed in the heart of the matter? I don't know what's that. I'm sorry, I don't mean to be racist. I'm just wondering what How did we turn it into this when it wasn't intended that way to begin with? When it was initially named to bring honor to? Why can't we why can't we see it that way? Why do we choose to believe the worst as opposed to the best? And two shows in a row, Dina gets the last word. You gotta love that. Jonathan Sweitz for Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, thank you. Dina Carroll from The Morning Show, thank you I'm Troy Skater. This is the Frederick Fate Debate brought to us by Putnam Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Running short on time, so I can't tell you two weeks in a row, I can't tell you what the heck I've been reading, but you're you can have to survive without it. Thanks for listening. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from now. God bless. And now the end is near, and so I face the final version. Don't look so sad. I know it's over. But life goes on, and this old world will keep on turning. Let's just be glad we had some time to spend together. There's no need to watch the bridges that we're burning Adios Amigo Adios, my friend, the road we have traveled has come to an end. Happy crazy. To you until we meet again. Happy trails to you keeps my Who cares about the clouds if we're together? Just sing a song and bring the sunny weather and fail to you.