The fellows from around for Monday, humid with a high ninety. With your best heating and air conditioning ankeyweather. com forecast, I'm Kevin Snyder. Good morning, I'm Troy Skinner, and the Frederick Faith Debate is up next on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Putman Plumbing. How can we make you smart? Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value Value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. To find out more, visit our website at putmanplumbing. com. Putman Plumbing. How can we make you smile? Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement And people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Face Debate sponsored by Footman Clubbing and Heating, Help We Make You Smile, BMC Insurance, and Cruise Holidays. Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts, news items, the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog. So email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. Whatever you send me within reason will be posted up there nine Monday through Friday blog posting updates uh every day. That's 45 a week if you can do the math. Again, I post everything you send me. Recipes, political insights, uh controversies I even get emails on occasion that have something to do with religion. Imagine that. Actually that's improved. I used to get almost nothing about religion and made me wonder why I was doing this show But now it's uh it's probably about fifty-fifty, but half of the stuff that we get now is related to uh something to have to do uh with faith. So I encourage you to if you can't send me something or don't want to send me something, go online, wfmd. com keyword faith and just see what other people are sending in. And there you can link to Jonathan Sweitzer, I think we've changed it now so you can link to Jonathan Sweitzer's Twitter account. Wow. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and uh uh regular partner in crime on this show. It's at Sweitzer Jonathan. That's right. But if you can't remember that, just go to the Faith Debate page on WFMDF. com and there it is. And I'm not sure if it goes to like anything. Do you see like his ugly mug or anything if you go to Twitter? I believe that you see my si uh side view of my face. Nose, chin, everything. It's all right there. Side view. Side view, yes. Kind of like Hitchcock. Yes. Okay. Very nice. And uh we are joined, you know, I should have asked this before we actually started the show. Do you pronounce your last name Bromhol? Brommel. Brommel I wasn't even close. No, that no that's close. It it comes out from the hall a lot. B R O M H A Light. That's uh what is that? German. Is it? Yeah. Got two Germans in the room All right, well hopefully you're both you're either both Eastern or Western Germans, because we don't want any any battles taking place. And uh John But s sometimes I refer to Jonathan Schweitzer as Jon on the show. If you listen regularly, you know that. But today I'm going to try to be fastidious and say that Jonathan Schweitzer is Jonathan. Because we have John Brommel, who is the pastor at Redeemer Lutheran Church in Damascus, and I don't want there to be confusion. So I'll try not to think that you're not going to be able to do that. And by the way, my middle name is John, so we could really have some fun. John Donovan. Anyway, we ha um Aren't exactly sure how we're gonna end up, but I think I know that we're gonna start with some differences. Okay, sure. It's a little bit different. by through hair splitting into recognizing these vast differences. Right. In this case we're going to start just throw out some differences, but in the end I think we're going to realize when we swing around, by the time we're done with, we're probably going to do a series of several shows. By the end of this year's we're gonna realize, okay, yeah, we have those differences, but we're all on the same page and on the same team. Yeah. So you might not know this. Well you guys, Jonathan and John know this. Uh but you listening might not know this Not all Christians, and not even all Protestant Christians have the same view of the Lord's Supper. In fact, if you're go getting ready right now to go to church, And maybe your church is going to celebrate the Lord's Supper. Do you have a view of the Lord's Supper? What do you think is going on there? Hm. I wonder sometimes how many people that are participating in the Lord's Supper have any clue of w what the Bible teaches about it, what their church believes about it. So this will be an opportunity for you to learn about that. So can you have a fast food Lord's Supper? Like what? Or could you have like a microwave? Like a deep battered supper? Yeah, yeah. Like a fried org supper. We're talking a little bit about dinner before the show here. That sounds a little sacrilegious, I don't know, a little blasphemy. It does, yeah, without a doubt. That's right. Deep pride Jesus. Have you have you had a little bit of the uh the sacramental wine before you came in here today? That's right. Well it's gotten into you. That's right. The priests in the Catholic Church they have to drink it all, right? They can't pour it down the The uh sink. They have to drink it because it uh has been sanctified. So I'm going to set a real brief primer on this. Okay. Uh and then we'll let 'cause uh you guys don't represent all of the major views that are out there. There are basically four major views about the Lord's Supper. And you guys represent two of them. And as it turns out, by the way, I represent the third, a third. So Uh there are three that are in the Protestant tradition and one that is the Roman Catholic tradition. Uh the Roman Catholic tradition is that the bread and the wine become, mysteriously, become the body and blood of Christ. The technical theological term for that is transubstantiation. It still appears to be bread and wine, but it is not. Our eyes are deceiving us. It is actually the blood. That's an overly simplified version, but that's And hence the reason why they would not pour out the wine afterwards. Because they consider it to be the blood of Christ. And there's l there's adoration of the elements too, because it's actually the body and blood of of the Lord and Savior. And so they haven't and so To them, the idea of Jonathan uh deep frying the Lord's Supper would freak them out. Sure. You call yourself a pastor. So then this thing called the Reformation happened about five hundred years ago. Yeah. Martin Luther is the most famous participant in that, but he wasn't the only guy involved in the Reformation. Sometimes it's better to understand the Reformation as a whole bunch of Reformations plural taking place almost simultaneously all across the continent of Europe. Yeah. And uh leading the major frontal attack of that was Martin Luther. And so You, John, was representing the Lutheran point of view on the Lord's Supper, which is consubstantiation, and I'll let you explain that. Yeah. Okay, so um I would like to uh actually just say a word if I may about transubstantiation and the way I kinda make sense out of that. Um because uh y you know, it has to do with then how I understand um uh my Lutheran perspective on the sacrament. When we talk about the real presence of Christ in the sacrament, um and in in in the my understanding of the Roman Catholic position that you described as transubstantiation um has a lot to do with striving to have a sort of a philosophical way of talking about what God's doing. uh in the sacrament. And so to use um what I believe Aquinas w drew heavily from Aristotelian kind of philosophy and would talk about uh substance and accidents of things, you know. So the accidents of the bread and the wine. We already have like Several words of the day right there. Yeah, that was good. There you go. So just real quick, so that uh somebody who's tuning in for the first time and hasn't gone through the Fake Debate 101 uh Prim recourse on this sort of thing. Uh Aristotelian, you're talking about Aristotle. Greek philosophy. uh figure in the history of the church. Right. And uh and now you're you can explain accidents and Sure. Uh uh s so um y you can look at any any item and say, okay, what's the substance of that? What's the accident of it? I'm being real, kind of general. But uh you might look at a uh say a w a w a wooden table and you'd say everybody can look at that and say, Oh that's a table. Yeah. But when you actually get down to what what is it, the substance of it is wood. So we would say, okay, substantially it's wood. uh the accident is the form that it takes. And so um again in my under I'm not a Roman Catholic theologian, but in my understanding of a Roman Catholic position on the presence of Christ in the sacrament is that um by the power of God's Word and the Holy Spirit the bread becomes substantially the body of Christ. um accidentally or the accident of it remains bread. So you look at it, you taste it, you smell it, it smells like bread, tastes like bread, looks like bread. but the substance of it has been transformed. So you have transubstantiation. Um that's how I understand that term. Now when you say the Lutheran position is a consubstantiation, quite frankly I I have a hard time making sense out of that one myself. Um what Lutherans what I would say from a Lutheran perspective is Christ is truly present in the sacrament. But I would prefer not to talk about in a philosophical way about the substance of it at all. Simply that God's word is powerful and when God says this is my body His word is powerful enough that Jesus is present in the bread. Consubstantiation, you know, Lutherans uh sort of had a way of talking about Jesus is present in with and under. The substance of bread. And I would say, okay, so con substantiation, uh I don't know, so But Jesus is truly present in that sacrament. were co partners, you know, whatever. So co, something that's with. So it's it's it's a with. So I s I've always that helps me to understand the difference and the nuance from maybe I got it wrong in my understanding, but my the way I've understood it is Roman Catholics say it ceases to have the substance of bread and wine and substantially is only the body and blood of Christ. Right. The Lutheran position is it becomes the body and blood of Christ substantially while at the same time remaining substantially bread and wine. So it's bread and wine and body and blood at the same time. They're with, they're co-joined kind of thing. And so that's helped me to uh understand that again that's more of a layman's way of understanding it probably deep philosophical thinkers and heavy theologians, you know, that you It takes you an hour to have to read one page. Mm-hmm. You know, because you gotta get out your dictionary and look up every third word and all that sort of stuff. Uh they might explain it differently and better than that, but none of us would understand it. And and that's you know, that's why I like um tr y you know, when I'm talking with my t people about what is going on here in the sacrament um when I talk with kids about when we celebrate the sacrament. So like we have education for our children as they are preparing for to receive their first communion in the Lutheran church. And um the way I get at that is not to go into a lot of deep theological explanation and and and that sort of thing, but but simply to say Um you you understand how God is powerful, right? And God can speak things into existence. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. And he said, let there be light. And what happened? There was light. So God creates things out of nothing simply by the power of his word. So I said, if God's word is powerful like that, and God says that this is my body Then what is it? Well, it's his body and and I I have young children who are able to say, Well that makes all the sense in the world. You know, and so I think sometimes we get tripped up with trying to figure out all the f philosophical ways of explaining uh this mystery, this deep mystery of God. But that God is powerful and he says this is my body and the way to transition into uh Jonathan uh Schweitzer who represents what would be uh understood by those who understand the the arc of the history a Zwinglian position, a uh uh uh Ul Ulrich Zwingli, I believe, some right uh northern y Northern Europe like Netherlands or uh uh someone in that Area, I forget exactly where he's from now. It's been a while since I paid attention to church history. I gotta read some church history books again. Um but he was it was merely symbolic. And and and and Zwingli stripped the the church of a whole bunch of pompin' circumstances. We'll get into some of that later on as we go about the church liturgy and stuff. Interesting it says Zwingli was a leader of the reformation reformation in Switzerland. Oh really? Switzerland. Okay. So that's how you where you're really from. You call yourself German. And I got stuck in the airport in Switzerland one time, right? And in Switzerland you know how they pronounce it? Switzerland Right? So they actually pronounce it like Schweitzer, like I pronounced my name. So no wonder I'm swinging. So no wonder you guys are so explain what the Crossroads Valley Chapel position on what what's going on with the Lord's Supper is Right, so Christ says, This is my body, this is my blood. And when Paul refers to it in Corinthians, he says, Christ said, This is my body. and do this in remembrance of me. Right? And so Paul doesn't doesn't take the opportunity to go into a great um description of how This has become something else. He seems to focus in on the issue of remembrance, do this in remembrance of me, uh, the emphasis being on the one sacrifice that was done one time. Uh in fact we're told he was slain from before the creation of the world, but the but but in history it happened in you know, about whatever, you know, thirty-two AD or you know, give or take a couple of years, there where he was hung on the cross and he was crucified, dead and buried. And so, uh, out of Hebrews, you know, the emphasis there is that he is the sacrifice. that it's done and that it's finished, and that being the case, that we that we are in a different place now. We are in the body. We are redeemed. We are a part of the body of Christ because of that that he accomplished when the sacrifice occurred. And so um the orientation is is toward the sacrifice being done. We don't redo the sacrifice every time. It's a one time sacrifice. but we remember it and in remembering it we are able to um uh to You know, uh where he says, Let my words remain in you, if my words remain in you and you remain in me, you will bear much fruit. That that the result of that is that we are remaining in him, he's remaining in us, you know, and that we're together as the body, and so we are remembering what he's done and letting his presence and the teaching of his word continue to transform us. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. We're joined this week by John Brummel, who is the senior pastor at Redeemer Lutheran Church. I am Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. Now, let me ask you this. Could you Live with this is for both of you and you can whoever wants to jump in through. Why not? Could you live with the other person's position Absolutely. I think I could. So is it not to be confused with the um philosophical term, is it an accident of the d denomination or church tradition you find yourself in? You maybe grew up a Lutheran or went to Lutheran seminary, probably, John. Right. That's what you're you're like, yeah, okay, it works for me, I'm fine, but it's not a heel I'm gonna fight over. It I I y it sounds like you could live with transubstantiation, you could li live with almost any of the views. They seem like it's it's not a passion point For you necessarily. For me the passion is the um the authority and the power of God's word. And and so that's why I would um you know, kind of take it out of those philosophical kind of terms and just say, hey, you know what so so like Jonathan's talking about um the body of Christ, right? The the body of Christ in other words, the church that we're all a part of the same body. And um and and there's ki so th there's kind of a Right as a play of play on words there, right? 'Cause we're remembering his body was broken. But we are now the body of Christ. Right. Yeah, I'm following that. And so so for me, it's like um when that that's a part of the power and the beauty of the sacrament. is that when Jesus says, This is my body and he offers himself to me, he hosts us at the meal and he offers himself to me. And I take that gift of the body and the blood of Christ into myself, I become a part of I uh uh so like you would take the word remember and say, um that w you were talking about prefixes before, right? And w so you would be familiar with uh the word dismember, which means to take something apart. Yeah as When we share in that holy meal, when Jesus hosts us at that sacrament, we take him into our s our our bodies and we remember him. You know, so we kind of like th there there's something just beautiful about becoming the body of Christ. um through that gift of of his presence in the meal. And you're nodding a lot, Jonathan, so you agree y you could you could just as well be the pastor in church that holds to a Lutheran view of the Lord's Supper or even a Roman Catholic view of the Lord's Supper? Yeah, it's interesting. The last five weeks actually we uh I just had recently done a little bit of uh study in the Didicay. right, which was considered an authoritative apostolic book but wasn't chosen to be a part of the canon, right? Uh though it was considered, you know, something that the apostles had, you know, put input into. Anyways, in that context uh it it deals with the very real presence of Christ in the context of the um the sacrament of the Lord's table and how it was celebrated as a love feast, you know, when they came together uh on a regular basis. And I've just chosen to open up our service the last five weeks. With communion, meaning everybody's there. I gather everybody together. I have the ushers pass out communion and I talk through the meaning of it to to establish that we're all here today because we're in Christ. You know, and and to you know and and I've even considered like having it at the door with some us ushers so that as others come in They partake as they come in and there's you know hands laid on them to pray for them if there's any specific issues, just again to recognize that That we're not here in the presence of God trying to get into the presence of God, but that we are here in His presence as His body where we are uh fellowshipping with him, with the Spirit, and so everything that happens is in an atmosphere. And so the idea of remembering like you were just Right. Describing it, um, you know, uh the body coming together representing Christ, and yet Christ is in us, the hope of glory, the mystery of the ages, Christ in us, you know, that whole meaning of that has so many different really key and powerful implications for what it means to be the Church of Jesus Christ when we come together. Now it's interesting that you guys are so amiable on the issue because uh your forefathers on the issue were not so fights, right? You know, Martin Luther and uh and U Ulrich Zwingli got together one time and it's rather famous or infamous, however you want to look at it. And they are basically trying to say, hey, we're we're both trying to reform the church Yeah, we both have some serious issues with what's going on out of out of uh the Roman papacy. And so, you know, let's let's see if we can maybe work together on this. And they came together and they knocked heads big time on the issue of the Lord's Supper. And uh as it's recorded for us in history, Martin Luther pounded his fist on the table and kept repeating over and over again, this is my body. His point was, it's saying it's my body was your point earlier, right? It's the body must be present. Let's take the Lord at his word. It's written for us in Scripture. It's if you have a red letter Bible, it's in red letters for crying out loud. And he's pounding his fist. And Zwingli would not change his mind. And basically Luther kicked him out. Get out Be gone with you. And so you guys either you guys aren't as tight with those church fathers of the Protestant fathers. uh a as some might expect you to be, or the church has evolved over the last almost five hundred years. Yeah, that's i you know, we could uh lead from there into just a conversation about denominationalism. I know that's that's not uh the point of the program, but um but there is a side of me that would say there has been like this historic need for clarity to be brought to the the vast diversity within the body of Christ. um and that has then resulted in these various denominations. Um but uh and that that's taken a long period of of time, but we are at a place in history I think we're we're more ready to say, you know, what brings us together is more important than what divides us. And so I had actually I I I didn't even recall that story of uh Reformation history, probably just because I blocked it out of my memory because it was so confrontational or whatever. Sure. You know. Um Uh but I think that um you know to to have had that time of history that brought clarity to where the differences lie has now led us to the place in history where we have the opportunity um to be um uh to to find uh a great beauty in uh the diversity as we learn to grow back into the unity. And so I you know, when I c think of um congregations that I've served and how um, you know, various people understand the real presence of Christ in the sacrament. I think that um I I I would be naive to think that everybody in my every member of my Lutheran churches that I've been a part of um all have a very clearly defined understanding, Lutheran understanding of the real presence of Christ. And that You know, the even within a Lutheran congregation, I think there's great diversity. People ha you know, people will spiritualize it, people will hear uh language and think in terms of symbolism and things like that. Now I where I personally would say uh I wouldn't choose to use words like this is a symbol. I would say no, this is and a and it will be interesting when we get into a conversation about liturgy and everything. I would say that's not the right place for the sacrament. at the beginning of the service, you know, and uh s so there's there's something behind that. I just wouldn't do it that way. Um but I think that uh what the spirit is doing in the body of Christ today is leading us back to a um a unity that just is There's great beauty there. You know, this is a topic that you and I have dealt with different times through the years, dealing with the question of um when doctrines are developed, they're they're developed in a historical context. in the historical context oftentimes drives the intensity of of um absolute clarity on an issue That oftentimes is more than scripture seems to care. You know, like like sc scripture certainly cares about uh the Lord's Supper in uh in us r doing it and and remembering it and that it is the body of Christ and it is the blood of Christ. You know, so I I'm not saying that that we uh no longer take those things seriously. But but in terms of thinking through whether it's the substance and whether it's, you know, an accident or whether it's you know, he's above it or below it or you know, around it, you know, so much as like I like the way that you said it, scripture just says it. You know, and this is something that even as I was just doing short prep for tonight that Lutheranism in general, you know, specifically the Missouri Synod guys are just about, look, we don't we don't know that we have it all figured out about how scripture, you know ends up synthesizing with itself, but we know that we believe scripture. And so if it says this and it says this and we can't quite seem to reconcile 'em. We're still going to believe those two things, recognizing that somehow God has a unity in those things. And so I feel like I'm I'm kind of in a similar place that in and I I think the church in general on the topic of the Lord's Supper seems to have moved in that direction that ah is it so important for us to really fight over this thing Or or so much that we really care about what scripture says and we live inside of those words. Well and we'll probably pick up with that theme at the start of next week's show. We didn't really get into the fourth view at all, which John Calvin comes on the scene about fifteen, twenty years later, his his Institutes. uh become very foundational for the the what's now called uh the reformed theological view. And he has the uh a view of the Lord's Supper just real quickly in like ten seconds that says there is a very real presence um that's of Christ there, but it's a spiritual presence. So it's not a physical substance change, it's a spiritual change. So he tries to thread a needle that almost bridges what Zwingli and Luther were talking about. I've got a feeling that if that meeting that took place between Zwingli and Luther took place fifteen years later and Calvin was in the room, they probably would have all been able to figure something out. That's that's but it didn't happen because about a half generation later is when Calvin really arrived on the scene. Calvin needed that time to grow that beard that he had. I mean it just wasn't ready yet. That's Jonathan Sweitzer Senior Patrick Cross Israeli Chapel, or joined this week by John Romble from Redeemer Lutheran Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Flumbing and Heating, BMC Insurance, and Cruise Holidays. Thank you so much for listening. Until next week, God bless.