Broadcasting with the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. People continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith. You'll find podcasts of the show, links to interesting uh news items and religious tradition information, and you'll find the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me 18 times a day, Monday through Friday, that's 90 a week. I'm sure there's bound to be at least one item every week that piques your interest. So check it out, see what people are sending. And you can email me If you don't like what somebody sent me, email me and say I don't like that, and I can post that. Again, at email is Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com, T-R-O-I-S-K-I-N-N-E-R at ClearChannel. com. Alright, so seems like about every month we're due for something like this. I don't understand what's going on lately. Back in August, we had mysteriously audio just disappear. Poof, gone. Not sure why it happened. Decided to figure out a way to just make the show go on by grabbing some stuff and talking about it for a while. But a month later, same issue. Hopefully we fixed that and it won't ever ever happen again, even though it happened those couple of times. But now here we are, a related issue, maybe, I don't know. The show you were going to hear was going to be a replay of the show you just heard. Except I caught it. The uh time of challenge with Pastor Paul Monday, which is on right before us from 8 to 830. For some reason, it overtook and gobbled up the audio. It was the Faith of Eight show that hadn't re been recorded and ready to play for to the today, this morning, at 8 30 to 9. So, I don't know. Maybe it's because Paul's more godly than I am and I made a pact with the devil. I don't know. God forbid, by the way. I have never knowingly made a pack with the devil, I hope I've never unknowingly made a pack with the devil. So, fortunately I still got my stack of stuff here to kinda kill time and fritter away the days and hours. So there's some stuff I talked about about a month ago. Never tossed it, so I tossed it now. Actually here's another one I have to You know how to clean clean up after myself a little bit better. So what's left over here? Apparently it was a big stack of stuff. It's getting smaller though. Much smaller. It's about half the size that it that it once was. So we're making progress. See if nothing else, you're helping me clean off my desk. So I appreciate you cleaning off my desk with me. It's very very nice of you, very generous. So what was in my stack of stuff? I this is stuff again that I saved. thinking that one day we might talk about it as a panel. You know, John Schweitzer would have an interesting take on it, or a guest might have an interesting take, or I would just, you know, I'd have an interesting take and I'd want to bounce it off of them and and see what they had to say and um Now this makes no sense to me whatsoever. I saved the homes section of the newspaper. Why would I have done that? I have no idea why I would have done that. Isn't that bizarre? The things we say. We're like pack rats sometimes, right? Are you like that? Well my wife gets mad at me sometimes, like she you know, there'll be a screw, a leftover screw from one of those put it y y you buy something like a a table or a shelving unit and it and you have to put it together yourself. And it uh always seems to come with more screws than you needed to have. And you're like, what are you gonna save those for? I might need 'em. For what? I don't know. And then like five years later you need a screw and it happens to be that screw, see? I told you we'd need that screw. That one cent screw that I've s stored and saved with a whole bunch of other one set screws that I might never use, but I I had the one I needed when I needed it. I feel like that's what some of this stack of stuff is Why in the world did I save this stuff? I'm wondering, because this is right after the start of the year. So I'm wondering if maybe Maybe why I say this has something to do with post holiday stuff. Uh Kwanzaa, maybe? Here's a thing in here about Kwanzaa, maybe it's that. It had to do with New Year New Year's resolutions and whether or not that, you know, how does that fit within a Christian context? I'm not sure. Um anyway, here's a story though. This was back this was in the Gazette. Kwanzaa Party reinforces theoretic principles for a new year. And these are principles, again, that come through Kwanzaa. Now one thing I'm going to say about that, without getting into the details of this story, which is now ancient news by now, all religions have principles. Right? What what religion doesn't have principles? There's the eight steps of the fourfold path, or the you know, the the the scales of justice, the you know, fifty-one good versus forty-nine bad, or the uh you know, the stages and steps you must take through development of reincarnation and billions of lives maybe to finally enter into Nirvana or being absorbed into the great Brahma or something or Yeah, we all there's the Ten Commandments. There's all these principles. An eye for an eye is a principle, right? There's all these principles that all all religions have them. It's one of the reasons why we can say that secular humanism and atheism is a religion. Might not have a house of worship necessarily. Atheists don't typically have officially recognized houses of worship, although I think they have plenty of unofficial houses of worship. They might not have official liturgy for their worship services, but they might have uno listen unofficial liturgy. for their worship that they are unconsciously involved with. But I'm not going to get into that discussion right now. But even atheists have principles I say that um not as a pejorative. So if you're an atheist, I don't mean it that way. You have principles. If you're an atheist, you have principles, don't you? You believe in I'm gonna guess anyway, that you believe in being nice to people Um having regard for your parents, showing up to work on time, uh, you know, driving courteously on the roads Or at least expecting others to. Right? I mean, we all have principles. So there's nothing unique about Christianity in that We all have principles. We have principles upon which this this government was founded. I think those principles are good. I think it's a pretty darn good human construct that we've come up with to govern this nation. But if we allow our principles to rule the day, as opposed to letting God rule the day in our lives and our hearts and our minds and our emotions And what's to distinguish the Christian from the non-Christian, whether it be an atheist or a Muslim or a Jew or a Hindu or Buddhist? I'm speaking to you now as a Christian, 'cause I'm a Christian. And based on the feedback I get to this show, most of the people listening are Christian, or at least would profess to be Christian. Let me put it that way. So this is kind of our moment and others can eavesdrop on our moment. But if all you're guided by are your principles, if all you do is stand for what's right All you do is argue for the truth. Are you any different than those that want to make everything about our culture s subscribe to the principles of Kwanzaa, for example? I would say not so much. What separates Christians Generally, this is a kind of a general generalized way of putting it. But what separates Christians and Christianity from all other religions isn't that we have better principles than they have. Through God's common grace, we all have principles that help to guide our behavior so that we can have a society within which to live and share the gospel. So what separates us is not the principles, but the acknowledgement that we fail to live up to even our own principles, and there are eternal consequences for that failure And we are only rescued from the consequences of that failure by the grace of God through the blood of Christ. I'm not even going to argue that the Kwanzaa principles are worse than Christian principles. For the sake of argument, let's say they're better. Maybe they're Maybe people who don't recognize themselves uh don't um classify I don't want to say this. People who wouldn't call themselves Christians. But believe in the principles of Kwanzaa. Are they worse people than Christians? Not necessarily. I think you can make a strong argument that they might, most of them, be better people. They're lost people. They're going to be condemned people if they don't hear the gospel. So rather than us, argue with them about their principles. And how dare they put their Kwanzaa principles ahead of our Christian principles? Instead of having that debate, let's say, hey, you know what? For the sake of argument, let's table the principle. Debate. Just for the sake of argument, let's table that debate. I'm going to grant you the point for now. Let's look at your principles. Maybe key in your principle is going to be something about Oh, I don't know, self-expression or diversity. Well, let me ask you, if you believe if you believe in the principle of self-expression, Do you always express yourself perfectly? Truly Are you always authentic in your self-expression? Are you sometimes self-protective in your self-expression? Not letting others see what's truly going on inside of you. Because you want to project a certain something. You don't want them to know the truth that while you have this idea of self-expression, you're still insulated and self-protective to a point. Or maybe you believe in diversity. But then you talk to a Christian who says, Well, you but Christ Christ is an exclusive claim and so I need to have the right to hold to that view, don't I? And they're gonna say, No, because you're exclusive and closed minded. And so you're not being diverse in your quest for diversity consistently, are you? So let's talk about your own principles and see do you measure up to your own standard And they're gonna if they're going to end up being honest, if you can get to a place where they will be honest even with themselves, they will recognize that I don't live up even to my own standards, much less someone else's standard So where does that leave them? It leaves them with a problem, a big problem. A problem that we can help them to understand where the solution is. We can't give them solution, uh the solution, but we can give them uh Uh we could offer them what the solution is. That's not the thing as a gift. We can't provide the solution. God provides the solution. That's the point I'm trying to make. But we need to tell them. The truth of the gospel. Not just the truth. Not just what our principles are, our moral standards are, but what our needs are and how that need has been provided for. We need to do a better job of this. As Christians, as the church. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. And uh so we're done with this uh Kwanzaa Party Principal thing. Garbage can't get full over there. I got room for a little bit more here. Stuff that down in there. Alright, here's uh an old editorial opinion section of the paper. And why did I save this? Isn't this fun? Alright, this is a lot of stuff in this section is about education. So maybe I saved it for that reason. Oh, okay. This was Okay, I see why I saved it. Here we go. Let's read this. Is this about uh okay. The headline here is uh a letter to the editor written by Carl Schuch of New Market. Robertson again. Exactly as expected, less than forty-eight hours after the devastating earthquake in Haiti that has left Tens of thousands dead, some religious fundamentalist leaders in America are declaring this to be divine punishment for one sin or another. According to Pat Robinson of the Seven Hundred Club Haitians signed a pact with the devil to escape French rule and are now paying the cost. Yes, in 2010 in the Western world there are influential people who believe in and invoke the devil. Should I stop there for a moment? Yes, in today's modern Western world or postmodern Western world, There are influential people, meaning smart people, educated people, people who, you know, others pay attention to, not just the direct of society, not just those you know, barefoot and pregnant backwoods people with influential people who actually believe in and invoke the devil Can you believe that anybody who's educated believes in a devil? Well, it's interesting. There have been studies on this, you know, uh surveys. The percentage of those who believe in God is the majority. It's it's pretty high. I forget what the percentage is now, 70, 80, 90 percent. I don't know. It's a pretty high percentage of those that believe in God. But those that believe in the devil, much lower. Much, much lower. Well, if you don't believe in the devil, then you're not you're not a Bible believer, that's for sure. And that's okay, we can talk about that. But if you claim to be a Christian then by default you're claiming to believe in what the Bible has to say because it's a in the Bible that we learn about Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ as an Christian. Christian. If it weren't for the Bible, we wouldn't know anything about Christ, and therefore we wouldn't have anything to inform our faith, which is Christianity. And the Bible says quite a bit about the devil, including that he exists. So interesting. All right, let me continue with this letter from Carl. For most of us, the devil here we go. For most of us, the devil is a childhood fantasy that, like the Easter Bunny, was abandoned on reaching some minimal level of maturity. Apparently Robertson has some developmental issues. Ooh, that's snarky. Very snarky. Um Okay, so we're going to equate the devil with the Easter bunny. See a problem with that? The Easter bunny Warm and fuzzy. Completely, admittedly, everyone acknowledges made-up character that some children end up believing in for a short amount of time because their parents lie to them about it. And then they come to realize the lie, the jig is up, and they don't believe it anymore. But our parents didn't make up the devil. Maybe we learned about the devil from our parents, maybe they shared the truth of the devil with us, but some author, you know, didn't make up a um A fairy tale about the devil like they did the Easter Bunny? At least not that's not what Bible believing Christians believe. And is there something other than a Bible believing Christian, by the way, as I think about that? If you're a Christian, you're a Bible believer. If you're not a Bible believer, then how can you be a Christian? So if you're a Christian, you believe in the devil. You must. If you don't believe in the devil, then you don't know your Christianity. You don't know that which you proclaim and profess to believe in So back to this article, or letter to the editor. As it works out, we now know that earthquakes are caused by geological forces that behave according to natural physical laws, and there is nothing supernatural required. That is true, by the way. Carl gets that one right. There's nothing supernaturally required for there to be an earthquake. Perhaps a basic science course would be of some benefit to this man. Now see, that's unfair. That is an unfair attack. That is not good debate. You need to hit be a charitable listener and a charitable arguer when you're addressing somebody you disagree with Obviously Carl here, Shuk, d I I I hope I'm saying the the name correctly, uh disagrees with Robertson But Pat Robertson is not being given a fair hearing. Pat Robertson has never said that earthquakes are caused merely by supernatural forces and there's nothing in science to explain them. Pat Robertson has never said anything like that to my knowledge. Maybe Somebody needs to email me where Pat Robertson has said something like that. But to my knowledge, he has never discounted scientific causes for earthquakes. Anyway. But we have heard this nonsense before, says Carl. Two days after the attack of 9-11, Robertson and Jerry Frawwell And appeared on T V? I think there's an extra and in there. I think it's just be Robertson and Jerry Falwell appeared on T V to tell us that they agreed that Osama bin Laden was in fact doing the work of God by punishing America for sins committed by abortion clinics gay rights groups and the ACLU, I'm sure Al Qaeda was grateful for the vindication. Now that I think that what Robertson and others like him said after nine eleven, um was unfortunate. But this is taking it out of context. Again, that is not a fair way to argue. Totally unfair. These two goons, with the addition of RC Sproul, made the same insensitive comments on the national on national television when the Indian Ocean Tsunami of 2004 killed thousands of people, presumably not for being for not being Christian. Not even one Christian among them. We've talked about this on the show before. And again Taking some things out of context, I think what there are some people that will argue that when nations lose their way, that they face a corrective judgment from God to get their attention, to arrest their attention, or some might even say to punish them for being disobedient. Um and I think they're wrongheaded to uh to put it in those kinds of terms. R. C. Sproul was not putting it in that sort of a context though. So you're taking R. C. Sproul completely out of his original context to lump him in here. Then while people were still trapped in fallen buildings, still dying, still suffering horribly, this is back to the letter to the editor. This man, I think he saw my Pat R Pat Robertson, had the audacity to sanctimoniously condemn an entire population for not being as righteous and as good as himself. If that's true If that's what Pat Robertson was doing and saying, then he is wrong to have done so, and it is right for people like Carl to point it out and condemn him for it. But I'm not sure that's what Pat Robertson was doing. Maybe he was. I don't know his heart. While we have been mercifully relieved by the Wow. This is this is a a macabre kind of snark from Carl. While we have been mercifully relieved of the burden of Jerry Falwell, we must still suffer the embarrassment of Pat Roberts and on the national stage, uttering cruel and callous absurdities. We'll talk about cruel and callous. Holy cow We have been mercifully relieved of the burden of Jerry Falwell. You know what that means? That's Carl saying, I'm glad he's dead. Thank God or whatever thank um my Chevy Tahoe whatever m the God of my life is thank that thing for Jerry Falwell being dead. Wow. Mm-mm. He ends his letter to the editor saying, I can only hope that his followers start to demand better. Well I don't know, Carl. Do you have any followers? 'Cause I'm gonna I'm gonna demand better of you. That's the being thankful for somebody's death like that, Jerry Fault what seriously You disagree with Jerry Falwell's politics. You disagree with Jerry Falwell's theology. Okay. But you wish him dead? You're glad he's dead? You're glad that his family went through the pain and suffering of of his loss? Of missing him? Really? That can't be what you really mean to say, is it? It can't be. I I I refuse to accept that that would be the case. Here's uh another editor letter. Eugene Campbell of Frederick wrote, Hateful ha Haiti Rants. This is the title that the newspaper probably gave the letter. Watching the devastation in Haitian television is gut-wrenching. One can easily be moved to tears watching the expressions of pain, hopelessness, and shock. on the faces of the Haitian people, especially the children. The world community has responded quickly, demonstrating its compassion, humanity, and generosity in many ways, with the United States, as usual, taking a major role. Here we go. And then It says. And then there is Rosh Limbaugh. His despicable and hateful ranting during this tragedy is inexcusable. He is no longer outspoken or controversial or entertaining or bombastic. He is pathetic. Clear-thinking people must remove the podium from which he spews his hate by ceasing to listen to him. He deserves to be expelled from the human race. Wow. Goodness gracious, you want to expel Rush Limbaugh from the human race. There's only one way that I know of to do that, and that is to snuff someone's life out. So here again we have somebody who disagrees with someone's politics wishing them dead. Is that really what you mean? That can't be what you mean It would be horrifying if that's truly what you mean. I think what's really happening here is you're really aggravated and frustrated. frustrated by the views and frustrated by the platform from which these people have to express their views. And so you're trying to overcome the the magnitude of their platform with a really swift, deep strike of a rhetorical dagger. But that deep, swift strike of the rhetorical dagger Is too much. Being glad that Jerry Falwell is dead, wishing Rush Limbaugh dead, that's not advancing the cause of your point of view. People will tune you out. They will call you a hater because that sounds like you're a hater. Tell me you're not a hater. That can't be what you mean Now Rush of course is gonna put it in a political context. He's gonna say, Well Haiti, everything fell apart there because they're run by a bunch of socialists who don't know how to do things right. And then somebody like Pat Robertson might say things fell apart there because these people weren't trusting in God. It's not as simple as either of those things, right? I will say this, it's a reminder for all of us, if we put our trust in our little shanties in Haiti, or if we put our trust in our edifices here in the United States. Nothing is safe from destruction. Everything will wilt and wither and decay and crumble. Nothing will stand forever. Nothing. Look at the pyramids in Egypt. They're still there, but they look nothing like they did when they were first built. The Sphinx is missing his nose for crying out loud. Everything begins to fall apart because we live in a fallen world. Death has entered our world, destruction, disease in our world. And we're not going to get a solution with nasty letters to the editor. I don't know, Carl and Eugene, if uh you're still in the area and you're listening to this show or something tells you about it. Email me. I'll have you on the show. I'd love to have you on the show and find out what you really are trying to say because you can't mean that you wish these people were dead or are glad that they're dead. That can't be what you mean. I would love to have you come on and explain what you really mean. And I want to give you a fair hearing because you might teach me a thing or two, and I mean that sincerely. I'm not saying that sarcastically. So Hopefully you'll contact me. That'd be great. Anyway, but for now, that's the end of that. All right. Oh, one more piece I got to put in the garbage. And with that, we've arrived at the end of this edition of the Faith Debate Show, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? You can visit us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Putman Plumbing and Heating has been a longtime sponsor of this show, and that makes me smile, that's for sure. Thank you for listening. We'll get back to our regular agenda on this show, hopefully. The uh the the technology gremlins don't gobble up the audio of a show again. We'll uh have a regular panel discussion on for you next week. We are 167 and a half hours away from that very next show. Can't wait that long. Jump online and listen to the podcast. Thanks for listening. God bless.