This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest, with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where fate community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba does. In less than 30 minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Oh, how convenient. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to- Rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a more Isn't that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder, John Sweiser. There's no John Schweitzer today, but that's okay. I'm not flying solo. You know why? Thomas Bonifield, who used to call Frederick home, graduated from TJ High School. He's the writer director of a brand new movie titled Miracle on Christmas. Now I had the opportunity to talk with uh Thomas over the phone for nearly an hour and then again on last week's Faith Debate Show and I really enjoyed chatting with him those previous two times and I think you're really gonna enjoy hearing this second part of our interview. If you missed last week's, we got a lot of background information, heard about his time that he spent almost a decade living in Istanbul That was rather interesting to hear, so you can find that on podcast on WFMD. com. The movie Miracle on Christmas uh released earlier this month and its distribution footprint is broad, includes the on-demand rental market, streaming, you know, digital sales, DVD sales. You can find it at Amazon, at Walmart Target. It's a big deal this Hero movie and we're excited to have uh Thomas Bonifield on the show to talk about it. Um Last week uh we we covered your background and we started to tease a little bit about you know the story in the in the movie, but you got some for people that are fans of Christian movies Yeah, they they you mentioned the Kendrick brothers last week. You know, uh Stephen and Alec Kendrick have have made some of the more popular Christian movies over the last uh decade or decade and a half or whatever, including You know, Fireproof, Overcomer, War Room, uh facing the Giants, uh Flywheel, uh others I'm sure I'm forgetting Uh and some of these people that are in your movie are actually were in some of those movies. So who are some of these names and faces we might recognize? Yeah, well the Kendrick brothers are absolutely the top top of the heap when it comes to faith based the faith based uh movie world and the the most prominent person from their movies in our movie is an actress named Erin Bethea who was the lead actress uh in Fire Proof starring Obsidian Kirk Cameron as uh his wife in that movie and she is the protagonist in our movie. Um And by the way, I know we're here talking about your movie, but if I could put a quick plug-in for that movie, uh I'm uh I'm a pastor as well as this hosting this show, and whenever I do premarital uh counseling I have a number of materials that we work through and one of them is to assign a date night and I ask them to spend their date night watching and then discussing fireproof. So if you're Mary, think about getting married, have people in your life you know are about to get married and you haven't seen that movie yet, you should watch it. And Erin is really a fantastic actress. I don't know what her background is. She is. You know, actually she went to a Christian university, uh, in Alabama, University of Mobile, if memory serves, and She told me when we were shooting our movie in Michigan in March, February and March, that she then worked at Walt Disney World in Orlando for some time as one of the characters out in the park I could see her being like a good Snow White or something. Yes, well the characters varied, so she was not always a good one. That's kind of how she cut her teeth, uh, actually. Um and she's been making movies. Since I I think the first one that she was in was actually facing the Giants from the Kendrick Brothers because she is the daughter of the head pastor at the church where the Kendrick brothers were pastors, and that's how they started their movie making career, was when they were still on staff at Sherwood Baptist Church in Albany, Georgia Huh. I don't remember her facing the Giants. I'll have to watch the movie again and look for her. I don't remember her now. Actually I think I remember that scene now that you mentioned that. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Yes. So what was it like working with her? Well she's a real pro, uh actually, uh, and it was a blessing that I was able to get her in this movie of mine, and as you say, I mean I really with the cast it was the hand of God I played that God would bring the right people to me and he absolutely did that. And interestingly, um, before I talk about her specifically, the the way it all came together was I I have a website that I do more for fun than anything, just to keep my hand in the journalism stuff called Christian Filmblog, where I write about things that are happening in the Christian movie business. And I had written an article, I guess, the summer before I wrote this movie of mine about a movie starring Michael W. Smith, Christian Singer. Uh and the man behind that movie is a man named Ben Graham, who is a pastor uh outside of Nashville at a church called Music City Baptist Church uh and he has a company called Grand Family Films. So when I wanted to make my movie, not h having never made a movie before I thought, well, you know, maybe I'll give him a call and see if you know what I could do with him or he can point me to the right people. Uh and he's an interesting man. Hi his grandfather was the first cousin of Billy Graham, the famous evangelist. So Ben is a long line of in a long line of pastors in that Graham family. Um and he put me in touch with the man who became my producer for this movie, uh a gentleman named Kevin Otto uh who is a real veteran of the faith based film world. He's done like ten or twelve movies that he's directed and probably produced five, six, eight more of them. Uh and he became my producer and he really was instrumental in helping bring all the rest of the team together and it's you know you're talking sixty people probably between cast and crew Uh and including Aaron Dea, who's the lead actress, and Jason Burke, who was the lead actor, who play husband and wife in my movie Uh Kevin had worked with them together with Ben Graham on a movie not too many years back where they also were husband and wife. So I had suggested Jason and he said, What about Aaron? I thought, wow, that would be fantastic. And he ended up Um so Jason Murkey's a name that Christian, you know, movie fans might recognize. He's he was in some high profile movies. Uh I can only imagine I think he's in that, right? October Baby Yes, he starred Noc he was in I can only imagine he was one of the band members and he starred in October Baby which is from the sort of the other big Christian movie making brother duo, uh the Irwin brothers, John Andrew, who The Kendrick's are from Georgia and they're from Alabama. Uh and they just came out with uh I still believe was the uh Jeremy Camp biopic uh earlier this year. that got kind of shorted by the coronavirus when the theaters all shut down. But they also are the team that made I Can Only Imagine the Barbellage story. And Jason's worked with them a lot. He is a real pro You mentioned that the Jeremy Camp, Jeremy Camp, for those who might not know, he's a uh re relatively well-known, very successful uh contemporary Christian music artist. He's been around for like, I don't know, twenty years very dramatic personal story and uh so it lends itself to making a movie, that's for sure. I'm wondering because you mentioned that movie, um Was your movie originally intended to be a theatrical release, but because of all the stuff you went straight to uh digital and DVD? Or was it always intended to be a direct to stores kind of thing? W well that we we shot it in February and March, uh and the hand of God, literally, we finished the week before that coronavirus started shutting down the entire movie slash TV production business literally one week before. And had had we been shut down, I simply wouldn't have been able to pull the money together to you know, send everybody home and then call 'em back eight months later to finish production. So it really was a miracle that that was my miracle on this Christmas that we're able to get that thing done and in the can before those protocols started to bite and close things. Um so in answer to your question, it was clear to us pretty early that the theatrical thing was not a stable path for us to go down. Uh and I mean even now with some of the theaters opening, you know, it's I think it's still a risky endeavor and if you've got deep pockets maybe. If you don't if you're really rolling the dice. So we were thinking perhaps uh Initially we'd go the made for TV movie route and we did indeed push to do that. Um And it didn't pan out and and one of the reasons it didn't pan out was because a lot of the big players that we showed the movie to, um, pitched it to You know, they're secular organizations, largely these channels. I'm not gonna name 'em 'cause my distribu distributor has to work with them still and I don't wanna s sour relations, but basically what they said to us was and this was my producer Kevin Otto's take on it, and it's very clever, but in so many words, this movie is too Christian for Christmas Which of course is really iron ironic and it made me laugh and I thought, well frankly, praise God, that means I got it right, because that's what it's supposed to be. The reason for the season is the central thrust of this movie. Yeah, well that sounds like high praise if you ask me, but And I do want to talk a little bit about y and not right this second, but I do want to maybe maybe in next week we'll we'll do another show and we can talk about uh what passes for Christian movies and what the obstacles are in the movie making business to to not come across as too Christian when anyway, w I don't wanna fire my my shots now. I do want to talk about that though. Uh so You wrote the movie last fall, finished finished writing it in a how long did it take you to write it? You know, you wrote it in a day and a half, I'm sure. I'm a prodigy. Uh no, it took me probably about a month or so to actually write the script. But in the lead up to that you know, there's several stages. Typically in screenwriting, there are different ways to do it, obviously depending on your own preferences. But You know, you write basically what is the synopsis of the thing, which might be a one page endeavor, and then you You you write a treatment and then a beat sheet. And each time you're getting more detailed about what's happening. And the beat sheet is really typically the final step before you start the script. And that is a scene by scene outline of what's going to be in that screenplay. So if you do your work properly and you're diligent on that front end, the writing, at least for me, typically flows fairly easily and smoothly because you put in all the work that you need to to get it ready for the writing in those other stages. And fortunately I got that right. So the writing of the actual screen plate came together quickly once I'd done the rest of the legwork at the front end. Now how did you know I mean you have a background in journalism so maybe that's part of how you knew, but how how how did you know that, oh let's start with this synopsis and a one-sheeter and let's do a Beat sheet. I'd never even heard that phrase until just now. Okay. Well how d how did you know to do? Did you go buy like how to write a movie uh for dummies book or something? Like how d how do you know what the process is for writing a a screenplay? Oh yeah, well as you say, being a journalist who did journalism for almost three decades, I'm a big researcher when I'm starting something new, so I did indeed buy several screenwriting books. Uh Just to get a sense for kind of the standard approach, because, you know, y you can take some liberties, but if you you want to build the plane Y gotta have wings on that thing, right? So you gotta know what you're doing before you get into it. And once you're, you know, at a the requisite level you can take some liberties, but At the beginning, y you need to understand the format. So I did a lot of research on the front end. And this actually is the eighth screenplay that I wrote. I wrote a couple of teleplays as well. It means like TV scripts. Um and it's the first one that has been turned into a movie. So it it took me a while to get my sea legs as it were. Okay, but you okay, so you have you have written for uh for dramatic purposes before. So so that that but that was probably helpful to you. So you get to Yeah, it was the journalism helped a lot because even though obviously T V newswriting and screenwriting are completely separate endeavors, they're both visual storytelling, so there are a lot of commonalities between them. And that helped me a lot. That really did, actually. So you get the screenplay uh screenplay written and we're gonna talk about the motivation for writing it and stuff, the story behind the story kind of thing. We'll probably do that Um I I'm imagining in in I don't think we'll have time to get to it in this week's episode of Faith to Face. Uh but you write the story, you got the screenplay, you got you know, uh pages in hand. And then you have to go peddle it and find a producer, or did you already have some some connection with Ben Graham and um and and Kevin Otto and others? Or how how did that part work? Um this is a sneak peek behind the whole movie making business. I'm fascinated. Yes, well I I'm an expert on my process. I don't profess to be one on it at higher levels. Uh Yes, I mean largely you do need to chop it around. Um and that was that was the catalyst for my getting a hold of Ben Graham at Graham Family Films. And then obviously people want to see that script and if they don't like the script, that's the end of your journey, basically, with that person uh or that company. Um and then the second question that comes up very quickly and maybe it even comes up before that is what about financing? Because you can have a great description and if you don't have the financing it's gonna be collecting dust Right. Isn't that your producer's job, right? To find figure out the money? It can be, yeah, it can absolutely it can be, yes. And I would say typically it is if you're going the studio route or with the bigger independent film producers, yes, it can be. But I you know, I believe in um doing my part fully. I name my company Horses Ready Productions and I take that name from one of my favorite scriptures in Proverbs twenty one thirty one The horse is made ready for the day of battle, but victory rests with the Lord, and I absolutely live my life in accordance with that scripture. God will deliver the victory as he sees fit, but we need to do our part, and I do mine for sure. My horse will always be ready for the day of battle, and I will leave no stone unturned when I'm doing something so I didn't count on anyone else to come up with money. I'm Troy Spinner. We're talking with Thomas Bonifield. He has written and directed a new movie called Miracle on Christmas. You can go get it today if you want at um it's available at a whole bunch of outlets. It's on Amazon. That's one place you can go if you want to do a digital kind of thing. It's at Walmart, Target. Um I don't know. Maybe your next door neighbor already uh bought one. You can buy theirs off them, tell them to go buy another one. There's different ways you can get one. Um so I want to ask Y you you're talking about getting the money. So you had to not only write and direct the movie, but you had to go scrape together your own nickels and dimes? Oh well I had spent about twenty-five years scraping together my nickels and times as it turned out. I prayed for two things when I was starting this endeavor that God would bring the financing together for me and he would bring me the right people I already talked about the people which he whom he brought together and he hit it out of the park. Right. Is it is it public knowledge what the uh what what the budget for making this movie w is It was several hundred thousand dollars. Okay, folks they did a pretty good job. 'Cause I know like the Kendrick brothers who mentioned them, I don't know if it was this week or last week, but when they made their first movie Flywheel, I think they made it for less than twenty thousand dollars, and then they made their next movie which I think was facing the Giants, which was probably less than the budget you just said you had for this movie. So you did a pretty good job. What's that? Oh so that was about a hundred thousand for that one is what it they claim. So yeah, so you did pretty good. And um trusted you personally, I guess. Yes. And I you know, one of the other things, having again done a lot of research before I started I built this script in a way that I thought it could be shot at a high level for the kind of money I had at my disposal. So the entire movie plays out on Christmas Day Meaning you have one script day. Number one. And number two, I built it primarily in one location, though I ended up being two locations. But we shoot in multiple places in both of those locations. So I don't think the audience is going to feel claustrophobic like you're sitting at a dinner room dinner room dining room table and never get up and leave the room. It it won't feel like that. But it was built very deliberately to be shot on the budget that we had available to us And to be done at at a fairly high level still. Gotcha. So you have the script ready. You went and contacted uh uh Ben Graham from uh Music City Baptist Church in the Nashville area. And did you already have a connection? Did you already know him before this? Or you look uh part of your research told you that this would be a good guy to go talk to? Yeah, I knew of him because I had written an article about some work that some movies he had done uh or articles, um, but I I had no personal connection to him, no. But I you know, it's a it's a business venture Sure. Largely, and that's how I Yeah, yeah. No, no. And and so and he helped you connect with Kevin Otto and then I guess Danny Roth has a producer's credit on this too. I don't think we've mentioned him yet. Yes, uh both he and Kevin are believers, and Danny does a lot of work with his production company that ends up on lifetime, uh including some Christmas movies Um and he this this was again, this was just the hand of God. I mean I there they're really I said that probably five times. I I can't overstate it. We Initially I wrote this story to take place in Phoenix, which is where I live, and my distributor, uh, Green Apple Entertainment, of which Kevin is a partner, um in in his cohort there is a man named Tim Warren who worked at MGM for years in Lionsgate and really knows the distribution side of the business. Said, Yeah, you know, listen We have when people think Christmas in America, they don't think Arizona, they don't think California, and they don't think Florida, so we can't shoot it there. So then I rewrote it to be in Nashville because they have people there. There's a fairly strong movie making community And then finally we decided, you know, if we're gonna go that far, let's go somewhere where they have real snow, because that's gonna make the thing a lot nicer. So we ended up in Michigan and I rewrote it again, um, parts of it to work there Uh and if Kevin was looking for a place with snow, Kevin Otto, the producer, uh, and he called Danny, with whom he's friends, and who who lives in Michigan and said, hey, you know, we're working on this Christmas movie, Wanna Half Snow, we're looking to shoot it, you know, February. And it turns out I mean this is just a miracle, that Danny Roth was wrapping up a movie that he was producing in Michigan and was gonna be done like a week before we wanted to start production. He said, you know, I I mean I'm here, I got my whole production team here We got locations, there's snow everywhere. Why don't you just like move in and take over this team and do it here? Wow. And voila. That's exactly what we're doing. Yeah, a lot of providence in the making of this movie. Oh my, I mean I yeah, it was there were many miracles on this Christmas production, let me say that Now I don't you're not from Michigan, so I'm not sure if this will mean anything to you, but for for uh the the listener who might be from Michigan, what part of the hand were you uh filming this in? We were a little above the base of the hand. We were between Detroit and Lansing, which is the capital, sort of northwest of Detroit, uh in the two towns, one called Brighton and one called Howell Uh so maybe you know forty-five minutes, an hour outside of Detroit, something like that. Okay. Um so the information on the on the on the movie is uh available on your website, which is miracleonchristmas. com. Uh there's a there's a trailer there because I've watched it. Uh there's a synopsis of the movie. And by the way, what's hold on, I'm gonna look really quick. There uh there might be more reviews, but there's at least one review that I saw And let me see if I can find it. It's a movie guide. Movie guide, which fills themselves as the family guide to movies and entertainment. They watched your movie and it seems they kind of liked it. Oh my. Thank the good Lord. They really were very enthusiastic. So yes. Yeah, you get four stars. I mean, right? That's pretty good. Four out of four no less. Yeah, so that's that says something. So good for you. And it's it's interesting that, you know, they're hard graders on content things because They gave you uh you know, a green light on sex and nudity. There's no sex and nudity in your movie. But they gave you uh light, uh uh like a l uh um A a slight warning on language and violence, but there's not really any language or violence in this movie. Well I think they called violence there's a scene where someone gets hurt while they're playing football. That was part of the violence, so I figure, you know They're being very scrupulous about that and I'm I'll go with that. Okay. approaching a curse word in the movie. So I that was that one was a little baffling to me. But as I say they were very enthusiastic, so I'm awfully grateful to them for that review. Well yeah and I have no connection to them so I'm going to boldly assume it's Yeah, well you know some people will take great offense at uttering the name of God at all, like if they're you know uh s strongly uh you know uh Jewish or something. And so maybe Somebody says Praise God in the movie and that's a language warning. I don't know, instead of praise G D or something. Yeah. We may have had one or two of those, but I mean in terms of uh an interjection, I think Gosh was about as serious as God. We say uh harsher stuff than that on the Faith Debate Show, are you kidding me? Anyway. So I I certainly don't mean to sound like I'm denigrating them. Oh no no no no I'm just I'm being playful, you know, and you know just joking around. And and if the movie review movie reviewer people are upset, be upset with me, I'm the one joking around Thomas is not. Thomas Bonifield, the writer, uh director and now promoter of the movie Miracle on Christmas, you can find it uh at on Amazon. com, I guess. You can find it uh um at Walmart Target. You can find more information about it online at miracleonchristmas. com. We're going to continue with this discussion next week because there's an interesting story behind the story and I and we haven't had a chance to talk about that yet. So the faith debate will be Back again next week with this same subject matter. Again, uh by the way, happy Thanksgiving weekend to you who are listening. You can find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword faith will get you there Uh follow us on Facebook. You can follow me on Facebook. I'm also on Mi We on Parlor. Actually I'm on LinkedIn, but I'm not really on LinkedIn very often. And if you follow me I will follow you. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.