The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. The longer I do this show the more convinced I am how true that is. This is the Fake Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. We're on the FM also at 99. 9 HD2. If you go to the just the regular 99. 9, you'll hear a bunch of country music. And if you want to really aggravate a country music fan, tell them there Listen to the country and western music. No, no, no, no. Not Western. Country music. Roots music. Americana music. We're talking about Roots a little bit here on the show today. Um what's all this nonsense I'm talking about? I'm Troy Skinner, the uh the host of the Faith Debate and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. We have a website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com. You can learn all about the church and you can actually connect to the show through that website as well and you can connect to all of my social media and pastor blogs and sermons and I mean anything and everything that I have to do that has anything at all to do with the church, religion or social media. It's a one-stop shop. There it is. Uh you can also I don't think it's a one-stop shop, but there's also a really good website you can check out that Imran Razby is a part of. He founded with his wife an organization uh about, I don't know, twenty plus years ago. I think, oh, Conquered by Love, and their website is conquered by Love dot org. They have a lot of resources there for uh for family and child rearing and marriage and um and things like that. And they've been on the speakers tour over the years and so maybe you can book them for a for uh for some speechifying. And uh Steven Jurger is also on the show for uh round three of this uh set of shows that you did four or five shows with us a couple months back as well. And uh he's with a a congregation that meets in southern Pennsylvania, not too far away from Gettysburg called the Shabbat Gathering. And we've been talking well we s two weeks ago we talked about the Sabbath and then we kind of bridged from the Sabbath. We finished up our talk about the Sabbath last week and if you're uh treating today Sunday as the Sabbath and Imran Razi wants you to know that you are in sin and you need to repent. Um he's on record. He can't take it back now from two weeks ago. Not that he would want to probably I don't think he's he's a man of conviction. He believes what he says. Um Doesn't mean he's right. You're free to disagree with Imran. As as he would might say, you're free to be wrong. That's okay. Uh and then we start talking about uh Marcionism, uh a heresy from uh a long, long, long, long time ago, like right after the start of the church, like within a couple of generations of the sturch church being founded, boom, there's this huge heresy with this this crazy guy who's trying to get rid of the Old Testament and and and is anti anything Jewish and that sort of thing. And we can talk about how that maybe is even still evident. Maybe they're not walking around saying, Hey, I'm a devote devotee of Marcia and that's not what's going on, but maybe some of the ideas and leanings have infected us in ways that we're not aware And Imran, you were sharing in between shows, I don't know if you want to share it now about how it in a personal way can have actually have an impact. Well one of the things to go back to, you know, when you you asked me, is it a sin? And yes, if I believe it's a sin, just like the Bible says, you know, some uh some can eat of the meat of that uh sacrifice to idols and s and sometimes you shouldn't, especially if it's gonna be for the weaker brother. So what I mean by that, God has convicted me that the Sabbath is a holy day that we're supposed to keep. It's one of the Ten Commandments. It is in the beginning, it's in the end. And once you recognize that's what it is and you don't keep it, you're a sinning. Now if you don't recognize that that's Sabbath, God is walk you're walking with God and God's gonna walk with you and and hopefully convict you of what he wants you to be at what at whatever time. So I'm not here to sit there and and judge and say, Hey, you're going to hell because you're sinning on this. I'm sitting on lot lots of things as we've discussed many times We are sinners. We're kind of in conflict with our um saved status that we're still in this earth and still subject to sin. So that aside, um when Yeah, yeah, I my son-in-law's uh f family believes that really anything Jewish is uh taking away from Christ because Christ is uh our savior and if you go back to anything Jewish you're actually taking away from that I disagree with that, but one of the things I get along with him very well. Uh and what I've t told people is look, if we're all the same, I'm not sure. Then iron can't sharpen iron. Iron only sharpens iron because it has friction. You have to have friction in order to be able to um defend your views and search the Bible out and say, hey, this is why I believe something and maybe you'll change Maybe God'll d convict you of something. So he he firmly believes that anything that even uh remotely again, that's my interpretation, he'd have to defend himself in in some time but that uh points to Jewish law and Jewish tradition is a antiqual to Christian uh belief and and life and and life. So he would not even you know dis come to visit our house on Saturday because somebody might think that he is celebrating the Sabbath with us on Saturday. So his conviction is that that would be wrong and it would undermine what Christ did for us. And I understand where he's coming from. Um I disagree with him, but that's okay. We should be able to disagree and still love each other and say, Hey Let's investigate and you prove your point and I'll prove my point and let's go to the Bible. I wonder what something like that does with all of the quotations and the allusions to the Old Testament and the Hebrew scriptures, if you will, in the New Testament. You can't properly understand the Book of Revelation without having a deep understanding of what the Old Testament has to say. And it doesn't make a lick of sense, which is maybe a part of why there's so much controversy and confusion about the Book of Revelation So it looks like uh Stephen is itching to say something. He's got I think a scripture open or something. Well I just want to sum over in first John first chapter verse seven. It says, you know, walking in the light. As he walked in the light, we have fellowships with one another, I'm paraphrasing. And the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses us from all sin. So Th you know, the statement was made, you know, if we're not keeping the Sabbath are we in sin? Well, how many other things that could we possibly be doing that could be sin? It's missing the mark, it's lawlessness. But at the same time, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, so that we can be forgiven of our sin. But like Jesus said to the woman that was caught in adultery Where are thine accusers? And she said, No man, Lord. He says, Neither do I accuse you. Go and sin no more. So we we we have the ability and the grace of God through the blood of Christ to cleanse and to be made right. But it's just, you know, part of what the law or the Torah does for us is it's like the school teacher that leads us to Christ. It shows us where we're out of the way. and what the remedies are. So this can be a very complicated discussion because we have been taught so many things over the centuries. And we're just wanting to go, as Imran says to me a lot, let's just take the whole Bible, let's look at it in context. Let's look at it culturally and let it speak to us and try to do the best you can with God's help. And walking with a group of men and women and families that have that same heart and to be able to just hold one another accountable and in a in a very godly uh kind way, uh that's welcome, mutually uh brought on to where you can uh w w you know work out community. Yeah the thing is if I say something that uh irritates you, that uh makes you angry or b or mad, maybe that's kind of the word convicting you and uh you should do your research Prove your point. Okay? If I say something that you think is totally off beat, totally wrong, then go to the Bible and prove your point to yourself. You don't have to prove my point. You don't have to fight with me, but you know, fight with the idea. But use the Bible to fight the idea. Don't use man to say, well, so and so said this and so No, no. Go back to the Bible. Find it in the Bible. Use the Bible to prove your point. And then you will feel much better about it. And you may you may not come to the same conclusion that I did. That's okay. But my the purpose of of us doing this is really to help sharpen you to go back to scripture. Use the scripture to solidify your point and be sure what you're standing on. Because I know I'm doing things wrong today that I I will hopefully God will teach me and I'll learn, I'll change, I'll move in the in the right direction. And I'm hoping to learn something new every day. I'm hoping to go get closer to God every day Something that might be uh good uh it looks like Steve wants to say something. So you can you can say what you want to say and then maybe if you also want to re- re uh add a remark about this or not, because I think I want to clarify in between shows from last week's show to this week's show that we were trying to clarify things among ourselves to make sure w what what are you saying? Are we are we concerned about anti Semitism? Or are We're not saying uh at least I don't think. I just want to clarify though. You know, Imran you tell a story about somebody who says, well if anything smacks of Judaism, well that's somehow diminishing Christ and I want nothing to do with it. That's not the same as saying they're anti Semitic. Right? It's it has to do with the theology and the understanding of how things work together in God's uh economy uh over time and it's not the same as hating a Jewish person. It's just saying that the the the the Jewish practices or the Jewish teachings or requirements or whatever are now no longer required for the Christian. He's making a sharpest nickel. So I wanna in case anybody was confused after last week's show are he's talking somehow about anti The thought never entered my mind last week actually, and it wouldn't have entered my mind this week either, except now it's in my head from last show. And when Enron said what he says, I'll make sure people understand that you're not saying that somebody in your extended family is anti-Semitic. That's not the point you're making at all. No, that's not the point I'm making, but Because of the contamination of NICISM in in in the modern church and and things, it can lead to anti Semitism and that's what many people that are anti Semitic have used to really proclaim anti semitism. So I'm not s I'm not speaking to those that are are anti Semitic. that's wrong. I I think if you judge anybody by, you know, anything that that was out of their control, whether skin of the the color of the skin or their color of their eyes or the shape of their nose or the or their Jewish heritage, I think that's wrong. People are people individually judge and and and so forth. But I think that teaching of uh uh has contaminated the t the church and people have used that to become anti Semitic and use those uh reasons to do so. Yes. Uh that is the problem is that Marcionism, I believe, leads to anti-Semitism, but it leads to kind of like through the back door. And nobody would ever think of wanting to participate in sending any of the Jews to the Holocaust, to the camps, to the to the ovens. Nobody knowingly would do that on the front end. But on the back end, Marcionism actually embeds that spirit. And actually uh Hitler used the writings of early church fathers taken out of context and used it to persuade the German church to, hey, you gotta submit, this is why we're doing it. Here's the scriptures to say why. And they also used Romans 13. uh that you gotta follow your government. Um out of context. I was gonna say misused, Robert. Right. Out of context. Um thank you for the clarification. So I I wanted to dive back to You know, uh here in Matthew 5, uh here's a very interesting set of scripture that, you know, Jesus says, Do not think I've come to abolish the law or the prophets. I did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. fully preach, fully have an example, my paraphrase, and you know, if Jesus is the Lord of the Sabbath, then he's the one who interprets. He did by his life and his walk. For now I'm continuing with the scripture. For truly I say unto you, until heaven and earth pass away, not the smallest letter or stroke shall pass from the law until all is accomplished. When whoever and then annuls one of these least commandments and teaches others to do the same, shall be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whosoever keeps and teaches them, he shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I say unto you, unless your righteousness surpasses that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven. And there's a lot there and there's a lot to unpack, but basically, you know, here is Jesus himself. But Steve, what would you say to those that say, well, everything was accomplished in in Christ's death and resurrection? So now it's been accomplished. Okay. I would go let's say if everything has been accomplished Have we seen the millennium yet? Have we seen the request? Well, okay, go to Deuteronomy 30. Deuteronomy 30 says that God will circumcise their hearts bring them from the four corners of the earth and bring them back into their land. That is before they go into the land before Joshua takes over. Moses is giving the rendition at the last on telling them the history. So Here is a foreshadow, a prophetic shadow picture of what's going to happen in the latter days here in the Torah. So that hasn't happened yet from the four corners of the earth. all the way back to their land and circumcising their heart. Because Jesus said in Matthew 24, You will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. So that hasn't happened yet. So there's things that have not been fulfilled. Well, m many people think that uh it happened in seventy AD when uh I Israel was destroyed, Jerusalem was destroyed, that all those things in tribulation happened then. Well that was in a very localized area. When you see the context of Matthew twenty-four, you have You know, the sun not shining, every eye will see him. You're gonna see all kinds of cataclysmic earth shaking events that are m targeted more than just around Jerusalem. And I would also argue that uh Revelation was written kind of after seventy AD, about five or seven years after that. So they couldn't be fulfilled before the re before Revelation was done. Although there's debate on that though. Yeah. It's a there's a minority view, but the it's it's a compelling argument that uh the book of Revelation w was written in the late sixties. Right. Okay. RCRO, I think, held to that view actually. That's another show. So and then the eighty seventy question also, you know, uh that Imran w raised that up and it does um help to answer i if you hold to A D seventy of the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple as a fulfillment, like uh Imran was probably maybe playfully asking, but uh seriously it can be asked. Uh that helps to answer the question when Jesus says a generation will not pass before you know he would come in judgment. And so before you see me again. So what what what does that mean? And some say well he came in eighty seventy was which was, you know, almost exactly the end of a a generation kind of a thing. So uh We're we're getting a little bit off. I I think the point that you might have been trying to make with the the the the quote from Matthew five and the and the law and the need for still having uh a r a high regard for the law is maybe practically speaking talking about what's going on in the world today with easy believism, right? There's this uh there's this this false dichotomy between law and grace. And so I'm in I'm in Jesus, I can do what I want. I mean Paul speaks directly against that. That you can't just do whatever you want. Uh so I go on to sin all all the more? No, God forbid, right? So if the law is done away with, then does that mean I can murder, I can practice uh all kinds of sexual uh deviant sins. Does that mean I can steal? Does that mean that uh Well those who disagree with your view, uh might many of them might say yes. And that's I think your point is like that leads to all sorts of problems. But they're going to say, yes, I have freedom in Christ. But then Paul said, do we s will Gary subbound by sinning? He says, God forbid. I'm not arguing I'm not agreeing with them. Correct. But you hear these arguments. Yeah, and I think those people are going to be very, very disappointed when God says, Get away from me, I did not know you. And 'cause they did all sorts of things in God's name, but they did not understand what God's. There is a law, and we've all broken it. And so we all stand guilty, and that's why there's a necessity of Christ to pay the penalty for the sins that we've committed. They are on his back. So we're set free from the shackles of the law in order that we can then obey the law Not as slaves to the law, but as slaves to Christ, who out of humble obedience wanted to elevate his name, magnify his glory, treat him as Lord, do what he says, do what he commands. We're not eternally condemned by uh um by by the the scriptures of the law as a Christian anymore because all those condemnations fall on Christ. But out of gratitude for that fact, we want to obey the law, not as a way of working our way to heaven. You can't work your way to heaven Uh y Christ worked our way to heaven, if you will, right? We are saved by works, Christ's works. You know? Um and so That's I think what's what sometimes gets lost. The Christian says, Oh well, Christ fulfilled the law. I'm no longer a slave to the law. That's true, but that's only half of the equation. The other part has to be there too, which is now out of humble obedience We want to go and sin no more. As Razby said, we want to do what the book says. Paul said the law of sin and death, that's what Jesus did away with. But we still have the law of righteousness. We have the law of love. And if you test, like Rasby said, go to the scriptures and test and see if what we're saying is so. And if not then call us out or you know, but the main thing is is not to just go by what other people say, other preachers say, other theologians say, or even what we say. Go to the Word of God and find out for yourself because in the day of judgment, when we all stand before that great White throne. There's not going to be anyone between us and we will have you know we're either in Christ or we're going to be without Christ. And that's a place you do not want to be at. And that's where on this side of the grave, if you're searching, if you're hungry, if you're really sitting here listening to this podcast think about what how God's been dealing and his love and his care and uh you know today is the day of salvation. Part of the discussion that I hear on occasion from people, and it it ties into what we're talking about here today. Uh I I don't hear it as much, and this is actually the point I want to make, is this idea, well, you know, the Old Testament that's not really relevant anymore because Christ came and says, I'm a New Testament Christian. You know, it's all about the New Testament I don't really hear that discussion about, oh, do away with the Old Testament, I embrace the New Testament. I think the challenge we're facing now is we have people that would profess to be followers of Christ. They claim to be Christians, and they don't abide by either testament. So, you know, we only got a couple of minutes, but if you wanted to give uh you know a full f uh uh a full-throated pitch, elevator speech for the value of the scriptures, the entirety of the scriptures, you would say what? Uh I would say that the it's a false gospel of that being saved is free. It's not free. It costs Christ his life. and pain and suffering and death. And because of that, if you accept it, then you're obligated to love him. And if you don't, then there's no fruit in you, then you are not saved. And you know what? You may need to really go back in the Bible and find out, are you really saved? Because if you are not showing any fruit, if you are not and the fruit is really if somebody looks at you and says, Oh, this person's different, he's a Christian. If they can't say that, if they can't prove that you're a Christian, there's something wrong. Find out what it is. Go back to the Bible. Yeah. Stephen? In the last days, Jesus said lawlessness will abound. And I think we can all agree that that is happening across all spectrums. And uh he said, this is going to happen before I come back. So you might want to make that assessment and maybe see time might be shorter than you think. Yeah, lawlessness is definitely abounding these days. Uh I don't think anybody who's paying any attention at all could could disagree with that. It used to be not that long ago. When I started doing this show, a lot of the times the focus would be on, you know, pastors who um Yeah, they would focus all their preaching, all their Sunday school teaching, all their Bible study groups and stuff were focused on books of the n the New Testament and they and they weren't paying giving enough credence to the Old Testament. Part of it is because of things we've talked about, not having a high regard for it. Part of it was, I think, in ignorance. Uh people didn't the the pastors even didn't know enough about the Old Testament to teach it well, so that's part of it. But now what we're having going on is we have uh some of the biggest churches in the country don't preach Ether Testament What are they preaching? You know well The prosperity gospel. Self help, you know, pull yourself up by your bootstrap ism. You can do this. You don't need God's there, but you can do it because God allows you to do it. But no, it's not you, it's God doing it. And then people become a law unto themselves, and if you're a law merely unto yourself, well then that basically is lawlessness because we're in no position to create these laws and so that's part of the the challenge and the the trouble that we have So I think what we're gonna do one of the notes I had, I'm not sure how it's connected, but it must be connected because in the s the thread of uh texts that Stephen and I sent back and forth a while ago, in the mix of all this talk about Marcionism and the Sabbath and the the Hebrew roots of the church and the law and grace antagonism, the Old Testament, New Testament. Part of what came up was something to do with replacement theology. I'm not exactly sure what you might want to say, but I have lots of thoughts about replacement theology. So I think next week we'll talk about that at least generally speaking. Also, we missed an opportunity this week to to make a huge point about how our roots and uh as Judeo-Christian roots and all that sort of stuff connect to this weekend. Thanksgiving weekend is when this show is airing. Um And as a kid, not having any theological reason for it, but as a kid, my favorite holiday of the year was Thanksgiving. And it was I think because it was about most of the right things. It was about family coming together and having a big meal and fellowship and enjoying one another and it wasn't about the the marketing or the the materialism or or some sort of fake Christmas message about, you know, Santa Claus and uh and and reindeer and those sorts of things. It was more wholesome, it was more focused on Thanksgiving. Am I Family growing up wasn't overtly religious, but there was a sense in which no, we're basically we're pausing to give thanks to God for all the blessings we've had in the in in the past year and we're recognizing that as a family right now. And so just our heart to you this week as you're you're you're probably finally deflating from all that turkey on Thursday Um, you know, that you're really feeling the blessings this weekend and every day. And if you're not, and you need prayer, need some guidance, some counsel You know, the pastors in this room and a couple of pastors that are usually part of this show that aren't in the room today, we'd be glad to pray with you for you to help you in any way. If you want to reach out, you are encouraged and welcome to do so. Um easiest way to do that would to just go to my website, Household of Faith in Christ. I know it's a mouthful. Household of FaithInChrist. com And you'll find all my contact information. You can text me, you can email me, you can private message me on social media, whatever you want to do. And if you don't want to talk to me, you want to talk to Imran or Steven instead, I can route you to them. I can get them in touch with you. So uh that's that's uh that's our invitation to you. Imran Rasvi, his website that he has is conqueredbylove. org. Stephen Jurger's with the Shabbat Gathering. I'm Troy Skinner. Till next week, 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.