A judge granted default judgment Friday to Taylor Dumpson after the Daily Stormer founder Andrew Anglin and a follower failed to respond to her lawsuit. I'm Kevin McManus on Mid Maryland's news station, nine thirty WFMD. And a good Sunday morning to nine thirty WFMD, Weather Blood Fort Cash for Frederick in the surrounding counties. For today it's going to be sunny with a high of eighty-five, mostly clear tonight, low sixty-four. Monday mostly sunny with a high of 90. Monday night mostly cloudy, low 72. On Tuesday, mostly cloudy. Showers likely possibly a thunderstorm and a high of 89. Tuesday night, mostly cloudy, a chance of showers, low 70 No service, contact the best tops invest at bestfeetac. com. I'm Jim Tice. This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the Fake. Big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yaba does in less than thirty minutes. Learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from reform the Seminary, the faith debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Get a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of Bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious bigger. Big bridge builder John Soister. No, I'm just getting wrong. How alike and how different is the church of first century uh times compared to the church of 21st century times? Throughout the ages, God has is wet because of hypocrites claiming to do evil in his name. These are a couple of the items that we were hoping to address on today's show as I prepared for today's faith debate, but we've got some leftover business from last week's show. We Keys last week we're gonna talk about transcendence and immanence. We never really got there. Hopefully we'll get to that at least a little bit this week. Uh we talked about cannabis. Um not not a a bus in a can, not a can of bus, but a cannabis. Uh and we have more to say on that. We have lots of scriptural references that have come to mind since last week's show. We want to talk about the nuances there and really try to come to a an understanding of what does the Bible say, if anything, about whether or not we should all be smoking dope. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Feroy Skinner and joined this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, who is the co founder of Frost Bridges in Frederick. And also Jerry Gilbert, a thoughtful and curious Christian who is likely asking the questions you might be asking. And one of those I came up last week, what is the biblical view on cannabis, medical, and otherwise? And as we ended last week's show, we were talking Uh specifically about cannabis, we've started to broaden it out and talk more generally about anything that would be an intoxicant, uh, particularly as it relates to alcohol. And so then s a couple of uh one or two Bible verses came to mind and we touched on those uh towards the end of last week's show. And if you missed last week's show, you can go online, wfmd. com And uh and find the audio vault of the Faith Debate page and you can listen to the podcast and kind of catch yourself up. So there's more to be said. What are some of the verses that you guys had on your mind that relate to the issue of of intoxicants generally? Well, I guess what Proverbs twenty si uh twenty-seven, John? It's in the twenties. I can't say exactly where it is off the top of my head. I remember how it was in the twenties in the dungeon. Uh to pull it but Yeah, I I don't think there's any any doubt that, you know, um that there's prohibition against drunkenness in the Bible. It's said pretty clearly a bunch of different places. Um so Over over indulgence, over losing yourself in whatever substance you're taking, throwing whatever uh kind of substance into the God-shaped hole we all carry around that we're built with. Um yeah, y you can throw anything in that God-shaped hole. Uh you I've I've seen people throw um spending habits, you know, uh spending money like it's going out of water, food, um, you know, uh, opiates, cannabis, uh tobacco, I mean uh sex. We've all seen people destroy themselves, throwing anything and everything they can into that God shaped hole. Uh I just don't think that I mean Of all the things that people throw into it, cannabis isn't obviously the worst. Um there are some definite medical benefits with with this medicine. It's always been medicine, always will be medicine. There's worse things. No, no, no, no. This is for all you good Christians out there that want to I mean it's it's horrible, but there's worse. Like the anti-anxiety meds and uh getting prescribed by their doctor as as as uh currently I mean there's a there's a stigma against cannabis and what it will do to you, how it will make you feel uh and all that, but there's not a stigma when it comes to You know, the anti anxiety medicines that that people get addicted to and uh the opiates people are addicted to. Can I define stigma? Right. Dealing with the opioid crisis, there's a recognition that that the best uh path for anybody that's struggling with it is to get out in the open. Right? And so the the anti-stigma campaigns you know, are designed to help all of us recognize that at some level or or other, you know, we're all impacted by this. So let's not hide it. Let's get it out in the open. Uh and it feels to me like everybody in the discussion is dealing with two scales at the same time. And one scale is the danger scale. Right. The fact that people uh could take an uh take heroin off the street and have fentanyl or terafentanol in it and die right, overdose and die like like i instantly, right? That that raises the danger factor up significantly high. Right. And yet at the same time the question is You know, like how do we continue to care for those, right? That's the other scale. How how much do we embrace and consider the person that is dealing with those things as a part of the human race, as a part of our our family, you know, of humanity, our our community together. And so so the the stigma uh at its worst ends up kind of minimizing those dangers in the name of of saying we want to support one another and stand with one another. And it seems to me like that would be the wrong thing to do. We need to we need to have have the high embrace uh standard, right, where where we don't just reject and and make people outcasts. We want to embrace and care for and stand with one another. But it would be unwise for us to stop being aware of the dangers that are there that are significant and and it feels to me like you use the stigma, you know, having to do with uh with cannabis and you know, uh clearly people driving under the influence is a reality out in Colorado and other places right now. Uh and so so there are dangers and, you know, whether or not it uh it it can affect your ability to you know to move into your career if it you know is used too much. Those kinds of things that are danger realities. And so there's just those two scales that uh that come into play that that are helpful to me when I'm thinking about anti-stigma. But we don't tend to see the same kind of questions asked about the medicines that are currently on the market. The the driving for instance, driving intoxicated. Um yet opiates are very intoxicating. I mean uh people nodding all falling asleep talking to you, whether it's from a prescription they got from the doctor or whether it's something they got off the street. Um you know anti-anxiety media much the same thing. But there isn't a I I haven't heard people screaming, you know, from the rooftops We've got to get rid of these anti-anxiety meds, you know, b because people are driving on them and and it's making it now I'm unsafe on the road because you're driving intoxicated. However, that that is an argument people are using when it comes to cannabis And now, I mean, to be totally clear and and honest, I'm not a giant fan of of open you know recreational use. I I'm a firm believer cannabis has been a medicine, it's always been a medicine. Um some states have gone over the counter with it You know, I can't you know, that's their their thing. Um but let's have the same kind of conversation about cannabis that we that we're having with other medicines. um and other uh you know substances that help people function, that help you know help the arthritis pains, that help the this, that, and the other, that uh at currently they're at the end of their therapeutic rope in a lot of places, in a lot of uh circumstances Um and this is helping. Sure. Yeah, so um I don't think I have an argument against that. The one other uh passage um in Ephesians where it says, Do not become drunk with wine, but be uh being filled with the Holy Spirit. Like in that context, um I've always read that that when we go to You know, like that's the passage where it talks about how husbands and wives get along with one another and and uh parenting and and masters and servants, you know, get along with one another. And uh The impression that I get is that is that there's a danger that we would use um and this is more of a nuance about uh you know what are some of the dangers of intoxicants and that is that we would use those intoxicants as a way to get along with one another, as a way to to to make it easier for us to in the moment, you know, uh socially interact with one another. And um and the danger there is that is that we don't engage with one another when it comes time to engage with one another in a way that that we can, you know, really connect and really interact and really, you know, remember even for that matter, like What you know, what happened last night? I don't and I don't even remember, but man, it was a lot of fun, you know, as opposed to, you know, I was with my f you know, my friends last night and you know, we really connected. I you know, I was really able to, you know, hear some things that were going on and did we laugh about this, you know, or whatever it was, that there's a danger when it when it comes to relationships that that we would lean on something that keeps us from really experiencing and engaging in the relationship at the right level. So I could get myself in trouble by thinking out loud, but I I I w I would want to be careful about applying um in a in a in a in a matter of principle um some things that we try to take from one verse without maybe even looking at the the the grammar, not to get hyper analytical on this, but the the grammar of the specific words and how the sentence is structured in that verse. 'Cause you do have examples where it talks about uh you know, wine uh warming the heart, making someone cheerful, uh, which has to do with our relations with one another. If I have a warm, cheerful disposition, that's going to help me have a better relation uh with you. And so how do I understand that with the verse, though does the verse really mean that? And then that I'd have to look at it because I don't have it in front of me But when we're t when it's talked about in the New Testament that we are to be filled with the Holy Spirit, uh a in at least one, I think in in multiple places, the the idea there is that we are to be being filled. Like we're to be filled to overflowing and constantly overflowing. There's more spirit so that it's just this this this fountain of overflowing with the spirit, which speaks to an ongoing, everlasting the moment by moment definition of who you are. And if that's what the Bible's talking about when it's saying we should be filled with the Spirit Is that also what it means in that same verse when it's talking about being drunk with wine? Is it speaking against being Otis from Mayberry and the Andy uh Griffith show where he's just the town drunk and his what defines him is that he's drunk all the time he's filled to overflowing with alcohol like that defines his entity. Is that verse necessarily I'm not saying that it it couldn't be, but is it necessarily an argument against momentary intoxication where you get a little bit tipsy in the moment because you had one more glass of wine than you should have. Is the Bible prohibiting that or is it prohibiting A and an identity where yeah y what defines you is you are an alcoholic and you can't function without alcohol. Is that what it's arguing? I think there's at least a compelling argument that that could be the case So it's another one of those nuanced conversation. Yes, I'm not I'm just not sure. I I I'm I am firmly convinced that the Bible speaks against drunkenness. Then the question is, what does the Bible mean by drunkenness? If I get drunk tonight and I'm, you know, uh uh not within the full normal realm of my capabilities for an hour and a half because I had that one extra glass of wine. Am I sinning during that hour and a half by being intoxicated? Or would I be sinning if I just became intoxicated all the time and that became what drove my life, as opposed to the Holy Spirit driving my life? I'm not sure So my answer to that coming from probably a pretty strong bias from my own experience uh which is pretty teetotaler background. Um my uh my great grandfather uh was a grape farmer on the shores of the Finger Lakes and um some of my grandfather's brothers were raging drunks and uh and it was ugly and so the other half of the family, uh, as they grew in the things of God, pretty much decided that Jesus turned the water into grape juice. Uh and I'm kind of glad because it meant that that my, you know, lineage uh was kind of kept from something that was uh, you know uh, but I think that's the point I'm actually making though. The raging drums partner. So but but so but but Recognizing then that I'm coming from a teeth or background, it feels to me like you're just flirting with something the slope is slippery. That is pretty slippery. You know, and so You know, it like it feels to me like you're saying, Oh, come on, you know, that woman that just walked by, I'm just looking at her. You know, and so the Bible doesn't come out and say, you know, oh, because you were a little tipsy last night, you know, you're He isn't good as being drunk, but it feels to me like there's a there's a like like when I interact with somebody at a party or wherever it is, you know, and they've just had a little bit, one too many But it feels to me like there's a there's a like like when I interact with somebody at a party or wherever it is, you know, and they've just had a little bit one too many Like in that moment, you know, I'm like, whoa man, uh they're in a different place right now. Like like I'm not in that moment really interacting with them. But what it feels to me like like that, one too many has had one exactly enough. I think I'm okay with one exactly the most important thing. But that's the but that's the line. Like are we trying to get as close to the line you know, uh as we can. Well I think that we we we're you know but that's a question that that probably drives it the question that we're getting at. What is God calling us to and can we enjoy and even come up to the line without feeling research? That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer who I'm rudely interrupting just to tell you what's going on here. I'm Troy Skinner, we're joined by Jerry Gilbert and this is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFM days. And we're talking we probably never will get to the transcendence question because you know the So I think that we run the risk. Yeah. Uh I've used this analogy I think on the show before, but it's been a while, like probably years ago. So it's more of a visual. It's easier to write it on a piece of paper than to try to explain it. But imagine a a standard white piece of paper, the eight and a half by eleven sheet of paper, and that paper represents all that God sanctions in our behavior. Yeah. Everything that falls onto that sheet of paper is allowed by God. Okay. Anything that would fall outside of that piece of paper would be prohibited by God, would be sinful. Okay. We as Christians, I think, have historically particularly in an American and a particularly an American Baptist tradition, have had this tendency to be so worried about slipping over the edge of the paper onto the table where it that we We we hedge ourselves in. We draw a line on the paper. Maybe it's a millimeter, maybe it's an inch, maybe it's three inches from the edge. We create this box on the paper and say we're only going to live inside that box. And I that becomes claustrophobic and straitjacketing for Christians and we deprive ourselves of the fullness of what God has Give it becomes a pretty broad statement. And so here's an example. You mentioned the you know looking at the woman. Well let's imagine that the woman you're looking at is your wife. Okay? You're a former pastor. Right? Once a pastor, always a pastor. You're a pastor. It's certainly okay to look that way at your wife. You have counseled people, I'm sure. I I don't know For sure, but I'm sure you have counseled people that have difficulty of their marriage expressing their sexuality. And I when I talk to my kids about about treating women right I tell them, look, man, it is amazing and once you get there in marriage, uh it's you know there's nothing to do with the other. But how many people have you counseled where I I think stereotypically it's the woman who uh has the issue, but I think it's men too can have the issue where they've been told their whole life, sex is dirty, sex is bad, you can't have sex, don't have sex, sex is bad. The body is oh my gosh, don't look at that body, it's taboo Don't think don't see anything beautiful about that. Don't be turned down by that. It's bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad, bad. And then they get married because turn it on. It's okay. How do you go from that conditioning that might be twenty, thirty people are getting married later now, that forty years of conditioning and all of a sudden you have to go from sex is bad to sex is good in this context? So we've hedged ourselves in so tightly sometimes on these issues that when it's appropriate to allow yourself the full piece of paper You you you can't do it. So I'm wondering if with alcohol or in even with cannabis, maybe Jesus turned the water into wine. It was a party. It was a seven-day wedding party. So drunkenness would be off the paper But having a glass or two of wine or having some this was a seven day party, there was drunkenness involved. One would expect. Especially especially I mean How many how many large things of wine did you do? Now some will try to make the argument that when the Bible talks about wine, uh you know trying to this is a faith debate, so let's get all the issues. Yeah, it it was it was just juice. It wasn't fermented and what the Bible calls wine isn't what we think of as wine. But I gotta say this is gonna be a little too cute, but The reality is if it was just grape juice, man, that was some potent grape juice because people get drunk in the Bible on grape juice if that's the case. Like you know, uh Noah is you know so drunk that he's like Oblivio to the world around him. And what's interesting in that story actually, it relates to this, and just because the Bible is silent on something doesn't mean it sanctions it. So I want to be careful here. However Noah is not criticized in that narrative for being drunk for what it's worth. He might have been in sin for being drunk. But if he was, we don't know that because the Bible explicitly tells us that he was in sin by being drunk. His son was in sin for exposing him a or or or pointing out his exposing and mocking him and and not having r due respect for his his father. So his son is explicitly pointed to and said, That is bad behavior, you're in sin. In fact, generations are gonna pay the price for your sin There's no generational price paid for the drunkenness unless you want to say by extension that his drunkenness allowed the opportunity for his son to then commit his sin. So now we're getting into layers of Anyway, do we have more to say on this that would I think we're there. I think I think I said what was on my heart about it. Okay, so do we want to talk about uh transcendence in three minutes? Actually, in all seriousness we have just a few minutes left And because of this subject of last week's show and this week's show focusing on this kind of issue, and you've talked about it uh just in passing, and I mentioned your purple shirt that you've been wearing like every day lately Uh so why don't we take a couple of minutes you can talk about uh as this show uh airs, I think we're we're in the middle of August, right? So uh you know talk about what this whole purple thing is. You can plug your website or whatever and then we'll we'll end the show. Okay, so uh in Frederick County, more than one a week dies uh from opioids and it was uh across the nation over seventy thousand that uh that passed away from substance use uh uh disorder and and overdose and And so a and that's going on three years that that's been the case. And so the question is, you know, how do you respond to it? What's the what's the right response? And at the heart of the white right response um has been this recognition that for those that Struggle with substance use disorder. Uh isolation kicks in, and um uh isolation and anxiety and depression and hopelessness. And at the heart of that is just this reality that that when something like that grabs a hold of you, you end up oftentimes alone in the struggle and that that it it s it seems like what helps people to either uh come through to a place where they're able to manage their struggles uh with substance use disorder but then also to get to the place uh, you know, where they're where they're back on their feet that that what's needed is for the the Communalik to come around them for the people that care about them. You know, uh one guy I was talking to just recently he said uh He relapsed and uh he was in a local uh halfway house and and he relapsed and and he just looked at me, he said he said, John, he said He said, You don't need this, you know, just just leave me alone. Just uh you know, uh I I just feel hopeless and you could see it in his eyes, you know, his whole countenance. He just Wanted nothing to do with anybody and and in that moment what do I do? Is it polite for me to just leave them alone Or is it in a moment like that where the right thing for me to do is to ignore what he's saying and say, look, I realize you want me to leave you alone, but I'm not going to. So that's what we're saying with Frederick County Goes Purple. We're asking the whole county to dress in purple and to decorate in purple businesses schools. We're trying to get uh uh t-shirts from Frederick County Goes Purple to all of the teachers across Frederick County and businesses that are supporting and sponsoring. And the goal is a common language and a common uh set of goals and a common uniform because that's how you pull people together to uh to beat something that that uh really needs people to come together on. And so uh so the the uh the mayor, the county executive, the mayor of Thurmont and Brunswick and and uh Urbana in uh the various municipalities as well as a whole number of businesses. Frederick uh Memorial Hospital, the Chamber of Commerce is on board, the school system is on board And so uh we need everybody to go uh dress in purple, decorate in purple. We have purple light bulbs that are uh on sale for five dollars apiece that you can uh put in your um In your house and uh and the goal is that we are all talking about this issue and leaning in to those that we know. We all know somebody we've seen that you've been wearing purple for a while already, but what's the window of time we're primarily Really, the month of September. The month of September. September one through September thirty. That's right. We'll have events going on throughout the month as well. Go to Frederick County GoesPurple dot com. Frederick County GoesPurple dot com All right. Well it'll make the uh Baltimore Ravens games a little more interesting because they wear purple. We have actually asked the Ravens to do this, the lieutenant governor to do it for the state, so I don't know if they'll they'll do it, right? Well Jonathan's made my face turn purple a lot of times over the years, so this is a good color for him. What does that mean? Jonathan Schweitzer uh with Cross Bridges, uh Jerry Gilbert, I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. See you next week. Till then, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com. A service of clustered spires. Maryland's golf at its finest. From the 930 WFMD Roy Rogers Restaurant News Center. This is WFMD News. The Frederick County Grand Jury on Friday returned eight indictments, including one against 39-year-old John Hibbert of Knoxville. The panel charged Hibbert with eleven counts each of promotion and distribution of child pornography and possession of child pornography. He's also charged with two counts of sexual abuse of a minor. Hibbert was a public school system employee when he was arrested last month. A tip from the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children led to his arrest Also indicted on Friday was 17-year-old Omar Ba Frederick, who was one of the suspects arrested for a shootout in June on Tawny Avenue and at the Frederick Shopping Center. The indictments moved these cases to the Circuit Court where a trial date will be scheduled. The Walmart Super Center in Sykesville was robbed on Friday morning. The Carroll County Sheriff's Office as deputies were dispatched to the store at 6400 Ridge Road. where they were told a man entered the super center, walked up to the register, displayed a handgun, and demanded money. The employees complied and the suspect left the store. He may have gotten away in a dark-colored Chevy in Palace Sedan. The suspect is described as an African-American male estimated to be in his forties, about five feet five with a thin bill. He had a graying beard with no mustache, wearing a dark blue automotive mechanic suit, dark blue baseball cap with sunglasses. Detectives with the Sheriff's Office Major Crimes Unit responded to the scene and continued to investigate Anyone who has information on this individual is asked to contact the Carroll County Sheriff's Office. And the first black woman to serve as American University Student Government President has won a lawsuit against a neo-Nazi website operator who orchestrated an online harassment campaign against her. A federal judge granted default judgment Friday to Taylor Dumpson. I'm Kevin McManus on Mid-Marylands News Station, 930 WFMD. Fox News, I'm Karen McHugh, Attorney General William Barr, determined to get to the bottom of what led to Saturday's apparent suicide of convicted sex offender Jeffrey Epstein. I was appalled to learn that Jeffrey Abstein was found dead early this morning from an apparent suicide, while in