Mr. Cobb, what are you doing in there today? My goodness, are you here like to rub in that bear's wind? I came here to yeah, well that was part of it and also to show you that I do indeed know how to shave. See, don't I look good? A pretty uh pretty sharp looking uh uh uh face right there. Not a bad uh not a bad shave job by yourself. I have something that I want to share You do? And I'm using your show as a forum. Well go ahead. My show's a show. Alright, I've asked you for five minutes. I hope you'll give me five minutes. Go ahead. But working in radio and especially working with Mark Daniels has its perks. It allows me to effectively shout from all of the rooftops at the same time, and it allows me before all the world is my witness to declare my love for the most incredible woman on the face of the earth. And to ask her, Dina Carol Castellino, to spend the rest of her life at my side as my wife and to allow me to stand at her side forever As her husband. I promise I will try to make you the happiest woman in the world for the rest of your life. I think you just asked her to marry him. You can make me the happiest man in the world. Waiting for an answer. By accepting this ring. Oh, there's a ring. It's probably on herself. Will you marry me? Oh my god. Is that a yes? Yeah. Is that a yes? Alright. Look at that. He just proposed on my show. Wow. I'm shaking too. This magic moment. How sweet it is to be loved by God only knows what I'd be with a I don't want to lose this feel like I think you should know this. I love her with everything I've got. And just when I think I couldn't possibly love her more, I do. I'm in love, there's no other. You get the best of what I got. Oh yeah. I do it in play, I let me fight for you I'll give you Kiss the bride I wanna kiss the bride You are my love and my life Plama I'll be there to protect you and hold you tight. You got my loving baby every single night. The whole love was built to let Yeah, our world was built to let So What you like open eyes while does it come to Arms around me now Cause when I feel you I surrender. Congratulations. Man. I'm touched. I don't know what to do now. I don't know what to say. I have seen feeling a little bit. I don't wanna live without you. To belong, to belong, oh what a feeling to belong. Well hey, congratulations. Congratulations to uh uh the both of you. Mr. Cobb and the future Mrs. Cobb Wow throw-up or something. That's good, I'm sure uh That's totally what you want to say to somebody after they dismarried. You have the urge to throw up. That's very good, dude. Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City into the heart of Gridlock County. We're preaching with impact. It's like Plowing pavement and people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith debate Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating, how Can We Make You Smile? The Faith Debate is online at WFMB. com. Keyword faith. Find links, podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. Troy's blog is your blog, so email Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. He'll post what you send him after removing, of course, all the bad stuff. 45 vlog updates go up each week, nine per day each weekday. So you are encouraged to pop in, see what people are saying on the face debate today. And that's the Dulcet Tones of Dina Carroll from The Morning Show. The Morning Zoo with Bob Miller. I mean the Morning News Express. Hey. Morning Zoo. She's the one that just accepted On air, the wedding for pose, the marriage for pose. By the way, that's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Froy Skinner, and you heard the voice of Dina Carroll opening off the uh opening off the show. At the very open of the show, you heard a voice you've never heard before on this station, that of Mark Daniels, who's uh uh a uh radio icon really in Central Florida, uh known as the Coach on the Air. Uh he and I did a show together for oh my goodness how many years? Five, six years, something like that. Um I was Mr. Cub on that show. Mr. Cub and At the time the show was uh it started out as a weekday show, but then it it expanded. Actually it started out as a twenty two minute a day show Twenty two minutes a day, Monday through Friday. Then it ex and then it expanded all the way to a full half hour. And then after that it went to uh an hour and then two hours and then three hours and then four hours and then six days a week and then seven days a week. Uh and the uh weekend edition wasn't always hosted by Mark, but on Sundays he would uh occasionally host the show. And it was on a sun on those weekend shows Dina was the producer of the show. Yeah, that's how we met. Troy and I met at the same station. Troy actually trained me and I was a producer. We both shared in that and we both shared in the same show. So it was not completely out of the ordinary that he would pop into the station. when I was producing his show. So you were like, hey, would you produce my life? And my children. My meals every night. So I knew she was obviously gonna be there and so I had orchestrated the whole thing to with Mark to let him know that toward the end of his show, uh the final segment of his show I'd come in and And pop the question. And if you were listening if we have time at the very end of today's show, maybe we'll listen to the actual full proposal. Oh honey, please. If you listen to the background, you might be able to hear her clicking a I was typing names into the computer because it was a call-in show. I was doing my job. I was a very good producer. So I made arrangements to to have, you know, uh family members who are out of state if they wanted you to listen on hold 'cause they could hear the radio station on hold and hear the proposal if they were out of r listening range. Again, no internet at the time. At least no internet radio at the time, that's for sure. And so uh I call her father to kinda let him know what's going on and ask for his blessing. And he said no. It was an awkward moment. Yeah. It was quite an awkward moment. But you didn't do that part on the air? So no no goodness. So he said no, so I I But just for the record, because you have to understand, you know, of course my husband Troy is an out outstanding phenomenal man of character. I on the other hand was going through some struggles in my life, made some very poor choices. Okay. So my father, in saying no, was not saying no because Troy was not good enough. He was saying no because I was not good enough for Troy. Which hurt. Ouch, yes, thank you very much. So Troy was like, No, I know all your daughter's issues and I love her and her issues. And I will marry her anyway. How cool is how often it's a little bit Step of faith for you to marry me, dear. Thank you for loving me all these years. Yeah, and likewise. So how often does Dina come in to be on our show? So I thought it would be an opportunity. Not enough. It's always a pleasure. Yes. Now the last two weeks before this week we were talking about the Chris Jackson Mahmoud Abdul. Uh I actually remember vividly I called the front office of the Denver Nuggets m way back when, uh, in in my capacity as doing this sports show. And asked them for comment and asked them to come on the show and ask them to explain themselves and they took a very hard line stance. Say, you know, he's breaking the rules, he's off the team. And I was shocked. I mean he was their starting point guard. It was an important part of the team. Yeah, okay, whatever. Go away. We don't need you. I was stunned and a lot of the callers to t Sports Talk Radio at the time were taking a similar hard line stance. And I felt like nobody was giving this guy any um any opportunity for an out, any sort of a gracious way to to to look everybody was assuming the worst of his of his attitudes, assuming he was anti American, assuming he was You know, d just this big jerk who was trying to draw attention to himself, whatever they thought, and I was rising to his defense. So we talked about that the last couple of weeks, and that brought up a couple of things we didn't have a chance to dive into with any depth, so we have a chance now maybe to address a couple of those things Uh there is the Hobby Lobby uh case that Jonathan uh Sweitzer from Crossroads Valley Church uh saw connection. He wanted to talk about that, and we talked about the Redskins name and the Bob Costas controversy of him coming out during halftime of a of a g NFL game to to basically say that the Washington Redskins should change their name. So anyway Well let's let's go to that one just because we ended with that one the last week. Sure, some continuity. I'm gonna ask you, John, because I'm looking at you right in front of me. Do you see any validity in the stance that I took? Again, this is my opinion. My opinion was if you look to how it was set up, how the name became to be the Washington Redskins, and see how that was the light that that was being called into existence. You look at that, look at the heart of the matter, and then you can proceed forward. From what I understand It was done out of respect. It was done to bring honor and it was received that way. So now all of a sudden, many, many, many years later, we're seeing this as a racist thing when it wasn't originally set up as a racist thing. And so your question is therefore I mean your your s response is let it alone Redskins isn't racist, so let's not make it racist. Yes, you're making things you're making it a racist thing when it wasn't that way to begin with. All right, so the way that I view it is this that culture, language, all of that is fluid and is constantly changing. And I'm okay with that. What bothers me in this situation, and so uh this is where my my answer is going to be not just yes or no, but but uh try to bring in some nuance to it. Uh the the what bugs us so much is that there is a portion of the nation that has aggressively moved away from any identification whatsoever with Judeo Christian, you know, values and um uh you know the the the good old uh uh um patriotic, you know, standing for your nation and and and what it what it means, you know, that we're a force for good on the earth. And in our university system there has been a deep and powerful stream against all that that has produced a whole new culture. And that in in that whole new culture, the term Redskins is racist. And this is precisely why it's at the heart of The culture war in the United States right now, why there's such a big shindig about it, because so many of us are saying, ah, stop it This progressivism is going too far. You guys are changing everything. We're losing our our anchor. We're losing our moral compass and everything's changing. Uh whereas the other people are saying, what are you talking about? You guys are stuck in the past And uh and are are bigots and backward and and you just need to you know get caught up with you know the new progressive uh worldview. And so uh the reality is that for a lot of people because they buy into a progressive liberal um worldview that is being taught in the in the uh colleges and universities, it's offensive. And I think it's really offensive to them. And it's it's legitimately become so. to bring honor and respect and to and to elevate. So so this is what I s I've been saying more and more on this show that the place where your worldview and their worldview diverged in the woods is like way back up in the clouds where nobody ever wants to go. And so we sit And their worldview They believe that all historical documents should not be read with an intention to figure out what the author at the time meant by it. Are you kidding me? It's like at the core of their worldview, the fact that you even think otherwise about it makes you a backward bigot that makes no sense. In their mindset, the fact that you're doing that means that you're stuck in uh in a place where you can't have additional perspectives brought in and what they say is that the whole point is how does it affect The watcher, the viewer. Beauty is in the eye of the beholder. The the meaning of a document is in the heart of the listener. And all I'm saying is that that worldview is pervasive, and the fact that you disagree with it From their perspective, makes you the idiot. Oh, no wonder I get called a bigot all the time and a racist. And I'm like, what? What are you talking about? No, seriously, I do on a regular basis. And I don't understand why. Now it's a good idea. cares to respect the fact that there was a divergence and that once once you have a different opinion, logically they've ended up where they are. Meaning it's logical But it doesn't make sense to us because we've logically been following the path that we feel like is the right path. You're gonna miss it by mi by hundreds of miles. But I honestly to me I really don't care what name they pick. They could pick Piggly Wiggly. You know, I don't I honestly, because I care so little about sports So it's not even about the name. Change the name if it if if it's gonna really cause such an issue, whatever change the name. My thing is Don't label me as something when you don't even know me. You have no idea who I am and you are j the ironic thing is they're saying that I'm judging them and how judgy can you be? Hello, you just judged me and put something on me that I don't even ascribe to at all. Everybody in the culture war is judging everybody else based on their own worldview. Exactly. So they say we Christians do that, but then they do the same thing and they're just saying that's how people are, and so just deal with it. Right. Perfect segue. Jonathan Sweitzer. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Dina Carroll from the Morning News Express with Bob Miller, heard weekdays Monday through Friday, 5 a. m. to 9 a. m. here on This same radio station, nine thirty WFMD. So yeah, you want to talk about who's on the air. Yeah. Whether Frank in the basement is talking or not. So the Hobby Lobby case. Hobby Lobby case. Yeah, you want to talk about this a couple weeks ago. So the question in the Hobby Lobby case is whether or not a um an a company can take on the rights of uh having the freedom of religion or whether or not You personally have the right of freedom of religion, but a company is not allowed to have the rights of freedom of religion. Specifically meaning Hobby Lobby is a is a company, it's it's a uh it's held closely at the corporate level by family members, all of whom are of the same religion. And yet they have hundreds of people working for them. But because it's held so closely by family members that are all Christian, do they have a right uh when they're picking which uh insurance policy they're gonna offer the people that their employees, uh do they have the right to pick one that that only allows certain forms of contraception meaning that many of the women that work for them that don't hold their same Christian values uh end up getting only Christian benefits but not benefits that would be non Christians. So do they have a right? And the Supreme Court ruled that the family behind Hobby Lobby has the right under our constitution to make that choice for those that work for them. Okay, my question is, and maybe So forgive my ignorance. Under Obamacare, don't they have the right to seek insurance elsewhere in order to get the coverage that they're seeking? No. We have to vote on it first. What exactly is it? uh program you have to provide certain kinds of uh women's health care issue stuff which would include some uh contraceptive stuff that certain people, the Roman Catholics for example, might push back on pretty hard. And the Obamacare uh rules seem to say no, you have to The point is you don't get Obamacare if your company is still providing insurance. But can't you choose to not take your company's insurance in order to get Obamacare? That's my question. Okay. Right. And then ironically, it's a good thing. It's interesting though that that that you say that they should have that choice Are you right, so I'm I don't know where you stand on this. Are you of the opinion that the government should be providing No. Okay, so you But since we're stuck with that But since we're stuck with it, that as soon as it gets passed the whole argument changes. What are you gonna do? You have to make so So now we're dealing with okay, so we're stuck with Obamacare, this is what we have in our nation right now. So how do we make the best of that? So if we're if they're coming saying, Well, I don't want what's in my private insurance from my company Give me the option to go to Obamacare. I don't have a problem with that. Right. Because we because we have Obamacare now. So the question is how do we even get to that argument? Because in my mind That means that the government is taking my tax money to offer abortions. They're taking your tax money anyway. Yeah, but but that's the point From the beginning that that we conservatives are saying that they have no business taking taking on money to do. uh in and had it built uh had contraception and abortion built into it at all these different levels. It is built into it, correct? And that's where Hobby Lobby along with Liberty University, okay, you know, along with the Catholic Church, right? All these different organizations are saying, wait a second You can't force us to offer something that is against our conscience to offer. Right. Right. And so then that's the whole point. Then do you think that's the thing? And I agree with that, but the problem is The reasoning behind I think they made the right decision for the wrong reasons. Because they w they referenced uh a previous decision that had to do with uh political contributions in which corporations are treated as individuals, as people Meaning that they have to be able to do that. Tim May and I disagree about Tim May who does the afternoons now from three to six on WFMD, uh has a completely different view on this than I do. And we've we've welcomed Tim on the show. We're trying to figure out the scheduling and we'll have him on pretty soon hopefully to talk about that. So we don't want to maybe uh spend too much time on that. Actually, you know what? We're out of time. Uh I promised at the beginning that if we had time, and we do, if I pause here, to listen to the actual full proposal. We incorporated it into our uh ceremony, our wedding ceremony, and so it has um some music underneath it and stuff. We actually might make it a little more palatable to uh today's So you're coming up on which anniversary? This is our twenty two years ago. I'm Troy Skinner. Show has been sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Until next week, God bless. A friend of mine in Illinois is getting married in a couple of months and uh He caught a few of his friends off guard with the announcement. And he told me that one of his friends asked him how he knew that the woman he had just gotten engaged to was the woman that he was meant to spend the rest of his life with. And he said he used to ask the same question: how will I know? when I found the right one, the one that's perfect for me. And he was told by someone else, he'll just know. So when his friend asked him that question, he answered, I just know. In the past, of course, uh he wasn't very satisfied with the answer he wanted to know. What do you mean I'll just know? How will I know? When will I know? What are the signs and symptoms? But now he understands. There are signs and symptoms and signals, but there are so many and they're so strong that they're almost beyond and actually are beyond the ability of The human mind to fully comprehend, at least on the plane that we use to communicate. It's uh the kind of thing that goes to the farthest reaches of our ability to comprehend, and we have such a fragile grasp on it, such a newness of feeling that we can't adequately describe or explain. To someone else, what the whole thing's all about. And thus we get the answer, you just know. Well, I just know. I found that special someone. She's the most beautiful person I've ever known, the most beautiful person I could possibly know. She's absolutely gorgeous, but the depth of her beauty comes from inside. Her love, caring, kindness, and simple goodness are so genuine and so deep that at first you can't believe she's real. Attempts to compare her to others quickly. Fall flat because there's no person alive with a heart like hers. Generous thoughts permeate her entire being. She does more than just wish others well. She sacrifices part of herself to make those wishes come true. She's special. And she makes me feel special. I love her with everything I've got. And just when I think I couldn't possibly love her more, I do. I find more love, a deeper love than before. She's the one I'll spend the rest of my life loving and with her continue to find new levels of love. And I've tried here to adequately explain uh my feelings and her worth, but no matter what words I find, they just don't do her or my feelings justice. Let me say again that I know she's the one. Because I just know. I wish I could scream from all the rooftops in the world how wonderful life is for me now, but no building is tall enough and my voice wouldn't carry far enough But working in radio has its perks. It allows me to effectively shout from all of the rooftops at the same time and it allows me before all the world is my witness To declare my love for the most incredible woman on the face of the earth. And to ask her, Dina Carol Castellino, to spend the rest of her life At my side as my wife. And to allow me to stand at her side forever as her husband. I promise I will try to make you the happiest woman in the world for the rest of your life. You can make me the happiest man in the world. By accepting this ring. Dina? Will you marry me? Oh my God. Say yes. Oh, I love you so much. Oh, I am shaking. Oh my God. I keep shaping like a leap. Oh my God. Oh, I feel like I'm gonna I have to go throw up or something.