Hmm, my headphones sound really weird to me. Not sure why that is. I switched out from the ones I used last week. I should probably switch back. This is the face debate on 930 WFMD, also on the FM at 99. 9 HD2, and of course all across the globe. On the World Wide Web at WFMB. com and click on the listen live thing if you're catching it live. And if you missed it live or you want to catch previous episodes, go to the face debate page and you can access the uh most recent uh podcasts most easily that way. And if you uh want to find the older uh episodes more quickly go to the audio belt section of the website. Uh and of course Uh if you want to find out more about me and the gang that's part of this show now, uh go to uh my church's website. My name, by the way, is Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, and our website is Household of Faith in Christ dot com. And I'm joined this week by the Razvis, Imran, and Daniel, and we're going to be focusing on something this week that is really an area of specialty uh for the RAS you're talking about parenting issues and marriage issues and I think this first uh first we're gonna focus more on on marriage kinds of things. But before I I Uh yeah, get into all that. I've I've been meaning meaning to do this the last couple of weeks and I keep forgetting, so I'm gonna do it right now before I forget. Uh I've got to give a couple of shout-outs to people that gave us shout outs. Some people have gone out of their way to let the management here know they appreciate what we do on the air and that is so much appreciated and greatly valued. Thank you so much. So a particular uh a rather noteworthy note from a gentleman named Derek Uh if you're listening to this, thank you so much. Um not only did you take the time to write, but it was very uh artfully written. Uh I can tell uh by what you wrote that you're a gentleman and I I appreciate that. I'm not sure why you're listening to this show if you're a gentleman, but uh we thank it and thank you nonetheless. And uh Cindy and Ben say that they listen uh together every week and they're uh they have great gratitude for what we are able to teach them. them on this show. I'm not sure. They must have us confused with some other show if they think they're learning something. But anyway, seriously, it is it's always an encouragement um for us to to hear that there's somebody listening. I usually joke if somebody says they're listening. I said I knew there was one. I knew it. I knew there was one. Now I know who the one is. Obviously it's more than one. Uh and I have don't have access to seeing these numbers anymore. But once upon a time when I had access to seeing how the ratings would do, uh our time slot actually has the faith debate time slot has always done very well Um it wasn't unusual for this show to be the highest rated show on Sundays on the radio station. I'm not sure if that's the case now or not, but there was a time when that was true. Uh actually there was a time when uh the Faith Debate was the highest rated program on the entire weekend on the radio station. And there were only three shows on the entire radio station Monday through Sunday. uh that actually had better ratings than this show did. So it's it's made its dent here and there over the years. Um I'm not sure who's listening now. Um you know times have changed and the need for information and stuff has changed. Whether we're more or less relevant than we used to be, I I can't say. But in the in this new age of uh controversy and uh anger and uh and so forth, it is m even more important for those that do appreciate this type of uh talk that they should reach out and let the radio station know that they appreciate it because we're under attack from all different areas. And to be able to share the truth, yeah, that's that's important. So if you do find this uh you know uh uh uh uh appealing to you and uh meeting your needs, then it would be nice to spread the word and also share share it with the radio station so they continue to let us uh talk so they don't shut us out Yeah, and I don't want to give the impression that we're under pressure from the station management or anything like that. I you know, they haven't said, hey, you know, uh watch what you say you're gonna be off the air. But given the climate of the times, it wouldn't take much maybe for them to feel like, you know, it's a it's a half hour on Sunday, how important is it really? It's not worth the grief All these people that don't want to be hearing the hearing that uh what I what I think is the truth. What I'm strongly persuaded is the truth. Um But they gotta make money. They gotta satisfy their their their listen their overall listeners and their their their clients. They would love to hear from you. Yes So if you're a fan of this show, if you're the one, I know there's another one, if you're that other one that's a fan of the show, uh reach out to the radio station, let them know you appreciate what we're doing. And I will say this, um if there's something specific as far as a topic, you know, a particular biblical question or a cultural question, you'd like to get a a a uh a a kind of a faith-based answer on. Let me know what the uh what the topic or question is and we'll work it into our our uh into our show at some point down the road. Yes we really appreciate your feedback so any topics, any questions you have. And if you're just looking for uh you know, just uh biblical answers and or or you're dissatisfied with w what you're finding out there, reach out to us. Uh we're not gonna twist your arm, but we're gonna tell you what the Bible says and give you, you know a a good straight answer. Now that's the voice of Imron Rasby by the way. You haven't heard Daniels yet, but the next voice you probably will hear will be Daniels, so you'll know which voice goes with which name. Hello So Well we went uh let's get back on topic for the show today. So um the Rasbies have a uh a ministry that started, I don't know, twenty years ago probably. It's been a while Um Conquered by Love Ministries. They have a website, conqueredbylove. org. You can check it out. If you go to their website, they have a section where there's resources and you can find a whole bunch of books. And there's, I don't know, several dozen books in there. And I went through and looked at them and I realized that, you know, they're all different and they got their slightly different slants and stuff, but you could sort of categorize a handful. Like there were three or four books that were mostly focusing on this and three or four books that were mostly focusing on that. And so I thought it'd be a good idea to maybe tackle some of these things uh on the show. Um partly because If you haven't noticed, the world's gotten kind of crazy in the last couple of years and there's a lot of stress. A lot of stress in households, a lot of stress on relationship A lot of a lot of uh children have a lot of needs that they maybe didn't have three or four years ago. And a lot of uh husbands and wives are having a hard time. And we also have a culture that's undercutting what it really means to be family, what it really means to be a husband and a wife, what marriage really means. And so I thought it'd be good to to provide the underpinnings while at the same time providing some good pastoral kind of counseling support for people who might have some questions. So the first thing on the list here, you have uh a handful of books that are about marriage relationships Uh you might have more than this, but the ones I saw, one's called heart transplant, the prerequisite for a healthy marriage. Uh is your marriage hitting bad cell areas? And then I guess some of the books have workbooks, and this is one of them, a workbook uh that goes along with it is your marriage hitting bad salarios. So why don't we start with uh the prerequisite for a healthy marriage Well the prerequisite is that uh you do have to have a different heart. Okay, if you're getting married because of you what you think is love, it may just be lust I mean, it uh we model things after what God does. What does God do for us? He loved us while yet we were sinners, right? He chose to love us We weren't lovable, but he chose to love us. So let's back up for a minute. If you're saved, then a prerequisite to to get married should be to be saved and have the other spouse be saved. Um it it's if you are get saved after you're married, then that's that's a little bit different, but but if you're already saved then it's it's really important the Bible teaches us don't be unequally yoked. So you should be both saved if you're gonna be in a healthier uh marriage. And for the uninitiated, saved would be uh shorthand Christian speak for those who follow Jesus as their Lord and Savior. They recognize they're a sinner in in in in need of eternal rescue Um I don't want to presume in today's secular culture that uh somebody who's never been to a church doesn't really understand about religion is saved, saved from what? Saved from your sin, save from the consequences of your sin. Uh God is love, but in his Yeah. So Daniel said there's two aspects here. One is if you are not yet married and you're saved, meaning you're a follower of Jesus Christ knowing that he died for your sins and that is the only way you're getting to heaven. Then you should also be looking for a spouse that is equally yoked, that has the same heart. Otherwise you're already starting off with a problem that's waiting to happen But let's say you already married and you realize that you had a uh a problem with sin and uh you realize that Jesus is the only answer and you gave your life to him and you're saved, but your spouse is not. Then what do you do? Um, well you still choose to love your spouse. Is your spouse lovable? Probably not. They're a sinner. They're probably gonna be a problem. And but This is God chose to love us while yet we were sinners. We need to choose to love our spouse. All these people say, Well, I don't love my spouse anymore. I fell in love and I fell out of love. Well, that's not really an accurate representation of what love is. Love is a a ch a choice that you desire and you choose to do something. And so it sounds like you're already beginning to touch on some of the bad sell area things a little bit too. And and and that's probably where we should spend a lot of our time. particularly given who is probably the most likely listener to a radio station in a show like this. They're probably already of an age where they're married and uh th n probably not a lot of teenagers and twenty somethings maybe listening to this show right now. But in case. Mm-hmm. Or let's say their parents or grandparents they want to give good advice to the younger generations about what to look for in a spouse and what boxes to check, you know, kind of thing. What are some of the really boilerplate kinds of prerequisites for identifying who a good uh mate would be? Well, I would say the first thing would would be whether whether they love God and want to give their life to God and uh they know that that's the only way to be uh saved from the sin and the and the punishment of death. That's a prerequisite. How important is it for there to be some sort of a like a psychological match where their temperament is similar or complementary? Or they have right uh similar attitudes about how to spend or save money, you know, those sorts of practical kinds of things. Are those not that important in your view? They they can be important. It depends on m probably what level of importance you assign to them, uh especially things to do with money and so on. Yes, you want to make sure that people can be wise with money, but that's uh If if certain things that are not biblical things are really, really important to you, then maybe they should be less important. Um maybe the the the the Bible and and the the other person's salvation and their theology and and what they believe spiritually about things, that should really be the the most important. And there's practical things, right? If you're uh getting getting married or you g and they you live in different states, you know, which state you're gonna live in, you know, there's there's practical things obviously. But Yeah, but most people look to change their spouse. Right? My spouse is not good enough here, or does not do this, or does not do that, and if only my spouse did this, then it would be better Well, I think the first place you need to change is yourself. Uh you need to worship God together. Take the time to worship God together, take time and spend time in prayer and worship. And if your spouse is not worshiping God with you, okay, still take time and worship and pray for yourself. And then be long suffering. God is long suffering. Model what God does first. Be long suffering. Because if you're immediately going to, well, what can your spouse change first? then you're not long suffering. You have to be long suffering. Or a lot of you may be listening to this, you may have a really long list of you know, I do if if if you're a guy, look all these things I do for her, and she doesn't ever do you know, XYZ. I I do this and this and this and this. You know. And everybody listening, you know, if we're human nature, we probably have a list of you can think i in any relationship, you could probably think of all the things you did for this other person that they didn't they weren't grateful enough or they didn't reciprocate. You gotta forget all of that. Because you have to start with the premise that they're a sinner and they're always gonna fail your expectations. So don't start with uh those uh you know expectations. Have um the m a servant mind of look I'm committing to serve this person. I'm not expecting anything in return. My uh I'm choosing to love and serve this person for the rest of my life in a marriage, that's what you're doing And so you have to be long-suffering and you have to speak good about your spouse. You cannot change your spouse. The Holy Spirit can change your spouse. But what you can do is work on yourself And the more you work on yourself, the more likely your spouse may change because they'll see the difference. I'll give you a good story. My wife, um, when she was very young, uh her mother used to take her to the church every Sunday and her father did not go He Sunday was the day of rest and he was gonna just stay in bed and rest and the last and do all that. But so the mother and uh cup two daughters went to church. And one day the pastor said, You know, I see a lot of women in here and not a lot of men So all those women in here that don't have their husbands with them, I don't want you to come to church next week. And I was like, Uh uh what? And he said, I want you to go home. And next Sunday, cook your husband the best breakfast you possibly can, that you can just love your husband, take care of your husband, and he should be your focus, not coming to church. And so my wife's uh mother said, Okay, I'll do that And so next Sunday comes along and uh she gets up, makes a great big breakfast and just you know, gets everything ready and uh for her her husband and husband says, Aren't you going to church? She said, No. Why not? The pastor said I shouldn't come to church, I should take care of you. And his ears immediately poked up and he said, What kind of pastor is that? Saying not to come to church He said, Well my first most important duty is to you as a wife and love you and take care of you. So that's what I'm doing. So immediately he got up and they went to church. So then and he got more involved and he realized, hey, there's more to this thing If you lu choose to love somebody, things can change. So that's where a reverse psychology, I guess, paid off, right? Yeah, but it wasn't really reverse psychology. It was actually loving that person, not just trying to capture the person to go to church. You know, aren't honey, aren't you gonna go to church with us? Aren't you gonna go to church with us? Now it was like, no, my focus is you. You know, that's my focus. And the same with m in marriage. Your focus should be your spouse. After God of course, but your spouse. And if your focus is your spouse, regardless of what they do things will change because they they just do tend to be that way and the Holy Spirit will work on on your spouse's heart and hopefully it will go that direction. Even if it doesn't, even if it you still have to be long suffering. It may take a long time, may take years. But you know what? We have a very short time here in eternity. If you think about it, the time on earth is a blip in eternity. So whatever time it is, if you're appointed to suffer, then suffer. But suffer willingly and praising and glorifying God throughout it all. It is all for the glory of God. What are some of the most common s uh bad cell alias that you've run into when you when you're when you're out on the speaking church I know you talk about the materials in your books and you obviously you're pastors and so you're counseling people. What are some of those common bad stuff? One one of the big things that people don't seem to realize is No matter where you came from and where your uh spouse comes from, you're from different cultures. And the different cultures are going to clash. And there are things that may uh come up that you didn't even think to bring up before you got married and and you don't even see why it's a big deal now, but because you were brought up a little differently, you are in a different culture. You don't have to be you know, my my parents are actually from born on opposite sides of the world, so they have v had vastly different cultures to begin with Um but that and and there's there's probably some uh a lot a lot of stories there. Bunny stories, yes. But the if you recognize that you're you you have a different culture and different upbringing And the way that your spouse does it is not wrong, it's just different from your way. You know, unless there's actually a biblical thing you can bring up, say, hey, no, actually the Bible says this, so we have to do it that way. But mo m most or or at least many differences culturally are not wrong, it's just, oh, that's that's a different way of doing things. And our instinct is, oh well that's not the way I was brought up. Well the Okay, it's true, but that doesn't mean it's it's a bad thing. And so you can be as simple as washing dishes, it could be as simple as, you know, d how you use the toothpaste tube. Okay? All these things are are different and you have expectations because you expect certain people everybody to behave a certain way, the way you behave. But they don't, they behave differently. And so your expectations are not met. So there's a there's a um a work uh the workbook we do with uh with a lot of people that we uh we counsel in in marriage and it's called the uh expectations uh exercise. So Troy, just picture this. Make a list of all the things you expect from your wife. And then make a second list of all the things you think your spouse expects from you. Okay? And then you can prioritize them saying, okay, these expectations are biblical and these are not, and uh you know we will prove it. But it's not even that necessary. It's more of just expectation. What do you expect and what do you think your spouse expects from you And you'll find out that a lot of things that you thought your spouse expected from you, they don't. you know, breaking your back trying to take care of this and they don't even recognize it and they don't o they don't even appreciate it and it starts festering in you and making you angry and bitter. And that's not your intention uh the intention of your spouse. They didn't even recognize that you were trying to do something for them. Real quick example with was with uh my wife and I, for years I would go into the bathroom and she brushes her teeth. She brushes her teeth crazy, like three, four times a day. Every time she eats something she brushes her teeth. But she would squeeze the toothpaste right in the middle and just leave it that way And I would come in and roll it up and straighten it out, ri you know, make sure all the toothpaste is the top. Uh all the time for for years I was doing that. And she never once thanked me. You know what? She never even realized I did it. So it was an expectation I thought that she m she had of me that I was fixing things for her, and she never even realized I did it. So there's little things like that and there's many other examples, but that expectations exercise really goes a long way. And one of the things is the men will need probably two weeks to come up with all the expectations because we don't keep everything in the front of our brain. Women should probably do this in a matter of twenty minutes, put all the expectations down and have it all laid out. And so if you're doing this exercise, I strongly recommend uh wives, give your husbands you know, a couple weeks to get it together and and take time because i it does take time to remember all the things that they expect and then just be patient and then take the time to hear and and compare what the expectations really are Does that mean that the husbands really aren't as focused on the expectations or are they only worry about the expectations when each box gets popped over? Yeah, when it comes up then we think about it. Right. Right. So we are still just as worried about it. We just can think about one thing at a time Um and that's that's you know part of that made us made us a little different. That's how we're different. And the and the box opens up when when there is a prompt, right? If that thing doesn't happen the way it's supposed to happen, then that box opens up and all the junk comes out of that box at the same time. You know, you've never done this. You've it may it may not be never, but that's what we think, right? You've never done this, you've always done this. Never and always are really strong words, and we tend to use them way too often. Yeah, I remember when I was uh college age and I went and stayed at my grandparents for a while while I was uh going to school and um I never knew this but I um until then she w she didn't say anything because she was just over it And she was mad and she yelled at me because apparently her expectation was that after somebody takes a shower, they take uh after they're all cleaned and dried off and stuff, they take the towel and then they wipe down the entire interior of the shower. Well, I never did that growing up. But she just assumed everybody does that and the fact that I wasn't doing that and I was her grandson so clearly I must have been raised the same way she raised her Daughter, right, but her daughter never mentioned that to her son. And she was so mad and so disrespectful and so rude You're doing it on purpose. Yeah. Just to make her bag. Yeah, I'm stay you know, y I'm letting you stay at my house and you're purposely, you know, leaving the shower a mess. And I was like, what are you talking about? So So this uh expectation exercise actually works really well with husbands and wives and also with uh couples that are about to get married and even with parents and children, you know, with teenagers. Do the exercise with a teenager. You're having trouble trouble, difficulty talking with them, communicating with them. What does your son or daughter expect a parent to be? What kind of things do they expect from their parent? And what do you think what do does that child uh think that we expect from them? It makes them think And it really opens it up. And this isn't necessarily just a a once in your whole lifetime thing, right? Maybe you should have a Well if you're if you're married or you're just married uh or just about to get married, maybe you do it and then if once you have kids you may want to do it again for sure. 'Cause expectations have changed now that they're still. And and it doesn't hurt. Uh this it's basically basic communication. But it lays down the framework for good communication where you're not just accusing somebody, you're saying what do you think you my what are my expectations and what do I think your expectations are? And you're comparing. So it's a great dialogue starter And one of the things, and you know, I'm gonna word this a little carefully since we're on the radio, but uh nuptials, uh sometimes that becomes an issue and the stereotype is, you know, the the the husband wants uh some uh physical gratification w much more frequently than the than the wife does. It's not always the case, but that's kind of the um I guess that's the kind of thing that you might need to t re express your expectations shortly after the the wedding, right? Because The man might have felt like, Oh, I want it this often and the woman might have thought, Oh, I'm fine with it being this often and then two months into the marriage is like, Yeah, that's not working. Maybe maybe the man needs it more than he thought he was gonna needs a strong word. Uh desires it s more often than he originally thought that he would, or or Maybe th the f the script is flipped and it's maybe the the the the the wife is more uh amorous than the than the husband than than she was expecting. So you gotta Money and sex tend to be two big ones. Yeah. And household chores is like a a third, a distant third of my own. With money there is there is something that's that is important. That this kind of leads into our uh we have the financial planning uh side of it as well. But the with m with money what we found that is one of the biggest um angst in the marriage. And Let's face it, it doesn't matter who is listening, you and your spouse think about money differently and your priority of spending things is different. What's important to you, Troy, to spend things on is different than what your wife wants to spend things on. That doesn't make it wrong. Now there's there are different cases, you know, s somebody can be just an easy spender and not really think about savings, and somebody else can be a really big saver, but then not enjoy the money that that that God's given you to to enjoy. So have have that try to have that not be a a cause for um uh for for argument You know, it's set set boundaries and say here's here's what we're gonna do and and sometimes it it is helpful to have, okay, here's the the shared expenses, but then We each have our own, you know, whatever amount of money, uh budget, and I'm not gonna micromanage what you spend money on and don't micromanage what I spend money on, as long as we're within, you know, re you know, big boundaries So many times that makes a big difference is that all the shared expenses get paid and then whatever's left and you divide that, you know, equally and you spend yours, I spend mine and and not argue. You might spend something uh spend it on something that I would think is a total waste of money. Your candy bar was three dollars, really? Couldn't you go to Costco and buy a cheaper candy bar? So there's that that type the little things is it really adds up and so try to try to you know let those be. Yeah, the money thing's a big deal. I um there's so much more that could be said, should be said, I'm sure, uh and there's resources like I said. We're gonna we've got like a minute left, so I'm gonna I'm gonna draw our thoughts here. Next week we're gonna transition unless there's some things that are pressing that we're gonna be able to do that. As we must say about marriage next week, we can lead off next week's show with it. Otherwise we'll transition into the uh some some parenting stuff Uh and I want to welcome you and encourage you to go check out the resources that they have available at at their website, uh, concertbylove. org is the the Razzy's uh ministers website. And uh my church's website which will connect to some actually you can find their website through my website. Household of Faith in Christ dot com and of course WFMB. com. Uh we'll page there and too well. It's a lot of information. The simplest thing to try to go to householdface in Christ dot com and find what you're looking for there. Thank you for the rap. God bless