We affirm that in instances where a Christian's responsibilities to God and his fellow man are not hindered. The Christian may choose to obey some unjust commands when such commands can be obeyed without engaging in sin. This may be because compliance with the command is done under duress Because compliance is expedient or because compliance is rendered in an exaggerated fashion in order to further expose the wickedness of the command. That is article number seven For the Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates, Biblical Ethics, and Authority, we looked at the preamble in the first six articles last week. We're picking up with article number seven. This week we'll see how far we get. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930, WFMD. Thank you so much for spending part of your Sunday morning with us. Or if you're listening later on the podcast, thank you for spending part of whatever day it is. We appreciate it very much. Um you can contact uh me and connect through social media and all that sort of stuff through my website, household of faith in Christ dot com. Well it's my church's website, I'm the pastor there, Household of Faith in Christ. dot com that that connects to this show and social media and everything you'd ever want to know and then some probably about me and the church and this show and that sort of thing. Joined this week again by David Forcy, he pastors a church that meets in a whole bunch of different locations throughout the the uh Frederick County, Washington County area, kind of the Potomac region. Uh I like to call it the uh the Wackamo Church, but uh I think the multi-location Potomac area church might be a uh a a better kind of a name. And Daniel Razvy Uh he's also a pastor with a church in Thermont. They don't really have a name, but they do have a ministry called Concord by Love Ministries, and they're online at conquered by love dot org. And so I just read number seven Uh I just wanna say last week we commented uh over and over again on how well written this all is. Um This one didn't get jazz me as much, but it's not that it's not well written, but this one didn't seem quite as punchy as the other ones. But anyway, what do you think about the content of it? Well this is one of those well you may do this if you want to. It's it's Does the Christian have the any choice at all on the matter? Can he choose to obey something just because he wants to, even though you're not required to. And you know, it talks about commend as being done under duress or it's uh expedient, it it's helpful in some other way. I thought the last thing is interesting. Because compliance is rendered in an exaggerated fashion in order to further expose the wickedness of the command. Uh y you've heard the term malicious compliance type. Yeah. Right. You get a you get an annoying electric bill, so you pay it in pennies, right? And you bring a truckload of pennies to the electric company. I've I've seen people do that. That sort of sort of thing is kinda what they're talking about. So they give proof text for that. I thought that was funny. So I I went and looked at one. Matthew five is what they talk about. Which is the whole passage that says, uh duh uh you know, if somebody slaps you on the right cheek, turn the other one. And if somebody sues you to take your tunic, take them to your cloak also. Uh if somebody makes you walk a mile, go two miles So the thing and I I like that they put this there because I I talk about this a lot when I preach. It it many people get this whole passage wrong. They think, oh well Christian needs to be humble and needs to just give everything and and and not ever resist or fight back or do anything, you know, self defense uh a lot of people that are pacifists use this passage a lot, saying self defense is not a biblical concept Well no. Slaps you on his right cheek that's a a slap in the face is an insult, not a p uh not a um injury. And so when you turn the other cheek and say, Hey, go ahead and slap me again, you're uh in first of all shaming them because now you're forcing them to use their unclean hand is what they were they were saying to culture. But then think about the going one mile, go with them two miles. Well the soldier can force you to walk a mile. But he can't make you walk two miles. In fact if he's if he gets caught making you walk two miles, then he's gonna get in trouble. So you're insulting him and shaming him by doing that. So all these things were ways for you to actually uh show shame to the one that's causing this these punishments. It has nothing to do with defense or whatever. So it is actually a great example of malicious compliance, I think. And I I'm I'm really glad they brought that uh verse in there. I I never thought of it in that specific way. How about you, David? Any thoughts on this particular article? That was what I was looking for last week. Couldn't think of the word. These are called articles. Article seven. Um Yeah, I mean I uh right, so they're making the point that hey, uh even if an a an authority is is outside their jurisdiction. You have no right, but I'll do it anyway. Right. It's not it's not wrong, unless of course it's sin, which they say here, uh it's not wrong to obey to go along with someone who is outside of their jurisdiction if and then they give you know these possible scenarios And these are not exhaustive. I don't think they're exactly exhausted. Exhaustive. But we were talking off-air about um if if some random old man says something to you, you c w want to honor him even though he doesn't have authority over you. because you think it's it's a good thing to do. Right. That that might be this might be kind of related to that, right? Where he might say, Hey, hold the door open for me and you don't have any obligation to do so, but you're gonna do so because it's the right it's nice and it's it's there's other things that could be gained by it, you know, such as his respect, maybe the opportunity to witness and maybe other people see uh a Christian way to behave and that's uh humble and so on. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Sure. You know what? No no sweat, but yeah, I got you covered. That'll be under duress. But but if he shoots you in the right cheek, do you have to turn the left? Only if I can. So number eight says So we have uh this is a denial. We deny that any human or group of humans who claim to be civil authorities are in that's interesting. who claim to be civil authorities are in actuality recognized by God to be civil authorities solely by virtue of their claims to that authority. or the claims of those who support them. Cough, cough, alternate electors, cough, cough. Yeah, that's something that uh feels. That's been talked about a lot in these uh Kind of on the nose of these days and times. Not necessarily. Does the uh does the bureaucratic state fit under this Yeah, I I wonder if they're talk trying to talk about like the constitutionally recognized areas of authority of government and then the bureaucrats that overstep those bounds. And well I and I mean it wasn't the the bureaucrats didn't overstep their bounds. It was the the those elected who delegated what they couldn't at could constitutionally didn't have permission to delegate to bureaucrats, right? Right. They give pa they gave power that they didn't actually have. Correct, yeah. So that they could have that power. Yeah, not everybody not everyone who says they are in authority actually is necessarily in authority just but because they said so. Right. Why are you gonna do it? Because I said so. That's not necessarily gonna cut it is what they're saying here. Yeah. I think we move on to number nine. We affirm That true civil authorities are legitimate to the extent they, as appointed by God, bear the sword to fulfill the description of what civil authorities are in Scripture, namely that they punish evil and praise good according to their civil office. and jurisdiction. So the the counterpoint to that is what I've heard a lot of people point out and th th th there is a something to be said. For when Romans thirteen was written, the the famous passage that says, Obey government because they punish evil and praise good it was written during the time of Nero, who famously punished a lot of good people, um Christians, right? So What how do you deal with that? Where it's it's Paul's talking about the civil government is supposed to punish the people. In a in a lot of Paul's experience, though, the civil government is is is rescuing him from right, you go back through Acts, right. And a lot of Paul's experiences that he's had, the civil government, and even just you know, when he's in Jerusalem, right, and there's a whole you know He says our there's a whole truth that when it's found out that there's a plot against Paul, escort him, right? Right. So I I mean I I think to be fair, like this is this really is before the Roman persecution. When talk about secret service protection, that's a pretty pretty big detail. It is, it is. And um so so if I were to if I were to try and communicate what they're saying here, I think what they're saying here is that the The civil authority uh only that they only have the authority to do what God says is good. And if God says that's not a good thing, then that's outside their jurisdiction. Then then they're stepping past their jurisdiction. Yeah, because Romans thirteen it goes on to say about you you basically you um y you you give them their due You honor them, you give them the honor that they're due. If they're not due the honor, if they're not actually doing what the government's supposed to do Right, if there if there's two different do's there. If they're two different doo does there. Uh if they're not punishing evil and uh a and uh praising the good. If they're not doing those things, then what honor are they really due? And so that's part of the Romans thirteen context as well. Um this isn't an important clarification, a reminder for the church in recent years, because I don't know that people talked about it in these terms up until a couple of years back. I think this had kind of been forgotten. We talked about that a little bit last week as well. Used RC Spro as our example of that, I think. The number ten now. We affirm that civil magistrates have lawful authority to punish civil crimes like assault, murder, rape, theft, fraud, man stealing, and false witness, and to ensure proper due process through the civil courts. Payment of liability for verifiably proven harm and propor proportionality of punishment. So this is definitely piggybacking on the last one. We've kind of talked about it. And this kind of harks back to our uh discussion about theonomy. Um because they're getting all these Um did you listen to that by the way? Yeah. Sorry I missed it. I wish I'd been there. It was a fake debate. Slightly. Those are the way the best ones. But the the the thing is a lot of the arguments against my interpretation of the I would I would say that Today's government should be doing what the Bible specifically the Old Testament and the New Testament, but a lot of the laws there, they should be doing that and only that. That's kind of what they're saying here, but that's not a very uh short list. But that's but that's n not very appealing to many people who kind of oppose the theonomy to say, Oh, there's you shouldn't the civil government shouldn't be doing things because the Bible says for them to do it, they should be doing, you know, secular stuff, not there's no there's no such thing. Well yes. I I didn't say that was my argument. Yeah, this this is touching on that, but they're they're only dipping a toe because th it's not a deep dive in that area because there's not a whole lot of uh debate and disagreement and you know Yeah. Yeah, you're completely demonic if you're in favor of murder, rape, stealing from people left and right. The murder of babies right now. That's demonic. I agree. I agree. And what what we currently have in our in our government is uh is they're they're not Our are civil our civil authorities are not punishing these things, are not wielding the sword. Right, yeah. Not consistently for sure, on rare occasions. Right. A random act of a of accidental law enforcement does occur. Yeah, and so, you know, I'm I mean, that means that they're So so they're they're not performing the duties that they ought to be. Yeah. And they're performing duties that they Do not have authority to perform. Yeah, to ensure the proper due process through the civil courts, there are some people that uh from early January of twenty twenty-one that uh would like to remind the civil authorities of That line. Um it's been years now. Like speedy trials and such. Exactly. And proportionality of punishment. They they go through a tourist stroll through a lobby and they spend the rest of their life in jail, like what? So anyway. Conspiracy theorist you. Yeah. Yeah. Well, don't get me started. Number eleven Uh we affirm that the United States did not land on a no. Um That Christians should obey the biblically lawful instructions and commands of earthly authorities to the extent of their proper God-ordained role and jurisdiction This feels like just buttoning up what they've been saying. I don't know if there's anything new in this. Um No. But number twelve is great because They anticipated my comment about the jump right into the number twelve. Let's do it. We deny that the Pauline era reign of Emperor Nero can be credibly invoked to invalidate the limiting description of what constitutes legitimate civil authority in Romans 13. First, this is due to the clear witness of Scripture regarding the identity and characteristics of legitimate biblical civil authority, and second, to the fact that the neuronic persecution did not begin until the great fire of Roman 80 sixty four, which was seven years after the writing of the book of Romans in fifty-seven AD. So there you have it. Yep. Not exactly what you said a minute ago. Yeah. Yeah. See, we're we're ahead of the game. This is why we like the staba so much. We agree with it. Oh we're getting to something I disagree with, I think. Oh yeah? In maybe maybe next week. Oh okay. Alright, so it's not number thirteen. I don't think so, though. Can't be number thirteen, my my my wife really favors number thirteen. You can't you can't you can't hate on number thirteen, okay Okay. So but by the way, we moved past eleven and twelve really quick, but was there anything we wanted to say there other than celebrating the fact that we were present? No, I th I think that's that's Pretty clear, pretty good. Okay. I I I I think these are good inclusions for them to have. I mean being very thorough. I would just say th they may be a good point Because one passage of scripture says this, and you can't say, well, okay, that's the only you have to take all of Scripture because Scripture informs Scripture. And there are no contradictions. So if there appear to be contradictions, maybe there are some exceptions to the rule, maybe there's just more nuance that you weren't aware of, but you need to make sure you take all of Scripture. Not just one little verse. It's not just solo scriptura, right? Scripture alone, but it's tota scriptura. And that's all of scripture. That's one thing I really like about this statement so far. see because you're not uh you're listening to this radio show, you don't see go go to the website, warrantondeclaration dot com. You can see like every couple words there's a scripture reference. So you and you can click it and go to the Bible verse online and actually read it. You can see the context. So they're giving proofs. They're not just spouting random theological statements. They actually have very specific scriptures that they're that they're they're citing. Yeah. For example, the first three going back to last week's show, the first three uh articles have like twenty something proof text. Yeah. I I think I think it thins out a little bit as it goes, but it's building on that that foundation, right? Right. These are just Okay. We deny that the specific authority granted to Pilate to execute Christ Jesus. It's interesting, they've referred to him as Christ Jesus multiple times here. It's that's more than a pol it's how Paul reversed it. Yeah, a lot of times. Right. Yeah. I will uh I will personally say Christ Jesus on occasion just to kind of change things up, but it's just I I'm noticing now it says Multiple times they've done that. Yeah, we okay, so back to the start of thirteen. We deny that the specific authority granted to Pilate to execute Christ Jesus according to God's plan of redemption is evidence of a general principle of civil civil governance Whereby civil magistrates retain legitimate authority to do evil or make any commands outside the bounds of their jurisdiction Just because the Romans did it and got away with it doesn't mean it's okay. Well, so I mean what comes to mind is is when Jesus says like I no one what he says, no one no one takes my life. I I lay it down. And I take it back up again. And so so this is only This is only this is this is all this is all happening under understanding. No, I'm God. I'm letting you do this. And to prove it, I'm like, come back to life in three days. Yeah. Well and I I mean he says uh maybe they're they're addressing the the conversation there, right, where Jesus says, like you you wouldn't have the authority to do this if I didn't give it to you. Right. Right. So there are maybe circumstances where God gives authority to certain people to carry out certain things which would not normally be under their jurisdiction. So for example God gives authority to Joshua to go kill every man, woman, and child and animal in a certain town. That's not authority for every government to kill their neighboring country with in indiscriminately at all times, right? There's a specific time. That doesn't mean God won't ever do it again. He may. And it it it certainly you can't use it as a as a rule baking rule making premise. And they're using this to to disarm the rather uh limited thinking kind of arguments that people make is, well, even Jesus didn't push back on what the government did. I mean they killed him. They beat him and crucified him and and he took it And so that's what we as Christians need to do. And they're saying, yeah, you're that's a really horrible argument. That's not for all the reasons we've talked about, all the reasons that are are listed on these four lines. That c uh uses an argument. Yeah. I'm assuming that somebody somewhere must have. Doesn't it? Yeah. Yeah they're they're they're anticipating Because number fourteen clearly is. We've mentioned this one last we mentioned this one last week We deny that the only reason one may lawfully disobey an authority is if they are commanded to sin by that authority. Boom That's exactly what we're talking about. The RC Spro argument. And and not just R Speed. Like that was the mainline, mainstream argument my whole life. So so you're telling me that if uh or they are in this statement, right, if the government comes and says you have to do this because we said so We can say that's not within your jurisdiction if it's not. That's it. And therefore I don't have to do it And now you might as an example consequences because they've got guns and take it to court. Paul did that. They went and and and uh commanded Paul to be flogged and Paul said, Wait a minute, that's not your jurisdiction, I'm a citizen. You can't do your jurisdiction is to flog non citizens, you can't flog citizens Can't condemn me without a trial, I get due process. And he was studying standing up for his rights. Strong enough that they they all got scared. They they thought they were gonna you know, get punished for it. So we definitely should follow that example. Yeah. So I don't have anything more to say on that one because we've talked about a little bit of lesson already. I think I think there's an important point there to make uh which is And this maybe goes back to reasons why you would say y no to uh a an a supposed authority who is outside their jurisdiction is to to remind them that they are not God. Right? That they that they they can't just claim whatever authority that they want. Right. And that in some ways that is that's the loving thing to do, right? To remind to remind someone that they're stepping outside their authority, their God given authority. And when they do that that they are they are trying to take the place of God, even if it's in a small way. Um And so so it's it's Or you're taking encro encroaching on somebody else's authority. Right, which is Right, and and so it's a W it may not even be God's authority, but you're taking it from somebody else whose God's ordained to be in there. In that in that area. And that's the big problem we have in our culture today. We haven't told each other often enough, look, you're not God. And you're outside your your jurisdiction. And we don't we're not comfortable telling each other these truths in today's culture, and so look at where that's gotten us. Well and and it's it's inter I think it's combined with also not honoring authorities that actually are there. Right? Because if you uh if if we encouraged children to honor their parents, right, as and for parents to exercise that authority over their children, uh then you know, there would be more more people would be honored and would be exercising authority, right? It would be much more the authority would be much more shared and spread out uh than than it than it currently is Which is by design because they don't want shared spread of authority, they want centralized authority. That's kind of the goal that they're driving at, I think. When I say they, I mean those who are representing the power structures and all that sort of thing. Let me read this next one. I'm not sure how much time we'll have to talk about, but at least read number fifteen. It's the final uh article in section one. We affirm that disobedience is also permissibles should any command be given outside of the jurisdiction of the particular authority. For example, throughout history, civil governments have sought to force individuals into certain vocations foisted improper controls over affairs of the church and imposed restrictions over the number of children that a family is permitted to have. Frequently these kinds of orders are claimed to be for the greater good of the public. To whatever extent these commands would not have required anyone to sin, obedience is still not morally obligated since these commands are outside the jurisdiction of the authority making the command. Yeah, we've we've got like almost no time, so maybe we need to think about sparing and and saving our thoughts for next time unless you have a quick pithy thought you'd like to share. I mean I think I I generally agree with it. Um I'm really excited for next week we'll get into Section two, the application to medical mandates. That's what you were crawling for crying for last week, right? Like I wanna see how they're gonna apply all this, right? How they're gonna do this. Yeah, yeah. So Daniel's excited week. Hopefully you're excited too. Same bad channel, same bad time for the fate debate. Daniel Razley who's excited and uh I'm I'm excited for him. I haven't seen him this has Uh uh ramped up on the fate debate since I argued with him about the autonomy. Um David Forcey is not quite so hy hyped up, but that's David Forcey for ya. Uh uh David and Daniel, thank you so much. I'm Troy Skin. You can find us online at WFMD. com. You can also find me at my church's website, Household of Faithinchrist. com. That's Household of Faithinchrist. com Yeah, we're going to continue with the Warrington Declaration on Medical Mandates and Civical Ethics and Authority next week, 167. 5 hours from right now. God bless.