Welcome to the Frederick Faith debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Skinner, joined this week by Jonathan Schweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Troy Wallace, Director of Revive Israel, North America, and the assistant congregational leader at El Shaddai Congregation in Frederick. I want to encourage you to visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith where if you keep trying to podcast and have a hard time doing so and you keep sending in your complaints to the web content managers and that sort of thing they might fix it that much faster That's right. So send in your complaints. And as we are very high on the list of of uh hits on the website, uh our part of the website gets uh large portion of the hits and so let 'em know, uh send in your complaints 'cause uh that'll help them And it's true. But obviously the main page of the website is the most popular page. And if the landing page everybody goes there first, right Uh and then the news pages do very well and some of the contesting pages do very well. But the faith debate page is right up there. It's the fifth most popular page And if you don't count the home page is the fourth most popular page on the entire website. And that is because of you, the listener. Yeah, that is awesome. So And I think what that means is that you guys are very thoughtful and you like to do your research and so sometimes you come back and you're like, I want to listen to that again. What did Schweitzer say? I'm sure he was wrong. I want to be more carefully pay attention and figure out what it was that he said was wrong. So good for you guys. If you want to be right in life, just study Jonathan's arguments very well and don't make them And make other arguments and you'll do just sporting a goatee these days and I'm not sure what I think about that. No? No? See Troy Wallace uh Troy kinda has a has Troy's kind of a full beard action going on. One Troy likes another Troy's uh facial hair. That's right, that's right. It's a Trojan Troy. Well, since you like to go to the website and read and learn, I know you like to know what I'm reading these days. I do. Book by R. Kent Hughes, Disciplines of a Godly Man. I would give that a definite uh two thumbs up. If you're a church leader looking for uh study material for a men's group or something, I would suggest. I'm amazed at how many people that our believers struggle with anger and I've been uh studying it out uh just to get like a better sense of what do the experts say and and what a Christian psychologists do to tie all that together. And uh and I've just been impressed that there's some quality Christian material out there on the subject of anger. And uh and if that's you and you struggle with anger Man, don't stay in your anger, man. Let get get a little bit of help and do a little bit of study because there is ways that uh the gospel and the grace of God can be applied to that to uh to help it to be able to do that. So can we get with the show already? Yeah, well, come on. Enough already. Oh it's garbage about anger. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's enough. And now Troy, remember but do not sin. Count to ten, Troy. Take a deep breath That's right. Actually the A little bit on the last show about the whole Sandra Flut case was uh was righteous anger. Yeah. It was paper. And you were passing it. Pathos. Word of the week? Pathos? Pathos. Pathos, pathos, what does it mean? Pathos means passion. Passion. When you make your argument, you make it with passion. Yeah, baby. Base-to-face show. Alright, so when you say yeah, baby, that doesn't sound like passion to me. Is that a root word for pathology? Pathology is. Right, because pathology is a is a problem, is an emotional problem Right, you got that? So see that? Your your Greek as a messianic Jewish guy, not just your Hebrew, but your Greek also is spotless. So, I don't know, once upon a time Jonathan's walking down the street, bumps into Troy Wallace, who's the uh one of the big shot leaders over at the end of the day. Actually Troy has now become our church's landlords. Okay. We are now meeting as of uh this show will air probably before, just just after Easter. will be at their building on Sundays. I didn't want to put pressure on you, but last week was April Fool's Day. And so I didn't want to put too much too much of a connection. And now this week's show it is it is Resurrection Sunday. Um interesting. So what does that mean? So we're talking about resurrection, so you gotta be particularly good today. Yeah. So so we will be holding a Easter egg hunt this morning. As the show is going on. This show is kinda like Church Attention. We will not be holding an Easter egg. Actually Troy Troy hates Uh all of the religious c correlations of the of the holidays, I mean the the non-religious like like uh Christmas trees and all this kind of stuff. And I think you guys would like really get along about those kinds of issues, you know, and staying away from anything pagan about these Christian holidays. But if our listenership mirrors what happens in congregations all across the land, then our listenership today will be ten times what it is on a U. So gotta be good. Okay, okay. Very stressed. Alright, so my passing just went through the roof and my bat my pathos just became pathology. So so Jonathan bumps into Troy, his new landlord and then says, hey what's up Troy? And Troy says, let me tell you a few things. And Jonathan says wow Those are really cool things. Let's have you on the faith debate to talk about those things. The context was that that uh we had the opportunity to be in the building with uh with El Shaddai uh on Sunday mornings. In the context of that, I realized that my eschatology was different enough that I wanted to make sure that Troy and the messianic Jewish guys weren't gonna be uncomfortable with that. Right. And so uh we sat down to just have the discussion at Panera Bread with John Sook. Yeah, my associate pastor there. And uh we dug into one of the differences. To to summarize it, um I'm of the opinion as a preterist that that the majority of what happens. A preterist or a partial preterist? As a partial preterist. Okay. That the majority of what happened Another word of the week, we'll define that later. Okay The majority of Matthew 24 in Revelation already occurred in A. D. 70 when Jerusalem was destroyed and in the events leading up to A. D. 70. And so most of what people talk about when they talk about the end times, I'm of the opinion has already happened. Uh and that we saw a the fulfillment of those prophecies, just like Christ said that the that this generation will not pass away until these things have been fulfilled. And if that's the case, then, you know, things like uh the uh seven year tribulation or things like um uh what does it look like at the second return of Christ? What are the what is the meaning behind the second return of Christ? And for those that are Messianic Jewish and most people that are um are premillennial and uh and I'm not sure what you are in terms of tribulation. You know, the whole left behind series defines this the this sense that that there's going to be these years of tribulation and then the the the beast is gonna gonna reveal himself and things are gonna get worse and worse and then right at the end of that Christ is gonna come. He's gonna put his feet down on uh Mount Zion. And uh and uh right as Armageddon is happening, there's going to be a sense of uh of uh him returning and and judging the wicked and making everything right. And um while I believe that there is a final return of Christ that will be at the end of time, um, I'm of the opinion that the majority of that tribulation uh happened alre already in eighty seventy. And so I wanted to make sure that that that wasn't something that made uh Troy and the Messianic Jewish community uncomfortable, specifically because Most of those that are partial preterists are, here's another word of the week, are um uh they they reject the idea that Israel, that the Jews are still important in the purposes of God. And so they're called replacement theologians. That the Church of Jesus Christ has replaced uh Israel and so the Church of Jesus Christ is now Israel and so that the Jewish people no longer uh you know are as significant as a distinct group of people in that process. And so I wanted to talk it through with Troy so that I could clarify that I'm not a replacement theologian, uh though many of my partial predators' friends are. And just to make sure that that they were at peace with that before we moved in together. I didn't want to catch them off guard down here. Invited me for this conversation. Uh I think you did right on the spot while we were on the on the phone. Yeah, because the quality of the interaction was just Enjoyable in front. I mean he was digging into these these issues and he was passing. Basically all the things that would need to happen before Christ's return. uh f for the most part anyway, occurred uh in in the fall of the Jewish temple in A D. seventy, about forty ish thirty five years, forty years after Christ's A whole preterist would be of the opinion that that all of it is already and that we're now in the millennium and and the millennium is a time frame where the kingdom of God is expanding around the world And it's going to result in a final, you know, filling up of the kingdom of God, you know, kind of covering the world. And Catholicism generally tended to be preterist in its approach. uh to which another word for that which an as another technical word would be an omillennialist point of view. Exactly. Which the idea that is put out in Revelation twenty about uh the Messiah ruling on the earth for a thousand years is somehow happening now or has already happened, uh, even though it's been two thousand years uh since he ascended into heaven. So so those the the preterism and amillennialism often go together. And we and now there are different streams of thought in the messianic Jewish world. that at the end of the day nobody nobody really fits a precise camp. So we throw out these terms that are supposed to represent things and I think that they can be boxy, which is why I appreciate Jonathan's willingness to say he's a partial preterist. I mean uh he's not absolutely boxing himself in. Uh, you know, sometimes when it comes to uh uh uh millennialism in general, people say it's kind of uh pan millennial, it'll all pan out in the end. And I think that that's uh uh a nice colloquialism or a nice little phrase to throw around. But I find that these things are important, particularly when you start to put the the the first century context back in its original Jewish framework. The idea that the expectation for for the Messiah of Israel, in this case Jesus, to have a political deliverance that leads to the promises to the son of David being made full on the earth for a period of time where he rules as the king is was a righteous expectation in the first century and is a also a righteous expectation in the present. I think that's the goal of our faith. The goal of our faith is to see Jesus sitting in the chair of David in Jerusalem ruling and administering peace. over the whole world. And and where Jonathan and I, I think, part ways is that I don't see that as the the culmination of the age, but actually the beginning of the age uh where Jesus at the end of that thousand years according to to to Revelation and also First Corinthians fifteen turns the kingdom over to the Father. And we see something that we haven't seen in the whole scope of biblical history. We see the Father and the Kingdom of the Father cohabitating with the kingdom of man. And it's a it's a brilliant thing. I mean i depending on how you define this figure in the Garden of Eden, uh uh who's a man that's that's kind of representing God. Is that the Son? Well, John 1. 18 says that no man has seen God at any time, but the Son who is in the bosom of the Father has declared him or made him known. So really at the end, the end that you see, Jonathan, I see that as Jesus Yeshua turning the kingdom over to the Father and inaugurating an age on earth that has never existed. But that thousand years when Jesus is here as a man sitting in the throne of d in the throne of David in Jerusalem, he's putting all things under his feet as a man, he's fulfilling his calling in the reason that he was born. Okay, so this gets very technical. So I want to quickly clarify a little bit. Um Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor of Cross Roside Chapel, uh you said that you're a partial preterist. Yeah. And then uh Troy Wallace, who's with El Shaddai Congregation, uh said that partial protism and Almillennialism t generally go together. But you I wanted would you put yourself in the Almillennial camp? Um okay, define on millennial versus post-millennial yeah. Well and then probably f for the sake of our one listener. Yeah um millennial, mill, a thousand, you know it m millennium stands for a thousand years. Uh the argument that between the on millennialists and the and the millennialists, either the post-millennialists or premillennialists is whether or not the uh the word millennial should be taken as a literal 1,365 day years, or if it's meant to represent a very, very long time of undeterminate length. So the all millennialists would say Uh it's not a literal 1,000 years, 365 days. It's it's meant to represent a long time. There's lots of argument and logic behind their position on that. I won't get bogged down into technical arguments of that, but that would be the the all millennial position is there is a millennium. But not in a literal 1,000 year sense. And then the there's two primary millennialist camps, the premillennials and the post-millennials. And the pre and post have to do with when Jesus returns. So a premillennialist believes that Jesus returns previous to the start of the millennium. So Jesus arrives and then the millennium starts. Post millennials believe that we need to have one thousand years of peace. Uh and then at the end of that one literal one thousand years, three hundred and sixty-five day years, then Christ returns. He requires post at the end of the millennium. So those are the the primary views. Almost nobody uh s statistically, percentage-wise, almost nobody's post-millennial uh anymore. Really the argument comes down to premillennial and all millennial views And making it even more complicated within the Almolingual camp you've got the partial, the full preterists, the partial preterists. There's uh there's probably other camps Yeah. And then in the premillennial camp. And this is the thing about eschatology, you have all this terminology that even being able to converse about it means that you have to, you know, learn all this rocality. If you were paying close attention, you heard Troy throw out Uh while Jonathan was was talking, he might not have caught it, but he's uh he responded to something that Jonathan was inferring a question and he said uh post-trib. Yeah. So I I'm assuming from that that you were set you were claiming that your position would be a post-trib. Christ returns after the tribulation. Yes. So there are three different view prime primarily three different views on that. The tribulation is the seven year period uh which comes from the time time and the half a time times and half a time uh in Revelation, right? So you have these you have two three and a half year periods that together make uh uh uh seven years. Uh some people that are uh premillennialists, which would be the which would be Troy Wallace's position, right, say that Christ uh raptures up his church uh at a s uh uh has like a partial coming and raptures up his church at a certain point. Uh is that point before the tribulation starts? Is it in the middle of the tribulation or is it at the end of the tribulation, post-tribulation Right. And so that's kind of they fall into one of those three camps. So premillennials don't all agree with each other. So there's lots of argumentation. So somebody could be a pre pre-millennialist and disagree with a lot of what Troy's going to say. Absolutely. People could be omillennialist and disagree with an awful lot of what Jonathan's going to say. And it's not quite as simple as all that. And that's that's where before you took that good segue, which I appreciate, was i the messianic Jewish worldview is not unified on this issue. I think that Many fall into the Is the career part of Messianic Judaism pretty unified? Yes, for the most part the people inside of are connected to Tikun, which is And that's the group of guys that that I got my master's degree with and uh who were close in close relationship with my parents back uh in the eighties and nineties. So this might be unfair but the simplest litmus test to try to get a quick read on whether or not somebody is a millennial or not is the question of literal versus uh metaphoric or or representative. So do you believe that when the Bible's talking about the millennium, it's talking about a literal one thousand years or three hundred and sixty five days? Or do you leave it open to the possibility that it's just representative for a long time. Because if you're going to hold to it's a literal thousand years, then you wouldn't be by definition a millennial. Yeah. I think Jonathan has to stay working it out because of the partial. Yeah. That partial buys him, in my opinion, a lot of room. to make cases on both sides. I think he's still trying to work it out and I appreciate that he's throwing the partial. Yeah, yeah, I really do. I'll put it this way. Uh but let me say Matthew twenty four when that's really what you believe. When I read Matthew twenty-four, it's clear to me That Christ was of the expectation that that was going to happen. Okay, Matthew twenty-four is where the the disciples Uh Jesus the disciples make a comment about the temple, and Jesus says, Well not one stone is going to be left upon another. And the disciples are like, Okay, look Jesus, you gotta tell us when this is gonna happen. And he and he goes into for like three chapters a description of the end times and what's going to happen in the end times. And in the midst of that passage he says Uh he says, this generation will not pass away until all these things have happened. And I'm of the opinion that Christ nailed that on the head. And that that happened in eighteen seventy that that generation didn't pass away. It was it was either exactly forty years or th Between thirty-five and forty years. Okay, and and there's some language that he uses there about Christ uh coming on the clouds of heaven. Yeah. Uh that refers to Daniel's prophecy about the Son of Man Uh one that looks like a son of man coming on the clouds of heaven to the Father. One like a son of the Son of Father. One like a son of man. Which which that's the only other pr place that that phrase shows up in the Old Testament. Christ is clearly referring specifically to that issue And when you look at it, it doesn't say that Christ will return to the earth at that time, but says that that will be the point where Christ ascends to the ancient of days and receives the kingdom. Right, in Daniel. And so so it's clear to me that that's the case. In fact, one of the reasons it's so important to me is that if All of these prophecies that are all through the New Testament, it says Paul says, this generation will not pass away until this happens. You know, Peter says this generation won't won't pass away until this happens. If that didn't happen, then we've got a severe crisis in our faith in terms of what we believe about the Word of God. And I I kind of feel like we have to believe that we we have to based on what we read in those passages we have to open the history books and say well what happened in that in that generation that we could say was a fulfillment of that And when we do that and we look at the historical events surrounding AD seventy, it's it it seems to me like the puzzles fall into place. All of which means that now I have to work out what do I believe about the millennium and what do I believe about the final return of Christ Christ and the the the culmination of all things. And that's where honestly I feel like I'm still working that out. Well see in Jonathan and I had this conversation. One of the things is the way that uh I would say we, but I I'll just limit it to me. The way that I approach biblical prophecy is that there's there's there's heavy and there's light, if you will. There there's an an an immediate fulfillment and then there's an ultimate fulfillment. And and one of the things that I that we get caught in in the messianic Jewish community all the time is Uh Isaiah seven fourteen, where it says, um, for a virgin shall conceive, and you'll call him Emmanuel. Now, the word for for virgin there is Almah. It means more literally young maiden. And and it can imply virginity, but it doesn't require virginity. Betula is uh a Hebrew word that is absolutely uh uh r describes a virgin. So y we well why why is this k why is this true? Or why is this important? Because in Isaiah's day He had to go and we see it in Isaiah eight, I think it's two and three. But he goes to the to the to the I think it says a young prophetess in the New King James and and she conceives and she has a son That's called Maher uh Mahalal. Yeah, I forget. But uh so so what's my point there? If if if Isaiah would have used Betula He wouldn't have been able to have a son in the immediate fulfillment of that prophecy. But now we look to Jesus in Christian faith all around the world and messianic Judaism sees this passage the same way, but it's it's heavy and light W one is an immediate kind of light fulfillment and one is the ultimate fulfillment of that. We use and it the the the the King James translators translated it as virgin to prove Jesus as an ultimate fulfillment. So that's the way that I see. I agree with Jonathan that we see fulfillment in seventy AD. I think we see a lot of it I don't see the ultimate of that, and I appreciate your reference to Daniel, but I think of him coming on the clouds The the which is also what he says to the Pharisees and Sadducees during his trial is you will see the Son of Man coming on the clouds of glory. It doesn't say going on the clouds of glory. And so that's one thing that's like a lot of things. is that it's not clear one way or the other, which drives me to say that we gotta go to the Old Testament and see what the what the context was in the original. uh passage there. And furthermore, the clouds of glory, when you when you study out clouds of glory all through the Old Testament, they always show up in the context of God coming in judgment. that God's going to come on the clouds of heaven and you see you you see that that phrase again and again and again that he comes on the clouds of heaven and the context of judgment. Even the way that you believe you know, that he that Christ is going to return on the clouds of heaven, it's in the context of judgment. Right? So that that even that even fits in with what you believe. And if that's the case Then once again, we don't just see a minor fulfillment of that in A D seventy. We see a major fulfillment of that in AD seventy. I mean The the horror of what happened in eighty seventy is very significant. So it looks like we're coming up on an on the end here for today. We're coming up to the uh to the end. So Assuming that Christ doesn't return between now and next Sunday, then we can continue this conversation at about 167 minutes. And our church will be meeting over at El Shaddai's new facility. What's the address again? I haven't got it memorized yet. Fourth Street. That's right. Okay. And you wanted to mention we have time. You wanted the we didn't have time last week. Yeah, I I would say reviveisrael. org. reviveisrael. org. A lot of the The things that that inform my beliefs are are there under the resources pillar. And revive Israel, does it have a dash between them? No no dash. One word. All one word. Lowercase, no space. All right. There you go. Walmart. All right. And uh speaking of websites, go to WFMD. com keywordfaith, where you will find uh an instantaneous link to the Faith Debate page where Uh I update the blog Monday through Friday and it's not really so much my blog, it's my blog is your blog. You email me and I post it, as long as it's not gonna get me in trouble with like, you know, my wife or something. You know, no dirty language and that won't get posted Uh basically if it's something that uh a child shouldn't read, I try not to post it. Um but I don't know if my sensibilities on that are the same as yours. Family friendly? I try I try to be family friendly, but we talk about serious matters, so sometimes somebody will send me something that's that's, you know, ooh, it's heavy. So you might not want a child to be Yeah. As opposed to light as opposed to light. Anyway, and uh thanks to our sponsor, Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Again, thank you, Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crosshoods Valley Chapel, and Troy Wallace, director of Revive Israel, North America and the assistant congregation leader at El Shaddai Congregation and thank you for listening. Until next week, God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs. But we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?