Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County where preaching with impact is like ploughing pavement and people continue to place their hope In unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate Mile. Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keywordfaith. There you find links, podcasts, news items, and the Faith Debate blog. My blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I'll post what you send me after removing all your curse words Forty-five vlog updates go up each week, nine per day, each and every weekday. I encourage you to pop in and see what people are saying on the Faith Debate today. This is the final installment of a special series of six programs of the Faith Debate, not a panel discussion, but a series of messages I've had an opportunity to share in recent months in the area. Uh this is part two of a message that began last week. It was focusing on uh the Gospel of Luke and related passages. Now you're going to hear the tail end, which is an extended illustration, which is a personal testimony really about things happening in our family. So without further ado, here you go. I want to share with you a personal story from our family that helps to illustrate that Jesus is Lord, Savior, and King today. My son Tyler was born very sick. One of my earliest memories following his birth is his breathing. His entire body convulsed so violently in and out that his ribcage practically touched his spinal column. I wouldn't have believed it was possible for a human body to do that if I hadn't seen it with my own eyes. He was struggling to force down every breath, and he was failing in the struggle because his lungs weren't able to do their job yet. I thought for sure he would die within minutes. He didn't. Over the course of a few days, his breathing steadied, but his skin had purple dots all over it, and it was yellow. Really yellow. Cause they elevated bilirubin uh in his blood. You might know this as having jaundice. A bilirubin is the junk that's supposed to be cleaned out of our blood, and a normal bilirubin count is supposed to be something like point zero zero zero zero zero zero zero one. I mean b essentially it's it should be zero. Sometimes a baby is born with an elevated bilirubin and it's their their jaundice number is a one or a two, maybe a more dangerous three or a four. And the doctors put lights over the babies, and this somehow makes the the jaundice go away, the number goes down. Well, Tyler's Billirubin number was well over three or four and kept going up. The liver is what cleans the garbage out of the blood, and Tyler's liver wasn't working, and so his jaundice number kept climbing. The doctors assured us that as long as the number didn't go into double digits, we'd be okay. And then when it's double digits. So then they explain, well, there's two parts to Billy Rubin. There's direct and indirect. And as long as the direct doesn't go into double digits, you'll be okay. And then direct one into double double digits. Now the skin wasn't yellow. It was green. I mean seriously green. Sometimes his head but he would have this crunched up look on his face and he looked like a Grinch just all Christmas. And I would joke, it's not easy being green. Billy Ruman climbed to well over twenty. And that's when I asked the doctors how high can it go? He said, We're asking that same question. They checked the databases, they called around other hospitals and experts in the field trying to see what the deal was, and they said they couldn't find any record of anybody ever having a number so high. And it kept going up all the way to thirty point five. Tyler had a liver biopsy, underwent liver surgery, consultation was sought from leading medical experts all around the nation. Nothing helped. We thought for sure that Tyler would die within weeks. But he didn't. Tyler was sent home for the neonatal intensive care unit after two months, and we're convinced of this day that he was sent home to die He had eight specialists needing to see him every week. Most of them needed to see him two, three times a week, and so every single day we took him to doctor's appointments, two or three appointments a day It was on 12 different medications. We used to have to feed him by using a syringe to shoot the food down the back of his throat because he was too weak to suck and swallow. You'd be back in a hospital in about a month. Had biliary atresia surgery and bilateral herdia repair and hypospadia surgery and sprabismus surgery and exploratory procedures and gastrointestinal intervention for reflux, esophagitis and thrush and other issues, both serious and relatively minor. And because of his condition, he needed to eat every two hours. And so we'd spend an hour getting his food and medicines prepared, and then we'd get him into his stomach with that syringe, and then we'd spend the next hour Beating up his projectile vomit. All day. Every day. Tyler was sick. Everyone thought for sure he'd die within months. But he didn't. And the biggest threat to his life I haven't even mentioned yet. Tolerate hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis. His arteries are way too narrow, and in the weld his heart muscle is way too thick. Four times thicker than it should have been. He weighed five pounds, and his heart was as thick as that of a 40-year-old man. We've gotten to know our cardiologist pretty well at this point, we're seeing pretty much daily. So we had a relationship and we asked him, be straight with us for our sanity. We needed an honest prognosis And he hesitated, as doctors do when they're asked that sort of a question, but then he said, There was no medical reason why Tyler was alive even at that moment. And he would likely not see his first birthday, and there is just no way he would see his second. He should have died in less than two years. And he didn't. Why? God had a plan and a purpose for this boy born sick. Fast forward a number of years, we have a ten-year-old boy who still couldn't eat solid foods. Everything had to be put through the blender first, pureed. He had recently learned to feed himself with a spoon, so that was good. We prayed in the name of Jesus Christ that And with not just us, it was a dedicated circle of prayer warriors praying with us for years. And when Tyler was 13, he finally was able to eat non-blenderized food for the first time. We threw a party. We celebrated this answer to prayer with all of our prayer warrior friends. We intend Invited them all over with an official invitation. We had an invitation blown up to poster size and everybody who attended the party signed it. You come to our house, it is one of the first things you will see. It hangs on our foyer as a constant reminder. That God answers prayer and heals the sick. So the lung problem went away. Resolving itself on its own, so the doctors told us. The liver problem with the impossibly high bilirubin count went away. in spite of the failed efforts of the medical community. Many of his physical and developmental issues uh were successfully addressed by highly trained professionals, doctors and therapists. with uh unreal effort, love, and patience from my wife, Dina, sustained by God's grace. And now, after thirteen years, he could eat real food. Not all food, mind you. He still can't eat all food, but he can eat solid food. Amazing answers to prayer. But there's still this ticking time bomb, his heart The hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and the pulmonary stenosis were not getting better. He saw specialists in Orlando, New York, Syracuse, Buffalo, Baltimore, DC, the best in the world at what they do, and there was nothing. to be done. Every few months he needed to go see his local cardiologist, a beautiful Muslim man, Dr. Hassan Abdallah. And every visit Dina would say, Well, pray for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah And he'd smile and encourage. Then Tyler started having these episodes where he couldn't get his breath, and he would come into a room at night, panicked, turning gray. Tina would hold him and rock him and would pump his arms and legs trying to get blood flow and take him into the steaming shower, anything to try to help. And Dr. Abdallah then started asking to see Tyler every month. And every visit, Dina would say, we're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. Then the doctor sought second and third opinions, sending tolerant medical facilities throughout the region. And suddenly Dr. Abdallah stopped accepting payment for Teller's visits. We couldn't understand why. We found out later. It's because Tara was dying, and the doctor didn't have the heart to tell us. His heart was breaking for us. As Tyler's heart, after years of struggle, was finally ready to just call it quits. That's why he couldn't breathe sometimes. It's why he turned gray. It was a heart failure. There was nothing to be done. All of the doctors had exhausted all of the options that their training and technology gave them. And yet Dina kept trudging Tyler to doctor visit after doctor visit. And after seeing so many echocardiograms and EKGs, she became an expert in reading them herself. I mean dozens and dozens of echoes with the doctors and technicians always explaining what they were seeing and where the problems were and showing her what a normal echo should look like and it was sort of fascinating really And it was time for another visit to Dr. Abdallah, and as usual, Dina greeted him by saying, We're praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And as usual, Dr. Abdallah politely smiled, got to work. And as he performed the echocardiogram, Dina watched as usual, but somehow it didn't seem as usual. The echo looks different to Dina. And Dr. Abala noticed too. He kept looking and he adjusted his view and he checked where he'd already checked. And then he went back again. He kept performing the procedure and Taking much longer than usual. And Dina began to think she understood why. And the doctor turned to Dina and said, Do you see that? And Dina said, Yeah, it looked to her like the image of Tyler's heart. was normal. Dr. Abdullah removed his glasses and wiped a tear from his cheek. And he looked Dina straight in the eyes and he said Who do you pray to? And now Dina's eyes are flooding with tears, and she answered, Jesus. We pray to Jesus. And Dr. Abdallah said, well, your Jesus has healed your son. His heart is normal. And they embraced and they enjoyed a long cry together, and they rejoiced together at what Jesus had done, one of them having just been reminded of who Jesus is. And the other one having just been introduced to who Jesus is. I know that this story seems utterly fantastic. But it is true. One hundred percent true. And as documented medical evidence that this really happened, I'm going to share with you a portion of Dr. Ogala's medical report that he wrote to Tyler Tyler's primary care physician. We've had it framed, and it hangs in Tyler's bedroom. I had the pleasure of evaluating your patient, Tyler Skinner, a 13-year-old young man with Williams syndrome. He had bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and severe hypertrophy of the right ventricle. Since I saw him last time, he has done tremendous progress. He does not have any chest pains. He is more energetic. A 2D echo revealed the presence of normal segmental cardiac anatomy. The systemic venous return was normal. The right atrium was normal. There was no atrial septal defect. The right ventricle was normal. Both arteries demonstrated normal color and dock with flow velocities. The left ventricle was normal in size. The aortic valve was normal. The supravular aortic area was normal. There was no aortic or supraarctic valve stenosis. The peak systolic velocity across that area was 1. 2, which is normal. The aortic arch was normal. There was no patent ductus arteriosus. There was no percardial effusion. Conclusions I am truly amazed at the spontaneous resolution of this child's cardiac findings. This is not what we expect to see in a typical patient with Williams syndrome. The natural history for the branch pulmonary arteries in patients with William syndrome is progressive worsening, progressive right ventricle failure and dysfunction. This patient currently does not have any cardiac abnormality. Looking at the other outstanding improvement that happened to this child with no medical intervention at all. Just makes me feel miraculously touched that this thing happened. This child, as you know, was doomed at birth that he will not live with multiple failures. And his cardiac was severe at one point by more than one pediatric cardiologist, including myself. I only thank the God for how good this patient is doing. Recommendations, normal treatment for age. Sign the sign of Dollar MD So let me review the basics of Tyler's story. Tyler was born sick. Radically sick. Trust in God proved to be the only option. Our efforts, the medical community's knowledge failed. But God had a plan and a purpose for this boy riddled with sickness. And when God healed Tyler, the Muslim doctor asked, Who do you pray to? Let me review the basics of your story. You were born sick. Radically sick. Dead in your sin, in fact. Trust in God, your only option. Your own efforts, your increase in knowledge fail to rescue you. But God has a plan And a purpose for you, riddled with sickness. So now as you reflect on your personal story of healing, let me ask you. Who do you pray to? In whom do you trust? Like Tyler, all of us are born sick. A death sentence hanging over us. Nothing anyone but God can do about it. Like Tyler, we must fight to persevere, to overcome, to allow others into our lives to minister to us with the talents and gifts that God has given them. We're all just like Tyler. All of us. Exactly the same scenario, just minor differences in degree. Tyler's heart is healed today. Because Jesus is Lord today. If you're Christian, your spiritual heart is healed today. Because Jesus is Savior today. Christ's kingdom is advancing today, even to the witness of Muslim doctors, because Jesus is king today. Jesus is Lord, Jesus is Savior, Jesus is King right now. Don't forget it. Don't ever neglect to proclaim it. Now there's a question that's still hanging in the air. That would seem the logical conclusion to the message, wouldn't it? But there's a question I think that might be hanging in the air for some people who are processing all of this diligently. What are we to do with the fact that Tyler still has difficulties despite the healing of his heart and his other healings? He is still affected by William syndrome and autism spectrum disorder. Well, we can see a connection between Tyler and our condition here as well. In Christ, Tyler is 100% healed right now. We just can't fully see it yet. As it's written in Hebrews 10, verse 14, for by a single offering he has. Past tense, for by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. It's done. It is finished. In heaven we will see Tyler's full healing perfectly. Just like with us. In Christ, we are already healed, but cannot yet see the absolute fullness of this until we reach heaven. So don't be distracted by what our eyes can see dimly through a glass. The truth remains clear to those whom God has given eyes to see. We needed God to come and live on earth as a man to rescue us from being dead in sin. He did this for us. Limited himself, condescended to become man. The true God truly became man, and he is the Savior of the world today. He is risen. Trust God, He loves you, He made you He's offered you the promise of heaven. You don't deserve it. There's nothing you can do to earn it. Just love him back. And you love him back by repenting from your sin and obediently embracing what he tells you to do in his word. Once upon a time, and happily ever after. And right now, Jesus reigns. Let's pray. Thank you, God, for your creation, for the trust that we can have in your never-ending wisdom in ruling over it. We praise you for your plan of salvation revealed to us in your written word in the life of Jesus Christ. We celebrate the things you have done throughout the ages and yearn eagerly for the consummation of your work in us at the time of the second Advent. Christ returns. Please slam open the eyes of our heart. Keep them open to the comforting and courage-inspiring truth. That you reign in our lives and in the entire world right now as Lord, Savior, and King. Praise be to your name now and forevermore. In the name of your transcendent and imminent son, Jesus the Christ, we pray. Amen. And that's the conclusion of that message. And there's a song that goes with that message that uh I've had a chance to share it. My wife has sung this song that has a very special meaning, and rather than with our theme music. We're gonna end with uh this song. Uh if I'm if I can get it to uh come up now. Here it is. It's a song by Mark Schultz, it's called He's My Son. And my wife sang this when I uh shared this message once and people came up and asked us later on, you know, how we wrote such a beautiful song. 'Cause it seems like it matches our situation so perfectly. We didn't write the song, but it really helps to capture uh what our experience is all about. Thank our sponsor, Putman Plumbing Heating. How can we make you smile? Thank you for listening. Till next week. God bless. Down on my knees, I can Hoping the spray will turn all right There is a boy the beauty. Done all that I can do myself. Mother is little