Broadcasting from the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preachy with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. Sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help We Make You Smile. The face debate is online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. There you'll find all sorts of interesting stuff and f I think the most interesting stuff is the stuff you send me for the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. I post what you send me. It's as simple as that. Eighteen times a day, Monday through Friday, it's ninety blog postings a week. And Jonathan Sweitzer has rightly pointed out that's an awful lot of reading to expect of you. So you don't have to read them all. Fear not. Just pop on every day and find one. That's interesting to you. And odds are there's gonna be at least one that's interesting to you. And then send it to all your friends on Facebook. Yeah. And uh and Twitter it out there in who knows, maybe what'll end up happening Is we'll influence one person, lonely person out there, that is wondering what life is all about Wow. That's inspiring, isn't it? That's really deep. We don't usually go there. No. Yeah. From a guy who only reads cartoons, that's in comic script. Hey man Cartoons are like the coolest movies out there right now. Comic books, X-Men and and uh Spider-Man. I mean those guys are making thousands of millions of dollars off of these things. Yeah, what economy do you live in? I should they're bringing the thousands of a caster in Frederick. Incre well, you kinda are. I could go there. We could have like pow. Boom. So if you were a superpower, if uh if we were a superhero pastor with superpowers, what would your superpower be? Um say that three times fast. Holy cow What would the power be? Yeah, what would your saying? Well my power called me Daddyator and and the power there is that I you know, just tick 'em all until they can't take it anymore. Wow So, you know, that's a big identity thing for me. So that might just be it. All right. Well that's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church, and we are joined this week by Father James Hamrick with uh St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church in Lewistown, Maryland. And I gotta tell ya, um you can't I'm gonna do this for your benefit, listener. James is a man who is secure in his manhood. Not only is he wearing a pink colored shirt, but he is wearing a pink colored tie. I am, I am, and I am not in my traditional clerics. Today. Wow. You went there. Amazing. You have on a red shirt and a red tie. What color is your underwear? No, I must say I'm pretty sure that my underwear today is not pink but I do have a couple of pairs that got washed with the wrong uh with the with the wrong other items and I've got a couple of pink pair of underwear out there. Yeah yeah and mine went my if I ever had that they went straight into the trash so the fact that you kept yours I was just saying says something I'm a better steward than you are. So if you've been listening to this show now for over ten years, uh you know what a wing nut Jonathan Schweitzer is and what a wing nut I am, but we're about to find out what a What kind of wingnut James is? Well I guess I am a Welcome to the show, James. He's a hammer too, so he's an Irish wing nut. It's great. Thank you for having me on. And and I I was telling Troy as we came on, my uh for those that have listened to WFMD for a long time, my Uncle Gene Hamrick Uh many years ago it was a disc jockey here, so uh some of the listeners might remember that. So that's the other connection that we have. And was the station actually a music station back then? I you know I don't remember. I I really don't remember how long ago it's been. It's probably been on the order of twenty years ago. Okay. Well I've been here thirteen and I don't know. James's father back in the day. If you knew him and and you can you can prove that you knew him on the radio, we will we will give you a signed copy of Troy's Picture. Okay. There you have a signed copy of Troy's Picture if you can prove that you knew Mr. Hammer from the radio way back then. No, that was my uncle. That was my dad's brother, Jeannie Hammer. Oh, yeah. My dad, a lot of people knew my dad because he was uh the late Reverend Kenneth Hamrick, Kenneth Hamrick who uh not only was a pastor at Thurmont United Methodist Church, but was also the volunteer pastor for many years at Isler's Valley Chapel, the historic Chapel up between Thurmont and Emmitsburg. It's still they operate uh without electricity. Rooted in Valley in the valley. In in in Frederick County, especially northern More so than uh us newbies here. Only been here for about fifteen years at Topps, I think. Yeah, it's our fault. Now, the name of your congregation is confusing enough, and then your background makes it even harder. So we have Saint John, which sounds like a Roman Catholic name. John The Baptist so it sounds like it would be a Baptist church. Orthodox, wait a minute, what? Church. So that's an awful lot. So I think you're purposely trying to throw us off the scent. Right. Because Here's your background. You started out as a pastor in the United Methodist Church, right? Correct, correct. And then you you threw them by the wayside, or maybe they threw you by the wayside, I don't know which. We'll find out maybe. And you uh uh were a priest in the Charismatic Episcopal Church. Right. And then that ended very messily, I'm sure. I see. I don't know. Orthodox, what kind what does this mean? I don't know. Is it like a Russian Orthodox, a Greek Orthodox, or like what kind of Orthodox is this? But um for for and and so the Russian Orthodox, the Greek Orthodox, they are actually all of one church, which we call uh a lot of people call generically the Eastern Orthodox Church. But there's not there's not an Eastern Orthodox Church per se. So we are the church uh that uh claims uh direct We have a direct descendancy, if you will, from Christ and the Apostles. Why is he smiling? Because You didn't mean it this way, but the way 'cause I've we've had a Orthodox guest on this show before. Yeah. Father Anastasios and uh he was a Greek the at Saints Peter and Paul, who I knew very well. And so James, you said uh you know, we are the church Pause. And I was like, you could have just put a period there. That would make Jonathan so new and improved, I guess. Totally, man. I'm like I'm like, you know, barely born, you know. Yeah. I'm sorry, so the Earth in any event, so you have A lot of people think th of orthodoxy as these sort of um ethnic ethnic enclaves, you know, whether they're Greek or Russian Albanian. But actually in the in probably the last, especially 20, 25 years in this country, what we've seen is a lot of groups and people in search of the ancient faith One of the most famous examples of that is uh Father Peter Gilquist, uh, who was very closely associated with Campus Crusade for Christ. on the West Coast who ultimately in 1987 brought uh a group of about two thousand uh into the Antiochian Archdiocese, which is my archdiocese. We we are connected with the church in Antioch over in Damascus, Syria. And so And Frankie Schaefer was one of those? Okay. Um but uh uh Dr. Jack Sparks Frankie being the son of Francis. Yes, that's right. Yes. And so he did he was a convert to orthodoxy. We got a lot of family tree stuff going on in the first five minutes of this show, let me tell you. Uh what we have uh was the the well the original Pentarchy as it was known, the five apostolic sees of the church, which was Rome. uh the Patriarchal See of Rome, uh the uh the New Rome, which was Constantinople, Alexandria Antioch, which is by the way, uh where Paul is. Though I have a little uh um challenge for whether or not they were called Christians or Christians Okay. Yeah. But uh we don't have to get into that right now. Sounds like a tomato tomato. Exactly. No, not at all. Okay, so fine. So crest changing. I'm sorry, it's my fault But in Greek, right, the Greeks had no idea of a Christ being somebody that's important. And so they're like, Christ, who's Christ? They they must mean Crest, that he's a good man, and so they're followers of a good man. And so the point was was that people outside the church first called them Christians because they didn't really know what they were all about. And that's the first place that they were called. So you look at all the original manuscripts, they don't have Christ. But they had this word C-R-E-S-T, which which means good man, followers of a good man. The point is, is that that people inside the church always identified themselves as disciples. Not as Christians. And to this day, Christian really has more to do with like somebody that is culturally Christian, but isn't necessarily following what it means to be uh you know a true follower of Christ. And I've heard that it was used as a prejujorative too, that they they call it. Oh, kind of like evangelical today. Oh you're just an evangelical. Another way of saying it was Christ once, and I wasn't familiar with that story, John. But um but the other the other apostolic. That's right. Um original Jerusalem was the fifth was the fifth one. And so you had you had Christianity uh being one one church, undivided church for essentially a thousand years, um with with the exception. Nevertheless, we'll I mean it to Well there there was a split from the church in uh the Council of Cal Chalcedon that we were talking about earlier that became the Oriental Ortho Ort Orthodox Church. But be that as it may, the first major Rupture within the five C's apostolic seas was Rome in in ten fifty four. The the other four Cs have remained intact. And and at about the same time Russia Russia and the Slavic people were being evangelized and were converting in mass. So Moscow became the fifth became the fifth apostolic see. So so the Orthodox faith has really remained intact at in in terms of at least those four C's um for two thousand years. Interesting. And and so uh so my journey really to Orthodox Orthodoxy began um back when Uh I was a Methodist pastor and I followed, by the way, uh as I'd already indicated, my my dad was a United Methodist pastor for thirty-two years. So that answers the question I was gonna ask if you were raised in United States. My dad's first appointment was in Buckystown at Buckestown United Methodist Church in nineteen sixty three, the same year I was born And so uh we lived in Bucky. Oh uh n uh really all around Maryland. In fact in in fact, um at one time I know on the eastern shore of Maryland there was the highest density of Methodist churches per capita anywhere in the world. So Maryland Strawbridge. Yeah, Straw Robert Strawbridge. Thomas Koch, uh these are guys is like one of the he he was he was the guy that said we can't wait to baptize these people or to uh to ordain these people until the people back in England say something. Yeah. It's happening on the ground. We gotta get it done. And as a result, he ended up being one of the drivers of the early breaks uh with uh with Episcopalianism, is that correct? Well the m uh the Methodist Episcopal Church and and that really had Um and I don't I don't remember a whole lot of the history, but Strawbridge was involved in the in the cradle of Methodism in America. Yeah from Methodism to Episcopalianism to They c they recalled the Methodist Episcopal Church in the sense that um not that they were identified with the Anglican Church or the Church of England, e except that John Wesley never really renounced his Anglicanism. Um so in the Church of English. So in fact he John Wesley acquiesced to the ordination of Francis Asbury. uh who and and and Thomas Coch. He did not they they they were um uh John Wesley was reluctant to allow the the the the faithful in the colonies to to ordain their own um their own bishop and so he sent the strawbridge wanted it Wesley didn't Asbury wanted it. Well Asbury was appointed was in fact appoint appointed. And so uh be the so so Wesley finally blessed it, but uh seventeen eighty four, if I remember my history correctly. was the first annual conference held in Baltimore. Um and eight years after the signing of the 1784. So so Maryland truly is the birthplace of American Methodism. And I am I am descended from that. My it's also the place where the very first Catholic saint ever lived. That's right. Elizabeth St. Elizabeth Ann Seton. Let me jump in here. This is the Frederick Bait debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We've gotten our Western Civ course under our belt. We've got uh early church history under our belt. We've even got early American and Maryland history under our belts. We're ready to march forward from there. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Um Father James Hamrick is uh priest at St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church. And So we've set the stage now. So in the time we have remaining on today's show, I'm hoping maybe we can kind of get a sense for you, with your father being a Methodist pastor. And you being raised in that tradition, for you to leave a Methodist pastorate must have been a pretty big deal. So why did you leave and why did you join the Charismatic Episcopal Church? Right. Well, shortly after my dad's death in in um uh two th actually I should back up prior to that, um in nineteen ninety eight uh is when I was I had already been in process of certification for ordination in United Methodist Church and in fact uh my district superintendent called me and offered me a three church charge over in the Harpers Ferry, West Virginia area. So my family and I'm going to give you a horse to go from one to the other also? Well and say charge? I I I will tell you and my great grandfather Hamric was truly a circuit rider preacher, Methodist preacher in West Virginia on horseback. Uh but no I had the iron horse with four wheels. But I didn't try to write the wheel. I've got one of those too. But um so uh there were three three churches over there, one uh Sandy Hook on the Maryland side of the river, and then uh Bolivar United Methodist Church in in Bolivar, Harpers Ferry. and Shenandoah Memorial in the little town of Millville, just south of there along the Shenandoah River. Uh so I pastored those three churches for six years. And Uh w my family and I we moved from Thermont and lived in the parsonage there during those years. And it was very fruitful years of ministry. But shortly after my dad's death in 2003 I was attending a Maryland Chiefs of Police conference in Ocean City. One of the things that for those that don't know me, I was by vocational in those years, I was working as an assistant chief of police. down in College Park with the University of Maryland police and had attended the policeman. I didn't say cop. Oh you can say cop like Rude? No, that's an Irish cop. I was taught that that was Rude. So I was a p pistol packing pastor. Um so I I um short uh I was introduced at the conference to this man that I thought was a Roman Catholic priest. who gave uh an invocation, did a phenomenal job and I went up and complimented him and and I in making the assumption he was Roman Catholic He corrected me and he said he was uh a priest in the Charismatic Episcopal Church. I said, What what is that? And so he began to explain to me of they were a church that were that they called it the three streams movement, the the charismatic, the evangelical, and the liturgical coming together. And I f and I found that immediately compelling because um The Methodist Church had gone farther and farther away from a liturgical tradition. Um and in many ways they have left their what I believe was their evangelical roots uh and giving way to a lot of liberal influences. Uh and uh the charismatic I I'd always consider myself at least since the 70s, um, to have a charismatic fervor and I believed that I that the Lord had had blessed me with certain charismatic gifts. And so I found this you don't mean charismatic personality, you mean like of the list of spiritual scripture that those things hadn't passed away. That's correct. That's right. And and so um so I began to look into this and and when I found out that uh Bishop Zampino was the bishop of the diocese. uh reformed guy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that's un that's uncommon though in Presbyterianism, isn't it? Um increasingly common, but uncommon in reform circles. Yeah, again there are some poster children for those. Uh I mean sovereign grace locally is a charismatic reformed congregation. Yeah. Maybe the most famous of them all is Mark Triscal in Seattle. Right. Yeah. You know, so there are guys out there that are reformed and charismatic and uh And boldly so on both fronts. Right. So I feel vindicated because we went charismatic from a Baptist uh you know setting, and so the point is charismatic seems to be winning the day in the long term. Well, I you know, even in the Orthodox tradition we you know we we accept that that that the gifts are still manifest today. So they're charismatic before. So basically charismatics. You you ended up uh I guess you re resigned your commission I yeah, I resigned my pastorate because I uh there there had been really what I believe would be a number of supernatural things that had happened in terms of God very clearly uh calling us in that direction. And uh and that included uh my family, my wife, and my children um in in affirming and conforming that call uh and in meeting with bishop zampino uh and some others uh over at the Life in Jesus community out right outside of Libertytown, which is where he was headquartered Um I, after a period of discernment, made the announcement to my district superintendent and to my congregations that I was resigning my pastorate effective at the end of that pastor. So actually this is how he and I met A young lady whose parents were a part of that community is very close to a young man who recently was in a zipline accident and went into a coma. Yes. Many people here in Frederick heard about it Anyways, that young man goes to Father Hamric's Orthodox Church right now. Correct. And so does And his parents go to my congregation, so do the girlfriend. And so like that's kind of the place where he and I ended up meeting and I in the midst of being down there m you know, ministering to this family, you know, in this major crisis. He he was in a coma for three weeks. He's he's just you know, he's he's waking up, thank God. But in the midst of that I came to realize that there was like all these guys tied together around this Life in Jesus? Life in Jesus, right. Group that was a spirit-filled healing center here in Liberty Town, Maryland. They were affiliated with the Charismatic Ch Episcopal Church at that time. And they were actually living like a commune together at some level? There was a uh a quasi monastic community of Married of married families. Well they it's uh a a a strictly monastic community would be people who were avowed to celibacy and that kind of thing. So it's it's married It's so there were there were there were m there were married people living there who took who followed uh the Benedictine rules um of obedience and um Stability, conversadio, that is daily conversion of life, uh in these various rules. I have no idea what the Benedictine rules would be. Do you have any idea what those would be like? And that in and of itself would provide fodder for discussion. Yeah, and actually I've I think I learned about them once, but I don't remember what they are. Right. So But anyways, we're reading through you see made the transition uh it sounds like because of uh the ki the the liturgy aspect that The conservative versus liter liberal aspect and the charismatic aspect. Correct. Yeah. So now did the trifecta base the charismatic Episcopal Church then stop being so litur liturgical or become more liberal themselves? What led you from there to the Orthodox Church? Exactly. Well About I was ordained a priest in 2005, uh just a little over a year later, there was a a big rupture within the National Church, and it really had to do was a crisis in in the leadership of the church at the national level that unrelated to other Episcopalian Anglican. The CEC was unrelated to the Episcopal Church USA, the mainline Episcopal Denomination. Again, they use the word Episcopal only in terms of that it was an Episcopal form of government that is uh governed by bishops. Right. Not to be confused with the the the Episcopal Church of the United States, right. That got ripped apart because of the ordination of a of a of uh openly gay bishop. Right. But let me ask a question. The CEC, the charismatic group you were part of, did that break off of the Episcopal Church? No. A lot of there were a lot of former Episcopalians, including Bishop Zampina, who had been uh uh uh a priest in the in the Episcopal Church USA who ended up in the CEC. So there were a lot of former Episcopalians, but not But it wasn't a good idea. It wasn't a schismatic group from from the Episcopal Church mainline Episcopal Church. Painful words, schismatic. Yes. Nevertheless, that was not a schismatic group. Right. And and so um That really started as a movement, um, if I remember my history correctly, in the early 80s. Um I think it was called the Kansas City Call. Uh it was a group of evangelicals and and charismatics who were looking to uh examine this whole idea of the of a of a three streams, what they call the three streams movement and and bringing together the liturgical, the charismatic, and the evangelical. And so the CEC really kind of flowed out of that. Randy Sly was one of the uh founding people of that who ended up was my archbishop when I was a CEC and and he is actually now a Roman Catholic priest. Um but uh but what happened was you meet him? Have I met him? No, have I? I I don't think you have. Okay. Oh that right, that's uh Father John Worgle who was the dean of the seminary there. Okay, okay. And so in in two thousand six there was a big rupture. There were thirteen bishops who left the CEC. Okay. And including Bishop Zampino. And our thought was that we would really that those bishops would coalesce into a a continuing Anglican uh movement whereby we could maintain our apostolic uh succession and authority and continue to manifest this uh this charismatic episcopal movement. Yeah it three stream things. And but it In the course in the ensuing two years it became evident um that that was not going to happen. Um and In the midst of all that, Bishop Zampino ended up making the decision to uh to step down to retire, essentially. And so we were left to begin to look at what we were going to do. Um almost none of us uh how many posters is that uh we had we had about a dozen pastors within our diocese who um some ultimately actually remained with the CEC. Um but uh there were about a dozen of us that began to look at various continuing Anglican groups. Um at that point I I I was pretty certain that um while I didn't see myself going back into the Protestant uh tradition um had problems in in the idea of becoming Roman Catholic. They were theological as well as cle ecclesiological. issues uh related to that and and m primarily in me having the would have to give up my pastorate. And so we he reaches the moment of decision and we're gonna follow pick that up on next week's show. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. Father James Hamrick with uh St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church. I'm Troy Skinner, our sponsor of Putman Employment Heating. How can we make you smile? Visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. What have I been reading? Five views and apologetics by a whole bunch of people, William Lane Craig, Gary Habermoss, John M. Frame among them, Kelly James Clark, uh Paul Feenberg, a whole bunch of people wrote in five views. So there's five guys sharing their views. Yeah, good one. I would recommend it. Till next week. God bless.