Good morning, Maryland. Is that better? Last week the open was good morning Vietnam. This week the open was good morning Maryland. Another movie that I've never heard of Choice? No, it's one we should make though. Okay. Good morning, Maryland, starring Daniel Razby. David Forcy. Oh, sorry I gave you tough billing. David Forcey. Daniel Razby. What I don't know how to give you equal billing. Visually you can put 'em both on the screen at the same time, but in audio I don't know how to give you both the top billing. I don't David David Razley Daniel Forcey. Is that a way though? You're paying David you're paying David three times as much as you pay me to be here. Well I tell you. But I'm being paid a billion times more than both of you. Put together. Just for the record. Anyway, this is a faith debate off to another. We should mention, you know, how grateful we are and uh you know to God but but sp but and more down to earth, specifically to this nation for giving us this time on the air At at no expense for so many years because they they really have seen the value in uh biblical uh teaching at le or at least they see that there's enough demand from from the listeners um that that justifies this. So if you're listening to the show and you have been blessed by it, please write or call to the radio station ha um so that they can keep us on the air. Not that I'm expecting not to be on the air, but it's always good to have additional uh people and reasons for them so that if ever somebody were to call and complain try to cancel us then you they have some uh evidence in our file that people like us. And if you've ever been cursed by the show keep it to yourself I think the people that would complain are not up this early on Sunday morning. Yeah. The one laughing at you but you're not listening to hear him is David Forcey. The other person who was telling you to do you uh continue to show your support for the show and we do appreciate it. That was uh uh Daniel Razley, I'm Troy Skinner, and this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Find us online at WFMD. com and household of faith in Christ dot com. That's the name of the church that I pastor. So uh we've been talking about war. Ooh What is it good for? Absolutely nothing. You remember that song? That's one position, yeah. Remember that song? No. You guys haven't heard it? Have you ever heard it before? The w No, I haven't found you haven't heard that song? Oh I have. Okay. You didn't know Good Morning Vietnam. I was nervous, man. My cultural references. Do you watch any movies, Daniel? I like Star Trek. Not the new Star Trek though, 'cause it's gone completely woke. The th the Star Trek Discovery, have you seen that one? It's a streaming only thing. It's got some really they should just call it and and I mean this like I don't mean this For shock value, I mean it using the vernacular of the of the day of the left. They should call it queers in space. Because the entire Queer spectrum, the entire LGBTQ IA plus thing, all of the i it it's like Equal opportunity for everything to come at you and and and be offensive to your sensibilities if you're a biblical Christian. Yeah. So that's that's just because Just 'cause it's a lot of non humans, right? Aliens. Yeah, but there's there's uh same sex uh relationships and Actually and humans too. And and and and tran and transgenderism and s trans speciism and like it's it's like Off the charts. But anyway Yeah. Yeah. So I just saved you some time. You don't have to watch it. I always identify it as a Klingon. The uh and the the the original series uh and the uh next generation series uh are I think hold up Over time. The other series, you know, we'll see. Anyway. Um so we're talking about what we've not now, but we're gonna transition to talk about what we were hoping to talk about, which we've been talking about the last couple of shows having to do with war and that sort of thing. Um I do want to take a second here to throw in uh personal reactions. So there was a war taking place in the middle of last century or near the middle of the last century uh m centered mostly in Europe, uh although there's the Pacific battle as well. But most of us in this country for some reason focus on the Nazis. And Hitler and all of that and again I'm gonna say what Daniel said. Okay, fine. I'm not gonna get every precise precise detail said in the way that you want me to say it because I might not agree with your understanding. It's not as simple as you know, Germany invades Poland and you know, the and the English were completely innocent bystanders but they had to do something. I I understand it's more complicated than than that. But for ease of conversation. Germany invades Poland. The English and the rest of Europe have to do something. They get involved and they try to rein this in and Chamberlain is a abject failure and And uh there's an argument against pacifism by the way. Uh and I think some would disagree with me, I'm sure. At least appeasement And but I'm not sure what the difference really is. Yeah, practically speaking, yeah. And then Churchill comes in and takes care of business. But it took a while. Right? I mean it took a long, long time. And so Number of people, including Dietrich Bahnhofer, who's one of the most famous theologians of the last century. Uh in my opinion, one of the more overrated theologians of the last century. Not that he's completely overrated, don't misunderstand me. He's he's brilliant, he's eminently quotable. There's a lot of good stuff there, but there's a lot of troublesome baggage in there too. Uh and we don't need to get bogged down in all of that unless one of you wants to take the bait But I think a lot of his practical theology is good. Mostly what I want to talk about is Dietrich got involved with some guys that tried to take Hitler out. They tried to assassinate him. I mean the f ever since two thousand fifteen well we've been hearing stuff about Donald Trump being Hitler. Right? He's a new incarnation of Hitler, he's America's Hitler, we've got to stop Hitler at all things. Who wants Hitler as the president of the United States? I'm I'm pretty sure people were Well, yeah, I'm pretty sure uh uh some people compared Nixon to Hitler back in the day. It's a it's just uh It's just a trope at this point. Right, right. It's a it's a way to Way to demonize your your political idea. because those are the most extreme examples most people can think of having not as much education on history as as they should pot potentially f in order to draw other examples, but those are the first two examples anybody can think of as bad Well you're Hitler, so you're bad. And it's like it's like racist. You're racist, which doesn't really have any meaning these days because it's used so much. has no real meaning. Everyone's Hitler, no one's Hitler. Exactly. Exactly. But but you're you're right. I mean people many people, especially if they've been hearing, oh he's Hitler, Hitler, Hero, and then they woke up Oh, Hitler killed sixteen million people. I don't want that. So now you now what we gotta stop this. Right? And there's this whole uh you know, there's so many time travel uh uh stories about let's go back in time and kill Hitler. If you had the chance you would kill him But could you actually kill him when he was a baby and he hadn't done any of these things yet? You know, and then you get the the whole you know, what's right and wrong from a Western perspective. But that's that's what you're getting at is is it ever justified to assassinate anybody for any purpose? And I was reminded of it and to be clear, so are the heir here, I do not advocate that Well that's going to be the question now. That's actually the question. Um you know, do we advocate for the record now, he's not advocating for that. I'm not advocating any specific assassinations against any person that is now living. We are talking about whether specific things in the past Could have been justified. But this question made it into the mix of this conversation because I was reminded of these realities this past summer. In the summer of and as this airs, there's there hasn't been anything new Uh as a recording. But something maybe new has happened by the time the day or may have been a successful attempt by the time they're going to be able to do that. two and uh and maybe a third that never quite got off the ground uh attempt on Donald Trump's life. And I just I couldn't help but think, you know, I disagree that that Donald Trump's Hitler. He's n he's not Hitler. I I I'm not a huge fan across the board with Donald Trump, but Whatever you think of the man, he is not Hitler. Okay? He doesn't even have a mustache for crying out loud, okay? So um but there are people who are convinced Anyway, Hill was famous for liking white people, but but Trump's orange, not white, so that's that's the problem. Uh John Wilkes Booth thought he'd be a hero for taking out Lincoln, right? He was surprised not to be. Right So these people they they get it in their head that if I take this guy out I'm doing the righteous thing. This is a good thing for me to do. So now pivoting back to that's the actual Hitler was Bonhoeffer and his buddies. Was he right Well, here's I guess what's a more basic question, and you're gonna you know love my example of this one, but is uh is an assassination ever a justifiable method of waging war And we have a good example of that in the Bible. In fact, you're gonna like actually maybe you like this 'cause there's not it's not a specific command by God, do it this way But Ehud was a very fat man. Remember this passage? Uh-huh. Uh in and uh what's the key it's actually the guy's name who was Ehud was no Ehud was the was the establishment, right? It's a yeah, and it's actually one of the funnier stories in the Bible to understand that there can be humor in the Bible. There's humor there. In a in a way. So this guy g goes to rescue the Jews from the oppression of this wicked king. Is it is it moabite king I think at the time or Midian king? Oh my god I trust you guys on that I remember I it's in Judges and uh one of the characters' names was Lehud, so but the point was the king was really fat and the guy went in and How fat was he? Yeah. He he went he he he went in in uh in a under uh uh deception and said I came with a present for the king and they sent all the guards out for some reason and said he w here's the good present. The present was a knife that he stabbed him with, right, and killed the king. And While it wasn't explicitly commanded by God for him to do it in that way, that that with that's recorded anyway. He may have God may have spoken to the to the to the guy, the assassin, the judge of Israel. But it there's no record the Bible says go do it this way. Uh but it does record he did and it records him as j in generally a favorable light. There's not there's not a But if I take it Yeah, unto his own initiative to do that or is he you know There's n there's nothing about God telling him to do it. But was he but was so it wasn't necessarily a military operation Well it it was one of the oppressed people. He was. Uh so in in the sense that right, he was a leader of people. He was and also we're told that God raised up judges, so uh he was and he's one of the those named that God raised up as a judge. So um So it was part of it the reason I'm asking that question is part of his official capacity to do those sorts of things, right? I mean, as much as it's the official capacity of like a you know, uh a prophet to speak the word of God, right? Like like so he God you know, if we want to use some mushy language for assassinations, you know, God put it on his heart to to to go and uh and assassinate this king and then to go round up a bunch of Israelites to throw the oppressors out of the out of the country. So it says the children cried unto the Lord, the Lord raised them up a deliverer. So the Lord raised him up as a deliverer. Right. And by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Egon, the king of Moab. So they it was a group of Israelites who had joined in this plot together. So they were he wasn't acting alone and I think that is acting that is in the role of a deliverer that was raised up and he was like sanctioned. It was a sanctioned activity. That's the question I'm asking. John Will's booth wasn't sanctioned by anybody. Right Sure. Dietrich Bonhoeffer I don't think was thanked by anybody. Well no, but he wasn't acting at all either. Yeah, there's a group of them. So that that is a difference, right? So I think that that that's a key difference. There was a number of people there were a number of people involved in with Dietrich Bonhoeffer. So if I can convince a m a bunch of Yahoos that I should go kill somebody, it's it's then okay? No. I don't that is a good but that is but that is a good metric. If you're the only one that that that thinks this, then I think it's It's the beginnings of a helpful metro. I think it's gotta be more than that. I think you again we we I used this line was it two shows ago about you know we've got to identify the lanes and stay in them. Yeah, Dietrich was not a military officer. He he wasn't representing any particular military operation. He wasn't raised up by anybody. Um he wasn't ordained by any of his buddies particular military force. Was he? Is there some secret aspect of his uh cloak and dagger activities that I don't know about? As far as I know, it was it was just a group of people who realized Hitler's gotta go And maybe we've got the means to do it. It wasn't like it was sanctioned by anyone. Well he was uh he was very involved. He was very involved as a spy. And so uh against Germany Um Was he commissioned? I mean he was. I don't know. I'm ask Well not by Hitler obviously. Well no, but by the by the Allies yeah, did like the did like Churchill send him or did the Americans send him or something? But who needs to who needs to send him if it's the right thing to do? Well see this gets into a question that we had probably over a year ago now and it was just an aside and I said we'll park it about abortion. Like they're they're slaughtering, brutally slaughtering children in abortion bills all across the country. So should the three of us go you know, barge in and take out all the doctors and nurses to save those babies' lives. But we don't have the authority to do that. It it would be the right thing to do, quote unquote. But we don't have the authority. It's not our lane. It's not sanctioned. Uh but but doesn't but but see see that and that gets back to what we said you know a a year ago as well, where or two years ago I think it was by now. Um where If if you replace abortion clinic with anything else, then suddenly it becomes it's it feels all of a sudden a lot more reasonable, right? If you walk down the street and see somebody stabbing someone, you could feel obligated to and certainly justified if you did go and stop them or kill the guy who was stabbing somebody or or shooting somebody um that was of any age outside the womb. So the what makes the difference now that they're inside the room other than it's legally sanctioned by the th by the government to kill baby when they're inside the womb. Uh and so then you're not only going you're you're not only doing something that Could be morally right, but it's also illegal under your own government. So now you have the question, you must obey God rather than men. So obviously what God commands you do, but does does God always command you to go save every single person from harm? Those were Interesting question. Are you Batman? I don't think we've we've we really actually resolved those questions a couple years ago and yeah, they're they're still kind of what we're talking about here. Um, it they're dangerous questions. Um, you know, I I I I think that th there it if there's an immense intense in an immense evil being committed that is that that that's you know a uh a a problem. Um but there is a passage and it just occurs to me we didn't really bring this up a couple years ago. I think this might be a good good example. Um there's a p passage, a prophetic passage, which I would say is referring to a future end time, but regardless of what it's referring to, it's in Ezekiel. And it talks about go mark all the m men who are weeping and mourning for the evil that's being done in Israel, right? And then those people will be spared when Israel is destroyed or or whatever. And and there's a similar passage in Revelation talking about once we see all the men of God on their foreheads, then the locusts will not touch them, right? They come out of the abyss. But The aside from the main point of that passage, whatever it is, presumably these were people who heard their hearts were aching and they were actually crying and weeping and in anguish over the evil that was being done They weren't necessarily personally stopping all this evil from being done. They hadn't taken it upon themselves to go kill all the bail worshipers and whatever else. But they were definitely cut to the heart about it So it may not always be incumbent on the believer to go immediately stop all sins that you see occurring throughout the country. And I would yeah, I would I I and I personally would even take it further because you know the the the power of the sword is given to the state, you know. Classic Romans argument. Um If we're not sanctioned, we're not ambassadors representing the state, you know, we're not the instrument the state's gonna use to take care of things like you know, the police officers or the military or what have you. Taking the laws into our own hands is is it's anarchy, it's it it's mob rule. It's like there's got to be some sort of uh uh of a of a regiment of of seers of sovereignty. The A team the A Team is not justified in what they do in the T V show. Oh, so you haven't seen Good Morning Vietnam but you have seen the A Team. Well the A Team was was funny. You are highly cultured, my friend. So so so here's here's something that I think is interesting about the Dietrich Bonhoeffer situation is there was already many nations trying to stop Hitler. Right. They were in the middle of a war. And so I I think that's a different situation than peacetime where you Yeah, w where you're going to be able to do that. Right. Uh just for lack of a better term, right. So I think in that sense, Dietrich Bonhoeffer wasn't vigilante. He was part of a of a large plot, including uh higher up officials within Hitler's administration, uh, in order to try and assassinate Hitler. So and it was a time of war, right? So You know, I I think that that I think that changes the situation drastically actually. What about something that's not quite as dramatic as that? It's the same principles at play, but it's not about a war, although it's a culture war. And there's a spiritual war. But in the culture war we use words and we and we use the legal system. Does the m does the name Michael Cassidy mean anything to either one of you off the top of your head? No, no The uh satanic display in the State House of Iowa. Does that rename thing to you? Yeah. So in uh Christmas time uh twenty twenty three. Michael Cassidy took it on himself to uh I think he used a sword or something and like No. Uh he beheaded he took He pulled it off because it was just like sitting it was whatever it was. He beheaded. It was a sloppy display. And he's still in the new well, I don't know if he is as this airs, but as we're recording this, he's still in the news. He faced charges, charged with a hate crime 'cause it was of some sort of religious attack on Satanism, I guess. I don't know. He he He he got off on that technically he he got slaps on the wrist, but he didn't He didn't face the full brunt of what he could have faced and I I say praise God for that because that's ridiculous. However, I'm not so sure he was right to do what he did. Yeah, I don't agree with w what persecution he's been getting since. Like he's uh uh apparently is an airplane uh uh uh fighter pilot trainer or something for the Navy. He trains reservemen or something. And the Navy's now coming after him saying that uh he's a danger and they're gonna decommission him and I mean I don't know what that but so he's still in the news for those reasons. But He wasn't part of some c like vast group of people. He wasn't representing, you know, some sort of Was he right to do that? I'm not so sure. I don't think he was wrong to do it. I would have a hard time convicting him if I was on the jury. I mean what what he did was less destructive than like spray paint Than than like you know, like on a the on a wall. And and there is no place and there should be no place on public property or anywhere in the country for a satanic campaign. I agree with that. It is not protected under it should not be protected under the First Amendment. I would I actually would agree with that. Satanism doesn't need to be protected. I agree with that. And so So he's the proper forum where there are no say would be would be to to file a lawsuit. He could have potentially a lawsuit against the city it probably would have gotten thrown out. I mean among conservatives uh who pay attention to these sorts of things, I know I'm in a distinct minority. Right? I'm making enemies. People who might have liked me before now don't like me. Oh you're just a mealy mouth Well, girly man, you just don't think he should have done that. I'm just trying to figure out what Jesus were righteous thing to do. Jesus went and overturned tables in the temple. Yes, he's God, but he was not acting only as God in the in that circumstance. The the Iowa State House isn't the temple of God. No, but not like Nancy Pelosi all of a sudden. But they were defiling but they were defiling the the temple and in this case this statue was defiling the the public grounds. It defiles everywhere it exists. Yeah, but Jesus goes into the Temple and it's his father's house. He owns it. See I see I was a little bit different. This guy wasn't even in Iowan, I don't think. I think you could use drove in from out of state. Wasn't even his state house. I think you use uh almost use like a freedom of speech argument. Right. Like if you have the freedom to set this thing up like in a public space, well then I have the freedom to come and take it down. So do those knuckleheads in uh in Europe? have the right to throw pea soup at uh paintings on the museums. Right? I mean I'm it's a funny idea but No no, I no because that's that's not uh I it's not necessarily like like it it it might be displayed for the public to view but It's not a a religious display. That old art is not making any particular statement. The only reason why they do it is because it will get them lots of attention. a a I don't know, a st a a a a dis just depiction of the definitivity scene, whatever. Can some you know, Buddhists go take that down? No, I don't think they can if it's in a state house Well the things that are displayed in the State House are permitted by the state, right? So somebody applied for it and was approved based by two elected fish officials. So they say to put the display up there, yeah. Hm. Really? Uh yeah, because they they uh believed that under the First Amendment they had no right to deny anybody for any display, so they approve all displays. Oh so Troy do you think you should have Gone to get approval for a display and set up a purely Christian display next to the satanic display That would have been an avenue. And then you might have come back the next day and the head might have fallen off by its on its own, just like when the Arctic guy gone. And I will say he felt feels like the the strength of his conviction was I need to do this and if they throw the book at me so what? Then okay. Well it's like the people that get arrested for praying outside abortion clinics and they just they've been it was in the news also last week some eighty three year old woman was was facing all this uh jail time for for being uh blocking the w hallway. She didn't kill anybody, she didn't stop anything, she just stood in the hallway, which Now they're trying to throw the book at her. And we have less than a minute, but this might bond conversation, so I haven't uh I wonder if I should mention it, but we as Christians do I mean w we're Christians, a part of the body. Do we have the right to go to all these, you know, uh leftless Lulu uh uh unbiblical churches Throughout Frederick that are waving the pride flags and tear them down. what you're getting yourself into. Gotcha. So it might be righteous in doing it, but then if we have to pay the the civil penalty for I don't know that you can necessarily say like it's righteous. It's a way to communicate something Right? And and and it's a way to communicate maybe the truth. So, you know, like But it may be the wrong way. Alright. This is a good conversation. I liked it. Um we might shift gears a little bit next week. We'll see. We might talk about uh the weather. Right? Let's complain about traffic and the weather. That's always that's always good things. I don't know. It'll be more sophisticated than that, I promise you. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, the one laughing at my lame joke was and I appreciate that, by the way, is Daniel Razby and David Forcey also. We're all pastors in the area. You can find us online at householdfaith in Christ dot. Well you can connect with me and I can connect with them. Uh or you can of course go to WFMB. com. Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless.