Welcome to the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD brought to us by Footman. Encourage you, as always, to visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith. There you'll find a Monday through Friday updated blog, and it's pretty simple. I post whatever you send me. So send me stuff. Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. That's my name, Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. No not dots dashes anything like that. Uh ClearChannel. com Uh Jonathan Sweiser, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, and Mark Braverman, author of Fatal Embrace, are on the show today. Fatal Embrace, Christians, Jews, and the search for peace in the Holy Land. It examines why the turmoil has continued for decades, reveals how the UN and the United States play key roles in this problem, and what needs to be done in order to save Israel from imminent destruction Bretman brave uh bravely talks not only about the treatment that he witnessed in Israel, treatment that replicates the Nazi Holocaust, but also about the realization of what his own people, the Zionists, are doing to the Palestinians Israel's acting like a power-driven dictatorship, not like a democracy. This is a story of truth, a journey to discovering one's purpose in life, and an urge to the world to see his peace project as a matter of human rights rather than one of religion. And we are talking about religion towards the end of last week's show. This is our fourth time this panel's been together. And um we are talking about Judaism, Islam, and Christianity, uh and um We kinda got fine to the crux of the matter, right? After after three and a uh after uh two and a half shows, you find sort of getting to the meat of it. That's better than we u normally do, isn't it? Yeah, we we usually do four or five shows and never quite get to the point. So we're we're making progress. So uh Jonathan, I think that uh you might have had the last word but didn't have a chance to finish your thought last week. I made an appeal that we come back to the question of are there some uh religions that that seem to fit naturally with a liberal democracy. Uh basically what I'm arguing is that liberal democracy is a child of a Judeo Christian worldview and that uh all the Muslim nations when when they see us attempting to export liberal democracies into Iraq or Pakistan or Sudan and or you know uh Egypt, Libya, that they feel like we're being imperialistic again. That the very nature of of our uh of our desire to see them uh working in a liberal democracy is something that angers them and that that that they don't want. And so we also see like say in Europe You know, Merkel and uh Sarkozy and Brown, is it Brown had all said, came out and said that uh that there are these pockets of of Muslims all throughout Europe that refuse to assimilate into liberal democracies And it's almost like the Achilles heel of a liberal democracy that this group would come in that refuses to assimilate but comes in and abuses the kindness that we're extending to them, that they would embrace liberal democracies. They come in, they take our kindness, but then they refuse to assimilate, and the result is that that they bring conflict, a conflict of world views that if it's not dealt with, there can be no peace. And and so there's still this question in my mind as to whether or not A liberal democracy of Palestinian Muslims, Palestinian Christians, and Israelis would really be accepted by The the Muslim population in particular. Okay, so I I'd like it to. I want it to, but that doesn't make it so. I think that we definitely are talking about imperialism. And I think imperialism is driven as it has always been driven by economics. Sure. By corporations, by governments that are run by corporations or corporations themselves. imperialism. Now religion is often brought as a way to rationalize or justify or you know those basic imperialist drives. Now I think what you're saying We've been talking to each other for almost two hours now, so I can be entirely frank with you. I think where you're going is a very, very dangerous place. Okay. Because if you want to say that Judeo Christian values are liberal and democratic and are anti imperialistic Whereas a po whereas Muslim or Islamic values are not, that fits like a glove with the dominant Western Judeo Christian political narrative which says we are the good guys, we are the white really are white Judeo Christian good guys and we need to bring the good stuff to the rest of the world and battle the dark forces of these dark, scary, violent people who worship this other God. And Allah means God. This other God that's telling the old spectrum. That's our dominant narrative. It's a dangerous narrative. It brings grief and destruction to the world. It makes the rest of the world hate us. And it basically is serving Western economic Right, and I'm recognizing though that all that's the case, but I'm asking you, wouldn't you say that your goal is to see a liberal democracy? that embraces all the people that are to be completely divorced of religion. I think we need to keep religion out of it. Right. But but I guess what I'm saying is that the mere fact that you want to see a liberal democracy there whether whether you're intending to impose it in Palestine. Whether you're intending to impose it as a religious thing or whether you're intending to impose it just as a political thing, I think it's going to be perceived as im imperialistic uh uh f as a Western imperialism. Well it is a Western imperialism now. And what you've got is um the state of Israel being played by or maybe playing us as a way to establish a b uh an imperial sort of beachhead in the Middle East which has been going on for a long time. Okay. Yeah. You wanna say, you know, w here's one of the you know, the wasn't Mark Twain said they're lies and they're damned lies? Okay. Here's a damn lie. A damn lie is that the Christians are leav Palestinian Christians are leaving a hold of them because they're being driven out by the Muslims. Okay, they're not. They're being driven out by the Israeli occupation and by the Israeli government whose aim is to get as many Arabs, non-Jews, to Muslim Christians, they don't care, to leave the country as possible so that the whole land can be taken over by the Jewish state Okay, it's not you talk to Palestinian Christians and Muslims and you say are there problems? They say, that's not the problem. We've gotten along fine. Our problem is the is Israel. They got along fine in the context of the Turkish Empire, which was decidedly one of the more secular of the Muslim empires. Right? But with the fall of the Turkish Empire, uh Jordan is uh has a pretty good reputation for being pretty secular. Lebanon You know, has no no Jewish but but they're driving the the Christians out. Right? Things have have shifted uh significantly. Egypt uh since uh Mubarak's fall, uh Christians are I mean, uh we run I in the circles that I run into, you know, I I get fed stories of of where Christian Christians are getting persecuted. And I'm just saying that that Iraq, when Iraq became a democracy and they they voted in the people they voted in, Christians Christians were the ones that suffered in significant ways, huge ways. Same thing in Egypt, same thing in Libya. I mean I hear stories of of basically They're they're all on pins and needles and they're being driven out. So my point is just that that when I look at all this and I look at what we want to see established I'm not sure that Muslims if Muslims have a chance to vote, they're gonna vote for Sharia Law. You're on a slippery slope, Jonathan. You're getting back into Christian exceptionalism. You're going to get back to the Crusades, man. Order Christian soldiers. Let's let's let's let's let's bring God to the world. It's not the good way to go. Turn on the light And let's let's deal honestly with what's there. I'm not I'm not proposing a solution so far. I'm trying to grapple with what uh what are the issues on the ground that got us dealt with. Our human rights issues are land The issues are water. The issues is an indigenous population being ethnically cleansed from an area that they have inhabited for Centuries. That's the issue. It's not about religion. Religion will be brought into it. Religion will drive people, yes, but it's not about religion. It's about a c settler colonial movement where Europeans came in and basically started buying up the land and then by war took more of it and more of it and more of it and what they've established now is something that looks a lot like South Africa under apartheid where one people is controlling another and making life miserable for them. So so I agree with all the political implications of that. Um And I hope that you're right, but but my perception of of the way that the religious elements uh uh uh end up influencing things, which is part of your point, the exceptionalism, if we can get away from from religion being there. But but I just I I don't see how how the Muslim world is going to do that overnight. It's not gonna happen soon. That that Muslims walk away from the Muslim world you're talking about. Let's just talk about Palestine. Okay, Palestine is not ruled by the Muslims. Most Palestinians are not particularly religious. Most Palestinians do not want the Palestinians are the last Arabs in the world who would want a Sharia state. The very, very, very last. They voted for Hamas because Hamas was taking care of them and because Fatat was ridiculously corrupt. Okay? They don't want it's such a huge gamble. And I I want you to be right, I really do. But it's such a huge gamble. What right do we have to tell those people how they should vote? And what kind of government they should have. I know, I agree. But that's precisely the struggle. I'm saying that I'm saying that there is an exceptionalism that we have to hold everybody to and it's a prophetic thing that is in your heart. And when I look at when I look at the ways that these other Arab nations have have ruled, it's been it's been driven by a a certain ideology that is Muslim and it and it doesn't fit the ideal that that comes pounding off the pages of of your book, uh, of of social justice. You know, it fits the Cairo Declaration of Human Rights and they're pretty consistent about it. You know, and I appreciate the fact that they do what they say they're gonna do. They do. They do what they say they're gonna do. And all I'm saying is that the difference between the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the Cairo is significant enough that that's the gap that's gotta be bridged. Outside of our own borders, the more we screw things up. When are we going to learn that? I hear you. We gotta let these people find their own paths. But we can't let our victimization be the center, we have to have a goal that we're working towards. We can't spend all of our time just saying, okay, we stop oppressing each other, but we have to have something to work towards. Otherwise our victimization is going to drive us to do the same thing that that that you see happening and I think I th I I think it can happen in the Muslim world just as well, that their victimization drives them and they don't realize that they're oppressing other peoples. The more we try to make this into a Muslim, Christian, Jewish thing, the further we're gonna get from finding a solution. It's gotta be a political solution. It's gotta be based on human rights. You take your own beliefs based on your own religion and your own deep religious convictions, you let that drive your behavior, but you don't try to preach it to others on a religious basis. Okay, I hear all that. So can you show me a nation in the world that is an Arabic nation? that that is primarily of a Muslim rel uh religious orientation that is willing to find a political solution. What does that have to do with what's going on in Israel and Palestine? Well 'cause because we we we're trying to have hope. for for for people that come from a certain background and orientation to to to make certain decisions. Let me turn it around for you. Yeah. Can you show me a Jewish state And a Jewish nation today that is willing to make peace with indigenous population doesn't happen to be Jews. Well that is a very good point It's not gonna work. We Jews have to give up Zionism. We have to say if we want to have a civil soci if we want to build a society, a Jewish society in historic Palestine And we want those people who who were refugees themselves who came from Europe who went to establish a Jewish culture, we want them to have a home and to be secure. The only solution down the road. is to be able to share that land with the other people who were there. I tell you, if the Jews and the Palestinians could get together, they would have a civilization that would be the wonder of the world. I agree. And and the more we try to take it over and say it's for us and not for you, the further we're gonna get down the road of self destruction. I agree. So show me a Jewish state that can be democratic. Okay? I would pro I would apply the same standards to the Jews and to the Christians as you want to apply to the Muslims. Okay, so let me ask this question, because I was grappling with this The only two nations that I know on the face of the planet that are genuinely uh fully multicultural is the United States and Canada. Right? Great Britain is primarily English people, with others that that have that have been immigrant just been there. I know, but primarily. Germany, primarily Germany, but with lots of others. France Right? Primarily French. Italy, primarily Italian with others. Greece, primarily Greek with others. I I'm just saying everywhere that you go on the earth, except for the United States and Canada The the definition of the nation is is I mean even its name, its culture is primarily derived from a certain people group. I'm just saying that that's the history of the world. That's not the direction that the world is going. The trajectory of history is away from nationalism and very, very much away from ethnic nationalism. We're going to be a global village. More and then w it's all about diversity. It's all about saying we live here together as a diverse group, different colors, different religions, different backgrounds. Well and so so again it looks to me like like what your vision is And what what I'd like my vision to be for Israel is kind of, you know, to be like the United States where everybody can just be. Yes, absolutely. But again, I'm just telling you that's a Western vision. It's a Western country. We have to admit it. We're Western we're we're imposing a Western vision on Middle Easterners. But that's not the reality. The reality of Israel today is that you have a pluralistic society. You've got listen, you've got Jews there who are all different colors, from all different backgrounds. Who speak different languages, you could choose as that are errors, that Arab Jews went right from Morocco. But those Muslim empires were under Sharia law. They were not under liberal demo democratic. a monster, a bugaboo that we have invented so that we can justify going in there and pushing our weight around. And we can't let that happen, but we can't turn the light off either. And and act like it's not there. It's a it's an elephant. The more we try to prevent it, the more it's gonna come up. The more we try to suppress it, the more s the stronger it's going to be. You want liberal democracy and you'll get Liberal democracy arising naturally from the desire of the peoples of those countries to be to to to rule themselves and to have a fair, just society. I totally want that. I totally want that and I hope that you're right. I just can't say that I've seen it anywhere yet. So we're we're we're like Abraham. And we're looking for a city whose builder and maker is God. And we're we might possibly die, you know, not having attained what it was that we were hoping for. But we need to fight for it. And the Roman Catholic Church and your Pentecostal churches and your community churches and your free churches and your vineyards and your covenant churches and your bl and your and your African American historic African American churches stay with the core and the root. of your faith which has to do with going out and making disciples of all the nations, bringing all the nations to God. It doesn't mean making them into Christians. We're all going to heaven. Okay? You're not gonna get conservatives together. Yeah, I know that. But it's a good try though. Okay. But what I'm saying let's not talk about it. Let's talk about the fact that ma build bringing the kingdom Bringing the kingdom means all people living together in equality and in justice and in respect and love and compassion. Amen. Okay The churches have done it before. When they rose up and said to the South African government, apartheid is a heresy, your government is a tyranny, it cannot stand when they finally wrote that document in nineteen eighty five in nine years apartheid was going. The government could not stand up to that. The churches of the world came in. When when the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, when Martin Luther King and his fellow pastors sat with Lyndon Johnson you know and they said we need a Voting Rights Act bill. Yeah. And remember the Montgomery G bus boycott? Johnson said keep doing it. Make me do it. Make me change laws. I can't do it without you. You know, and when Martin Luther King sat in that jail cell in Birmingham, Alabama, and he had and and answering the appeal of other pastors who said, Stop Stop with the sit-ins, it's hurting your cause. He came back and he said, I'm just doing what the early Christians did. They entered town, they were considered outside agitators. But they kept on because they believed they were a colony of God. We gotta stick it out. The church has done it before. The church will do it again And I would say to all the Christians who are listening to this broadcast, go to www. kyrosusa. org Read a Kairos with a K. Kairos. K-A-I-R-O-S. The Kairos is fulfilled. John chapter one, I think, right? Kairos is fulfilled. The the the f the time has been fulfilled. Kairos doesn't mean chronological time, it means God's time. Okay. Kairos USA. Yeah. It's a prophetic document written by Christians across the s the the theological spectrum of the United States and it is a call to answer the Palestinian call for liberation. Kairos, USA, read it, sign it, study it. It could bring all of us together. That's uh Mark Braverman, author of Fatal Embrace. You can uh get access to that book at his website, markbraverman. org. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMB. I've been very patient sitting here on the side of the show. How much time we got here? We got about uh eight minutes or so left in the show. Where are we at? I agree with the heart that both of you, as you're arguing back and forth and disagreeing, I was agreeing with both of your hearts, but couldn't disagree with either one of you more on what the purpose of the Christian church should be. And I'm not so surprised that I would disagree with Mark because he's not a professing Christian and he redefined what the kingdom of God is and made it about social issues and human rights and I don't think that that's uh uh an accurate reading of of the New Testament. But I don't expect that. But I'm I'm bordered on shocked that I felt like for fifteen minutes that Jonathan was was making a case for the primary purpose of of the Christian uh living in the Western world should be to export liberal democracy as opposed to export the truth uh that and the way and the life that is Jesus Christ Right. I feel like he was he was reading that too. I'm not I'm not encouraging us to export liberal democracy. I'm trying to I'm trying to understand Marx vision, his hope for for what's going to be the final result on the ground. And I'm arguing that that what I perceive his vision is is liberal democracy. Now I do feel like Liberal democracy has in it elements that are vital to a Christian worldview where where people are not forced to worship some certain way and the people have the freedom to pursue what's on their heart because God does that for all of us. God doesn't force us to be a certain way. He does, however, punish us when we choose to walk away from his purposes, but that's up to him. That's not up to me to punish people for that. God does that. And so so a a religious system that with a bill of rights uh that that like what we see in the Constitution of the United States, I'm of the opinion is is the the most righteous type of system uh where people are allowed to not believe if they don't believe uh but there there's a maintenance of law and order that is generally uh based on uh on What is righteousness, you know, lying, cheating, stealing, you know, uh def uh uh defending marital rights and and these sorts of things. And this is probably where Again, you and I we we kind of went there for a moment uh dealing with homosexual issues, but um you know we might be in a different place on it, but I'm not arguing that the primary role of Christianity is to do that. So much as I'm trying to get at what is Mark's vision for for what should happen. And you know, sometimes the kingdom of God is like yeast. You know, and so if liberal uh uh democracy is exported, then it opens up an opportunity for people to to to get a picture of things that they weren't able to get under the oppressive system that they were in previously. And so so I'm I'm open to that, but I would say my primary call is not to export uh liberal democracy, but my primary call is to bring the kingdom of God. Sometimes that means speaking prophetically uh to issues of um uh to to social justice issues. Sometimes that means preaching Jesus Christ and uh and calling people to reunite with God. through Jesus Christ. Uh sometimes that, you know, the there's various elements of the church that that represents to me. So I want to be clear that I'm not trying to argue for making a liberal democracy our primary goal. I'm just saying that it seems to be the child of a Judeo Christian worldview. But it seems that there's this almost inherent American instinct. uh that is rooted I think in dispensationalism. I think that's why there's this strong affinity for Americans wanting to support Israel. And I'd I mean we've talked about this ad ad nauseum on this show before. You haven't been uh witness to that, Mark. But I uh you know, I think that's a great blight on the American church right now. I think dispensationalism gets it wrong. And it leads to these sorts of issues or we think that our political system is right and the geopolitical nation state of Israel becomes critical to the fulfillment of prophecy to the point where we need to sell we need to sell out our souls to to make that happen so that Christ can return. I think it I think it's a uniquely American church issue. I don't think it's a biblical issue. Jesus didn't say go and plant liberal democracies around the world. He said give unto Caesar what is Caesar's Yeah, he said, I could call down my angels to thwart the will of you, Pontius Pilate, to thwart the will of the emperor, but that's not why I'm here. My kingdom is not of this world. And I think the Americans have lost sight of that with the whole Manifest d Destiny idea which we talked about a couple of shows ago. And you know, it's it's it's very discouraging to me when Christians talk that way, we should be talking about I would disagree with you, Mark. I think that Christians should go and make disciples and by that that means to win converts to Christ because their eternal soul is at stake. We're not winning people to Christ so that we can have better trade relations with them. We're not winning people to Christ so that necessarily motive in that isn't so that there will be m more social justice in the world, although as a very nice byproduct of that, I think we would get that. But the primary goal in winning people to Christ is so that they won't be damned to hell for eternity. 'Cause I would disagree. I don't think I don't think everybody's uh going to heaven. Uh and I base that on the teachings of Jesus. So if we're gonna say everybody goes to heaven then we've g gotta parse Jesus' words in ways that are difficult. I mean we can disagree about all of that, but the thing is that if Christians are going to be good Christians and good Americans, they have to stand up for human rights. And these other issues are secondary to that Yeah. Yeah, I'm in agreement with that. Yeah, well I was well yes definitely have to stand up for human rights. I don't know that that human rights is is the primary that's the difference, right? Social justice would be a primary focus for uh uh f for your perspective for sure And I don't think that that's the primary Christian focus. I don't think it should be. Yeah, th this is the question though that we've talked about on the show. It it seems to me like there's a fifty-one percent, forty-nine percent. Do you Do you help people deal with their their their on the ground issues that they're dealing with, or do you just preach Jesus Christ? And at the end of the day, we have to do both. But if push comes to shove the distinction. Right. Well that's why I say it's fifty one percent, forty nine percent. What's the kingdom about is the real question. I think we have to have another show about that. Maybe you've done that already. Yeah. Well well and and so I'm I'm saying it's a false dichotomy too. Somehow it's all got to be together in uh I think I do tend to be in a different place on this. Even the nature of my involvements with things here in Frederick about the church of the city and various things, I think play out of my orientation towards we need to be taking care of the poor, we need to be taking care of the orphan. And that that that's a big part of our role in society to uh that that is a prophetic role while at the same time we're preaching that Jesus Christ has made a way for our sins to be forgiven so that we can be united with the Father. And Jonathan got the last word this week. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, Mark Braverman. is the author of Fatal Embrace. You can find that at markbraverman. org. You can find us at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Uh email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com and I'll post what you send me up on the site, my blog is your beloved. Thanks for our spot sponsor Putin Plenty Heating. How can we make you smile? And thank you for listening. Until next week. God bless. Putman Plumbing and Goulds Pumps have teamed for over 23 years to bring Frederick County homes clean, fresh, reliable water. Putman Plumbing and Goulds Pump share the same values Pride, ethics, and extra mile service. Who's pumps an apputment plumbing way because you deserve it. It's a great day, Aputman Plumbing. How can we make you smile?