Furby City Police arrested three individuals on Thursday in connection with a shots-fired incident. Authorities said the first incident happened in the 1400 block of Tani Avenue where several vehicles had been struck by bullets. Police said other shots fired happened in the south end of the Frederick Shopping Center. Officers, detectives, and crime scene technicians worked together to conduct witness interviews and search for collecting evidence. The suspects per layer apprehended, they are identified as nineteen year old Robert Shirley, sixteen year old Keon Parker, and seventeen year old Curtis Smith All three from Frederick. Police said about an hour after the initial call for gunshots being fired, staff at Frederick Memorial Hospital called a report that a juvenile had arrived in the emergency department with a gunshot wound to his lower leg. That was related to the shooting incident. I'm Bob Daisy for Freddy's News Radio 930 WFMD. The 930 WFMB weather bug forecast for Frederick and surrounding counties. Well, this morning a clear sky sunshine today with a high of 84, a partly cloudy night tonight, low 66. Monday, warmer and more humid with a partly sunny sky. Good chance of showers and thunderstorms, high eighty-eight. Partly sunny Tuesday, perhaps a shower or thunderstorm, high eighty-eight. Sunny Wednesday, high eighty-eight Need air conditioning service called Thompson Best Heating and Air Conditioning. Bestheatac. com. This is the Fate Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the Master of Ceremonies and the notorious Triple B, the Big Bridge. Builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where faith community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes, learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready? for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble Let's get ready to rumble. Weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary. The fake debate master of ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor, teacher, and founder of bridges, connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious Big Bridge. Builder John Sweiser. No, I'm just getting warmed up. Do you know five things millennials are looking for in your church? Heck, more pressing, do you know why the church needs millennials, but millennials don't need church? Did you even know this was the case? If not, well, you simply don't read enough web articles with headlines such as these, but seriously, are issues of character, finances, relationships, style, etc. Isn't he different for millennials when compared to other age groups? Do we tend to overthink these things? Back on the panel with me, Troy Skinner, to continue our multi-week focus of overthinking these things on the millennial crisis facing the church, we have Jonathan. The co-founder of Cross to Bridges in Frederick and Michael Bartlett, the pastor of Collective Church in Frederick. So by the way, two weeks ago I I should have given a shout out to my wife and said happy birthday, and I thought, you know what, I'm going to definitely remember next week and I forgot So here it is two weeks late. Happy birthday. So there you go. So I'm no longer the bad husband. Well I'm still the bad husband, but You can do that like she's gonna give that to you two weeks late? Oh sure. What I'll do is I'll reschedule the shows and then this we'll have this one in on February first. Solve that problem. But speaking of things I forgot, we never really addressed some of the things I teased at the very beginning of last week's show, so maybe we should kind of dive into some of that. I had said at the very beginning of last week's show, you know, what do millennials expect a church to do? So we kind of camp there for half a second. What do millennials expect from the church? They they don't have much expectation. They think the church isn't gonna do but if they have an expectation, what is it? What are they hoping for? To be honest A lot of Millennials think the church they expect the church to judge them. Um they expect the church to be irrelevant. But is that what you were asking? Well that's interesting. So that's a that's a Yeah, like like if they if they said that they still coming to the fact that the church is supposed to be this way And it's not, what is it supposed to be? When they finally show up, because they got past the baggage of church is irrelevant, they don't care about me, they decide I'm gonna give this a shot. What is it they're hoping for at that point? That should be there. Yeah. I mean They're hoping that the problems that they face can somehow be solved. And They're hoping that their voice is heard. They're hoping that there's community. Like they're expecting people to look like them and be like them and walk alongside them. A contrast to that, if somebody grew up with a stronger sense of what the church is, they're going to go into the church thinking that the church should be loving and like Christ, you know, in and you know, talking about doing things the right way and and showing forgiveness But you didn't use any of that. You just dealt with like very existential sense like these guys are you know, they don't really know what the church is supposed to be like. They just know that they could use some help and maybe this will be a place. Yeah, 'cause they don't a lot of millennials they don't what it can't really understand grace. And but again it comes down to the way they're experiencing church and and no, they're not searching very hard. You know, they're not digging into the depth of the internet. Right. They're literally getting what people are reposting and reposting and reposting on Facebook, which is usually a misinterpretation of a misinterpretation of a misinterpretation. So like they It's a telephone game. Yeah, oh it's but they don't they grew up thinking everything on the internet is real. So they don't they don't separate those two things. And so they go in thinking like I've got this burden in my life And what can Jesus do about that? A lot of times right now, so the biggest thing that we run into all the time Which actually means that they're really ripe. If you just give them the right thing. Correct. Because it's gonna hit them and they're gonna say, Yeah, I needed that. Yeah, these are people we are running into millennials who are in their late twenties already divorced. Right. Like multiple like affairs at twenty three. You know, we have people who are struggling with addiction to sex. and pornography because again, grew up in the internet age. So they've got these like deep dark secrets that they feel like are deep and dark and they don't think I can say this out loud, but they're hoping maybe the pastor touches on that topic a little bit and they can find some of that relief. for really like it's the shame that they carry. And so they look for maybe Jesus has an answer for this deep seated brokenness that I have from my past or from my childhood or, you know, a lot of a lot of our young women have been abused or sexually assaulted at some point in their life and they're looking for a safe place to share that story. Now those kinds of problems aren't unique to millennials. There are generation Xers and boomers who have pornography problems or cheating under spells problems or shame issues or no So in what way might it is there a difference or I I think there is again I feel like for our generation and maybe it my impression is different from yours, but our generation like uh celebrated all of those things. You know, almost like it was good. I've been addicted to pornography for six weeks now. Yeah, let's throw parties. That's what sex, drugs, and rock and roll was all about. Celebrated those things as a Playboy culture. As not a negative, but as like this is woohoo, just do your thing And now the whole in fact the Me Too movement seems to be like that. I don't think it's generational outside of the fact that millennials Because I will not agree with you, but it was strong in our culture. Well, but because of social justice. Because of awareness they are more willing to talk about it. I I don't meet many people who are in their forties and fifties, sixties and beyond, who would say, Yes, as a child I was abused. But I meet twenty two year olds all the time who are willing to have that conversation. Just because and again it goes down to social media. Right. There's some weird social awkwardness with millennials where they don't know the difference between a stranger and a friend because the internet makes them all friends, which isn't true. So it's not that Not everybody in our church has experienced those things at some point. The difference is for some reason twenty to thirty year olds are gonna stick their hand up and be like, That's me. Like me me too. I've done that before, I've been through this before, I'm struggling with this right now. Um now the thing is They also struggle with morality. And so while they're willing to say, Yeah, I struggle with pornography, when you say, Well this is what scripture teaches about it, they're like, No, I'm good. They just they just want to have people that'll that will say I understand where you come from or I understand how you feel I'm sorry that that's a burden for you. There a lot of Millennials aren't super interested in the Jesus teaching side that pulls them through that darkness. But we talk openly about brokenness all the time and some of the conversations, things that I went I mean, I went to school for ministry. I was not prepared for the conversations that I've had. Like they're just so far more painful than I've had. Approximately how many people are in your church right now? We average around two seventy five. Okay. And and they're all Uh eighty percent of them are millennials, something like that. Or younger. Um we have a weird amount of which I guess is Gen Z now of these like eighteen to twenty-two year olds as well. Okay. Um So you have eighteen to thirty somethings uh making a percent. Sorry, you said a weird amount of Gen Z Okay, just give me a percentage. So Gen Z is the least church uh demographic uh generation of all time. And we're probably I would say we're eighty percent a mix of millennial and Gen Z. We probably have like thirty ish eighteen to twenty two year olds and they're not from Hood. There's these are kids who aren't going to college. but are going to FCC or graduated and are working in the workplace um and for some reason they come to collective. Now how many of them that are coming to collective do you think are coming because They think they're Christians. Or they just come because they think you might have some interesting answers to some problems they have. You might hear their stories and it's it's kind of a social club that they can connect with other people that look like them. I think in the beginning a lot of them came because it was like this new church and so it's like the sexy new thing and they're like, Well I'm a church person but I don't like other churches, therefore I'll go to this one But as we've kind of built credibility, now we're reaching a lot of people who are like I have friends who go here or I know people go here and I've heard that I can be who I am here and wrestle with faith. And so now like because we have the credibility, but totally in the beginning it was which was which we try to combat all the time. Um but people who are like, oh I'm so angry at my other church, I'm gonna go to collective now. And we're like, that's not the way this works Like we're we're actually not super interested in reaching Christian people. Um actually most of our drama comes from Christian people, unchurched people and people who are far from God. They're the easiest ones to work with in my opinion. They actually serve more and give more than our church people do. Um so in the beginning a little bit, but now like it's because There's so many dynamics there, you know, uh that are fascinating to me. Yeah, so when you're preaching, are you do you feel like you're preaching to the flock, the Christ's flock, uh and discipling, or do you feel like you're evangelizing? I try to do both. Um, Andy Stanley Andy Stanley calls it shotgun preaching. And so we recognize the majority of our church is either unchurched Or very new to finding. Why did you call it shotgun preaching that double barrel? And he's trying to hit everybody. Yeah. Oh double barrel. Yeah, and you try to hit all so There's very practical application that every single person can take home with them. But I will make sure in ninety percent of my sermons to say, hey, if you're not a follower of Jesus You can put all these things in your life, like you know, you could you could find hope uh in Jesus, but ultimately none of these things will make sense until you actually follow him. Right. And then I'll say but for Christians, this is the baseline. So we always try to add both applications um because of the fact that we have such a spread out group of people. And I would even say most of the people who say they are Christians, their faith is Very small. Like they don't actually it's by name only. It's not through d disciplines and not through lifestyle or anything like that. Now does your church do very many baptisms? Yeah, actually, um it's which is this is abnormal, but we've had fifty three in the eighty weeks that we've been around. Um now some of them are obedience out of obedience where they grew up Catholic never hated God, never hated Jesus, but faith was never their own. And all of a sudden they're coming back 'cause 'cause something's missing from their life and they're like, let's go to this new church 'cause it's different. Um but equally we have people who literally have never stepped foot into church before and somewhere along the road it clicks with them. Um now for us like it's one fifth of your current size. Which is crazy. Yeah, which is very abnormal. Um it's very on the head of the curve. We're not we have no answer for that. People ask us all the time. I I don't have like the I wish I had a formula to say this is exactly why it happened. Um one thing we do, which is different in a lot of churches, is 'cause we don't have membership or anything like that You can serve on our team on Sunday morning and not be a follower of Jesus. And we've had more people come to faith serving alongside for this greater purpose than anything else we do. You guys uh I'm assuming at some point you administer the Lord's Supper every week. And how do you handle that? Do you pass the table? Yeah. So we that's a good question. That's the churchiest, the churchiest quote unquote thing that we do Um we do it every single week and we make sure we don't do a meditation, but I will say or the preacher will say every week, everything that we do, everything you love about this church, everything you think you like about this church points back to the fact that there's a God who loves you. And send his son to die for you. And communion is a time where we think about that, reflect on that. And we will say, if you're a follower of Jesus, because we have to explain, if you're a follower of Jesus, this is what it means. Or this is what you should be doing during this five minutes. If you and we'll say if you're not a follower of Jesus, or maybe communion makes you feel uncomfortable, because that's the other side of a lot of people coming from the Catholic Church are like, I'm not allowed to take communion here. And we'll say, just let it pass. But you really should be wrestling with this fact that there's a group of people here that say Jesus is the answer to a lot of the burdens that you have and now you have three minutes to sit on it. And we'll say like what's the worst thing could happen if you move toward Jesus today? But we have to be very clear about it every single week. W we don't police who takes it. You know, we're not asking people, but like we want to make sure like our non-Christians know, like Hey, it doesn't make sense that you're doing this if you haven't put your faith in Jesus yet. And so it's it's probably the trickiest thing that we navigate on Sunday mornings, uh because to be honest, one of the things that we don't do is we don't pass offering. And so communion is like The thing and we make sure to spend a good amount of time explaining and trying to get people in the right place before they're what do you do with offering? Just like baskets in the back or just on your on your way out, we'll have some people hold baskets. They're millennials. They do online they do online. Yeah. Correct. Yeah. So the people who write the checks every week, they don't love it, but at the same time, like everybody else wants to get online. And so it's Yeah, I understand that. I'm not militant on that either way. One of the advantages to doing a collection during the service is that you know people can feel like they're doing it. I will we'll say that I I I'm fine. I'm not militant on that either way. One of the advantages to doing a collection during the service is that you know people can feel like their giving is an act of worship and it's harder sometimes to get there and make that spiritual connection when you're clicking a donate online button on your computer. See and we felt during service for me personally, like I felt like I was creating spiritual disciplines in a lot of baby Christians or up and coming Christians where it was you give because you like what collective does. And so we felt that tension of we have so many non church people Am I teaching them they give because I remind them every week? And so those are things that we have to navigate. We think through all the time of how do we create those spiritual disciplines in people? Because they have zero baseline for reading their Bible, giving, prayer, any of those things. That's Michael Bartlett. He's the pastor of Collective Church in Frederick. Jonathan Sweitzer on the show again, of course. Uh he's the founder of Cross Bridges. I'm Froy Skidder. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. So when these New Christians, baby Christians, you're not even sure if they're Christians, and they start interacting with you or other people that are pastoring or in leadership in your church, what are the kinds of questions that they're asking you? Number one question we get is I have this thing in my life, am I welcome here? And it's from the gamut from I struggle with wanting to kill myself to I have you know, I'm a manic bipolar, to I think I'm gay, to I I'm openly bisexual, to I've been divorced, to I've had affairs, like I'm a sex addict, like it's always here's my thing. Like it's pretty I'll be in the lobby and 'cause I I stand there even though I'm like it's not my comfort zone. Um, but I'll stand in the lobby and people will come up and and say It is for your wife, apparently. Well, and for our staff, they love it. But I know like like people want to talk and it there will be people who walk up, never met them before, and they will say, This is my thing. Like this is what I've been through. Like, can I keep coming to this church? Or am I welcome here? Or thank you for making this a church where I can feel like I can learn about Jesus. And that doesn't mean like we're not an affirming church when it comes to like the whole gamut of things But it is saying if you are an addict, where else should you be? You know, if you are struggling with uh pornography addiction, like where else are you gonna go And so so the answer is yes. It should be yes for every church. Everybody is welcome. Yeah, absolutely. But then at I feel like I'm hearing your heart on this, and you just alluded to it briefly, almost barely alluded to it. At some point, like discipleship kicks in, right? So you're not gonna affirm everything forever. So how do you navigate that? Someone says, Hey, I'm a I think it might be gay and I'm a drug addict and I uh I welcome here and you're gonna say, sure, we welcome everybody. But at some point you gotta stop with the abuse, you gotta stop with the you know, the the the issues of identity and those sorts of things. Do you go there with them or how do you navigate that? Let's just say that that the one doesn't automatically mean the other in in in terms of what Troy just said. Like just because you're actually throwing out random bizarre things. Yeah, yeah. Nevertheless, the point is, you know When the time comes for change toward Christ-likeness, what does that look like? Yeah, so the first thing we do is we always try to build relationships because I've got to figure out what their baseline of Jesus is. It's one thing to think that that Jesus is real and to have accepted the gift of grace that he offers. It's another to trust in what he teaches. Um love the idea of Jesus but are not interested in what scripture says. And so the first thing I always try to do and our leaders understand is we gotta get to know these people like they do. Um because to be honest, I think some of the things they're getting it each week. Yeah, they but they also want the grace part. So we talk about grace every week as well and they really love that. But they s they aren't super interested in the Well every church should be talking about grace every week. Right, right. Come on. And isn't it the case that everybody grapples with the r the right way to do things like man he shouldn't have done that or he shouldn't like right like I mean getting to the righteousness. Well, you know, I preach the gre about grace every week. That is the gospel. Sure. That is the gos if you're not preaching grace, you're not preaching the gospel. And I would say I I'm lucky. So many times hard to just put it in a package and say, Oh, that's it. You know, now we figured it out. I mean at the end of the day it's person by person. you know, with very different backgrounds. Yeah. And I grew up in a good church that taught about grace every weekend. So I'm lucky that I didn't have to deal with the church drama or the church pain or a church split or any of those things that happen at some point. And so there is a little bit of me navigating that for some people and trying to figure out like what do you mean you came from? And a big piece of it is like I grew up in this movement of church and now they're on the news because of this scandal. And so whether or not they were a part of the scandal, you know, and we c there are multiple denominations right now dealing with the same sin, a lot of the people that we meet grew up in those churches. Yeah. And so they are like uh uh uh like I'm not interested in church because how is this a church, like how do those things happen? And so for us, like we have to navigate where do they come from? What's their understanding of church? And through that it's it's all relationship driven. And um we always talk about on Sunday mornings, like I'm not gonna do a sermon that talks on a really heavy topic. that specifically tells people like, hey, this is your sin that you need to deal with if we don't create the space somewhere else as well. Um so part of it is like the way we do our small groups have a conversation. So like we talk so our small groups, the way they're set up, whatever we preach on Sunday When you go to your s a small group every single one of 'em, they talk about the same topic, read the same scripture, and work through the same things. And so we talked about mental health in the summer and we talked about suicide. And so our small groups that week talked about suicide. Because we have to keep creating space for them to work through these things. And so for us it's always build a relationship. get to know them and try to figure out like where are they going. And at some point we have hard conversations. You know, we've had conversations with people who are openly gay. And I'll tell them, hey, I know you love this church. You serve in this church. W you have to understand like we trust what scripture says. We don't always understand why it says what it says. We have to trust what God says here. So please know that like we love you. We're so glad you're a part of this church. That doesn't mean we agree with your lifestyle, but this will always be a safe place for you. And what's weird is we have multiple people who are openly gay who are like, I understand where you stand, but this is the safest I've ever felt in my life. And it's this weird dichotomy of you recognize you have sin in your life, but also you've never been so cared for and loved in your life. So there was a time couple of summers back that I had a great discussion with a guy coming through college. uh he had just graduated from college about safe spaces. And I was I was the classic, you know, older you know, Xer that doesn't get the safe space thing and you know, and and uh uh but recognizing that that there had to be more to it than I understood. And I think he began to talk it through, you know, about the need for safe spaces. Like it just became clear to me that um you know uh the safe space for me growing up was church. Right? This place where I know that I'm not gonna get bullied and I know I'm not gonna get, you know, get uh harsh things happening to me, right? Like like that was a safe space. And for those that have grown out without any safe space like you're describing brokenness and pain and, you know, adverse childhood experiences and abuse and you know, pornography, all these different things. Like a safe space, there there is no holy space for people like that. A place where they can go that that is that is holy. And so they're using the language of safe space, but they're looking for what you just disc you know, described that that they seem to be getting there at church as a place where It's safe for them. Yeah. And what's funny is like we read stories in the Bible, you know, the woman at the well, the woman caught in adultery and there are people who are like, I've never heard this story before And you're like, This is who Jesus is. Like he was so loving to the mess up broken people. But for some reason, and again I'm not the best judge of where that comes from, there's a disconnect in our young twenty year olds to know like, hey, you can be super messed up and still have a ton of value in God's kingdom. Well in fairness to them, they're getting it from uh a kind of an inverse relationship with how the church should be interacting with the world around it. You know, we we have it completely inside out. My understanding is, you know, Jesus is hard on the religious leaders. You know, those who were on the in-group that should have known better. And he held them to account. Uh the present day church has a tendency to hold those who are outside the church. They're not in leadership. They don't even know about these stories from the Bible apparently. And we're trying to hold them to some sort of moral uh standard that we can't even you know uh sustain ourselves. So we're y we're pointing our finger at non-Christians saying, be more like Christians and un unfortunately at the same time we're ignoring Christians And reminding them that, hey, you're a Christian, act like it. We got it completely backwards. And so the millennials are, you know, sniffing that out. Well good for them. It's almost like as long as the United States had a stronger sense of being Christian, you know, maybe it was okay, but but once it moved the direction of not being that It's almost you know, it's almost like the church just hasn't been able to let go. And so in our clinging to power, uh, it it moved us into being unchristian. And, you know, the point is that we gotta get past that and just go back to being the church, and that's what you're describing, is let's just be the church. Let's not, you know, cling to and pursue power. That's the voice of Jonathan Sweitzer, founder of Crossed Bridges, Michael Bartlett, the pastor and founder of Collective Church in Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Find us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. part of this show or the previous two conversations we've had on this topic, you can find that on the podcast on the website, and if you can go to the uh WFMB Facebook page, you'll find it there as well. Tell next week, 167 and a half hours from now, God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com A service of clustered spires, Maryland's golf at its finest. From the 930 WFMD Roy Rogers Restaurant News Center. This is WFMD News. Perfect police arrested three individuals and connected. Police said shots fired incident also happened at the south end of private shopping center. Officers, detectives, and crime scene technicians worked together to conduct witness interviews. The suspects were later apprehended and they were identified as nineteen year old Robert Shirley, sixteen year old Keon Parker, and seventeen year old Curtis Smith. All three from Frederick. Townhouse fire in Frederick Friday afternoon sent one person to the hospital. That's according to Deputy Chief of Frederick County Fire Rescue Services, Tom Coe. There was one uh person transported with minor smoke inhalation uh to Frederick Memorial Hospital. There were no fire service injuries at the scene. The units were dispatched shortly after five fifteen PM to the 2600 block of Carrington Way. Deputy Co. said when units arrived they could see significant smoke coming from the rear of the townhouse. With the help of uh local citizens and local police officers, we were able to confirm that all occupants had safely execu exited the structure. Took firefighters about twenty minutes to knock the blaze down Deputy Co said the cause of the fire came from a grill located on the rear deck of one of the townhomes. A World War I memorial in the shape of a forty foot tall cross can continue to stand on public land in Maryland That's according to a Supreme Court ruling and an important decision about the use of religious symbols in American life. The court says the nearly one hundred year old memorial's presence on a grassy highway median doesn't violate the First Amendment's establishment clause which prohibits the government from favoring one religion over others. For more on this and other local stories, log on to WFMD. com. I'm Bob Dacey for Frederick's News, Radio 930, WFMD. Fox News, I'm Karen McHugh. President Trump is putting on hold a nationwide roundup of illegal immigrants for deportation.