Welcome to the face debate on news radio 930WFMB. I'm Fruit Skinner. You can find me online at House Household of BateInChrist. com. You can find the Fait Debate at Household of Faithinchrist. com as well. And also at WFMD. com. Of course, if you're listening on Sunday morning, you're hearing the Fate Debate right here live on the the radio. It doesn't get much better than that. I had an opportunity uh as host of the Faith Debate, um part of the Christian podcast community and they've got some programs over there and I was invited to sit in with some of the guys and so You're going to hear part of that conversation today. I know I spent a big chunk of time in the month of December introducing you to the Christian podcast community. Here's an example to hear the kind of stuff that's over there. And since I got to sit in, it's kind of like a faith debate as well. Sat in on a kind of a dual purpose show. It was part announced to be a tri-purpose show. It was streamed as an apologetics live program. It was streamed also as a theology throwdown. program and now of course it's being broadcast as a faith debate program. You're going to hear several voices, but they're all going to introduce themselves here in just a moment. So I'm going to not have to worry about doing the introductions this go around. And we're going to talk about uh things going on uh in the world in this particular episode. So Sit back and hope you enjoy this conversation, this special edition of the Faith to Beyon News Radio 930 WFMD. Welcome to Theology Proda. We the Christian Button community of podcasters together to discuss our theological differences with love and charity. This is a ministry of striving for eternity. Well, we are live, apologics, live here to answer your most challenging questions you have about God and the Bible. And some of you are going, wait a minute, Andrew, did you mess up the introduction? Well, it would not be unusual for me to mess things up. I am your host, Andrew Rappefort, but I'm also the host of Theology Throwdown. And what we wanted to do tonight is, well We decided to try to see with our Theology Prodown, which is a once-a-month podcast we do at the Christian Podcast Community where we discuss different theological differences. With love and charity to show how we can disagree with one another and not, well, do name calling and things like that. And so What we wanted to do is combine both Apologics Live and our Theology throwdown. And we actually have a little bit of a twist on this because we have some other podcasters who also we I was going to talk about the same topic with them and they were like, hey, we could do it this week. I was like, all right, then we're just going to combine this together. It'll be a lot more fun this way. Uh but the topic tonight that we are going to discuss as I bring folks in is going to be how should Christians respond to the nation of Israel. We want to try to give a biblical And a theological examination. This is oh, I would love to say that this is not a hot topic. I mean it in my mind, it shouldn't be controversial. But it seems to be. So maybe we'll get to discuss some of that. Let me bring in the folks uh one at a time as they had joined. I'm gonna we're we're gonna see if the technology works first with Troy. Can you hear me? I can. If you don't mind, uh as we usually do on Theology Throwdown, uh just introduce yourself so that people on audio get to hear your voice and your podcast. Well I'm Troy Skinner. I host The Faith Debate. It's a radio show that has doubled as a podcast since the year 2004. It's a panel discussion format that's actually very much like Theology Throwdown. uh or a little bit of apologized live even I guess. However the guests, unlike theology throw down, the guests on the faith debate are not always Christian. And so we dialogue in both an intra faith and interfaith context. I'm on a variety of social media platforms, by the way, as Troy Skinner but on Twitter somebody stole my name and so there my handle is at the Troy Skinner because there's only one. Uh and if you want to connect with the show or connect with me, the one-stop shop for doing that is Household of Faith in Christ. com and all it's a mouthful, but also the faith in Christ dot com. Now if there was only one choice, Kinner uh that person wouldn't have gotten your handle. Just saying. Seth introduce yourself and and you kind of have a podcast there with another cohort that's backstage there. But why don't you introduce yourself? And also introduce maybe and I was going to ask Jeff to do it, but you got in first the the Truth Fellowship. Oh, yep. Um it's good to be with you guys. Yeah, and good to see you, Andrew. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So my name is uh Pastor Seth Barrickley, Pastor Eureka Baptist, which is in uh Wisconsin. And uh yeah, you mentioned Jeff Clewer. Uh so Jeff and I uh Jeff's course in New Jersey. And We do uh the the Tearing Down the High Places podcast. And uh he does it weekly. I actually I join them once a month and we always have good conversations on that program. And you know, we we talk about the issues of the day. You know, we we want to bring the word of God to bear on the issues of the day. And and like the name says, we want to tear down the high places that are out there. So the Truth Fellowship, and of course Andrew, you're a part of the Truth Fellowship and uh Jeff Cluer is a part of the Truth Fellowship. There's actually twelve of us Uh very interesting number there. Uh yeah, there's twelve of them. It was not planned that way. It was not planned that way. Yeah. But Th I I counted nine different states, uh the people who are involved with the truth fellowship, which is very interesting. I mean, all over the country. And the Lord providentially connected all of us. And a lot of the guys are are former Free Church guys who really uh linked arms with Jeff Clearer when he when he wrote the book Woke Free Church Which once a month there was a Zoom call. It caused no controversy, he didn't get in trouble for that at all. Yeah, that's right. Yeah. And Jeff can explain that story maybe briefly here. But but yeah, so we we linked arms with him, uh and then we connected with guys like Russell Fuller and of course you, Andrew, and and a couple other guys who are not uh free church guys. Yeah, so it's really cross-denominational, but the truth fellowship is about speaking the truth in these days. Uh we Shepherds need to speak clearly in these these very confusing times. A lot of us, you know, we were united during the social justice stuff. We were very anti-social justice. Um and now one of our distinctives, we actually have 13 distinctives. One of our distinctives is we're speaking out against what they what's been called the woke right, you know, this anti-Israel, anti-Jewish rhetoric out there. Uh that we'll probably talk about a little bit here today, maybe. But uh yeah, we yeah, that's distinctive. So we're you know, we want to be consistently biblical and Uh we want to be a help to others uh in in being used by the Lord to be uh clear voices in these days. Yeah. Let me bring in uh next Rebecca. You are in next. Why don't you introduce yourself and your podcast? Hi everyone. I am Rebecca Birchwinger and I am the host of One Little Candle Podcast. Um, One Little Candle is a monthly podcast that focuses on equipping Christians. to navigate the spiritual and the cultural challenges that are out there with biblical truth by providing um you know during the episode I provide practical ways in which believers can strengthen their faith and uh be a light in the darkness in their in their everyday lives. So we cover cover a lot of subjects. And if Anyone who listens to one little p candle knows that, well, Rebecca is gonna have a lot to talk about on this topic. I'm just saying. I'm not a person. I'm actually I'm here to actually listen to what everyone has to say and learn. Yeah, but I know y you've done a lot of episodes on the I have done episodes on Israel. I I do love Israel. Actually I'm going there this year at the end of October. Oh so yeah. Without me, I can't believe it. All right. Let me let me bring in the last person that we have backstage, and that is my friend and fellow New Jerseyan, which, you know, Christians in New Jersey, we gotta stick together. Uh Pastor Jeff, how are you, sir? Well, you are muted. He is a professional podcaster, folks. I d I've unmuted him. Uh All right, let's see. It sounds like we can hear Jeff now. Can you hear me? Yes, we can. All right, good. Alright, yeah, I'm Pastor Jeff Cleaver. I'm out in Mount Laurel, New Jersey. And um, yeah, we have a church here called Cornerstone Church. You can check it out at cornerstone-sj. org, which is also where you can get Tearing Down High Places, TDHP. That's our podcast. Yep, Seth is on once a month. We cover a number of different issues, especially uh things like the woke movement and tearing down those kind of high places. But um we agree that the big threat right now is actually rising way off to the right instead of off to the left. And that is uh people who are um denigrating Jewish people and uh the nation of Israel and so we think that we need to s have a voice into that conversation. You know, you're you're saying dangers that we have. We're just gonna mute you. Uh you guys could just unmute Uh anytime you want to speak, for those that are have an interest in podcasting the difference between condensing mics and dynamic mics and what condensing mics do, and that's what right now Seth and Pastor Jeff have. Uh what they're doing. I should say Pastor Seth, Pastor Jeff. But uh a condensing mic actually if you're not speaking, it reaches out to try to hear out to see w is there something out there is someone speaking. That's why you end up hearing if someone has a condensing mic, you can almost always tell Because when they stop speaking and the mic is still on, you start hearing that background noise. Um that's that's what that what causes that. I might be able to set that off in the settings. So let me just uh you already have it turned off. Or turn the background noise is turned on. All right, so uh one of the things and uh you know we have pastors here You know, as pastors I think that you guys uh have to have a plan. I I sat down Wednesday night with my pastor and I think every one of you listening should sit down with your pastor because something happened last Sunday that is very grievous and very concerning to me with the church. So before we get into discussing Israel And that's the fact that you had a bunch of Marxists, uh insurrectionists, uh uh go into a church and disrupt the church service. Uh now keep in mind we we have a government under Joe Biden that had decided if you pray as a grandmother was doing just praying outside of an abortion clinic. That was a violation of the FACE Act and the the FACE Act, if you don't know, is a thing that was actually designed to prevent people from going to abortion clinics and doing what they would say protesting. uh biblical people evangelize. That's what they do out there. Uh th the the that's the real thing. And trying to address the the you know horror of what abortion is. So they created the FACE Act, but to get it passed, they not only included abortion clinics, but they included churches. And so what you see is a grandmother who's got four and a half years in jail because she was praying outside of an abortion clinic. And here you had dozens of people that went into a church and disrupted the service, uh didn't allow the service to go on. People it took forty-five minutes, the police came and basically did nothing. Um I have not seen much reaction. I I know that one of the people that was most vocal is been arrested. Uh that's That's it that I that I've heard and maybe a few others. But the issue that I see is this, folks. There was not a an extreme backlash like you saw the the Democrats do after January sixth that put many conservatives to to fear that they would be arrested and and to and it did what they wanted. It got you know Democrats got all the conservatives to run and hide so that they wouldn't be uh out protesting their stealing of an election. Oh, did I give away my position on that? Sorry. Um But the the thing is this, there hasn't been a reaction from the right against these people. And I fear that they're going to see this as an an opportunity to go into many churches this Sunday and attempt to disrupt lots of churches. And my pastor was like, oh, you know, the They'll probably only go to the big churches. We're small potatoes and I I I said no, that's actually who they're gonna go to. Because the smaller churches are are don't usually have security So this is more a public service announcement to all of you listening. Encourage your churches. I I'm what we're what I encouraged uh pastor to do at my church, uh he's gonna talk to the security team. And what we're probably going to do is we always lock the doors during service and we keep people at the doors to open them for people coming in. But I think we're just going to keep the doors locked and closed and just have people open them. four people that come in and uh if we see a big group of people coming in, just keep the doors closed. You know. Um now if you what happened in Minnesota, they snuck in, they had a couple people Here's a thing to also notice, where did they sit when with they sat right in the middle of a pew or the middle of a row so that people couldn't um people would would basically it'd be hard to move you know go and move them out for security move them out. So uh just some things uh to be concerned with I I think I just really have a concern if you're listening. They were targeting it because it was a church. You you notice they didn't go into any mosques. And I do have to, for the record, I did this, I said this on Facebook, but I have to be consistent. If you heard the rhetoric that those guys were saying and I'm I'm gonna open us up to all you guys see if you want to talk on this for a few minutes first before we get to Israel. But the rhetoric that we heard from the insurrectionist mob of Marxists in that church in in Minnesota was no different than the language you heard from AHA when they go in and protest outside of churches and demand that if there's that the churches should be doing more that people aren't real Christians if they're not outside the abortion clinics and they were disrupting services and they're outside protesting outside of churches. So I need to be consistent and say I'll call it out on either side. Which either side is wrong. If it's wrong, it's wrong. And I think you know, when we want to stand up for truth, we have to stand up for truth even if it's coming from our side. And that's gonna be some of the things you heard from both Pastor Seth and Pastor Jeff today talk about. It's there's some things this topic is a big topic. in our own circles, you know, within Christian circles. It we always knew it used to be an issue, you know, from the left, but now all of a sudden i it's an issue from from the right. So uh the Minnesota Church. Uh I don't know if any of you want to say anything about that briefly. You can just unmute yourself and go for it. Well I'm a I'm a native Minnesotan, so maybe I should say something here. Uh I grew up in the Twin Cities, lived lived there the first thirty years of my life. If you really grew up there, you would know how to pronounce it. It's Minnesota Yeah, that's right. Yeah. But but yeah, the the churches in Saint Paul uh where this happened. It was it was actually a plant of uh Bethlehem Baptist where John Piper pastored. So very very interesting. Yeah. Is it a Southern Baptist church? Because I thought I heard Yes, Baptist Church. City's Church is a Baptist church. It's uh it's not Southern Baptist, it is Converge, which used to be the Baptist General Conference. Okay. Uh well yeah, yeah, so the what you're saying here is is accurate. I mean we you know there's there's private property rights, you know, that people have. You can't you can't infringe on those. Um and of course th the right to assemble, right? The First Amendment. They're they're meeting there and people just come in and disrupt them. And and the police in these cities, their hands are tied. You know, e even if you have a good officer, he knows that that his bosses don't have his back. Yeah. What what what the police should have done is you know, they should have escorted those people out. Uh but sadly that's not what took place. Um so yeah, really really sad situation. But yeah, we we do need to be ready for this. And you know, if we live in a county where we have good a good sheriff where the where the rule of law is actually respected, the police will have our back. But in some of these places y you you might be on your own. Yeah, you know, okay, so you bring up a couple things for folks to realize a church is actually public property Because a church is a public build a pup public entity. However, um like a mall, we can't you can't just walk in and evangelize in a mall. We found this out Uh unless they have what's called a uh it's called like a uh location, means and times policy. And the church has that. And so it's not i the issue is not coming in and you know to the church. But and this is where it's really funny because you know that the reporter, the supposed reporter, you know the the fired CNN reporter, um wa was saying he was just doing journalism and he said they're coming after him 'cause he's black. He's a black man. Well, he's gonna be charged probably under the Ku Klux Klan. law, which I th just think is ironic, because there actually are there's an actual law in the books that says that you cannot go into a church to disrupt it and prevent the service from going on because the Ku Klux Klan by the way, Ku Klux Klan, those are Democrats. That's who founded it, just same. But The Ku Klux Klan would go into churches and and disrupt it, and so they passed a law saying that you can't disrupt the church service, and it's called the Ku Klux Klan uh law. So there are different things that the the Faith Act, the Ku Klux Klan Law, prevents them from doing this. But it i but as Pastor Seth said, i I mean, there is an issue with preventing people from from worshiping. And and so there's there's a a lot. I mean they're they're saying that they didn't do anything wrong. They're just protesting. um as they uh you know admitted that people were horrified and scared and feeling well let's use the proper word terrorized by these insurrectionists So I'm going to jump in here and we're going to pick up this conversation with this particular panel again on next week's Faith Debate Show. I do want to jump in with some thoughts though on the issue that Andrew was talking about there with the um protests that took place at that church in Minnesota. There's a number of things that occurred to me. One, do you remember back in 2021, in January 6th when uh you know there was a protest and people went to the Capitol and there were a lot of people on the left, Democrats and such who said, Oh, how dare they do such a thing because that's a sacred space, don't you know? Well, it's not a sacred sp It's a civic building, it's a governmental building. I mean, we're confusing our categories by calling it a sacred space. But even if I were to grant the point and say, okay, fine, Congress is a sacred space, even though it's not. What's more sacred A worship service at a church? That's more sacred. And so why aren't they coming unglued about the the sanctity of the worship service? because they're pagan secularists. And I don't care what Don Lamont, who was referred to there by Andrew Rappaport there briefly, Don Lemon, he claims that he's a Christian. uh af in the aftermath of the protests uh in Minnesota. Well, I I'm picked on because blah blah blah and I I'm a Christian. That's one of the funniest things I think I've heard a long time. Donald Lemmon is not a Christian. He His worldview is so upside down and inside out and opposed to what scripture has to say. He's an open, practicing homosexual. And that's not the only thing. There's so many things that he's wrong about that there's no way that God I mean, God knows for sure who is a Christian and who is not. But we will know them by their fruit. This guy is not A Christian, by any stretch of the imagination. So I just find that to be hilarious. So because of these kinds of protests, and there's been shootings and worship settings and that sort of thing, security is a real concern, and Andrew is right You know, years ago when I would attend church, I didn't have any concerns really. I can't remember having any concerns of, ooh, what if somebody jumps in here and starts shooting people? It never entered my mind. It just wasn't within my field of vision But now I gotta tell you, every week at church, it enters my mind, I pay attention to the doors, look to see if there's anybody new that I don't recognize, and do they feel like they they belong? Do they do they seem to understand why they're there Not that somebody couldn't play a trick and sneak past security or people who are paying attention, but the thought crosses my mind every week. Like, okay, if somebody were to come in, what would I do to try to protect my family and keep others safe as well. Uh it's it's a real thing. It's a real deal. Now the protests that were taking place in Minnesota apparently were triggered by the fact that one of the pastors on staff at that church has some connection They were persuaded anyway that the guy worked for ICE or worked in some capacity that aided ice or something, and they said that was a conflict of interest, the pastor shouldn't be doing that, and it was very unchristian. Well on the conflict of interest thing, anybody ever realized that you know the Apostle Paul was a tent maker? So he was a pastor and a tent maker. There are a lot of contemporary pastors. They get paid nothing or so little that they have to take an outside job. It's not a conflict of interest for somebody to be a pastor and also have another job. Biblically speaking, it's just ludicrous. And so anybody who would say that hasn't read their Bible. And they say, well, okay, but it's working with ice, and ice is unchristian. Well, you know, if the pastor's who's doing that work on the side, let's say, the conviction of his heart is that he is you know, supposed to be involved in helping keep up law and order. And that would be one of my convictions, my heart too. The biblical role of government is law and order Law and order, keeping law and order is the purpose of the government from a biblical standpoint. So there's no conflict of interest there either There are so many things wrong what was going on in that story. And uh I'm glad that Andrew brought it up. It wasn't the uh predetermined topic that was going to be talked about on the show. We'll be getting into that next week, which is uh beginning to to plumb the depths of the complexities of Israel and the church. Is Israel the church? Is the church Israel? What do we make of the Jewish question? Those sorts of things. That's what we'll be talking about on next week's edition of the Faith Debate. And so it'll be the same panel. It'll be Seth Brickley, Jeff Cluer. uh Rebecca Berschwinger and Andrew Rapoport, and of course me, Troy Skinner. And if you decide you want to listen in, then you too, whether you're listening via podcast or on WFMD on Sunday morning. So again, I encourage you to follow us online at wfmb. com and household of faith in Christ. com. I'm Troy Skinner. You are you, and we will do this again next week starting in about 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.