Broadcasting from the police state. That is Frederick City, just outside the capital of the former Republic of the United States of America. This is the Frederick Faith Debate Sponsored by Putman Plummy and Heating. How can we make you smile? Find us online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith, where you'll find all sorts of great religious links, including links to podcasts of previous face debate shows. You'll also find the Faith Debate blog on the right hand side of the webpage. But my blog is really your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com That's my name, Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. com. Whatever you send to me, I cut and paste right onto the website. Right there on the blog. Whatever you send me within reason, it goes up there. Nine fresh blog postings are uploaded each and every weekday, except for those days when I'm not here to do that, but that's very rare. And some of the stuff you send me is pretty darn good, so keep on sending it. I appreciate it. Some of it, you know, maybe isn't as good as others, but you'll never know which one's I'm giving my that opinion too. Well, if you asked me specifically I might tell you if I appreciate what you sent me. I appreciate everything you sent me. Who am I kidding? Uh on the show today is uh the follow-up of last week's show. If you were listening last week then uh you heard the first half of a message called Who is this Jesus uh using uh Luke chapter two as a springboard Uh what necess what necessitated easy for me to say that is that my partner in crime, Jonathan Schweitzer, he got called away, uh crisis uh within his church that he had to take care of that happens sometimes when you're a pastor. And so he couldn't do the show uh with me uh and our guests, so we've rescheduled that. But the show must go on. We've got a ske we have a schedule to keep, you know. So uh a few months back, I can't remember how many months ago now, a few months back I I aired uh a couple of different sermon messages that uh I was asked uh to share. at some uh crazy church that would allow me to speak behind their uh their pulpit, but they asked me back and I had a chance to share a very personal intimate message this time. So I'm going to forewarn you like I forewarned you last week. We just started to get into it last week, so uh just when I was starting to get emotional, we had to leave So pretty much the rest of the message is going to be hyper-emotional. And I apologize, I did my best. I promise you this was not for effect I did everything I could to hold it together. And I was reasonably proud of how well I held it together, but n not nearly well enough. So Forgive the the pregnant pauses, my struggle to uh hold my composure uh and all of that that you're gonna hear over these next you know twenty, twenty-five minutes or whatever. Uh um seriously, it wasn't for a fact. It's a true story, a personal story. It means a lot to me. I think it means a lot about uh those who hold to the truth of the Christian faith, and hopefully it'll mean a lot uh to you, uh one way or the other. on that point. Uh what have I been reading lately, by the way? Well, you know, a graded reader of biblical Greek. That's right, nothing but the interesting stuff for me. That's by a William D. Mounts, by the way, if you if you want to read it yourself. Anyway, here's that message, uh part two. God had a plan and a purpose for this boy born sick. Fast forward a number of years, we have a ten-year-old boy who still couldn't eat salad foods, everything had to be put through the blender first. He had recently learned to feed himself with his spoon, so that was good, but We prayed in the name of Jesus Christ with a dedicated circle of prayer warriors. And when Tyler was 13 years old, he finally was able to eat non-blenderized food for the first time. We can party. We celebrated this answer to prayer with all of our prayer warrior friends. We had the invitation blown up their poster size. Everybody who came to the party signed it. He had a frame that hangs in the front floor of our house. If you come to our house today, it's one of the first things you will see. God answers prayer and heals the sick. So, the lung problem went away, resolving itself on its own, the doctors told us. The liver problem with the impossibly high bilirubin count went away in spite of the failed efforts of the medical community. Many of his physical and developmental issues were successfully addressed. by highly trained doctors and therapists with unreal effort, love, and patience from my wife Dina, sustained by God's grace. And now he could eat real food. Not all foods, but solid food. Amazing answers to prayer. But there was still the ticking time bomb. His heart. The hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and pulmonary stenosis were not getting better. You saw specialists in in Orlando and New York, Syracuse, Buffalo, Baltimore, D. C. the best in the world at what they do and there was nothing to be done. Every few months he needed to see his local cardiologist, a beautiful Muslim man named Dr. Hassan Abdallah And every visit Dina would say, Well, praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And he'd smile and encourage. Then Tyler started having these episodes where he couldn't get his breath. You come into a room late at night panicked, turning gray. And Dina would hold him and Rock him and pump his arms and legs trying to get blood flow and take him into a steaming shower, hoping maybe anything would help him to get his breath. Dr. Abdallah has to see Tyler every month now. And every visit, Dina would say, Well praying for a miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And the doctor saw second and third opinions, sending Tyler to medical facilities in the region. And Dr. Abdullah stopped accepting payments for Tyler's visits, and we didn't know why. We found out later if it just thought it was dying. Dr. Kelly couldn't bring himself to tell us. His heart was breaking for us, as Tyler's heart, after years of struggle, was ready to call it quits. This is why he couldn't breathe sometimes, why he turned gray. It was a heart failure. And there was nothing to be done. All of the doctors had exhausted all of the options that their training and technology gave them. And yet Dina kept trudging Tyler to doctor visit after doctor visit. And after seeing so many alchocardiograms and EKGs, she was becoming an expert herself at reading them. I mean dozens and dozens of echoes where the doctors and technicians would explain what they were seeing and where the problems were and what a normal echo should look like. It was sort of fascinating, really. Then it was time for another visit to Dr. Abdullah. As usual, Dina greet him saying, Transfer miracle, Dr. Abdallah. And as usual, Dr. Balla politely smiled and got to work. As he performed the echocardiogram, Dina watched as usual, but somehow It didn't seem as usual. Necho looked different to Dina. And Dr. Abdallah noticed too. He kept looking, adjusting his view, double checking where he'd already looked. Kept performing the procedure taking much longer than usual. And Dina began to think she understood why. And the doctor turned to Dina and asked, Do you see that? And Dina said, Yes. It looked to her like the image of Tyler's heart. Was normal. Dr. Bell removed his glasses like I think I need to here for a minute. And he wiped a tear from his cheek. And he looked Dina straight in the eyes and asked, Who do you pray to? Now Dina's eyes were flooding with tears, and she answered, Jesus. We pray to Jesus. Dr. Abdallis said, Well, your Jesus has healed your son. His heart is normal. And they embraced and they shared a long cry together. And they rejoiced together at what Jesus had just done. One of them having just been reminded of who Jesus is. The other one having just been introduced to who Jesus is. Now I know that this story seems utterly fantastic. But it is true. Is one hundred percent true. As documented medical evidence that this really happened. I'm going to share with you a portion of Dr. Bella's medical report at Tyler's primary care physician. Now we've had it framed, and it hangs in Tyler's bedroom. Two pages. I brought it with me here today to share with you. When we get back, we'll hang it up back up on the wall. I'm not going to read the whole thing, but I'm going to read The parts I think you need to hear. I had the pleasure of evaluating your patient, Tyler Skinner, a 13-year-old young man with Williams syndrome. He had bilateral branch pulmonary artery stenosis and severe hypertrophy of the right ventricle. Since I saw him last time, he has done tremendous progress. He does not have any chest pains. He is more energetic. A 2D echo revealed the presence of normal segmental cardiac anatomy. The systemic venous return was normal. The right atrium was normal. There was no atrioseptic defect. The right ventricle was normal. Both arteries demonstrated normal color and doppler flow velocities. The left ventricle was normal inside the aortic valve was normal. The supravalvular aortic area was normal There was no aortic or supra Arctic valve stenosis. The peak systolic velocity across that area was 1. 2, which is normal. The aortic arch was normal. There was no patent ductus arteriosus. There was no precardial effusion. Conclusions. I am truly amazed at the spontaneous resolution of this child's cardiac findings. This is not what we expect to see in a typical patient with Williams syndrome. The natural history for the branch pulmonary arteries in patients with Williams syndrome is progressive worsening, progressive right ventricle failure, and dysfunction. This patient currently does not have any cardiac abnormality. Looking at the other outstanding improvement. That happened to this child with no medical intervention at all. It just makes me feel miraculous, miraculously touched that this thing happened. This child, as you know, was doomed at birth, but he will not live. with multiple failures. And his cardiac was severe. At one point by more than one pediatric cardiologist, including myself, I only thank the God for how good this patient is doing. Recommendations, normal treatment for age, signed. Hassan Abdallah MD. So let me review the basics of Tyler's story. Tyler was born sick, radically sick. Trust in God, the only option. Our efforts, the medical community's knowledge, failed. But God had a plan and a purpose for this boy, riddled with sickness. When God healed Tyler, a Muslim doctor asked, who do you pray to? Let me review the basics of your story. You were born sick Radically sick. Hope in God Trust in God, your only option to rescue you from you being dead in sin. Your own efforts, even your own increase in knowledge, will fail to rescue you. But God has a plan and a purpose. For you, riddled with sickness. And so now as you reflect on your personal story of healing, I want to ask. Who do you pray to? In whom do you trust? Like Tyler, all of us are born sick. A death sentence hanging over us, and there's nothing anyone but God can do about it. Like Tyler, we must fight to persevere, to overcome, to allow others into our lives to minister to us with the gifts and talents that God has given to them. We're just like Tyler. All of us. Exactly the same scenario. Just minor differences in degree Tyler's heart is healed today because Jesus is Lord today. If you are a Christian, then your spiritual heart is healed today because Jesus is Savior today. Christ's kingdom is advancing today, even to the witness of Muslim doctors, because Christ is king today. Jesus is Lord, Savior, King right now. Don't forget it. Don't neglect to proclaim it. Now, before I wrap up, I want to address a question that might be hanging in the air in the minds of many. What are we to do with the fact that Tyler still has difficulties despite the healing of his heart? I mean he still has William syndrome and autism spectrum disorder Well, we can see a connection between Tyler and ourselves here, too. In Christ, Tyler is 100% healed right now. We just cannot fully see it yet. As it's written in Hebrews 10, verse 14, it says, For by a single offering, he, Jesus. has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified. I'm going to read that again. For by a single offering he has passed tense Perfected for all time, those who are being right now sanctified. In heaven, we will see Tyler's full healing perfectly Just like us in Christ, true believer, we're already healed We can't yet see the absolute fullness of this till we arrive in heaven. So don't be distracted by what your eyes can or cannot see through a glass dimly. The truth remains clear to those whom God gives eyes to see. We needed God to come and live on earth as a man to rescue us from being dead in sin, and he did this for us. He limited himself. He condescended to become man. The true God truly became man. And he is the Savior of the world. Today he is risen. Trust God, He loves you. He made you. He's offered you the promise of heaven. You don't deserve it. None of us do. There's nothing we can do to earn it. Just love them back. Love him back. Turn from your way. Trust his way. Love him back. Once upon a time, and happily ever after, and right now Jesus reigns. Thank you, God, for your creation. And for the trust that we can have in your never-ending wisdom in ruling over it. We praise you for your plan of salvation revealed to us in your written word and in the life of Jesus Christ. We celebrate the things that you have done throughout the ages and yearn eagerly for the consummation of your work in us at the time of the Second Advent. Please, Lord, slam open the eyes of our heart. Keep them open. To the comforting and courage-inspiring truth. That you reign in our lives, in the entire world, right now, as Lord, Savior, and King. Praise be to your name now and forevermore. In the name of your transcendent and imminent Son, Jesus the Christ, we pray. Amen. And that ended that message and I must admit, uh now in downloading the that message, uh in or uploading, I guess, uh so that it could be uh heard on the show, I was listening back to it and I got choked up again just listening to it. So wow. Anyway, um This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio at 930 WFMD. We're listening to a special version of the show today. As I mentioned at the beginning of the show and mentioned uh last week's show as well, Jonathan Schweitzer. uh my partner in arms here on the Faith Debate Show since two thousand four. Can you believe it? It's coming up on our eight year anniversary of doing this show. Uh he had an uh an emergency issue that he had to deal with uh with a member of his church Uh as you can imagine that happens from time to time with pastors. And I gotta be honest, I'm surprised it hasn't happened more often. This might only be uh I think it's only the second time that Jonathan's had to had to uh beg out of the last uh moment as we're getting ready to uh uh to do the show. Um anyway, so we've rescheduled uh the the panel that we had uh set up that you would have been hearing today. We'll do that in a future show probably in a couple of weeks You'll be hearing that. What you just heard was part two, a message called Who Is This Jesus? That was that used wasn't really based on Luke chapter two. It was more the Luke chapter 2 was uh a launching uh pad or a uh a springboard into the message uh talking about who is Jesus, Jesus uh Lord Savior. and King uh today was the the point of that message. I want to thank our sponsor, Putman Plug Dean Heating, how we make you smile, for sponsoring this show. Uh last week I didn't have time because of the way the uh editing of the show fell together to to mention what I've been reading uh last week. I mentioned at the top of this week's show, but I'll make I'll make up for last week's dereliction of duty. And you know, if you're really into the heady, like academic, want to grapple with stuff and some of these things I've been reading lately will be of interest to you. Uh if if y if if not, then um then just indulge me. Uh I've been I've been reading by Graham Goldsworthy, Gospel uh Gospel Centered Hermeneutics, Foundations and Principles of Evangelical Biblical Interpretation Yeah, I know. Right? What's wrong with me? Seriously, what's wrong with me? I need to put in a plug for uh John Schweitzer and his effort uh with Frederick 48. Go to Frederick48. org and um and find out all about the local agencies in Frederick County that are in need of help. You might recall it was in the news last year, a little bit a little earlier than now last year. Um when we all found out that the county government just couldn't afford to to sustain their support of some of these social agencies, not for profits in Frederick County like they they once had, and so they cut the funding. And so there was a huge shortfall last year. Frederick forty eight was born out of that. Jonathan Schweitzer spearheading that. And a significant amount of money was raised and it helped to cover that shortfall. I don't think that we totally went over the top on on that uh covering that need. But Jonathan has uh has learned and has tweaked from that and we're doing it uh bigger and better this year. You can go to Frederick forty eight, Frederick48. org and uh get all the details about that. But there's a date coming up in September in which we're hoping to raise more money for charity in or I guess it's in two days in September. We're trying to raise more money for charity in Frederick County during that forty eight hour period than any other forty eight hour period of charitable giving in Frederick County history. That is the goal. We'll see if we can pull that off. So I encourage you to do that. Visit us online at Frederick Faith Debate's page as well. Go to WFMD. com, keyword faith. There you'll find a link to the Freddie48 page in case you can't find it any other way. You'll also find a link to uh podcasts of shows like this one, links to all sorts of religious uh uh information, different links about different religions, and um Um, I wasn't gonna say blog, that's what I'm looking for. Blogs, a daily Monday through Friday blog, nine blog postings uh put put up there every single week. a Monday through Friday, nine a day. Uh my blog is your blog, so you send me stuff, I put it up there. It's how it works. So email me Troiskinner at clearchannel. com. That's Troy Skinner at ClearChannel. com. Thanks for listening. Until next week. God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?