This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master as the master of ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we'll build it. We can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. Where fate community leaders wrestle over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Let's get ready to rumble. Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah, in this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Fate Debate Master of ceremonies Troy Skinner get a moron and in this corner weighing in as a pastor teacher and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community the notorious big bridge builder John No, I'm just getting wonked up. Well, the notorious big bridge builder John Sweitzer not with us today, but that's okay. I'm Troy Skinner and I am here with you today. In recent weeks, we've been rather serious on the faith debate and with good reason. There are lots of serious things happening this year, but now we're heading into the holiday season, and so it's uh Good time for us to temporarily shift gears and get you into the spirit of Advent Season. There's an uplifting faith-based family tale that stars some people you might know from movies like Fireproof, I Can Only Imagine, October Baby, Play the Flute. Tells the story of overcoming fears and doubts by relying on God, which is particularly timely in light of what the United States has been enduring this year. Thomas Bonifield is the um well he's an independent filmmaker and former Fre Frederick resident. Having graduated from Thomas Johnson High School in the nineteen eighties, he's got this movie called Miracle on Christmas and it's my pleasure to welcome him to the show. Can you hear me okay, Thomas? Oh how about now? Yes, I look loud and clear. Okay. But every time you come back I get that little a minute. Is that right? Okay. Well I'm and I'm having a hard time hearing myself. This is gonna be one of those really fun shows to do. I can't figure out the technical stuff. Anyway, uh thank you. As long as I hear you I'm good. Okay, yeah, and as long as I can hear you I guess I'm good too. So uh so you got this movie coming out. So uh It it's a Christian movie. This is a show that talks about faith issues. I'm a Christian. If John Sweites were on the show, he's the Christian, so it's just one big Christian happy family kind of thing. But you know, people can be a little suspicious sometimes about where these quote unquote Christian movies are coming from. So before we get into talking about the movie. Why don't we talk a little bit about you, you know your background, your connection in the church, you know, a little bit of your testimony or you know, whatever feels like would be important, good background information for us to have Give us some exposition. There's a that's a movie phrase for you. Give us some exposition. Oh my, indeed it is. Yeah. So we try to keep that to a minimum by the way in movies usually. Um Well this isn't a movie, so feel free to go along. Yes, all right, I will. Thank you. Uh Uh kind of like in my actual life, my faith journey has been a bit nomadic. Uh I was born into a Roman Catholic family. Um was baptized by my great uncle who's a Catholic priest As a baby, um then early in childhood my parents switched over to the um Anglican slash Episcopalian denomination, uh, and I would say we probably went to an Episcopalian church until I was about seven. And then from there on, so I I mean I grew up in a church going family, uh and from there on typically my family, while I was still at home as a boy, attended non-denominational Bible slash community churches. Uh so that was really the end of my denominational journey. Um and I I was a Christian as a a boy, um and understood the faith, but I really didn't become serious about my faith until I was at college Uh and I became active in a group at Arizona State University where I uh graduated from uh called Campus Crusade for Christ. uh, which is a large national college uh religious organization. It not now was called Crew, it changed the name a few years back. Um but it's a solid Bible believing organization founded by Bill Bright at UCLA, I think in the forties actually. It's been around for quite some time. And it's one of the larger uh Christian fellowships on college campuses That was really where I became serious about my faith. Uh and I try not to I mean I I believe firmly in Christianity as it is presented in the New Testament of the Bible. And furthermore, I I believe in extending grace to people who might not see eye to eye with me on all issues as long as they're not fundamental issues about the faith. So I try to extend grace to people who maybe of a different denominational persuasion uh and look for the commonalities that can unite us as opposed to divide us. Again, provided they aren't crossing lines that I think are fundamental foundational issues that separate Christianity from other beliefs. Now is a movie like this primarily intended to be evangelistic or uh or an encouragement to those who already believe or somehow a blend of the two? What's what's kind of your your faith-based motivation in the movie Sure. Well I think any Christian filmmaker worth his salt would say he l wants to have an evangelistic message in his movie, and I will also uh state my claim there, but as Uh a serious Hollywood producer named Tom Noonan who uh at one point ran twenty first century fox and won an em an Oscar, I should say. uh for a movie called Crash She did, who who's a secular uh filmmaker, said to me, When you're making a movie You need to be true to the genre and you need to pick your lane. Meaning if you're making a horror movie, you've got to deliver the goods for the horror audience. And if you're making uh rom com you've got to deliver the goods for the rom com audience. And the same goes for faith based movies from where I sit and he sits a lot higher up the Fouché than I do. When you're making a faith based movie, first and foremost, you've got to deliver the goods for the core audience, which is the body of Christ, because those are largely the people who are going to support this sort of a film. Now, having said that, I think it's important that we also try to make the movie accessible to people who may not be as far down the the path in terms of their faith faith journey as we are. Uh and I did indeed try to do that with things like humor and entertainment value and covering what I would say are generally accepted and admired virtues, things like the love and support of family steadfast and faithful love in marriage forgiveness, reconciliation, redemption, those sorts of things that are touchstones in the lives of people theoretically, irrespective of where they stand on the Christian faith. There's a lot of that there. So I'm hopeful that there will be something here for everyone. Uh and it won't be something that people who might not be f fans of bake bake movies t typically um something that they can also be attracted to. Are there any I mean I I don't have y you haven't made a movie before this. Is it your first film? This is my maiden voyage, yes, Troy. The first one, so it was a lot of fun and I learned an awful lot and hopefully some of the things I didn't do so well I'll be able to avoid on the second one. God willing, there is one. Yeah. Okay. So have you done anything else that was a you know a big project or maybe uh teaching Sunday school? What other sorts of things have you done to try to impact the community around you before you had the idea to make a movie? Yes, specific well it's funny you mentioned Sunday school because uh my wife and I taught Sunday school, uh both at a church we went to uh in Manhattan long ago and for about eight years at a church that we went to in Istanbul, Turkey, which is where We lived and I had a job um as a journalist before I finally launched off into this filmmaking endeavor of mine. So that's something that's important to us. And we have three children of our own who are of course beyond the Sunday school the age at this stage of the game, but it it's important I think that it has long been important to me to have an impact for the Faith where I am irrespective of where God's chosen to place me at any point in time. How long were you in Ist uh Istanbul and Turkey? We lived there, my family and I, for almost nine years. Hm. So I mean we returned to to the States in two thousand seventeen, so I've been back from about three years now. Okay. Now that's predominantly overwhelmingly Muslim. So Oh gee, yeah, absolutely. And in fact I also worked it was a Turkish news agency that I was running, though it's actually really an international news agency called IHA, but it's based in Istanbul and owned by a Turkish holding company. And not only that, but it was a very conservative Muslim holding company. In fact it had in the basement of Basjid, which is the prayer room, for approximately one thousand people. And on Fridays that place was stuffed to the gunwells every Friday, which is their holy day of course. So it was very much a Muslim uh environment in which I was working. So what was it like for you as a Christian over there, you know, with and and and for your wife and you know anybody else in your family who was with you, uh what was it like for nine years uh being uh distinctly in the minority culture Yes, I mean both physically in terms of the way we look and also in terms of our belief were, absolutely Turkey's a fantastic country and we have great love in our hearts for the Turks as a people. Uh they're very warm, very hospitable and open. And I was very open, as I always am about my faith, both in general and in particular in the workplace. Uh and they they were very respectful about it. I think one of the things that helped is you you were very distinctly an outsider there, so as a foreigner. So you may be treated kindly and warmly, genuinely so But you're not one of them. So if you believe in something else, they typically don't have a problem with that. If you're, however, a local person who happens to be a Christian, that's a different story. And they I know some who have routinely faced dismissal at work when it's become clear that they're Christians So for me as a foreigner it was a very positive experience. If you're a local person who's a Christian, it probably won't be so positive. Now Turkey has had a reputation for a long time of being the most Western friendly, perhaps the most westernized of the uh you know Islamic uh countries. And and in recent years it doesn't seem like it's as much the case. I know you've been gone for a few years now, but while you were there, this is you know, this isn't a geopolitical show, but I mean how often do I get to talk to somebody who lived in Turkey for nine years Uh did you notice any sort of a shift during your time there where it became less westernized or less friendly to Westerners or more staunchly Muslim or was there any sort of a shift because in the news it feels like there's been a shift over the last ten, twenty years. Yes, I I think that's a fair characterization. One of the things that surprised me most, because I too, liking politics and having been a journalist for nearly thirty years, um viewed it always as a westernized Muslim country. And I think to a great degree it is. You know, that the the founder of the modern Turkish state Atatürk deliberately tried to pull it closer to Europe and westernize it and he was largely successful in doing that. He was not, however, successful in stamping out Islam, so that's always been a big part of that culture. And it was more Islamic than I anticipated it would be. I mean I'd been there on short visits but I'd never been there for extended stays before we moved. And it absolutely is an Islamic country and the the current political leadership uh in the person of Tai Berdawan is a very conservative Muslim and he very deliberately and methodically has been pushing things to make the country more Islamic. Uh so that your your perception is absolute the absolutely the reality. And I think the people in the Christian sorry I'm stepping on my tongue here, in the Christian community in the West have seen that there has been some high profile persecution of Christians, uh, including some Westerners and an American in particular, Andrew Brunson is a pastor from North Carolina who was imprisoned for two years or so, I do believe. Uh and that happened actually before we left the country. So I think there absolutely is a tightening of things in terms of the theological point of view in Turkey and it's being driven by the central government absolutely, unequivocally. Now the typical American doesn't pay a whole lot of attention to what's happening in Turkey with their politics and that sort of thing unless something major happens in the news and even then half half Americans are half asleep most of the time. But I I'm imagining that in in Turkey there's maybe a little more attention to paying you know, paying attention to what's going on in the United States because of our position uh in the world and us representing kind of the West perhaps in a lot of ways. So I'm wondering w uh uh what sort First of all, is that true? And as best as you can glean, what was you know, what's their sense of uh you know, Barack Obama, Donald Trump, uh American politics in general? I I think it is true, and I think in fairness to rank and file Americans, it it makes sense. I mean first of all we're largely detached from the rest of the world geographically with two enormous oceans on either side of us and a country that's similar in a lot of ways to the north. Um and one that to the south that isn't quite as similar, but nevertheless, there's only two of them. We don't share a border with seven or eight like many European countries or Asian ones. Secondly, we are, for lack of a better way to put it, top dog. So we we have less inclination to look at what others are doing than they do to look at what we're doing. So I think historically it kind of makes sense the way things have worked out, which is not to say it's good better. We were a little more in tune to what's going on in the world around us. Be that as it may, I think the Turks do watch what's going on here. Um we're, as they say, kind of top dog geopolitically, and we are the driving force in NATO and they are, after us, the second largest contingent in NATO in terms of the size of their army. I don't know that many people realize that, but Turkey is number two after America in terms of troop strength Um so they do watch to see what we're doing here. I I think, you know, there's a little ambivalence from their point of view about running the show here. I don't know that they see a tremendous difference betwe whether it's Barack Obama or Donald Trump though. in many ways, Trump, I think in terms of his personality, is kind of there's a bit more brashness a la Erdogan, so there are a lot more similarities between those two men in terms of operating style, not necessarily politics or geopolitical view. Um So that that that may win Trump some brownie points, uh the President, I should say President Trump, uh in the eyes of Turks, but you know, t whether it's Trump or Obama or Biden I think is immaterial and I'm really they're largely looking at what does that mean in terms of their rel the US's relationship with Turkey? Uh believe it or not, uh listener, you you're listening to the writer and director of a new movie called uh Christmas Mira uh Miracle on Christmas. Gotta get the name of the movie right. Miracle on Christmas, Thomas Bonifield Uh he actually uh has Frederick Roots. Uh why don't we talk about that for half a second? Uh y you went to high school here. I did actually from about I went to both elementary school and high school there. Uh I went to North Frederick Elementary School for a few years and then I went to Frederick High for about two years and finished up my high school career at T J. I graduated from there a long time ago. But I and I moved away to go to college, I went to Arizona State University, which is in the Phoenix area, and never moved back to Frederick, though I visit periodically, uh but it's a place that will always have a fond spot in my heart. I spent my formative years there and it was back then at least small town America and it was far enough away from both D C and Baltimore that it was kind of its own entity. Uh, and I really loved it and feel like God really blessed me to be able to grow up there. It was a great time and a great town. I I don't go there enough now to know, but I suspect it's probably been suburbanized and sprawl and draw driven more into the orbit of those two cities than it was back then. Yeah, well it it's uh it's definitely become a victim of suburban sprawl in many ways, but it still has maintained its own um you know identity downtown is is is relatively vibrant. Well before COVID nineteen relatively vibrant. The creek has been developed, lots of good restaurants and that sort of thing. So my yeah, my kids went to North Frederick Elementary and TJ as well. So Imagining Yeah, so we're kind of the same neck of the woods, I guess, removed by a couple of two, three decades. But um so you lived um probably somewhere near Dietrich, Clover Hill area, something like that Yes, and my mother actually worked at Fort Dietrich and we first l I lived in three different neighborhoods. We lived in a place called College Estates Uh which my memory's a little fuzzy about the streets, I have to confess. It's uh across fifteen from TJ and there's a shopping center there and it's right behind that shop I don't know. I can't remember for the life of me or what the name of those treatments are. E i if you followed that all the way south, uh it would be y off to your right. And I can't remember the street that jumps off of it. Um there's there's a there's a seventh street shopping center there. There's that's the one. Oh then we lived closer to Baker Park for a few years which is why I w I went to Frederick High school. And uh then we did indeed end up in Clover Hill. Um which is why I went to TJ for the last two years. Yeah, see I'm just um making sure we get your uh your your bona fides uh squared away here. People know you truly are local. Oh yeah, no, I will I absolutely am, for sure. Local boy made good. So you got this movie. It it's out right now, Miracle on Christmas. Uh I'm wondering Was there any reason I mean it seems like it's a parti particularly good time for a movie like this to come out, but is that just good fortune or did you feel like, you know, twenty twenty would be a good year for a feel-good movie at the end of the year? Uh well being a devout believer that I do I would dare say is the hand of God because I started writing it in um the fall of twenty nineteen So long before I or probably anybody else had ever heard of coronavirus or COVID. Uh but the the message is timely because the protagonist in the movie, uh an actress n played by an actress named Aaron Pathea who was in fire which is a very popular based movie oh I don't know ten years ago for the Kendrick Brothers is wavering in her faith because she has suffered loss uh the death of her father on the previous Christmas and she's gotten some really bad medical news in her family. So she is dealing with some serious things, very similar to the serious kinds of things we as a nation have been dealing with this year, but her attention is refocused on the reason we as believers have hope by an unexpected Christmas visitor. Yes, so you said you s did I hear you correctly you started writing the movie in fall of nineteenth, so last year? Yes, I s I Finished it at the beginning of October, so it came together at with whirlwind speed. Yeah. Yes, well it absolutely helps when you have the money for these sorts of endeavors. That speeds up a lot of things. We're gonna be on a series of faith debate shows or w we got a couple minutes left on this episode, and so we'll have time to talk more about the story and the actors and the and the making of the movie and that sort of stuff. But um uh In the couple minutes we have left, i if once somebody watches this movie, you're hoping they're gonna take away what primary message or theme what what is the main impact you're hoping to have with this movie Yes, well I I think really here is is where you you see the the thrust of the faith based message which is that no matter the situation in which we find ourselves, be it the loss of a loved the loss of a loved one a pandemic that's sweeping the the country and the globe, racial strife, political violence, political division, your candidate wins on election day, your candidate loses on election day. Ultimately Our hope is found in Jesus Christ, who is the re his birth is the real miracle on Christmas. And that I think is the thrust of this movie. That You know, God gave his son to save the lost, which is absolutely every last one of us, and that is a hope that doesn't fade irrespective of the circumstances in which we find ourselves. So the movie is called Miracle on Christmas. We're going to talk more specifically about the movie on next week's show, by the way. This coming Thursday, I think, is This Thanksgiving is uh w we're we're recording this in advance, but as it airs, I think it's gonna air uh right before Thanksgiving. Um you can find more about the movie at Miracle OnChristmas. com, Miracle on Christmas all as one word dot com. You can see the trailer, you can uh get information about the storyline of the movie and the the actors and actresses that are in the movie and and all that sort of thing. And um and you can I guess you can uh get it on Amazon. You can go to Walmart, Target, right? Where can people get this movie? Yes, sir, at all three of those places. There will be DVDs on the shelves in Walmart and Target. You can order a DVD via Amazon. There are also digital versions of the movie to be had there And it will be streaming platforms to come later. And for people in select locations, we're going to be doing some church showing. There's probably about two dozen or so lined up so far and pushing for more. Oh, okay. That's cool. If somebody has a local church and they want to get involved in that, can they s like try to get involved by going to your website or something? Oh my, I would be happy as a pig in the mud, so to say, if they did that. So yes, please go to Miracle on Christmas dot com. There's a place where you can uh get on our mailing list and send me a note and I would be glad to make a presentation to your pastor if you think this is something that you might be interested in. Okay, cool. Well, uh hold tight till next week everybody. We're gonna have uh Thomas Bonnefield back on. Miracle on Christmas is his movie. We're going to learn more about the movie. We learned about the man today who made the movie. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMB. You can find us online at WFMB. com Keyword faith. Follow us on Facebook. Follow me on Parlor, MeWe, Facebook. If you follow me, I'll follow you. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right about now. God bless