Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. Thanks for spending part of your day with us, whether it's live on the radio or later on via Memorax, via podcast. You can follow us uh online at WFMD. com, also at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. That's the name of my church, Household of Faith in Christ. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of the Faith Debate and the pastor of said church. Joined this week again by Daniel Razvi, one of the pastors at the Church of Pizza Imran's house, and this week we're joined by Imron. Imran Razvy, Raz to his friends. Uh they also have a ministry, Conquered by Love. Uh ministries conquered by love. org is the website there. And we're joined this week as well for at least one more final round with Moses Fu. He's currently in well, currently he's in the United States, but he lives in Singapore and he grew up in China. He was not a Christian growing up, but he is now and we've been talking about that the last couple of weeks on the show and we're gonna do another round here and we were we're talking it's for the end of last week's show uh uh about the difference between what it's like in the West and America particularly for us Uh and China and I was making a comment that doesn't sound that different. Uh we've just gotten there from different starting points, which is uh rather um I don't know, maddening in in so many ways actually. It's it shows us how much ground we've surrendered in the West, but that's subjects for other shows, I think. But we were talking mostly last week's show about uh the importance of the Chinese culture and respecting the the the the heritage and the traditions and and the things that are uh distinctly Chinese that people hold dear in Chinese and And trying to interface with that as a Christian so that people don't just close off their minds and and and and send you away like you're you're just a a total you know nincum poop because you believe there's a God and and all that sort of stuff. So you're talking about that and I was beginning to get some some understanding uh along those lines I think, but I had this question it popped back in my head. I was uh had forgotten it since last week's show, but it popped back in my head, thank goodness. So the pardon to play on words, but the crux of the matter in Christianity is that there is a man who is also God who died uh gave his life on a cross only to take it back up again and to ascend into heaven. So in a Chinese cultural setting Um, where there's not this sense of of sin or I n or I need someone to pay for the dishonor in my life How do you get there? How do you explain the cross of Christ in a Chinese culture? We don't have that kind of teaching in our education system. But but in the church, like in the whether it's the underground church or even the the government uh registered churches, hopefully they're preaching the gospel and yes that that should come up pretty regularly that Christ died on the cross. So how do How is that understood or how is there a way to present that in a deeply secular Chinese culture? I'm asking because that may be helpful in an American context. Now. Right? Maybe not twenty years ago, but now it might be really helpful for us. How how do you do that? Okay, um in nineteen nineties, um that be more easier to to preach the gospel, people were easily trust. Uh it is because uh once uh Uh China opened the gate of the 1978. We joined the global economic system slowly. People are eager to learn uh English and other countries' cultures. And uh also um also God doing some amazing job in China because those political persecution, the church leaders, they are released slowly from the prison. So government think if we persecute, let them to put put in the prison the church will die if they burn the Bibles, close down all the churches. Same like nobody is Christian in China. But once these kind of seeds that planted in the in the deeper ground, once they open the gate, that the church can be open Even not officially open, but they release those leaders, the churches, just like a spring, all the flowers bloom. And s suddenly so many people, thousands of people, uh uh declare they are children uh they that they they are Christians. And uh And more uh work done by God is in 1990s, countryside people start to believe Christ tremensily because The Holy Spirit used the healing power to do a lot of amazing healings in the countryside people. They are not intellectual. But it they experience those pastors, those leaders in church, pr pray for them. They have the authority to declare you raise up, you'll be healed. A lot of amazing things happen in the same thing, in the same way in the in the Gospels, in Matthews, in the Luke, uh and also uh in in John. Th these miracles happen. So an intellectual person join the church first, the first wave. Then slowly influence those citizens uh in between of countryside and the citizen. Yeah. But once come to the intellectual people of group, that will be more difficult. Because their success they will identify they use their own strength and own intellectual power to to earn it It's not related with God. So if you see me as a sinner, I earn money, I have success, I use my own effort to reach this position. How can you see me as a sinner They don't accept. So the barrier uh the the most difficult uh battles in China is those high moral value and the success and high intellectual persons to come to Christ. They are so proud of themselves. Yeah, this is this right in the Bible was it's hard for a rich man to go there, right? To be saved. Um because If you don't have any need, then how do you find the need for God? You everything's fulfilled. You have all your needs met and you're not looking for anything. There's now there are some rich people that find that being rich does not fulfill their inner soul and they are searching and they look and they find God that way. But it's it's a difficult journey. It's it's hardly a rich man, right? That's just it doesn't say you can't, but it's hardly I I guess the question really is then, some of them do get saved, right? So you do explain the gospel to them. What do you say not about works, but you do say about the grace of Christ. He died on the cross. How do you explain that? uh uh it's uh to to somebody in China. Is this during Christmas, yeah so many um events happened uh when I was just become Christian in two z two thousand six I go back to China, I join some uh uh college fellowships. The pastors try to build some city church. Just now I mentioned the first wave is unintellectual and countryside people come to Christ. But they rent the theater, movie theater. That's very old but cheap. They they're holding the events to invite a lot of college students. They're eager to listen the gospel. Why? Because during the Cultural Revolution all traditional gods are washed away by the government. So people's religion needs is empty. They a their their mind for the spiritual world is empty. If you just put The Christ to them at that point of time is a harvest. Lack of workers to to to to receive all the all the harvest fields like Jesus said with lack of workers. So many people believe Christ You just preached to them. It's it occurred to me, you know, when we uh first set up to do these series of shows, uh Daniel might have been at your recommendation because I don't know, but Daniel suggested that uh one of the areas we touch upon in in in the discussions was uh talking about pre Christ versus post Christ society and the implications for growing the church in various cultures. And I wasn't entirely sure what the heck that meant. I figured we'd just kinda get to it when we got there. And I realize we've been talking about that now for like two shows. Uh because China is coming at things from a pre Christ background and now America's in a post Christ environment. Which g uh uh and I think that we uh Moses does isn't fully uh accepting it I don't think, but as you spend a little more time I think you're going from Maryland to Texas and If you spend a little more time I think you're gonna begin to see how true it is that the America of today isn't that different from the China of today. Clearly the China of fifty years ago and America fifty years ago very different and the China of two hundred years ago probably even more different than the America of twenty years ago. But today I don't know there's that much daylight between them. It's striking to me, actually. It's been quite the education for me. But I want to ask you this. You became a Christian. In spite of not having been raised a Christian. And you were, you know, part of the Chinese culture and that was important to you and all that sort of stuff. And yet now you would say, right, that I was a sinner and I needed to be saved by the blood of Jesus Christ on the cross, right? How did you cross that bridge? How did you 'Cause it sounds like if they presented the gospel to you the way you've been suggesting it, Chinese people need to hear it. You didn't hear about the sin right away. So at what point was it introduced or what point did you discover it and and then apply it to your situation? How did that work for you? There's many uh many contexts in my personal life uh that uh find I'm a singer. Uh so join the club. Yeah. So um that's One most uh landmark landmarking by uh uh milestones in my life is uh When I uh graduate, saw the pastor um and a lot of uh families receive us to cooking uh dinners, to work on them, to fellowship with us, we take for granted. As a one child pol policy uh educator, uh a person, a y teenager, I I always enjoy those six of my parents, grandparents focus on me. So I don't have the mindset I need to um consider other people or love other people uh in in in a certain way. So I graduate, then the pastor invited me to a living thing in his place. That uh maybe not very common in in local thing for church pastors, but he really uh does this uh uh offer to me because uh I need to find a job at the time and also I need to save money. So after uh I moved into his place, he told me that what you eat we eat. What we eat you eat. And also um uh he mentioned about uh the rental fees that I need to pay because he asked some financial uh background check. How how how is the parent job? Everything I told that uh my parents all uh all the uh government of fi official officer so they they earn uh regular money, salaries. So no problem, so you you should pay the rental fees. He he politely to tell me that. So a month later That's a date. I should pay for it. And I didn't get the meaning of the past saying what they eat I eat. I I actually eat whatever they buy as they prepare but the another w f phrases is what you eat, we eat. That's Chinese culture. It's hidden message behind that You should contribute also. If you buy certain fruits or other stuff we can also enjoy with you. Mm-hmm. But I never get that meaning. I didn't bought anything. And during the day that I need to pay for the rental fees, I didn't pay anything. I just forget the date. And I even don't change the money because I hold in the R and B you should I should change to Singapore dollars to pay for the rental fees but I didn't do that So that point of time pastor talking to me at the night to really truly to talk to me that um such uh people take for granted and point out my laziness and forget for forgetfulness of all these important things. And I even give the excuse that I don't have time to change the money. He don't give me any um any uh re uh faces, just point your heart to to to your sin. So at that point in time the Holy Spirit also also working on me that I really kneel down to God to declare I'm a sinner. I really never think about others, just care for myself. Right. So you had kind of selfish life and and that was sin. How did you how did you know to to label that and call that sin? Because your Chinese culture wouldn't have called it that. I guess your pastor at that point had You've been teaching about sin and you kind of knew, oh, I get it. That sin thing he's been talking about, I get it. That's me. Hmm. Interesting. Yes. One of the things you talked about wanting to get into, I think, um was misunderstandings between the Chinese government and the churches, maybe particularly the House churches. So what are some of those misunderstandings? The the government has the wrong idea about the churches, I guess, and that th that the church maybe isn't as uh uh uh as anti-government uh as they as the as the government thinks they are or what are some of the things that the the government would benefit from knowing about the churches? Okay, um there's uh events that uh broke uh uh uh to to a lot of the whole world should know that uh uh there's the persecutions in in a few years ago the Chinese church um the top of the church buildings, the course, be taken down by the government because they say it's illegal and w and w why Why? Because the height of the church is too high. It's unsafe. Uh I don't know, but but the the key point, they can think of whatever reason they want. Yeah. They even uh uh uh even call those military powers to to to do that because church members holding hand to hand to uh defense the church do not allow any people to go up to take down the cross because they feel the cross is a symbolic Meaning for the what if we put an N ninety five mask on the cross? Could it stay then? Okay. But as as our um our understanding later, a few years later we understand that because just after COVID, we can see different denominations of different background of Chinese churches start to come at each other. become a body of Christ. They they listen to each other, they help each other. But before COVID 19, they're so individual denomination and leadership in Chinese church. So they just like different mountains. They're not connected to each other. And they the only thinking about glorifying God is building a beautiful and high church and put the cost on top. That is Really not the biblical values. The God wants to glorify glorify that the churches united together. But we didn't do the important things, but do the architecture uh architecture things to be higher and and uh that's not the point. So God allowed the government to correct the church directions Yeah. So the church don't understand the how to influence society and persuade the government in the more efficient way. It's not a build high church. It's you do the right uh more efficient the way. Actually government need uh a lot of support like uh education because Right now a lot of uh kids uh in the education system not how to say, uh they they they need more more teachers and helps. So we I know that there's uh one church that uh apply the license to open the king uh kindergartens. They hire all the church members teachers to nurturing kids, their own kids and also um have some non-believer kid uh kids in in in the kindergarten. So that will be more efficient way to to help, although you need to cover a lot to do not let uh government uh clearly understand it's from church. But you can do certain job. Okay. Now it looks like Imor was leaning in to ask a question. Yeah so my understanding I think is that uh what happened was that the Western um, influence on some of the churches is what caused a lot of the problems 'cause the Western church is is fight the government. Make the government like the West. and then you'll have freedom. And we need freedom for the church to grow. And that caused a lot of angst and problems. And then as the churches grew and built these big buildings, the the government saw them as a competition or a a threat to the government leadership. And what m I hear Moses saying is that that really actually opened up a lot of the eyes of the church leaders say, hey, this is not what we're trying to do. We're not trying to um to offset or or give an alternative to the government. What we want to do is help the Chinese people and as the government starts seeing that we're not trying to take over, we're not gonna try to do that. We just want to help the Chinese people grow and they see that we're actually giving giving to the Chinese people and not trying to take them away. See the Western Church as it comes in, they're trying to disrupt the government. And the Chinese church, as they learned from this these persecutions, said look, we don't want to disrupt, we don't want to just tear down the government. The government was placed there by God. And God could take the government down whenever they want. So w our pr our role here is to build up the Chinese people, to h you know, to let the government know that, hey, we're Chinese Yes, we're Christians, but we're Chinese and we and China is important to us and use us, you know. Uh don't don't try to exclude us, use us. We we want the best for the Chinese people and I think that's where it's coming together And the Western church doesn't see that. They're they're saying, Oh no, no, you gotta have freedom. You gotta have you gotta have freedom from the top down but the Chinese church is saying, No, we have freedom from the bottom up. We have freedom in Christ And what no matter what the slave owners or the government or whatever you want to call 'em do, we have freedom in Christ. And we're going to do our best to just honor Christ and serve the people. Yes. I think that this these discussions actually have implications uh that could be applied into the current Christian nationalism debates in this country. Right. It's almost like we're looking at the same issues inside out and upside down. Right. And so that's been one of my concerns, as we've done a lot of shows on that this past year, uh, on that topic. But it's one of my concerns is if it's biblical Christian truth It should somehow fit and work in all cultural contexts. Right. And what's being advocated by a lot of the uh people that wear the Christian national label would only work in an American context if it even works there. But if it could work anywhere, it could only work in America, it might not even work in Canada, much less in China or Singapore or something. And there's something feels wrong about that to me. So whatever our approach about what the interplay between government and church should be and and faith and secular matters should be, it's gotta fit Oh uh a myriad of of scenarios. It can't just fit one particular idealized version of what we hope the truth to be. Yeah, and I think in this situation we can actually learn from the Chinese church and instead of trying to change the government Let's change our hearts. Let's ch let's help the people. Let's focus on uh witnessing and ministering and discipling people and go from the bottom up. It's just that we're so used to the government being on the Christian side. that we're s so shocked and angry that we're reacting in a different way. We're reacting in anger of our lost hope, of our lost uh heritage of Christian you know, f foundations. And because of that we're not seeing Who is actually Christ? Christ didn't say that this is a um theistic government. This is a secular government. Yes, it has Christian foundations, but w why are you upset about that? Just let's start changing ourselves to follow Christ and influence the nation that way. And I think that's one of the things that the Christian nationalism in the US is not getting. They're still trying to change from the top down where the Chinese nationalism uh Christian nationalism is ch changing from the bottom up They're saying, Hey, you can rule us any way you like. We're still gonna love Christ. Yeah, the real problem is it's it's pointing the finger and saying, Somebody ought to do something about that and the somebody is always somebody else Right. The government should do this, the elected officials should do that, the schools should teach this, the even the church leadership should do that. Never focusing it inward and and saying, I need to change. Where can I be better. I mean the your boldness in going home after you first became converted and you were a Christian for two weeks and you share the gospel with your your grandfather and I mean I That boldness is is largely absent in in in today's day and age, uh probably in China too, but certainly in America is just not that common. We've only got a little bit of time left and and I uh I would be remiss if I didn't ask you to say something like, you know Uh Jesus Christ is Lord and Savior today in Mandarin. So what what was something like how would you say give some sort of a gospel, short little gospel phrase in Mandarin? Alright. For me, um in Chinese, Yesu Du Chu Xu, Shenmina Jouju, Tao Zhzu Jia Shangholo. Meu tao puan Young Young Yong Shen without Jesus Christ we cannot have the internal life. So uh one thing I want to add on for um Pastor Rajavi is If you um think further, if Chinese government be taking over Who will ruling this such a huge population countries? Are Chinese church be ready to hold this high responsibility? position and working load is so huge? I don't think so because for the Puritan in the Mayflower moving to US they are well educated. They have very clear political uh landscape and biblical to building worlds. Yeah to building the new countries. The Chinese church we are pre Christ society. We don't even have the right theology uh th uh teachings We are so anti intellectual that we just focus on the spiritual things. But talking about political is so far from the Chinese church. We are not even ready. We are just a baby But the day hopefully is coming, right? Maybe it's a baby church, but soon enough it'll be a teenager church and uh and then an old man church like Imran and I, right? Anyway, thank you Moses Fu for the uh last few weeks on the Faith Debate. Thank you, uh Imran and Daniel Rasby for being on the show. Thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate. Follow us at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ dot com. We'll be back uh again next week with probably a different topic, I imagine, on the Faith Debate. Until then, 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless.