This is the Frederick Face Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMB brought to us by Putman forming and heating helps we make you smile in Deer Valley, landscape, hardscape, and masonry. You give Deer Valley a call, so Shane I said, hello. And last week I forgot to mention what I've been reading, and I know you care. You hang on this every week. You're like, oh If only you knew what Troy was reading. So and changing things up a little bit, hey someone should track Amazon to see if they're they get a big spike. Yeah, we're going to do it. If Ted Decker's been flying off the shelf, they'll know I have something to do with it. But this is not a Decker book. Uh KJ McCall A somewhat local author uh lives just across the uh the state line of Pennsylvania and spent a lot of time in Frederick and she wrote a book uh Set Apart And it's you could if you wanted to, if you wanted to force it into the box, you could say it's Christian literature, but it's really not. But it's uh it's a detective mystery kind of a thing, and it's basically A uh worst case scenario of what happens to anything heavy anymore? Oh sure. Oh just wondering. Oh yeah, these books Sometimes they weigh a lot. Need a special backpacking, you know, so that's a good idea. Exactly. Exactly. Anyway, uh K J McCall advertised on this radio station for a while for the the book set apart. So I couldn't help but read it. Yeah. And it was good. Very nice book. It's it the the premise of the book is the government institutes nationalized health care You would appreciate this. Okay. And uh and bad things happen. Hm. The government is able to use their control of the healthcare system to have bad things happen. So it's a conspiracy theory kind of a thing. So it's a tea party thing. And there's uh kind of like an Amish type of a family that represents the good in the world versus the secular humanists and the government entity that represent the bad in the world. So the Amish are the good guys. So Fun. Interesting. So set apart, I recommend it. So that's what so at the end of this show I'll tell you what else I've been reading. Jonathan Schweitzer, who's going to run out and buy his copy of Set Apart now. He's the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And I mentioned that uh Fahim Yunus would appreciate it because he's a medical doctor. That's right. And so he would appreciate it from that standpoint. Secretary of Education for the Ahmadiyya Muslim community in the USA. I'm Freud Skinner, and this is the Faith Debate. It's not the, you know, Mid-Maryland Book Club. All right, so at the end of last week's show, we we got into something that many I think would be fun. Oprah's done. She's still yesterday. She is. She's over with. Uh you still want to be like her. We got into something with about ninety seconds left in the show last week. It was really like a whole show waiting to happen and we had to had to wait and I hope we haven't lost the moment. But we were talking about Jonathan was making the point on last week's show I'm catching you up a little bit at the second stage. Jonathan was making the point that Christianity of res uh The way the faith instructs Christians is that we res have the right is reserved for us to define what is Christian and what is not. And even I was trying to argue that um that The civil rights that were given in the United States also allow for that. Okay. Well I'm less interested in that, but okay. And and then Fahim was making the point that, okay, well that sounds a little concerning because he grew up his first twenty five years were in Pakistan. And and uh in in Pakistan he you know saw that there was lots of infighting among the militaries because one group of Muslims was saying, You're not really a Muslim and the other was saying, Yes you are and It was like epox at all your houses and it became very divisive and bad. And so he sees this as a bad thing. Jonathan, and by the way, uh for the record I would agree with Jonathan's point that this is a healthy and good thing for the Christian church. I can't speak to to Islam So I don't know if you want you didn't really have a chance to fully articulate what your concerns were, but explain what was going on in in in uh in your native homeland that has you concerned about this being clear in defining what is and isn't the faith Right. See Islam is a very simple religion if you look at it. How you become a Muslim? By simply reciting a phrase that there is no God but God and Muhammad, peace be upon him, is his pe is his messenger. That's all that it requires. And then of course there are rituals and practices and a way of life that comes with it which makes you a Muslim, which starts your journey. But even that way of life can be summed up in the love for the Creator and love of his creation. That's essentially that way of life. Now, what happened in Pakistan where I was born and raised for the first twenty five years of my life, it was a secular country to begin with. And then a decade into it, a lot of clergy started claiming that this is a Muslim country, that this country was founded based on the premise of Islam. And I know that that debate is raging here in the US as well. Is America a Christian country or not? So something similar in Pakistan, much more poisonous I would say because of the history. Again, you're making a simile there that I'm not sure that I'm comfortable with, but I'm not saying that the you know similes are, you know, of course the generalizations are not accurate So I'm fully uh a these are not hundred percent accurate, may not be even fifty percent accurate. But in Pakistan what happened over the past three, four decades, there is a decree from every sect almost Calling the other sect non-Muslim. You are not Muslim because of A, B, and C. That sect will say you are not Muslim because of A, B, and C. It's almost like Islam was some Coca-Cola. and everybody had a black colored soda and they were trying to put the label of Coca-Cola on it. And my understanding of Islam and of course this is open to dialogue. If there are other Muslims who disagree with me, I'd be happy to listen to their I'm not saying I'm an authority on infectious diseases, not on everything else in the world. But and this is not this doesn't seem to be an antibiotic. But all I'm saying is that I I've seen a lot of harm done by that in my own country where I was born and raised. Let's say for the sake of argument you've got a dozen different sects. Right. And they're all claiming to represent Islam in its purest form. Right. But they're all different in some dynamic important way. Right. Seems to me that you've got one of two choices. Right. Either all twelve are wrong Or one of the twelve is right and the eleven are wrong. Other eleven are wrong. They can't all have a equal claim on being right in truly representing representing Islam in its true truest, purest form. So what would be the danger in the one who's right standing up strongly and saying, look, you guys are all wrong. This is what Islam is, because you were the one who said that, you know, you become a Muslim by by having the phrase that you know the creator and and and Muhammad And then after that, though, there are rituals and practices that demonstrate that you truly are honoring the Creator and the Prophet. So if you have if you're behaving in a way that isn't honoring the Creator and the Prophet, then haven't you disassociated yourself from true Islam? Absolutely. And other people have all the right to distance themselves. They have all the right to say what you are doing is not Islamic I don't approve of these practices. But to strip someone of their faith, to go as far as to say, I don't consider you a Muslim, I think that's the statement that I have a problem with. See this sounds a lot to me like what the tolerance movement in the United States is saying right now, which which I would argue is not what our founding fathers tried to set up uh here in the United States. The founding fathers tried to say here in the United States that we're gonna let people be whatever religion they wanna be and worship God according to their conscience. We're not gonna force it on them. You know, coming out of the Middle Ages they felt like that was the wrong thing to do. Sure. You know, the way that that uh the Catholic Church had become overly Yeah, entangled, you know, but then of course Lutheranism and Calvinism and and Episcopalian, you know, there's too much of entanglement. So the the principle was separation. uh where there's no establishment by the government of a religion. Alright? And so that's different though from from each religion still having the right to say you're not what's right. Whereas in the United States today, I'd say in the last thirty, forty, maybe fifty years, there's been this move to say that nobody's allowed to tell anybody else that they're not something. And the tolerance movement has turned into this this syrupy, everybody, you know, just a seeking God on their own and nobody's allowed to judge anybody else, this kind of thing. that I abhor because there there's a moral relativism there, there's there's an unwillingness to deal with with truth any longer and as a result everybody's just doing their own thing. And that is not what the founding fathers of our nation said up originally. What would go wrong? where nobody any longer is allowed to say to somebody else what you're doing is wrong. Nobody is any longer allowed to make n nobody has the courage any longer to look at something that is truly evil. No, let me back up. They don't even have the discernment to tell when something is actually evil, let alone have the courage and the backbone to stand up and say that's wrong. I'm not going to let you do it anymore. You know, whether it has to do with murder, stealing, whether it has to do with uh with pedophilia, you know, or these kinds of things somebody's gotta stand up with a with a moral backbone that we have a complete are wrong. In Islam you have the moral obligation to go and tell your brothers and sisters, those who are within your circle of influence, what's right and wrong. And you know what? I don't I don't approve of this action. So we have hundred percent agreement there. I thought where we had disagreement was that now if somebody who's out there and, you know, say they're doing something which is completely fundamentally against Christianity. I think we're our uh my what I heard the disagreement was that another Christian has the right or almost has the duty to say you're not a Christian because you did A B and C Yes and I'm saying that that's true, but I'm saying that I don't have the government's backing. Authority for you to tell them that they're not a Christian. But I have a responsibility as a Christian to tell them that you're not a Christian. Okay. And I think that's where we clearly disagree because I think in Islam Because in Islam the government and the the religion are intertwined. No, not necessarily. Like I'm living here with separation of church and state and I willingly make this my my home. So Islam does not offer only one model of government, that's a whole different discussion for another show perhaps. Separation of church and state. But my feeling is than in Islam I've just seen a lot of bloodshed with something like that. That's uh I'm just bringing my experience to the table. The So you're so so as an Ahmadian Muslim you you have no you feel uh your teaching tells you, your doctrine tells you that you have no right to tell other people that are killing in the name of Islam that they have that they have not only rejected Islam, but that they are no longer Muslims. Right, and I'll give you a very specific example. That's very frustrating to me. Right, but I'll give you a very specific example. Because if you keep them in and you let them continue with the name then then I feel like you're condoning it. But that's not what we're doing. Hear me out here. Terrorism is is above and beyond a lot of other things. I'll I'll give you a simple example. If an Ahmadi Muslim had a financial dealing with you and he ran away with your money and you s filed a complaint with the Ahmadiyya Authority here in America and he was found guilty and he was not willing to pay damages, there's a very good chance he'd be excommunicated Just based on that kind of an offense, we are so stringent with our with the image of not just the image, with the quality, what we represent. But you don't say that he's no longer a Muslim. That's exactly right. We cannot strip him of his right. If he goes out and say I'm an Ahmadi Muslim or I'm a Muslim, that's his right. He cannot say I'm a member of Ahmadiyya Muslim community USA. So he's not a member of our community anymore, but he run into this here uh here locally because um there's various churches here in Frederick that that d want me to call them Christian. And I'm not willing to call them Christian because of what they teach and how uh the damage that I feel like they do uh to scripture. You know, it's a it's a tortured interpretation they bring to scripture. And so I'm I'm not willing to call 'em Christian, but they want me to and they will Uh they will condemn me for my unwillingness to let them have that name. And uh Well let me jump in for a second, by the way. This is the Freddy Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio nine thirty WFMD. The person I just interrupted is Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Cross of Zoe Chapel. I'm Troy Skinner, and Dr. Fahim uh Yunas is the Secretary of Education for the Ahmadiyya Muslim community in the United States. Um I don't know if you were if you still had to finish that thought or if we kinda move on a little bit I'd like to my my quick p point there was I think Why I'm afraid of that? Because there is a path of benevolence and forgiveness from God for every human being at every given second. Yeah, I don't think that the Christian response to that would be would be to disagree. I think that that is the Yeah, there's definitely a path of of of return if they're willing to repent and r and return. But if they're not willing to repent in return, then I can't expect it for me because one of my illustrations, we were talking about it last week, was, you know, where was the outrage and people saying they're not us They're not even Muslim. They don't represent Islam. That's something that's just not part of your ideological approach. You you don't want to go there. And so that's what I'm saying. with any possible word of condemnation that I can find in the dictionary. Because that's within my realm as a Butcommunicate them from the Muslim community, from Islam. is not the same as saying they're not Muslim. That's right. Whereas in Christian church ex commun excommunication is to say you're not Christian. I exactly understand. And part of the reason and maybe there's a definition of terms here that's different, because i uh the word Christian does appear in the Bible But another way to understand what it is to be a Christian is you're a follower of Christ. You're a follower of the way. That is uh That's the defining that is the path of truth that leads to life. I mean You are a follower of the way. No hand comes to the Father but by Jesus. So when you stop following the way, you're no longer a follower. So you're no longer a Christian. But it doesn't sound like the same definition of terms applies in Islam. I mean we're we're assuming s a similarity there that is. and the matter of my heart is between me and my God. You can expel me, excommunicate me from any worldly organization. But at the end of the day it's a person's right. And as they say, you know, every every angel has a past And every Satan has a future. People change. I've never heard that before. No, it's not an Islamic saying. I just heard it from a friend and I really liked it because I think it's non-judgmental It allows the room for forgiveness. in a society. And in Islam, interestingly, there's a verse in Holy Quran that says, we have revealed this exhortation talking about Quran, and we shall safeguard it. So there's no no sense of ownership and insecurity as if if we did not do this the f face of Islam will be tarnished forever because God is guaranteed. that he will. You know, it's almost like survival of the fittest, that the fittest more pure strain of Islam in the end will grow. And just to close the thought there, I sometimes but it hasn't been I know, I was g I know, but because if you looked at it today but not according to your definition. video it's not a snapshot. You're just looking at the last forty years of history of fourteen hundred years. Right. I am yes th just like watching a long period of time to me. No no but I know. But it's just like watching thirty seconds of a James Bond movie where he gets shot and you say No bond's dead. Well bond's never dead. So it's it's just like that. I'm wondering if there's if if this could be a f uh one of the fundamental differences. I'm trying to grapple with because we're using So you were trying to find a difference all this time? No. I'm trying to understand how we're how we're misunderstanding. I think we're we're using concepts back and forth in the conversation. Yeah. Maybe with an assumption that we're thinking the same thing about those concepts. And now I'm realizing wait a minute, the concepts I think are f are different at a fundamental level that we're overlooking. One of the things for example, Jonathan is not a Muslim. He hasn't said the the the the Muslim uh phrase. Right. Um Does without him ever saying that, could Jonathan still enter into paradise? Absolutely. See, there's a big difference. I know that. Islam it clearly says in Holy Quran. So you would be less inclined to be worried about somebody falsely calling themselves a Muslim. Sure. Because I mean it's nobody has monopoly over paradise. But from a Christian perspective, what Zaki Khazar have said is basically that the The Jews will line up behind Moses on the final day. The Christians will line up behind Jesus. And uh the Muslims will line up behind Muhammad and and those prophets. Because these are all righteous prophets of God. That's exactly well not the prophets won't judge them. They all basically lead them, but that's all metaphor, of course. But the point is in Islam, in Quran there are clear verses saying all those who are Jews, Christians, Sabians and they do good deeds, there is ample reward for their deed. And the difference from a Christian perspective would be would be that it's a matter of spiritual life and death. I completely understand. If you're not a Christian, you are doomed. Forever. And we owe it to you to say you are not a Christian. Not Because we're gonna bludgeon you to death and there's gonna be bloodshed in the streets and we're gonna be able to do that. Right, right. So we want to make sure you n you hear the message that now you are gonna be able to do that. in a uh in a biblical Christian way as opposed to a uh more liberal Christian manner. Now Jonathan talked about his concern being moral uh relativism. And uh I didn't have it because of the flow of the conversation, we didn't give really give you a chance to respond to his concern. Do at some level do you share that concern? Or do you think his concern is unfounded and therefore you don't Is is that why it's relatively easy for you to say, no, John, you're wrong and I'm not really worried about that? I mean maybe that's the reason why there's so much of these other uh streams of Islam being so successful because there's no internal uh uh mo Islam has no internal way of disciplining in calling people to account. See that's uh it's it's very interesting. A man came to Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, and asked him some detailed questions about what's right, what's wrong, what's allowed, what's not allowed. And the Prophet said, You take the decree, the fatwa, the statement, the decision from your heart. Something that's bad is gonna make your heart feel bad. And an act that's good. And I know once again, not absolute, you can find exceptions to that rule. But the idea Christianity agrees with that, but we say Um we say that that the Holy Spirit will teach you. And so so we're we're arguing that that there's this part of of God who comes and lives inside of us who Transforms our conscience for hands, but you're gonna have people yelling at the radio right now. A person of God, not a part of God. Just I don't want you to get hate mail. Yeah, but the Holy Spirit. So my my point is is that is that that's where Christians would be uncomfortable 'cause we can't trust a human conscience. Yeah. And that's gonna lead to more relativism. Unless you're transformed. Now do you look at it as to where is the dichotomy? in the first show the discussion was that how Islam forces people to believe on sword. Right? That's the discussion. That's the position I was defending And now I'm d that they don't. And now I'm defending an extreme. So my two positions are aligned if you really look at it. I said at the point of entry, when you become a Muslim, there is no force. At the point of exit, where somebody wants to do whatever, there is no force. So if you really look at it, my positions are aligned. But yet in Pakistan there's a there's a bloodbath going on because apparently most of the Muslims don't agree with you. Oh absolutely. See the the political position and human beings will keep doing evil things in every faith in every position. I'm not defending them. It's just I think I'll be off mark if I c characterize that as a religious idea as a religious teaching of Islam. That's that's dark ages on Islam which was prophesied by Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, that a time will come on Islam where their clergy will be the worst being under the sky We are witnessing that time. You know, you look at the uh the index of corruption, you know, international corruption index is released every year. The top fifty countries in terms of and you know my interest was because as US we fell to the twenty-second number, Scandinavian countries were on the top. In the top fifty countries there were probably two or three Muslim countries, maybe two So the most corrupt. So all of them were at the extreme end of corruption. Now talk about you know and my the title of my op ed that I wrote was Where are the laws against falsehood? Where are the laws against corruption? You guys are talking about Sharia law about killing people for this, that, that. But why can't you learn this from the West as to how to keep your societies honest? in why would you learn from the West? Because Prophet Muhammad said that a a word of wisdom is the lost property of a Muslim. He should take it from wherever he you know, so I have no hesitation learning new things from any faith. And that's very Islamic. You know you don't feel like oh no no this is a Jewish study I'm not gonna listen to I'm comfortable learning from other faiths I just always forty But I just want to make a point that my position at the point of entry and exit is the same, which is no compulsion. Uh on uh on the argument that Jonathan's making, I don't want to speak for you, but um I don't think that John uh I don't want to have the uh an unfair assumption made about Jonathan's position. Okay. So I want to put it out there. Okay Jonathan is not saying that somebody can't walk the streets and say I'm a Christian. They have that right He will defend their right to say that falsely. Right, but it's a political right. I I I think that they can have a political right inside the church. He also has the right to say, No, you're not. You have the right to say it, but I have also have the right to say, no you're not. And here's why I say that. So we would agree with the with how you're portraying what Islam would teach that they have a right to claim what they want to claim. Right But it seems like you wouldn't feel like you have the right to say and that's now and that's not a political thing, that's a faith based thing. That the history of Islam and the teachings of Quran They are filled with verses after verses talking about why are you compelling people into it? Why are you forcing people into it? There's a famous verse in Holy Quran, chapter ten, verse one hundred. Which says, if it was up to God, he would have made all of you as one people. So now would you go out and force people to believe? Which essentially means that this diversity of religion as well is by design. Don't go out and try to convert everyone because if I wanted I could have made all of you Muslims if That's what's your definition of the thing. So I agree that there should not be coercion in the sense of coercion. is whether or not history has proven out that Islam is not coercive uh in its approach. And um the studies that I've done uh from the writings of the you know, the the great uh leaders of Islam, you know, from generation after generation after generation, uh, is that that there's been a history of of them doing that that is recorded and that is consistent and Yeah, but I think yeah. Maybe it's not in Indonesia, but that's the same. Everywhere. I strongly disagree with that because I know that characterization is everywhere Muslims have ruled India. I know, you you've read a lot of things. Muslims have ruled India for a thousand years. Even today there's eighty five percent Indians are Hindus, not Muslims. If they were to convert everyone a thousand years was a long time for them, to not leave a single Hindu in the world. The Hindus fought 'em off. No, but you also you were saying in the beginning that on the sword a lot of people will just simply say whatever they're forced to do. And there's been war. I mean there's war in the Cashmere Mountains to this day. Sure sure with us all the time. All right, golden handshake. Come on, golden handshake. Let's go. Political issue. Jonathan. Yeah, there's a golden handshake. Jonathan's the uh senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel, uh Dr. Fahim Younas is the Secretary of Education for the Ladia Muslim Community United States. Our sponsors, Putman Plumbing and Heating, How can make you smile, and Deer Valley uh landscape, heartscape, and masonry. And darn it, I don't have time to tell you what I'm reading. I'll tell you at the beginning of next week's show. Because it's something heavy. Jonathan will be proud of me. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?