This is the Frederick Face Debate, home to conflict resolution. Whether Jonathan Sweitzer likes that or not. Resolution on the issues that matter most brought to us by Putman Fleming and Heating. How can we make you smile? And Deer Valley, Heartscape, Landscape And Masonry. We can't truly resolve anything without understanding and we can't gain authentic understanding without honesty. And so that's what you get here A safe haven for honesty. We share what we hold to be true and why and where there's disagreement we hash it out. Because we know why we're here there's no worry over any hurt feelings and at the end if we fail to persuade each other within these twenty six, twenty seven minutes or so, we will at least know not only where we stand, but the reasons that we camp out where we do. My name is Feroy Skinner. Again, this is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm joined again this week by Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And a very special guest, Secretary of Education, so he's a smart guy. So what's your vocabulary and your grammar usage there, Jonathan? Okay. Uh Fahim Yunas and I found out something. He's He's not paid for that. Oh? He's not paid to be secretary of education. He's here for the love of the game. So so it's a a volunteer role that he plays. I can't believe that. So what do you do for a living That is exactly right. I'm a physician by profession, I think. Physician by profession. That's right, but I gain a lot of spiritual points out of this exercise. And you're married with kids? I'm married, I have four children, yes. And you're the Secretary of Education. That is correct. Now I'm really excited because when we found out he was a physician, I was okay we gotta get him on the show because you might have heard. Uh oh Osama bin Laden is dead. So they say. So we need a physician to verify. We need a physician to verify. Because I haven't seen a body. Have you seen a body? No, I don't need a body. I have not seen a body. Right? And before the show started, uh you were telling a story about your daughter and she wrote she's published now. She's a published author and That is exactly right. She's twelve years old and she had an essay sitting in her desk for a few months that she wrote for her middle school competition. And the day after the death of bin Laden somehow she found this connection that the day of Hitler's death was just one day apart from bin Laden. Hitler died on the thirtieth of April. Bin Laden died on the first of May. Interesting. So she thought of some more correlations and she wrote a op ed piece and that got published in Baltimore Sun. She was very interesting. Very interesting. So what does that mean? Does that mean that everybody goes back to war in the spring and so then they catch each other off guard and then and then the bad guys end up getting nailed? I mean I mean, it could mean that's the implication. It could mean because there were rumors that Hitler never really died at the end of World War Two. Hitler and bin Laden one and the same. One and the same. Actually, and I don't think it was a direct Elvis as well. came back as Elvis. Yeah, because he's trying to stick with the times. Exactly. He's trying to take turns. Exactly. But on a positive note, I think what she was thinking is that not too long after Hitler's death World War Two ended, and her point was that I hope that now that Bin Laden is dead, the war on terror will be over as well. So that was a very beautiful, cute little expression and she asked me about her closing before hitting the send button. Yeah. And I said, Uh, I don't think so. It's more complicated than that. And she jotted that sentence towards the end of her op ed saying the grown ups say is no way but I still believe. And that's probably why they liked the essay because it really stuck it to the grown ups. Now Jonathan, if if if If uh if his daughter is is correct, you're happy about that, right? That bin Laden's death would usher in uh an age of some sort of a peace, that there wouldn't be this terror, that would make you happy, right? Certainly. And I expect you to say that because you're a Christian American, right? Yeah, though I gotta tell you to make you happy. I gotta tell you that that opening up the show as a conflict resolution show feels a little bit like marriage counseling, and I'm I'm just hoping that nobody tunes out when they hear that this is all about conflict resolution. Alright, so um Fahim, are you happy? I'll be very happy when the phenomenon How can you be happy? You're Muslim when the phenomenon of Muslims. You're fanatics Right? Yes. And this is a phenomenon and I'll be very happy when that phenomenon dies. This is a good start. That's interesting. An ideology and a phenomenon. So so you're not of the opinion that historic Islam has tended to be a uh sword driven um uh phenomenon like like since the beginning since since When I give courses about Islam I always ask people, how do you define a Muslim? And most people will say those who believe in Muhammad, peace be upon him. And I say, Yeah, that's pretty much true, pretty close. So let me tell you about how Muhammad, peace be upon him, preached Islam. It's well known fact that he would be going through the streets of Mecca and every day he passes through a certain street, somebody throws garbage at him from the second floor. And he's going through that same street over and over again and one day while he's traveling through the same street, nobody throws garbage at him. So he gets suspicious. Guess guess what he did? He knocked on the door. Went upstairs, there was a woman who was lying in high fever in the bed, who said, Who are you? And Muhammad peace be upon him introduced himself, saying, I'm the Prophet Muhammad. And every day somebody used to throw garbage at me. And today that didn't happen. So I wanted to come and see if everything was okay. That's the prophet that I do. So this is a story in the Quran? This is not in the Quran. This is in the traditions. This is in the hadith. This is in the traditions. If you want to talk about Qur'an, Quran says over and over again, Jonathan. that, oh Prophet, your job is to convey the message. Sure. You're not here to police mankind. So we as Muslims feel Almost molested. I feel molested when these extreme clergies come out and they want to convert the whole world. Do you feel like that's happened often in the history of Islam in the Middle East? I think that's a recent phenomenon. See if you really look at Because I've done a lot of study into the history of Islam. Yeah. And and the the the term that keeps coming up is that is that Islam has always in its history had bloody borders. Let me ask you this question. Which one is certainly that was true with Europe all all through the centuries. They always had bloody bloody borders with Europe. They have bloody borders in India. They had bloody borders going down into into uh Africa. They had bloody borders headed up into Uh into Asia. I mean I mean where where have there not been bloody borders in the history of the U. one by one. Which one is the w what's the most populous Muslim country in the world today I'll help you. Indonesia. Yeah, I was gonna say probably. When was there a war fought in Indonesia? Who took What's happening now? No, we'll we'll go one by one. So Indonesia Most populated Muslim country, no war ever took over. Yeah, the problem is there are no borders, there's just islands. All right. You know, so it's not like there's other nations. They came in, they took over Right. That's not how it is. That's not how it is. Not at all. Not at all. See let me tell you Well certainly it's the the it's the case today in and what I hear back from Indonesia Indonesia is that the Christians there are in constant uh uh fear for their lives because of the i uh Islamic world there. And so that would tell me that uh maybe that's just a recent phenomenon. I mean I've only been alive for a few short, you know, half a century here. I can't even make my children eat cereal by force. Sure. Do you think people can be converted by force? Yeah. Sure it's against human nature, but if you're if if the sword is at your throat then you're gonna say all kinds of things to protect your family. Right. There's no doubt in my mind. And in fact I'll use Christian history as an example because previous to the time that Constantine said said that Christianity was going to be the religion of the uh of the nation, there was a much smaller Christian community. But then when Constantine said that it was okay, the Christian community exploded, and then when uh they went back to persecuting them again uh the Christian community shrank significantly. So all I'm saying is that is that our Christian heritage is such that when your life is threatened You'll say very different things than when your life is not threatened. That's perfectly fine. I'm not going to argue about Christianity. You're the expert there. But I can tell you No, but I'm saying it's human nature. It's happened in human hi it's i it's happened in Christianity and I'm saying that it's also happened with Islam and it's happened with the worship of Baal. Right. There's certain people of conscience that will refuse to be converted because because they they have courage and they're noble and they'll do what's right. There's I'd say there's always been those people through history. But there's a whole slew of the human race that will follow whoever has the power to force people to do what they want to do. I completely agree with you and I'm not trying to characterize that Islam's history of fourteen hundred years there was never anyone who was converted by force. That's not one my point. I think your initial question was Islam at its source. which is Quran, which is the life of the Prophet. Well I d I did start with the source, and it's interesting about the source, though it is true that that Muhammad himself uh you know waged battle and that there are significant uh verses that he that it came from God, uh according to his uh his belief, that uh that told him that he should take up the sword. This is wonderful. See, we gotta pick and choose. If we have twenty six minutes We gotta pick and choose a subject and complete it. Okay. Because otherwise, you know, this can go on and just a little bit there because you were saying Muslims are fifteen percent of the population of Medina at the time of Prophet Muhammad. Okay. Coptic Christians in Egypt today constitute fifteen percent of Egypt. Do you think anyone in their sane mind would believe that the Coptic Christians tomorrow could go at war with Egypt? Is that possible even with All the Western and Civilized World being Christians, do you think the Coptic Christians in their right mind tomorrow will pick up the sword to convert Egypt. Okay, I feel like that's not a uh a um good metaphor. The reason why is because fifteen percent is Coptic Christians, but the majority of the rest large majority of the rest is Islam. Right. Right? And so yeah, it'd be totally foolish because it's a unified, you know, eighty five percent But that certainly was not the case in Medina at the time. In Medina what was the other thing? There were Jews and there were others and so there was divided populations. And if you got a divided population, I mean I've read enough of the history of the world to know that a shrewd uh warrior and a shrewd thinker strategist can can go into a uh place like that and uh effectively win so here by the sword. So what were the odds of all those battles? Yes, Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him, was engaged in a lot of battles. Yeah. Those are battles of survival. Those are battles of defense. Isn't our country involved in battles? But let me ask you a question again. Except when he went to Medina, I mean he was attacking Right? I mean i i it wasn't a defense. No, he was never attacking because he ran. Uh my sense is that he attacked. When? Give me one name. When he went to Medina and when he went uh when he went then uh to That's my sense. I mean maybe uh maybe I've read no there is not a single time in Muslim history when Muslims attacked. And I maybe what you're confusing is I'll tell you what you are what you're thinking The first battle. That'll be nice because my wife wondered what it is and I think. So let me just take notes and I'll pass it back to you. If I was that smart, then you'll I'll I'll use that trick my in my own matter of life. The Battle of Badr, the first battle, Muslims are outnumbered one to three. And as it turns out, in the next twelve years or ten years after that, for the life of Prophet, those were their best odds. In the future battles they were always outnumbered more than one to four, one to seven. Number one. No one no one in their sane mind would go to attack with such odds. I just have to disagree with you because it's been done time and again throughout history. All right? And so so to say nobody in their sane mind would do it Fine, I agree, maybe that's true, but all I know is that time and again throughout history, people have gone to war uh in in fact again, uh the the history of the Israelites three hundred people with Gideon going to battle against the Philistines and destroying the entire company. Would they do it in their sane mind? No. Is it possible that they would still do it anyways under the the inspiration, quote unquote, of God? What was their motive? Uh uh in that situation, uh that situation uh it was defense. So I think the point once again is That if if we're not going to be able to do that, motives, we're talking about whether or not they would do it, whether or not it could be done. We were talking about an offense. Who in their sane mind would attack Proactively, preemptively, an army three or four or seven times larger than our Israelites again when they went into the promise. No, when they went into the promised land, they were attacking to conquer, and they came in with significantly less forces than the Philistines and the Canaanites that lived in the land. All I'm saying is that is that your premise is not necessarily true. Uh yeah, I think that whether or not it applies to what happened with with Muhammad, you know, is debatable and I and I'm willing to debate it, but I don't know that that premise can be absolutely said to be true. Okay. I I agree with you. I think that's a that's a fair point. Let me jump in here for a second. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. And Fahim Yunas, who is the Secretary of Education for the Ahmadiyya Muslim community. And I want to ask you a question about that because we're talking about all of Islam and all of all of uh history for for Muslims everywhere Um but you don't necessarily I mean it sounds like you're speaking for that now, but you don't necessarily represent all of Islam, right? the the the Shiites and the Sunnis, a lot of them wouldn't really recognize the Ahmadiyya community as truly part of Islam. That you it you're some sort of inauthentic Muslim. Well I think yeah, I wouldn't characterize it that way. The interesting part about Islam is I would say I'm representing Islam here. I'm not just representing all Muslims. And for listeners I think that's an important distinction. Muslim is someone who follows Islam. So how many of th how much of the Muslim population would say that you don't represent Islam accurately. I don't know. I don't know. That's an answer for them. All I can say is Oh come on, give me give me y you've got some sense of how No, honestly I'm in an easy And over the over the next few minutes. Would you say that it's pretty that that that compared to the to the world populations of Sunnis and and uh and Shiites that that the Ahmadiyya Muslim community is Uh at best twenty percent? See, this is this is how I look at it. If you if you went around the world and asked them how many of you agree with the concept of freedom, freedom of choice, freedom of religion. Probably seventy, sixty, eighty percent of the world, what's your number? What how what percentage of the civilized world will agree with the idea of freedom? I'm trying to answer your question. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I'm I'm uh w when I think of it in those terms, you know whether or not they would agree with it. How many of them will stand up for freedom? Just give me a number. Well, uh uh in terms of standing up for freedom with courage, I'd say that that less than half the world has done so. No, no, no. that uh that they make a big difference. And they end up uh but China clearly doesn't, you know, and North Korea clearly doesn't mention a significant number of Muslim nations. That's why I said Scandinavia, Europe Australia. That's a sizeable number of the developed world today. What percentage percentage of them will say if you were talking about They would say we agree with Jonathan Sweitzer because he's standing up on the right. And so obviously if they live in the developed world then they believe in freedom. I mean that's the whole point. Exactly. That's the definition. So a large majority, right? So I think But that's not the whole human race. Sure, I agree. And if I asked the same exact population, how many of you are Americans? Yeah. Or how many of you stand up for America? I think that number will drop significantly. Yeah. It would be mostly people that live in America. And only about half of them. Exactly. So I think the point here is what Ahmadiyya Muslim community stands for It stands for the five pillars of Islam. It stands for the core every verse, every word in Qur'an. We don't consider anything in Quran to be abrogated. We stand for the life of Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him. We stand for the five pillars of Islam. And if you talked of that, I think eighty to ninety percent of the Muslim world will agree with me Just like they would agree with the eyes. Even though even though you're ninety percent of the Muslim world uh in terms of geography, uh if you were to teach what you're teaching you would your life would be in danger. I mean you you couldn't get away with that in Egypt. You couldn't get away with that on either side of the battle that's going on in in uh Libya. Right. You couldn't get get away with that in Pakistan. But that wouldn't prove my the strength of my message because we could never apply that principle on any religious Faith. You know, we are the the Messiah. Uh I'd say that it's possible But I'd say that for you to say that it's absolutely true I'm No, I'm not saying it's absolutely true. See, what I'm saying is overthrow those guys. That's what we're doing. If you've got eighty, ninety percent of those guys going in those nations, but every time there's a revolution in those nations The people, if if they believe what you're saying that they believe, then they're cowards. Because they're not standing for the truth and they're choosing to go with uh with all those people that that put the sword to their to their throat and say, Do what we're telling you to do or else which is which is the act of Exact opposite of what you were saying earlier, that that nobody, you know, would would do that. It's been hundred and ten years. That's the name of the Messiah. That's the name of the Messiah. So it's uh nineteen oh eight is when he passed away. So you can say we are in our early second century, right? Of Ahmadiyya. Yeah. You know this better than me. the early second century Christians. What was going through their lives? They were being put in front of lines in Colosseums. Sure. Right? Absolutely. Will their weakness and meekness At that time, would people say that truth could lie with these folks? People would laugh at them. So I think that my point is That doesn't prove the truth of what of what you're teaching, but it's certainly true that I think the best way to win has always been the Christ like way. Exactly. That's what I'm saying. So if you're not going to be able to do it, you can't do it. That's how revolutions come in the history of religion. That's my point. I mean 'cause to this date there is no Muslim nation out there anywhere that lives according to the principles of a liberal democracy. I will say they don't even know. Basic civil rights Jonathan, there's no basic civil rights on any Muslim nation anywhere on the planet, right? This is where we have a golden shake hand. I could not agree with you more. Okay. See that? We're shaking, right? That's right. Yeah, I could not agree with you more. Turkey looked like it was going that direction, but it didn't. Now it's going back the other direction. We thought that Egypt was going to go that direction. No way. But we were naive I'll I'll even add one more Fabulously naive. Yes, you're not a good thing. Our president was thought that it was you know, that that the that the Muslim Brotherhood was not going to rise up and and start promoting virginity tests when they come to Crusades and uh you know I mean it's crazy. In Libya and Tunisia, I mean all these different places. Oh, we're going towards democracy. How could they have been so blind to the fact that that the result was going to be the exact same as what happened in Iran? Let me say this. You were saying you were saying that there is no Muslim nation that's living according to the standards of developed world. I would say that they're not even living up to the standards of Holy Quran and the Prophet Muhammad, peace be upon him,'s life. His life was the same life that every Prophet comes in. And I'll go even farther and maybe you'll give me another golden handshake for this one In Europe, Merkel, uh in Germany and Cameron and uh in uh England and Sarkozy have all come out saying that Fundamentalist Muslims have refused to assimilate, and that they are in danger of losing the soul of their liberal democracies in Europe. because they refuse to require b because nobody has the courage to require the Muslim populations to genuinely assimilate into the developed world. That's right. They refuse to do so. And see once again that's why I keep going back to the strength of the message rather than how many warm bodies will agree with my message. Because the history of religious is on is on my side when I say that. This is the pamphlet. I know your listeners cannot see it, but could you explain it to them? What am I showing it to you, Jonathan? Okay, this pamphlet says Muslims This is a pamphlet that we are distributing all around the country in America as Audi Muslims. Because we want to demonstrate. We don't want to just sit and talk about the side. So you think it do you think it's inevitable that Islam in the United States is going to be won over to Ahmadiyya Muslim uh Islam as opposed to, you know, the uh the type of Islam that we see in these um in these groups in Europe and and uh into the Middle East. Do you think it's likely that that's inevitable? This is the only Islam and I'm not saying it because I believe in it. But you think it's the only true this. No no no. I was gonna say this is the only version of Islam that's gonna survive. That's gonna survive. That's gonna survive. Yeah. Because this is basically taking Islam to its root. Not because, you know, I don't have contempt for other Muslims, don't get me wrong here. I think when they sit and understand what I'm saying. When the when the ha when they when they have such a rational dialogue in Pakistan, in Saudi Arabia like you and I can have here in the United States, then they will understand what I'm really talking about. And then they will see that this is the purest form of Islam. So I got I got a bunch of questions. How we Yeah, we're we're gonna have to save you write write 'em down. Save them for next week. And I've got some questions too, so we'll have to pick that up uh next week. We'll on the same general. Sure, yeah, yeah. Yeah. How many you got? I just got golden handshakes. Golden handshakes. As long as your teeth aren't golden. All right, Jonathan Sweitzer's nervously jotting down his questions before he forgets them right now. That's right. Uh he's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Uh I'm Troy Skinner, we want to thank uh Fahim Uh Yunus, who is the uh doctor, Fahim Yunus, right? You worked hard for that doctor, we have to recognize that. Uh Secretary of Education for the Ahmadiyya Muslim community in the United States And St. Panel will be back next week. I want to encourage you to visit us online at WFMD. com, keyword faith, where you will find a daily, well, weekday, daily blog update from me You'll also find links to Jonathan's uh blog update, which isn't quite as frequent, but uh much more frequent than it used to be, so congratulations for that. Proud of you. Uh what am I reading? Um I'm still on my Ted Deckard kick. I can't help it. And I I must say I'm gonna give mixed reviews on this one. Uh it's a book that he co-wrote with Frank Paretti. I've never read anything else by Frank uh Paretti before, but this uh Frank Peretti and Ted Decker wrote a book called House. And I thought it was a little uneven and it builds up to a place where you think it's gonna be really special and there's not really a payoff at the end. I was very disappointed. And I'm noticing a trend. So far, the books that Ted Decker wrote by himself, I give them all an A or a B. The books that he's co-written with somebody else, I think the best I would give is a B, and most of them are more like C's So something gets lost when he co-authors. Not sure what that's all about. Maybe he doesn't play nice with others. I don't know. Maybe he's like Jonathan Schweitzer over here. Anyway, uh thanks to our sponsors, Plum Plumbing Heating, Help We Make You Smile, and Deer Valley landscape, heartscape, and masonry. Without them, this show probably wouldn't exist for these last six and a half years, that's for sure. Anyway, till next week. God bless Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients. The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service Because we believe you deserve it. Putmin plumbing, how can we make you smile