Welcome to the Frederick Fate debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. I'm your host and moderator, Troy Schooner. If you're joining us for the first time, A little explanation of what the show is all about. Frederick Faith Debate is designed to be an open and honest forum for our local faith community leaders to share and discuss their views of the truth. ideas and might even disagree with one another. The hope is that through our wrestling, you will develop a better understanding of the truth about the most important issues that face us in this world. This week we are going to discuss the question of God Sounds kind of broad, doesn't it? Well we'll uh narrow that down and flesh it out as we move along. Specifically we're gonna talk about when a a Buddhist or a Hindu or a Muslim or a Jew or a Christian or a whoever Speaks of God, talks about God, are they all talking about the same thing? Are they all talking about the same person? Are they indeed talking about a person at all? Those are the kinds of issues we're going to talk about. We're going to specifically talk about uh that issue as it relates to uh Christianity and Islam. And uh here on the panel today to talk about that are Khalil Al-Shazli, the uh president of the Islamic Society. of Frederick, uh Drew Boswell, pastor of Daybreak Community Church, and John Sweitzer, the pastor of Crossroad Valley Chapel. And Frederick, thank you all for being with us today. It's good to be here. Thank you. So I'm going to throw out the general question and see, and I'm going to go one at a time, so let's not have a long-winded answer. I just want to get a general sense uh of of the room. We'll start with Drew. In your view, when uh people uh a a Muslim and a Christian for example since what we have represented in the room today speak of God are they talking about the same thing in your view? Uh I usually I believe that the difference will come in the concept of who Jesus was and uh the role that he played when he was here and uh my belief there at least uh I I come from a conservative, I guess, Southern Baptist point of view And our I I would say no, we probably don't hold to the same opinion of of who God is, because when Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life, no one comes to the Father except through me. then we would say then and therefore God the only way to have access to God is through Jesus Christ. Okay. Khalil Uh we talk about uh the same God uh but there's only one God who created uh the universe created Adam and Eve and uh created all the prophets. Uh we believe in Jesus, we believe in Abraham, we believe in Adam and Eve, Noah. all the prophets uh before uh Prophet Muhammad. Uh it is just how Christian view Jesus Christ and how Muslims view Jesus Christ Uh Muslims view Jesus Christ as a prophet and Christians believe Jesus Christ as a son of God. And that is the only difference between us. But as God, the entity, the Almighty the all powerful the creator, we're talking about the same God. Okay and uh John Switzer. Well I tell you what I'm I'm uh have a very hard time with this because when I read the Islamic description of Allah Um he sounds a lot like uh the God of the Christians. Clearly Christ is the is the the big difference between uh what we believe. And the question is this, this is where I might disagree with Drew, but I'm not sure, honestly. Um I I think I would say possibly we're talking about the same God, but the problem is that there's only one way to the Father and that's through Christ. So even if we are talking about the same God, um I would clearly stand with Scripture that there's only one way to the Father, and that is through Christ. Whereas I I think of course that's where I'm gonna tend to disagree with Khalil. Um I would say this as well though, that that Buddhism and Hinduism, uh, when they talk about God, well they don't actually talk about God and that's like a totally different discussion, um, what do they mean when they say God? Uh clearly when we when I talk to a Jewish person, I I believe I'm talking about the same exact God that they are, uh, but again that the only way to the Father is through Christ And um and then well I guess I guess that's really it. There's the the main uh religions with perspectives about God. So so what we have so far is is is a a no, a yes, and an absolute definite maybe. Great. Well let's start with uh the the things that are common. All right. What are things that we would all agree on? I I'm I it I'm gonna say I'm gonna make some s some wild speculations here We're talking about a personal God, a a a person, not an entity, a force, a power, uh but uh uh uh but an actual person. Is that is that fair? Yes. Khalil also? No, that's not. He's not a person. Uh as we when you when you say a per When you say a person you're talking about somebody like me or you. But we're talking about an entity. Right. Well okay, actually what Troy means when he says personal is he means that God has a personality. He's It whatever w clearly we would all agree that God is spirit, but when we say that he he has a personality, it means that he is uh he's not He's not just a force. We we call this attributes. Yeah, we would say personality. Okay. Yeah, we would So we agree then. Yeah, I think we agree on that. I think I think we would disagree on the idea of uh God being the creator or in that uh Uh well scripture teaches that uh of Jesus Christ being the playing a part in creation and that he uh was actually there with God in the beginning. Uh you know, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God and the Word was God. So Christ was a part of creative creation process as part of the Trinity which I believe we also not agree on, the idea of a three is one and one is three and so on. So now we're w there I mean there is a there's a major division obviously that that separates Christianity from any other religion and that is Christ. And we're actually going to talk about that uh in our next show. So I don't want to I don't want this to turn into a a a Christ discussion. I really want it to be a more of a a a a a bigger global God discussion if that's possible. Okay. So um it's hard to say Christ But there are some things without without saying the the name Jesus, there are some things that we could that people would say about Christians and perhaps Muslims alike would say about God and and one again, when I said personal or a person, I didn't mean that he was a human. Although you would say uh Christians would say that he took out human forms. But that's not what I'm talking about. That's the language battery. Right, that's right. That's that's fine. Yeah, good. Yeah, we're using the same words and meaning different things by the People misinterpret and misunderstand it's not a good idea. Absolutely. Well that's what the show's all about, really. That's what it's all about. So okay, so we're all agreeing that there he he has attributes that are personal or the he's not a f it's it's a he. God God it it's a he, right? God is a he, God is not an it or a power or a force kind of thing. And we know that 'cause he's revealed himself to us that way. Right, okay. Well we and Yes. Okay. So we so we find agreement there. Yes. Is uh God all knowing, all powerful? Yes. Absolutely. Okay. God is God is it. He's the MacDaddy. Absolutely. God is outside of time, not constrained by time. Absolutely. You agree with that? Absolutely. God is outside of and within But also outside of space, not constrained by space. Correct. God created everything, including time and space. Absolutely. Correct. So there's a lot of common grounds here. Yes. Um Can an individual, you and I, a person, a human being, become God after we die someday? No. No. Okay, so we agree on that. Okay, because there are some religions that would say that that that's what happens Um God is everywhere. I agree. Is God is it and some would say that God is in everything and that the world is God and this rock here is God. That's not something that I don't think Christians believe and I don't think it's something Muslims believe. No. So so far, an awful lot of agreement. Yeah. Um is there something else by the way that you guys can think of that everyone would probably would agree on that I'm not thinking to mention? Uh something that I think is a common misconception among Christians about uh Allah is that He's merely a demanding God and a harsh God. And in fact, throughout the Quran, um they refer to Allah the merciful uh the most merciful and and who uh who is patient and um so even those qualities of Allah as represented by the Quran um seem to be very similar to what we would uh say is true in Christianity. In fact, um unfortunately, I think potentially the only difference that that I've seen between the two is the question of how God um lets us come to him, how God interacts with us as people. And I ultimately I think that that that's the big main difference between a Christian view of God and an Islamic view of God. Okay. I think I would disagree on that point in that uh I think the way God's revealed himself in the scriptures is different than how he's revealed uh than in the Quran. Um in the scriptures he reveals himself as being a God of grace and mercy and and love and correct me if I'm wrong, uh uh but I think it's um I think it I think it's just that the attributes are uh would be described as being differently when we begin to kind of get more into that concept. Okay. I disagree with that. Okay. Uh God has ninety-nine attributes. that are mentioned in Quran and more attributes that are not mentioned in Quran. The Creator, the Merciful, the Absolute Just uh the caring, the generous, uh all of these attributes. And the word Allah uh in Arabic, only this word only one entity has that name which is Allah. And from uh the old scripture, Elohim is Allah. And uh the Jews, the Ara the Jewish Arabs before Prophet Muhammad, they used to use the name Allah when they named their kids. slave of God or servant of God, but not the name Allah as an individual, but a slave of God. And the Christian Bible, if you read any Christian Bible in Arabic God is mentioned as Allah. So the word Allah is not stranger to Christians nor Jews. I totally I totally uh agree with that. I um I know some Arabic Christians that um uh who have scriptures in Arabic and uh they use the term Allah to describe or or as as the uh the name for for God, uh God and Father Jesus Christ. And um, you know, as as I as I was reading through the Quran, you know, over and over again Um Allah is referred to as compassionate, uh merciful, kind, generous, all these things that we we use the word grace without find those. Not necessarily that the act the the the the idea of grace and mercy and those things. Go into that a little bit more if you would because Well we said like in the beginning, you know, I think we agree that God was the creator of the world, but then you have like the fall of man in Genesis three, and then uh you have the prediction of a savior who is to come and And then it and he's revealed later on throughout you having uh this playing out of of a Trinity uh and the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit, and then when you get kind of like to the New Testament uh you begin to have the Holy Spirit taking up residence within man, uh and and that being God and those type of things, I I think that that would be where the division would be, would be uh the way that God's shown himself over time to Christians through the scriptures I believe would be different than how the cr that is how he's revealed himself in the Quran. Okay, so what you're saying is that let me see if I can summarize that. Because uh again it has to do with God's interaction with man is where the difference is. Not so much his attributes describing who he is, but specifically when he interacts with man that you're saying, one, that that his promise that he would send a Messiah, two, that the Holy Spirit comes on individuals specifically, you know, that that God resides with them and then in the New Testament where God resides in us as a result of the um the judges and you have like men like Samson and it says that the Holy Spirit came upon him or the Spirit came upon him and gave him power and strength and so on and um yeah so I'd be interested uh Khalil is there a doctrine of a Holy Spirit or a way that God comes on people to empower them uh or no Well God comes to people and prophets as we learn throughout Islam and Quran uh through different means uh by inspiration Uh God came to Prophet Abraham and uh Prophet Joseph uh in the dreams when he inspired them in the dreams, uh inspired Noah to build the ark, inspired Joseph and told them about uh uh that the sun and the moon and twelve different entities prostrating to him and uh he revealed that to uh his father and he told him not to tell uh anyone about his dream. Uh God inspires people in that manner. Um or he send uh the angel Gabriel to uh communicate uh with a prophet. Uh now I believe you call Is do you reference the Holy Spirit and Gabriel as the same person? Is that the same being? I think I I think so. Okay, so that's where Christianity would be different. Yeah, it's um I don't know if the Holy Ghost or the Holy Spirit refer to Gibriel, but Gabriel is uh the angel that God sent through the prophets and revealed all the scriptures Uh through him to the prophets. And you would also uh correct me if I'm wrong, but hold that like men like Abraham and Moses and the prophets are without sin. Is that correct? Not sin as we know it. Uh God would not God will not pick a prophet who sins a lot Uh they may make a little human mistakes here and there, but not great sins like adultery or stealing or killing or any of that. No. Yeah. And see where the Old Testament teaches like Moses killed a man Yes, that's mentioned in Quran, but mistakenly he did not mean to kill the man, he just struck him to push him away and and Prophet Moses was so strong and the guy was knocked out and got killed. Later in the New Yeah, later in the New Testament Moses is mentioned as being a murderer. Yeah, so then no. Well that's all I need to do. Yeah, it's like also in the scripture we refer to uh King David as an adulteress. Right. And and that's a no-no this this idea of Prophets committing uh great sins are not acceptable in the same. Well we're big we're beginning to to drift off into the nature of man as opposed to the nature of God. I think it's about stuff, yeah. By the way, the discussion is going to pick up We might need to uh remind uh uh people who are listening uh what they're listening to. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. My name is Troy Skinner. I'm just here for the long for the ride, learning and soliciting as I go Uh acting as your host and moderator. Uh John Sweitzer, the pastor for uh Crossroad Valley Chapel, uh is here again this week. Thank you. Uh Khalil El-Shazli, the president of the Islamic Society of Frederick, uh is here. I think this is the Our third, fourth show that uh that uh he's been involved with. Thank you for coming back. And uh uh a a newcomer to the show and hopefully he will be a frequent uh uh uh frequenter of the show, Roger Boswell, the uh the pastor of uh Daybreak Community Church. Um The topic of the show today is the idea of God and uh when when uh Islam and Christianity are talking about God, are they talking about the same thing? There's been a mixture of opinion, uh, and really it all three possible answers have been given today. Yes, no, and maybe. One thing I didn't talk about that I think all would agree uh things that are true about God that we would find some common ground in is if there is one God. There's not a whole right, we're not polytheistic there's one God. Actually uh Don't you dare No no no no The uh I believe uh from what I understand about Islam, they they feel that the Christian God is a polytheistic God and that we're not worshiping a one God. And this is actually uh part of where we would di disagree, the whole tr the idea of Trinity. In fact this is this is the area of disagreement. Without getting too much into uh Christ and who Christ is, the area of disagreement is that we believe that that God represents himself uh parts of who God is. I don't know if that's grammatically correct. There's three parts uh I think is probably where we disagree most often w uh c with Christians ending up being called polytheists by uh most Muslims. Am I correct about that? Anyone who takes partners with God. uh we dis uh the Quran disagrees with or God disagrees with because God said he begets not nor he begotten and that that's very clear uh and Quran from front to end. Which now let me ask a question about that because I know that at the time that is that that Muhammad was alive, he interacted with some Christian monks before he even began and any of us prophesying. And at the time in the Christian world there was a there was a significant debate going on about the three persons of the Trinity and you know what that represented. There were even people in the Christian world that were arguing that like claiming that there's a trinity that that you know that it sounds like there's a polytheistic God there and from my understanding um uh Muhammad kind of came away with the perspective that Christianity did worship three gods. Now shortly thereafter Christianity uh c uh very clearly uh delineated some of the differences between what they mean by that, meaning that that Christ is the begotten of the Father and that he was with God in the beginning and uh that he's of the same substance, but he's fully God and he's fully man. Some of these things that that hadn't been uh fully um uh I guess studied out from scripture at the time of Muhammad. And I'm of the opinion that what Muhammad wrote in the Quran and its perspective toward Christianity uh is somewhat historically uh stuck. Um that You know, he wrote at a sp in a specific time specific time frame, and his perspective at the time of Christianity was that we might possibly be polytheistic because of the three and he actually uh in his comments about Christ and begetting a son, he actually mimics some of the uh some of the debate that was going on in the Christian world at the time. I'd be interested to to hear your response to that. Uh first of all Well Muhammad did not write Prophet Muhammad did not write the Quran. Prophet Muhammad was illiterate. He couldn't neither read nor write. It was revealed to him by uh Angel Gabriel and Prophet Muhammad memorized it. Uh as it was revealed bits and pieces and he would dictate to people who would write it. So it is not Prophet Muhammad's writing, it's God's uh revelation uh that is to uh clear this misconception and the way god uh refers to the creation of jesus christ in the Quran He said, uh God said in the Quran that the creation of Jesus Christ is just as the creation of uh Adam. He created Adam from dust. So as the creation and Adam didn't have any parents, uh father or mother, uh, but he blew with his spirit into the Virgin Mary and there came Jesus Christ. So the God is all uh uh he is the almighty and to god is be and it is and the creation for prophet jesus christ is the same as the creation of adam Yeah, and I think we disagree on the the definition of probably the word begotten. You know, where it says uh in John three sixteen, forgot so loved the world, he gave his only begotten son that whoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. Uh that the definition would be different than the definition that you gave of begotten as being uh created uh in uh uh the dust of the ground and so on. As whereas we believe that uh the Holy Spirit came upon Mary and uh he wasn't created. He had always always existed, but he went from uh a a kingdom in heaven and a glory of being God to becoming man. uh i within her womb and and then she gave birth and but he continued to always be God but yet at this at the moment of cons uh when the holy he became fully man when he was here on earth, which is the Christmas story of God becoming man and so on. That that is a major disagreement. Right, yeah. That's that's why I just wanted to clear that up is God. And again we're back to the Christ thing. Sorry about that. No, well, you know, there's so much pressure that Dan is going to burst here in a minute. But I mean we're we're going to do a a series of shows on the personal Christ, so that really is the the dividing line, I think. But there are so many other things too. Correct me if I'm wrong, uh Khalil, but a Muslim wouldn't pray to God the Father. Is that correct? You don't think in terms of in terms of being a father the way a Christian would. Pray to God the Creator. So again that has to do with the relationship between God and man, and I think I think that that is a distinct difference. The the sense that Christians have about Islam is that is that you view real your relationship with God not as as something like you and I can talk, we can we can uh interact, we can uh care for one another, love one another, but you you view your relationship with God more in terms of of well the word Islam which I think means submission uh you you view your relationship from a from a very uh at least from our perspective, very authoritarian perspective, whereas we Christians would would view our relationship with God more from a father. He's also creator, he's also judge. But we add that term father, and in adding the term father, there's uh there's the second addition is is that God In his wisdom knew that man, if man was ever going to understand him, man was gonna have to have a human representation. of what God wanted of us. We we we had sinned enough that in order for us to know and understand perfection, he would have to send a son and that furthermore, in order for us to to in fact The holiness of God we almost define more strongly, I think, than Islam does, if that's possible. Because I know you guys define define God as as very holy and very righteous. But we almost define that more uh strongly in that we don't believe that any human could ever, ever effectively earn the right to be in God's uh uh you call it a paradise, we call it heaven. We don't think that we could ever earn that right, ever, because God is way too holy. God himself would have to provide a way that we could come to be with him specifically a sacrifice, uh meaning the sacrifice of his son to cover our sin because our sin is bad enough that we could never approach his holiness without it. And I think again that that's a way that we tend to Well we have a couple of minutes left in the show and we've we've we've had enough of a discussion now. I'm wondering uh with Because there are some major different disagreements and we've ad we've admitted as much out loud uh at various times in this last half hour. Uh the idea of God being a father or the Holy Spirit being God and and God dwelling within a person. I don't know that the Muslims would agree with that the way that at least It's not in the same way the Christians do. And again, we're not even we're trying as hard as we can for this half hour only to not focus on Jesus Christ. uh but even withdrawing Jesus Christ as much as possible from conversation, it seems like there are disagreements elsewhere. So I'm wondering I'm gonna ask the same question I asked at the beginning of the show. Yeah. And see if anybody has a different answer perhaps than I had at the beginning. Are we talking about the same God? I'm gonna guess that uh Drew you're gonna keep the same answer. I'm gonna hold to the same position, yeah. I believe that we are are talking about two different um beings. Uh Khalil, have you do you still say it's the same God or do you think that's uh it it might indeed be different? The one god The Creator, the Almighty, we're talking about the same God. And uh the difference between Islam and Christianity, very, very fine difference. Which is the the concept of Trinity and the role of Jesus Christ. Alright, John, we have uh like ten seconds. Can you do it in ten seconds? Okay. Uh no, I can't. Sorry. I wanted to though. Are you still saying maybe? No, uh yeah. Well we'll come back to that next time. time I'd say yes and no. Oh. Yes. Well that's uh it for this edition of the Product Faith Debate on Product News Radio nine thirty WFMD. Thanks so much for listening. Next week the person of Oh Jesus Christ. I'll try to be more firm next week. Thank you.