The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD Today, thanks for listening to News Radio 930 WFMD on your Sunday morning. I'm Troy Skinner. We're online at WFMD. com. We're on the AM, of course, at AM 930, and on the FM at 99. 9 HD2 If you'd like to connect with me and the show and kind of a one-stop shop for doing that, I invite you to go to Household of FaithInChrist. com. That's Household of Faith in Christ. That's the name of the church that I pastor, it's a house church. And I'm not alone in my venture. There's a couple other house churchers here in the room, Daniel and Imran Razby. They They co-pastor, I guess, uh a house church that's been around for longer than mine. How long have you been doing it? Like ten, fifteen years maybe? Something like that? Yeah. It's been around for a while. Yeah, so uh they're old uh hands at this, long in the tooth Daniel started out as a pastor when he was like three. Anyway. So we've um best few sh shows we've been talking about stuff going on in the world and that can't find the truth and all that sort of stuff. What is the truth? And the truth of course is found in God's word and Jesus Christ is the embodiment of the truth. Not only is it is he the truth, but he is the way and the life. And all all of that and um by one since I'll bring it up and Moses tell you if you don't know what I'm talking about right now or Strongly encourage you to reach out to one of the three of us so we can explain to you in intimate detail what all of that is about because if you feel like life is hopeless, it is not. There's hope in Christ. If you feel like there's no purpose to any of this, there is purpose. God made you for a purpose. He made you in his image, so you are a wondrous creation. And um unfortunately though, you're not perfect. You make a lot of mistakes, what the Bible calls sins, some of them are heinous sins, you commit them every day. And so a holy God can't abide that, so what do you do? You're kinda back to having no hope. But Christ pays the penalty on the cross, um, if you will only uh accept uh the gift of his sacrifice. And then you live out your life in gratitude until the day he returns and uh you join him in glory forever. Uh and it's a wondrously good story. There's a reason the Christians have hope. And if you're a Christian hearing this and you and you're like, yeah, I wasn't feeling the hope, but now I've been reminded, you know, uh if that's the case for you, go remind somebody else today. Don't assume that your friends that call themselves Christians, even if they go to the go to the same church you go to every week or something, don't assume that they're actually processing and understanding grappling what the gospel really is. Share the gospel with people. Go and share. Give people the reason for the hope that lies within. I would encourage you, challenge you to do that today. Ask yourself, how can I glorify God today? Amen. Every day ask that question. Yeah, absolutely. And if you're going into a business meeting, how can I glorify God in this business meeting? If I'm going into the church into Sunday morning right now, you're listening to the show, how how can I glorify God best as I go into church today? How can I best glorify God as I leave the church and enter the mission field that's all around me, right? All that sort of stuff. So, but in the context of what is truth, and again, Jesus Christ is the truth, and so we're not questioning what the truth is in an ultimate sense. But we talked the last few weeks on this show about different things that make you wonder, man, who can you trust to be giving you like factual data and information about what's happening in the world, you know, news outlets and people are writing opinion pieces and stuff like that. And it used to be back when I was a kid. Uh I don't even know. Does the National Enquire exist anymore? Is that a thing? I don't know. CNN. Well yeah, well that's that's kind of the point. Because when I was a kid You'd be standing in the checkout line at the store and you'd have the National Inquirer there and they'd have all these bizarre stories about Bigfoot sightings and UFOs and UFO abductions and that sort of stuff and it was all zany, like, okay, whatever. But now You can turn on CNN or Fox or anything key. And you'll get stories about Murder Hornet And UFOs and life on other planets maybe and and some sort of bizarre thing called Tiger King. I never got into it I don't know what that is. I guess it was like a reality TV show. But was it really real? And then the Tiger King guy died, I think, or something? Like what happened there? And the Trump dossier that existed. And then the fantastical things, like seriously, not too long ago, if you heard stories about people going up into outer space as private citizens Like, okay, that's like fantasy land. That's science fiction. What are you, like H. G. Wells or something? But it's happening. I mean, William Shatner went up in space last year for crying out loud. Finally an astronaut. You know? Oh yeah, we we went where men had gone before. Um and uh you know billionaires before him have been up there. And then all the um really Well maybe it's just because the news coverage more is more pervasive, but it just seems like there were so many wildfire. Do you remember how the wildfires in California and and Oregon and Washington? uh dominated the the news uh in Australia, remember? Right before like the big news story, before COVID just dominated everything. I think it was like January ish of twenty twenty. Australia was on fire. Right. Zany bizarre stuff. Is this the end of the world? Yes, yes it is. Welcome to the end of the world. Well think about it. The Texas ice storm last year, that was bizarre and weird, a failure of government as well. Did you also read about the uh rat plague or mouse plague in Australia? Didn't hear about that one. Thousands of millions of mice running over everything like they ate everything and then started eating eating each other. Seriously. You can see it. Are you sure? Yeah, like you could like the floor is the of the ground is the National Enquirer story right there, isn't it? You know, there's there's a Uh so I want to ask before I ask the question I was gonna ask, let me ask you this. Out of all the bizarre stories you can think of off the top of your head, and maybe it's the one you just said, I don't know, the last couple of years there's been a lot of really zany Stories. There's been a lot of lies and it's truths and we've talked about that ad nauseum. The Zaney stories. Do you have a favorite one that you like w is it the one you just mentioned about uh the UFOs actually in my in my uh uh I I think that's that's actu there's actually more to that than what BCI. Um Okay, how so? Because I I I could go there with you 'cause I got some thoughts about that. Yeah, so all throughout No, at least the last fifty, sixty years there have been a lot of people that believe in aliens, believe in UFOs, you know, and there's people that talk about UFO sightings and this and that. And it's never really been that mainstream. But if you had to pick a general set of people with an ideology that would lend itself to believing in UFOs and believing in life in a life on the other planets. Generally more liberal minded people would believe in that. Generally more liberal people would be atheists and they believe that we evolved and maybe there could be people that evolved on other planets and so That was that was something that one of their theories is that life started on this planet because the aliens like put life here. Right. So a lot of a lot of liberals and a lot of atheists are kind of predisposed to think, oh that that could be true. But by and large, Christians and c political conservatives, Republicans and so on were more inclined to say, uh that that's just a bunch of fogwash, I think really. Right. What's happened w was is really interesting over the last year is the right has talked a lot about UFOs. Tucker Carlson talks a lot about UFOs. Fox News in general, a lot of you know, mainstream na the the US military is officially talking about UFOs. That's never really happened before. That's something new. And so my my theory is i i is this and it's it's i I think it's interesting and um of course it is my theory, so I think of course I think it's interesting. Don't worry, I find it interesting too. I don't even know what it is yet, but I'm sure it'll be interesting. So so my my belief about aliens and life on other planets from a biblical perspective is that the Bible does not leave any room for intelligent life outside of Earth. um other than spiritual beings. And as far as physical beings that, you know, are are you know, a do like humans or just just aliens on other planets, that doesn't really work because either they would have to be sinless or they uh Jesus would have had to die for them too, and which kind of messes up a lot of the theology of of the the cross and and and so on Uh I don't think the Bible i is you know, excludes the possibility or precludes the possibility of uh you know, animal life or plant life on other planets. I mean that's that's fine. God made a vast creation, he can make plenty of things for himself to look at on other planets. But I don't think that there is intelligent life in the way that people think of aliens. So if it can be proven that there are quote unquote UFOs and or quote unquote aliens They would have to be demonic in nature or angelic in nature, but most likely with the things that you people claim aliens do, that would be demonic in nature. Um, especially with P things people talk about happen to them in the abduction of stories and stuff, if in fact any of those are true. That sounds a lot like Genesis six And what the angels uh the fallen angels did in Genesis six, which I take a very literal interpretation to that, the Nephilim and and so on. We can get into that. But I think that's That's where it's it's coming from and a large portion of those stories are probably made up. There's a lot of people who who snake, but if any of it's real, it would be demonic in nature. And I think that our culture has been conditioned over the last fifty years or a hundred years or so by science fiction to believe that someday we're gonna meet aliens and it's gonna be really, really great. And it's gonna end up one or two ways. Think of all the movies you've ever listened to, all the uh TV shows you've ever watched or books you've ever read that had to do with aliens. They all end in the same way. Humans band together in a one world government to defeat the aliens, or the aliens are good and they come up uh and and teach us how to be better humans and they band together in one world government. Exactly. So if I was or the aliens die because they don't have an immune system. But they didn't wear a mask. But but all the humans banded together to do that in a one world government. It's this common theme. And and so I'm I'm thinking if I was Satan and I had to design a plan to try to take over the world and I know I'm going down but whatever, and I'm gonna do my best as if I'm the devil to try to do this one of the ways if I if I wanted to put a guy up there be the Antichrist to figure everybody was gonna follow him make him look like an alien Because all through our culture, if you could prove, quote unquote, prove as much as you can with the we talked about truth lately, but you know, if enough people believe, okay, yeah, that's true, that there's really an alien. Everybody's going to assume, oh yeah, of course they're smarter than we are. They traveled the galaxy. Of course they know more about we should disobey whatever they say. And that would be the easiest way, in my opinion, to move to one world government and have the Antichrist. Um so That's my prediction. If you see uh aliens actually appearing on Earth and and uh you know, we w humans start the governments start to follow what they're doing publicly. That would be a sign of end times in in my opinion. Yeah, w yeah, some you went you have a much fuller formed uh. I love science fiction. But I I would agree. I would say for those that are gonna be, you know, skeptical and push back and they expect, you know, a certain kind of theological discourse on on this show over the years. We don't deliver it every week, but consistently enough we do. I do want to say, I hear you. Um the Bible doesn't explicitly say there couldn't be intelligent life in God's creation somewhere else. However, I would agree with you I would say it's pretty much uh a a good and necessary consequence of God's word. It would be Uh we would have to reconsider almost our entire paradigm uh for it to be possible. So I would agree with you. I don't think there's room for intelligent being does it does say there's other intelligent beings. Right. So I'm but I'm physical beings. Yeah, I'm agreeing with you that that that the idea of there being intelligent alien life forms who are going to come visit us some other day, uh i it it seems pretty much beyond the pale of what the scripture allows. Uh I'm leaving a little bit of room because I don't want to make an argument from sil silence when the Bible doesn't explicitly say that. Right. But I I'm agree I'm agreeing with you. And I also agree with you that Well, I'm gonna add I have a I have something you didn't bring up, and I'll add that first. Um People are liars Sure. And so some of these visitations and abductions they claim could just be pure fabrications on ego and wanting fame and money and so there's that. Not saying that that would explain all of them, but that certainly is a possibility to explain some of them. Mm-hmm. In addition to that, something I think we have a tendency to forget sometimes, it's what's called the noetic effects of the fall. So with the fall, the entire humanness of us gets corrupt, including the way our mind works. That's why we have we're called in the New Testament to a renewal of the mind, right? The Apostle Paul. We should be renewing our mind because our mind is not it doesn't work right. It works well, reasonably well, but it doesn't work right. And so people, you know, our eyes can play tricks on us. Or our memory can be fuzzy or wrong about something, or we can want to believe something so badly that we we make it almost be true. And so we're not lying. But we either misunderstood or something about it, so that the noadic eff effects of the fall cause us to accidentally get things wrong, and that could explain some of these happenings or things people claim that they're seeing. Say, I saw it. It defied the the the laws of physics, and maybe it did, or maybe you're misremembering. So that's possible. However, I think it's also possible that there are spirit beings who can defy the laws of physics And I don't think God would have his angels out there playing tricks on us like that. And so I would agree with you there that if that's what it is, and I I do not discount it. In fact, I'm increasingly persuaded that that's likely. actually, at least in some of these instances. In instances that aren't the noetic effects of the fall or people lying, uh it's not caused by sin or a diminished capacity. If it's actually really true Yeah, it's probably some sort of uh evil spirit thing and they're up to no good and I haven't connected any dot beyond that other than well that just explains it so I can move on. But yeah, I think God is it. What would their motive be for showing themselves in such a way? And that's an interesting theory what would their motive be presuming that we are near or in the end times? Presuming that, and I that's a big presumption I I understand But if you presume that, what would their motive be for having the right talk a lot about aliens now, Tucker Carlson, Fox News in general, other r right wing sources, the US military? Well, like I said, Democrats, liberals, atheists by and large already believed in aliens. It was the conservatives that did not, and having conservative thought leaders talk about it in a serious note can get people's minds thinking, oh well maybe that could actually be true, especially if you don't have a good biblical foundation for knowing what these things would be. If you ever saw if you ever could prove they exist, like we we're kind of in agreement, they would be dem demonic So if you don't already have that biblical strong foundation to know, yeah, that would be demonic, you could be thinking, Oh yeah, I mean I saw a science fiction movie before and they were cool looking aliens. Yeah, maybe it's once those people. That'd be fun. So, you know, as you're as you're talking and explaining it, it's it's your theory applied differently. 'Cause I'm I'm not and I'm not saying that to diminish the likelihood or possibility that it's actual demons that are doing weird things that people are capturing on film and stuff. I think that's I think that's possible. I believe in the supernatural. So it that could happen. But it doesn't the it doesn't always have to be a supernatural explanation. And so the same theory, your theory about the motivation, could apply with the spirit uh world, the the the the enemy of God influencing the systems in such a way that Uh it's a PSYOP. It's a human Psyop, maybe influenced by uh you know, satanic influences or something like that. But they they could w are you kidding? You mentioned it was it last week's show about w or maybe it was two weeks a s uh ago when you talked about we have enough of your voice on on uh on tape now on the computer that we could manipulate that to make you say whatever you want. They got what they call deep fakes, I think they call it, right? Yep. We can do deep fakes like you can't tell Yeah. I've seen some of these things. If somebody tried to pass up, they sent me a private message, uh it was Barack Obama saying something, and it was Barack Obama, it was his voice. It the limp syn the lip sync and everything was matched up and I'm like, There's no way Barack Obama said that. And I don't think it's any secret. Anybody who listens to this show the last seventeen and a half years I'm not a Barack Obama fan, so I'm not looking to defend Barack Obama. There's no way he said it was a deep fake. It had to be. And so Mm-hmm. If they can be that persuasive with the human voice and the human anatomy and stuff, which is really hard to mimic really well, they can do that. They can make a spaceship appear like I mean, have you been to the movies? Yeah. But the increasingly more uh sightings and and video evidence and picture evidence, it seems like it's coming to that point where Um the devil may be ready to reveal himself and move in that direction and if you do believe in in time that this is happening, then this uh is slowly moving in that direction. It's just seems that way. And so it At the pace it's going, it allows them people to get used to seeing it and not be shocked into disarray, but be moving into into the sing the simple or single purpose that they have for us. I I kind of jokingly threw out there uh flat earthers and I jokingly assigned that to the the wacko right. in the religious world. And the reason I say that is I only I only know, like, personally, one flat earther and he happens to be a Bible believing Christian. And he's just like out to lunch on the flat earth question as far as I'm concerned. Um so since we're talking about UFOs and all that and this strange stuff, you Do you have any thoughts on the Flat Earth thing? There's been some pretty high profile uh people that uh some celebrities I think said they believe in flat earth too recently. Is that right? Yeah. Some big rapper or or singer said said that they believe in a flat earth it was It's pretty interesting. I think i it goes back to the the the truth and the logic and people don't have critical thinking skills. They don't have truth or lie and they and they've seen so many actual conspiracies play out in real life. Ain't that the truth. They start questioning everything. I mean, d does gravity exist? Is this just a dream? Are we living in a matrix, right? Right. And I mean you might as well question everything if if such some of our most And and there are some Christians who take a couple of the verses that and uh in the Bible that are very poetic in nature, not the historical passages in Genesis, but j you know, some things from the Psalms and and stuff. that are written poetically about sunrise and sun. Oh, how can the sunrise, you know, if unless we have a flat earth, you know. Right. So pe people say say that and they take it extremely literally. I'm a very literal Bible believing Christian. I believe in six day literal creation, the b earth was created, you know, six thousand or so years ago and um not evolution had nothing to do with it. So I I I I believe in a literal interpretation of the Bible. I I think some of the people that believe in the flat earth come from that kind of a place they're like, look, we wanna be very careful to s what is the word actually say, well that must be exactly what happened. Well true, but there there's also plenty of passages in the Bible that's a good thing. Yeah, and they're also they would also talk about, you know, the the foundation and the pillars. And uh yeah, there's there's there's other language in the Old Testament that could be understood, uh which is why they understand it that way, in fairness, to to support the idea of there being a flat earth. Here's here was my point. And we actually uh I don't know if I should tear uh what the hat. We were gonna have this flat earth guy on the Faith Debate show. In fact, we did the show. We recorded the show, but he was a podcast guy. And uh there was no way for we're you know, we're a radio station, but you know, the technology for in the podcast world and in the radio world, and even though we're a radio station with a lot more technological muscle that a podcaster would have. It just wasn't lending itself to to doing it in the reverse, that we could take do the radio show first and him use it the way he wanted in his podcast. I can't remember all the detec tact technical reasons, but we decided it would be a lot easier if we just had him record it as his podcast, and then I'd take the audio from his podcast and then repurpose it on the Faith Debate show. and he forgot to hit the record button. So we did hours. We did uh it was me and uh and and uh um somebody that did the show with me for a long time. We we did it with him um we spent three hours with the guy. out. And it was very frustrating and my my uh co-host, I don't want to say his name, if people who are long standing listeners of the show might know who I'm talking about, but I don't need to it's not important. His name's not what's important Uh the point is what's important. I did the show with him for a dozen years probably, a dozen of the seventeen years, and he never once in all of those shows lost his cool. Except for this one. And so he was kinda happy that the record button never got pressed because he was a little embarrassed. He felt bad and He even asked me, he said, you know, can we listen to that and make sure like I I I I'm just not comfortable with how I handled myself. I don't know what got into me and I know what got into him. He was incredibly frustrated. You could not get a straight answer and you know the flat earth guy would not um he wouldn't hold himself to the same standard he was holding others to. And then and his arguments were just ridiculous, unfortunately. He was saying things like, um, well I believe the earth is flat because when I walk outside it looks flat to me. That's not an argument. Certainly not a Christian argument. No. Because you can't see God every day and you believe in God. Right. And now use a level and the level comes flat. I leveled the earth. And my and my argument to him from a you know religious worldview, Christian worldview point of view was it doesn't matter. If the world is flat or the earth is round, that doesn't change anything. I think the bu the Bible actually I think could leave itself open to either one. Maybe I'm missing something there, but I don't feel like the Bible's making a case for a spherical planet necessarily. And I don't know that it's making a case for a flat planet either. Uh you know, it says some things about the planet, but you could read because it it's mostly in poetic environments and you have to try to figure out what does that mean. And so we we creation we still use flat earth language in our in our English language. Oh the sun rose today You know, the the moon set. Absolutely. Yeah, because it's all from our perspective or saying how we're seeing things. You know, several weeks ago is perspective means a lot as far as, you know, where is the center of the universe you know, uh perspective and being everything's relative. But no, I I think there are some people that come from a place of you know, we really want to know what God says and we want to take the Bible very literally and very seriously and I respect that. Um no, I I disagree with the flat earth theory. I I I I I hold to it. I do too. For the record. I'm not a flat earther. Neither am I. And then a note of agreement. Uh thanks for listening to Faith Debate today. Thanks for being on the show again, guys. Uh Imran Razvy, Daniel Razve. Uh they're with the uh the church that meets at uh Imran's House. I think this is what they call it, the house that the church that beats at Imran's House. Uh you can connect with them online at um I always get this wrong once you say it. Conquer by love. org or well yeah or or you can go to my church's website, Household of Faith in Christ dot com So conquered by love. org, household of faith in Christ dot com. Those are the two websites. If you you know want to connect with the show, the easiest way to do that maybe is at WFMB. com. Maybe I'd get the stations website a plug too. Till next week, one hundred sixty seven and a half hours from right about now, God bless.