Broadcasting for the west side of Big Brother City in the heart of Gridlock County. Where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement. Why? Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate, sponsored by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is found online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find the Faith Debate blog. Our blog is your blog, so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com. Whatever you post me, or whatever you send me, I post. Just try me. I've had to remove a few curse words here and there alone, but other than that, you send it, I post it. Oh, Postman. Yeah, be careful, I'll go post it on you. That's the voice the voice of Jonathan Schweitzer. He's the uh senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church in Frederick and we got uh we've got a record. We know Paul Guinness How many clowns I mean how many guests can you fit in a studio uh here at WFMD? It's kinda like the Volkswagen clown uh question. Apparently nine. So it like this is not just a record for fake debate, this is like a record for the whole radio station. Yeah, I don't think this has ever happened before. In fact, I'm I'm sure it's an FCC violation, so don't tell anybody. So um who wants to I think we're going to start with Carolyn Jackson uh so that she can explain why there are so many people here and then we'll introduce folks as as we go. Uh Carolyn wears a bunch of hats, but the one that she's here representing today is she is the regional coordinator for the National Day of Prayer here in Frederick. Uh she's the one that puts together the prayer breakfast that has uh the last several years anyway been at Dutch's daughter. Is it there again this year? Is that right? Uh no the the National Day of Prayer the National Day of Prayer Breakfast will be held at Holiday Inn. Oh Scott Key Mall. So we're really excited. We're moving to a larger venue. Okay. And it's going to be held uh Thursday morning, May 7th, 2015. And we will have more information coming out within the next week or two. Yeah, nothing against Dutchess. It's a great venue for a lot of things, but I will say that the the the prayer breakfast kind of outgrew what they could handle. Uh people that are on one end of of the of the floor Really couldn't see well and the video projection and the audio that goes with it on the one end of the of the room was really difficult, so it's exciting to hear that you've got to be. And at Holiday Inn we have a you know, a larger venue. So hopefully uh we'll make more people happy. I love the fact that it's a prayer bre breakfast, you know, that you eat. You know, while you're praying together. I'm just saying that, you know, that's a unique thing, you know, in the body. You you don't go fast for that morning, but you you eat breakfast together and you pray together. It's one of those philosophical conundrums, right? I mean, is it is it appropriate to eat while you pray? Of course You know? Some might say no, but certainly of course it's okay to pray while you eat, so figure that out. Someone came up to me and said, you know, this is the first prayer breakfast I've been to that it really is a prayer breakfast. Meaning that we actually prayed. You actually prayed. Yeah. Yeah. And some just preach or they have special, you know, keynote speakers and that kind of thing. But we try to tie in the observance of the National Day of Prayer. I think that is what has been done for the seven years that that prayer breakfast has uh you know been sponsored. Initially it was sponsored by One in Christ and I think it came under the umbrella of Evangelical Ministerial Fellowship. And uh s it was celebrating the seventh uh observance of the National Day of Prayer here in Frederick. Now having a prayer breakfast where they actually pray is kinda like churches that say, We want to be a praying church. Yeah. Like is there another option, you know? What else do people and so like communion that morning what is like uh orange juice and donuts or something like that? Is that like how that goes? So uh if you're keeping a score at home, to Carolyn's immediate right uh are the two youngsters here representing the youth aspect of what's going on on the National Day of Prayer, right? So I don't know who's gonna be brave enough to to go first, so You can jump in. Kyle, Andrews, and Daniel, is it Dietrich? Is that how you say it? Dietrich. Dietrich. Yep. Okay. I should have confirmed that before we actually started doing the show. Like the Fort no less. Yeah. Yeah. So Yeah. Uh Kyle's actually closest to the mic, so you're the first victim up. Uh say hello so we can recognize your voice. Hey what's good everyone. Uh Kyle We're uh we are um voice stamping him right now so that the authorities will be able to follow and see who it is that's praying in public. Don't follow too closely. Okay. Where do you where do you go to church? Uh go to church called uh ICC. Okay. Isn't that like a intercounty connector? It's a highway, you meet in the middle of a highway? Yeah. Okay. Yeah, we're aha. International Community Church. That's it. Price. Jerry Price. Oh, okay. Formerly Marinatha Church of God in town and now it's uh Internet. Right, okay. That's right. I know exactly where they are. Off of Hayward Road. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. And uh Daniel. You go go to the same church or No, I go to um Savon Grace Church of Frederick. We moved at Tuscarora High School. Yeah, familiar with that church as well. Okay. So how do you guys know each other? Fr from the the the National Day of Prayer events? No. How do we know each other? He's just kinda one of those people I've always known. He's just a buddy. Um I guess. Yeah. Now that sounds like you know things about him that like would be really cool for us to know as well. Uh No, I I'll probably keep that. Oh, come on. It's only radio. We we kinda like I kinda probably knew well, I knew who he was uh off and on. Um I knew uh I kinda knew him through a different friend, uh uh Josiah, we kinda met through Josiah, but then I didn't really become friends with him um until we were both on a missions trip um to Honduras together. So that's when we be kinda we got kinda stuck next to each other on a airplane and had no choice But uh uh un poquito. Poquito. A little bit. So yep. And the next voice you're gonna hear is one that might be familiar to you in a variety of contexts. So it might be the first time that you're hearing her voice uh in this context. I don't know. It's certainly the first time she's been on the show. Right. So Shelly Oloy is the honorary chair of the youth prayer rally that's taking place on the National Day of Prayer in Frederick. And so yes, this this is my first time on the the great Faith debate. Absolutely. Well I wanted to change it, like the Great Frederick Fair now. The Great Frederick Faith debate. That's right. That's absolutely right. It is great. You know you have a reputation. Oh yeah. And uh mine's earned. Jonathan's actually a much better guy than I make him out to be, but I'm I'm the Daphtivity fellow that everybody says I am. You're doing a good job. Yeah. Be definitely. Thank you. Yeah. Years of practice. Don't try this at home. All right. I want to um I'm we'll have some time to talk more about logistics and things like that uh towards the end of the program uh for today's program. But I want to kind of find out what the motivation is and and uh what the thinking is for the the young men that are in the room with it. First of all, how old are you both? I'm sixteen. I'll be seventeen in August. Okay. Uh I'm also sixteen. Uh birthday's in March. They are sixteen go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Does that mean you drive in everything? I have a Yeah, you're working on it? Yeah. They have a permit. Well they have to. They d one well at least one of them, it goes to church in the middle of the highway for crying out loud. So driver's license for that. So now uh explain to me how to somebody who's, you know, sixteen years old and you guys are not uh you're homeschooled, so you're not plugged into the public school system, uh in the traditional sense So I'm trying to think how does the word get out to you guys that hey there's this thing going on and how'd you find out about it to begin with? Yeah. Uh how I found about it uh was more of a a forced uh hey you're doing this. Yeah, nice. Well, who says Christians can't be honest? Yeah. Uh she uh my mom made me, my brother, my friend Sean Do this choir which none of us can sing at all. Nice. And we all had a solo at that which was terrible. Um But wouldn't you do that for us now? No, thank you. But but you know what? The God just cares to make a joyful noise. I found out about the uh Nashville prayer from my mom and then I don't know. Just kinda went to it and stuck with it. Now I wanna I wanna follow up on the force part of it. I mean Yeah, like spanking and everything. Like give us the details. It's more wasn't just a choice, it was like Hey Kyle, we're doing this and you're coming with me to the meetings and I was like, all right, oh so you weren't forced, you informed. You were informed that you're doing it. It wasn't a choice. So you pushed back a little bit. Okay, well we'll explore that a little bit a little in a little bit. Yeah, yeah, yeah. What do they give you a choice on? That's what I want to know. Daniel, how about you? How'd you find out about it? I actually found out about it through Mrs. Mrs. Andrews Um as well? No, she didn't no she didn't force me. I actually didn't I wasn't officially inv like involved as a uh as a staff or anything last year. Um, I don't remember what I was doing. I might have just chickened out. I I don't remember. Um but I f found out that she just shot an email to um a bunch of different youth. Um that we know and my mom was like, Hey, you should do this. So two of my brothers did. Um I ended up not doing it. Um I was a spectator. I did go. I just um spectator. So it was pretty cool though. Um you watched them pray. Yeah. Well the teenager, of course. The youth thing happens in the evening, so you guys don't eat at the youth part, right? No. Yeah. No. Yeah, sorry. So no eating. You just want yeah. Just wanted to be clear. Does that mean they didn't require it Bribery? Yeah, yeah. No food. No they they came to the body. I'm doing it this year on the on my own accord. I was not forced this year. I I was that was my choice. Yeah, so I'm gonna I wanna talk about this a little bit and hopefully and you guys seem like you're comfortable talking about it, so I'm gonna f I'm gonna pursue that. Nice. You don't you didn't have this You know, voice of God come to you from heaven and say, You thou shalt pray on the national day of prayer and you were obedient to that, you had the voice of mom and telling you that you had to go and you were resistant. Like, well, I don't know if I want to do that I don't think I and it sounds like maybe you still aren't sure you want to do that. So what what's your resistance maybe? Well it wasn't more of a I didn't want to do it, it was just Uh n I don't know. Um I guess it was, but I wasn't opposed to doing it. Um but are your concerns about doing it? Um Yeah. Not really concerns but uh just we have a lot in our family going on, you know. So it's kind of like, you know, personal Stuff but well yeah your mom's forcing you to do stuff. That's that's normal. Um but I I don't know. Um can't really answer that. Okay, how about you? You you went last year and watched, so why didn't you actually get involved last year? Um I think it was just a really crazy schedule and to be honest I just didn't feel like putting another thing on the schedule. So wait a minute. You were there. No, I know, which is which is why you know yeah, exactly. What does that mean your schedule didn't allow you to do anything but be there? It was more it was more the prac like the practices and the pre meetings and And all the stuff I just didn't I didn't want to commit to the city. Oh, so okay. I gotta learn about this. There's practice. They're for the choir. The quote choir. It was it was wasn't that bad actually. Yeah, it was bad. Okay. But um So how many practices were there? I don't like like two or three? There was yeah, about three in total. And it was it it was the same thing. It was more of a we need someone to do this, so you guys need a Step up and do it. Can my mother. Nice. But um then just like I uh me might be St. Andrews to me. That's right. All these parents are gonna be like uh emailing you asking for uh pointers about how to get the job done, yes. Um but actually uh Miss Jackson was asking if uh I don't actually remember what she asked, but we got into it. Um that talking about if we could have like a rapper there and uh my friend, he's a pretty good rapper, his name's Asa. I've gotten some gifts from him. He really is good at raping music. Um I know some guys with a rap sheet, but I don't know who the rapper is, I'm just saying. Oh well I guess my dad wanted a rapper. And uh anyway, me and him we made a song or I made the the beat or the uh melody, whatever you want to call it. So you wrote the song. Um yeah. So you're not like doing cover songs of like Lacrae or something like that. You're doing your own song. You play drums or like what's when you did the beat, you like did it with your mouth like It was all digital the night before, uh he got pretty cool, wasn't it? Was that static interference or impressive is what it was. Um but they're gonna sample the face debate in their next song, yeah. But we made the uh entire beat in uh one night, took like three hours and then Asa was writing the lyrics like five minutes before we went up. Uh he was like writing them as he was saying them up on stage. That's the best rap anyway, right? That's authentic. But it was overall pretty cool. Yeah. Okay. I guess I need to get educated then. I don't know enough about this because I have no idea that this was was who's able to Re relatively concisely, talk about everything that's happening with the youth component of this. I didn't know there was a choir and practices and I think there was a bunch of Carolyn, you want to like lay out like the the whole picture of of that whole thing? This is cool. Well after Kyle has so eloquently described uh his version of the youth prayer rally. But basically we established the youth prayer rally as an outgrowth of all the participation of the churches. Um, you know, in Frederick. I think EMF sort of got the ball rolling in observing the National Day of Prayer because its meetings fell on the first time. EMF Evangelical Ministerial Fellowship. Yeah. And um other churches have started doing National Day of Prayer events. Uh for example, International, you know, uh community church. And Cornerstone Fellowship had an event uh last year also. And so the youth prayer rally is an outgrowth of this interest. And uh So is it a lot of the the the youth groups associated with churches get involved, or is it just individual youth get involved? Um What we did last year is invite churches. We had um representatives from each church. We had a two or three churches. who s uh the children came in to rehearse uh several songs to sing as a community choir. We had the community choir concept last year. And we had several rehearsals. And uh uh Angela uh Spencer helped coordinate it. Yes, helped coordinate that And uh I think she's kind of coaxed out some soloists out of those who couldn't sing uh last year. This year the concept is more oriented toward um the complete youth group from each church so that um you know whatever churches have a youth choir they're invited to participate Um and from there we're gonna have uh ministry of uh prayer. Uh last year we had testimonies. We had some really powerful testimonies last year. And uh this year we're gonna have uh scripture. And we also had prayer counselors on hand. So it was sort of um a praise and worship. concept to give the young people the opportunity to come out and pray for their nation. We're raising up the next generation of Christian leadership. And we want to have Christian leadership you know, in our government, at local, county, state, national level. And this is uh what we're doing to encourage that Um they we need to give them a platform to encourage them to pray. And that's our concept. It sounds like it's not just a bunch of people coming together to pray. There's some element of performance, maybe it's designed in such a way to encourage more attendance, more people to come and check it out, and they might spontaneously participate or they might decide to get involved. next year could even be a kind of an evangelism outreach of sorts. Yeah, just like Mr. Dietrich here did that he was a spectator the first year and now he's not. So um it sounds like that's exactly what they're trying to do. Yeah. And we want to have more of a holistic type of ministry, not just um uh music, not just prayer, but also the element of praise, also the element of uh of um scripture and we had um Kyle didn't mention it, we had uh an essay contest. Have the students start really thinking, you know logically about prayer in their lives and the importance of prayer in their lives. And we want to reward that. And this year we're also adding um a youth leadership award. Recognize those young people who are in churches in a community who despite odds um are really serving each other. You know, the next generation of pastors, the next generation of uh Christian leaders. Uh that's a good way of putting it. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on the Fred. After the show, I'll get out the dictionary that has the pictures. A is for Apple and then a little picture of an apple to the side. And can I just briefly add that this year uh we brought along Shelley Loy as uh the honorary chairperson to help give a face of youth ministry um, you know, to the community. And uh she's a former uh youth director, youth pastor, uh mentor to Ath risk youth and as you know she's a childless community leader and I think it's a perfect match to help um you know, promote uh what we're doing into the Frederick area. Yeah, you kinda stole part of what the answer to my next question was going to be but I'm gonna ask ask it anyway in just a second. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, nine thirty WFMD. We got a whole gaggle. uh with us today. Jonathan Swipeser of course, the senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church, is uh my partner in crime for these many years now and he's back here continuing to agitate and aggravate me and help me to learn more about my Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So my my uh dear brother. Uh Kyle Andrews and Daniel Dietrich, um participants and I guess some sort of youth leaders with the uh youth prayer rally. I want to talk about that a little bit more in a moment. The regional coordinator for the National Day of Prayer, Carolyn Jackson, and the honorary chair of the Youth Prayer Rally in Frederick, Shelley Aloy. Now other than the fact that you are incredibly youthful. Uh why are you the honorary chair of the youth rally? Did you get approached? Did you learn about it and you approach them? What makes you think you're qualified for this? Young ladies. Hey, that's you know, that is always the question, isn't it? Are you qualified? And the answer is nobody's qualified. Um A actually I was approached to be the honorary chairperson for the youth rally and I was really excited to say yes. Um f for several reasons that you heard a little a little bit ago, but uh years years ago I know you can't tell from my youthful. Actually three decades ago. Oh, so while you're in the crib. Okay. So um I was a I was approached at that time to be youth pastor of what was then called Maranatha Church of God and I I said, um, golly, I can't do that and the pastor said You are the person I've watched you with your relationships with young people and was Jerry Price the pastor of him too? It was Jerry Price, yes. And the this amazing thing happened during that time. Not only did that group of young people grow, but I grew. And um we developed some amazing relationships and I saw what happened when the word of God is planted in the lives of people and you begin to experience that first hand, you know, the the practical application of the word of God to the lives of people. And so, you know, th I come from that place of beginning, um, w when I was approached to s to uh be the youth chair and and I am really happy to say yes. I'm really happy to be here. I'm glad to be a part of it. Yeah, I've grown too by the way over the years. You know? You're hilarious. You know, i and let me add let me add this. So I grew up in actually the Presbyterian church downtown. Mm-hmm. And when I was thirteen and I was learning scriptures because in that church we had something called catechism and we had to learn certain things to stand before the church to profess Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. You know I would still require that, do you know? That that one particular Presbyterian church downtown do you have? I do not know the answer to that. I I should. My mother is a deacon there now. Oh okay. I'll ask her. So do you have to learn the shorter or the longer catechism? But but let me tell you what happened for me though. Scriptures that I learned during that time in my life came alive to me late at later times, and I went back to them for strength and encouragement. and power when there were difficult times or when I had to make decisions in my life. And so that alone, those those couple of things that I just mentioned make me really glad to be a part of this. 'Cause when young people get on board and they understand the power in the Word of God and they understand the power at their hand and in their mouth and in their heart, their lives are never the same. Now, he thought he was gonna get off scot free, but we have a few minutes left in this show. We're gonna do another uh show together uh that'll air uh l next week. But uh Carolyn Jackson is is uh married to a famous guy in town. She is in town. Yeah, Pastor Chris Jackson. Uh who's been on this show a handful of times in the past. Uh greetings. Uh always a a a s a solid uh you know uh scholarly approach to you know rooting things in scripture, you know, I I've always a preacher, so I wanted to give you a chance um to how do I want to say this? To make your wife feel special, toot her horn. Because she's doing a lot of things that are a lot of work. This is your chance. Don't say I never did anything for you. This is your chance to score. I don't know, what do you think? 18. 4 billion brownie points right now? Right. Brownie points, baby. Well we're so proud of Carolyn. I am too. And uh You know, she's doing a great job with the National Day of Prayer uh event with the breakfast. And then now she, you know, uh felt led to do the youth rally. Yeah. Um She's I've always known her to be, you know, energetic and creative and inspirational and spiritual and So um I'm I'm just here for the ride, just here to support her as she supported me with my various ministry opportunities. And so just glad to be here to support her tonight. Now I'm going to give you just a second. Give a give a plug for the ministries that you're involved with and the things that you're doing. Sure, sure. Um I'm also uh Carol and I'm also members of the International Community Church. Uh Pastor Jerry Price. And uh currently I'm serving uh at Goodwill, uh Monoxy Valley on East Church Street in their Workforce Development Department, helping folks uh with disabilities. Uh dislocated, uh uneducated to find employment and even those who are educated to find employment. And are you still preaching on occasion? I still preaching on occasion. Uh still hold on to my Baptist roots. Well if you ever catch wind that Chris is going to be preaching somewhere, you should you know play hooky from your church for just the one week and go hear him. Or have ask your church to invite him to come preach. It's always a treat to him share the word. Uh we're uh just about out of time. We've got like a minute left. So uh anything that you feel like there was uh you know a dangling participle of what was talked about today, is you uh a correction you'd want to make, we'll have a chance to get into full things next week. Is there anything else? Oh, I don't want to wait a week till I correct that. Anything hanging out there? No? Alright. Oh you well Shelley maybe so I just want to say kudos to these amazing young men here because You know, you don't really you don't really see who they really are. They are amazing, powerful young men, and so I want to say thanks to them. Amen. Wow. This is like a love fest. Going to give out there away down. All right. Well, so uh if you've been listening to the show for a while, you know that what I care about most is the very end of the show when I get to share what I've been reading. Yeah. And this isn't exactly something that I would say, oh, curl up with this at night and just read from beginning to end. It's uh it's uh it it it's a grammar. Beginning biblical Hebrew. Yeah, see Mark Mark Fatado. Yeah, beginning So if you wanna if you wanna learn what the scriptures really mean Learn a dead language. That's what I always say. Thanks to Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile for sponsoring the show? Thank you to our large cast of characters on the show. Thank you for listening. This is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD