This is the Faith Debate, a theological round table gab fest with the mixed master of the Master Ceremonies and the notorious Treble B, the big bridge builder. Can we build it? Yes, we can. The Faith Debate is a free-for-all forum. KUA where Faith Community leaders. Russell over the truth. Yeah, but in less than thirty minutes learn more about what really matters than others learn in a month. Are you ready for a clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. Yeah. In this corner, weighing in with a master divinity from Reform Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate, Master of Ceremonies, Troy Skinner. Got a moron. Is that it? And in this corner, weighing in as a pastor. Teacher and founder of bridges connecting needs and resources in the local community. The notorious big bridge builder John Schweitzer. is Frederick's spiritual climate? Put another way, what is the spiritual climate in Frederick? I've had local pastors tell me on several occasions this is the truth that advancing the gospel of grace in Frederick County is like plowing pavement. I haven't heard this word picture ever before in any context, and yet several pastors, separate from one another, independently of one another, have used this exact same phrase. And that's pretty striking, it seems to me. What's it mean for the church? in our community. Well, what does today's panel think about it? John Sweitzer is the founder of Bridges, Connecting Needs and Resources, in Frederick County, and Ace Ray is a longtime pastor who has spent time in the Carolinas in DC, and now Frederick, Maryland. Welcome to the show. So I'm gonna start with uh John, you've been uh uh uh in ministry in f in Frederick County uh for A couple of decades now, right? Yeah. And Ace has been uh in ministry in the uh the Frederick area for a couple of years now. So you you you might have a better shot at ans at beginning to answer this question. So I want you to tell me what you think as a longtime pastor and and ministry uh guy in Frederick what the spiritual climate of Frederick is. And then, eighth, I'm going to ask you W uh from a short term perspective, what your first impression of the spiritual climate of Frederick has been, because I think it'll be interesting to compare and contrast the two. So I grew up down in Montgomery County, so I'm gonna answer it by saying that it's a warmer I feel like to the gospel than Montgomery County was for me growing up. That Montgomery County that's probably climate change. Yeah, totally makes it warmer. Totally, climate change. Spiritual climate change. And so So uh but that being the case, I spent three years uh as an associate pastor out in Aurora, Illinois. And my read was that uh was that, you know, out in the you know, the heartland was that that the spiritual climate was definitely warmer. than it is back here on the east coast. So I'm I so I'm it's kinda like asking a fish what is water like, you know, and so I don't know that it's easy for me to to say what is it like here. You know, when I go up to visit where my my parents are from up in upstate New York, uh my sense is that that there's a lot more openness to the gospel, a lot more people that, you know, that are church going people that are you know that kind of have uh have a uh biblical worldview maybe is the right language but that down here in the DC area and then you know, moving up into Frederick that uh that there's less of that here in the DC area and a little bit more in Frederick than there is down in Montgomery County. So does that answer your question? Yeah, I mean we'll we'll we'll we'll flesh it out some more. We got a whole show to kill. But uh I want to hear what what your First impression. You know, it's two years so it's not exactly a first impression, but it takes a little while to get a read on the spiritual climate. So you're not gonna walk into a town and within a day, no, necessarily But after two years you probably have a pretty solid first impression. And you come from North Carolina and then DC, and so you have two things to you know, places to contrast it with. Different here, very different. Um what we've learned here is that people just don't have a hunger. for the Lord today. Uh I I wonder if it's because of um people live better. I guess with jobs, uh being able to have material things, uh not having a uh they feel a need because they're they feel that they are able to do it on their own, go to work and all of that. So when you talk to people about church, you know, they It's just something that they just brush off. They they're they're polite. They'll tell you they're gonna come and all of that, but it's just a little different. Back in Carolina where I come from uh churches at heart. You know, people love to worship and praise God. It's just a different it's a different climate, basically, is what it is. And what about D C? DC how long were you in D C? I was in D C for a couple of years. Okay. I transferred and and uh pastor uh a church and uh church body there. Uh it's a little bit more downtown DC or around the downtown. Downtown D D C. Yeah. West I mean um yeah on the other side of of D C. North East. North East. Northwest. Northwest. West D C. Okay. And so The the being there was a little different. It was a little bit more political. Yeah, totally sure. Yeah. It it just seemed like it was more political. It wasn't like what I was accustomed to. So is it was like um So Northwest is kinda up toward Montgomery County Uh over by Silver Springs, yes. Yeah in Gemery County. Okay, yeah. Over that way. Um I was over near sixteenth Street. Sure. Back over that way. So, um, it's very different. Uh sometimes even being here just feels like it's you know, it It's like a a salt water fish in clear water. There's a couple of things that that uh that occurred to me. Why would you come here? Why not stay there? Well nicer. Well there's more of a need perhaps, right? That's true. Yeah. How much of it could possibly be time and not geography? Because you're comparing your experience from, you know, even just a few years ago, but the spiritual climate of our Culture is rapidly deteriorating, it seems to me. And so how much of the the difference is no matter where you would be you'd seem like, boy, the spiritual climate isn't as good as it and if you were in the same location as it used to be here, but because you're in a different place it's not as good here. So I wonder how much time is playing in to that. Do you think there's anything to that? Do you think it's it it's maybe time but a lot of geography? So by time I I'm not understanding what you're meaning by time. What do you mean by time? When you were in Aurora, Illinois and you said that you know people may be more re more receptive to going to church hearing the gospel than they had time to do it. No no no meaning i the times were different. Oh. You were in a different time. Oh meaning there if you went in the late nineteen nineties. Right, if you went to Aurora now, would it feel colder to the to the gospel? I don't you know, I'm wondering if there's if that's part of it. I'm not saying it's all of that, but I'm wondering if it's exactly part of it. maybe ten years back, uh, I went to a funeral over in Middletown, uh, of somebody that grew up in Middletown and uh and they they kinda were a part of uh the the old, you know, people, you know, f uh I don't want to call 'em f farmers but but long term uh middle town residents. And those guys all had like this this personal familial connection to the church where the funeral took place that As soon as you cross the border from like the the uh um the older part of the community into suburban type uh developments there's an immediate shift in mentality and um uh culture that that is a pretty big gap. And so so my read is that is that you've got like the old crowd, like Tim May represents you know, on this radio show, Tim and uh and Frank are are every Tim May, Monday through Friday, three to six on WFMD. Yeah, well done. You know? And uh and and so he represents, you know kind of the old crew but a more Christian part of the old crew. Uh and so um as soon as you go into suburbia it's just a big shift. And and then downtown Frederick is even uh l I I feel like in certain places less open to the gospel than suburbia uh is around the air. And the suburbia those guys are are professionals running up and down the down the highway. They got places to go, things to do. you know, their their emphasis on their kids and getting their kids in programs, you know, this kind of thing. And so so this that's what I thought you meant by time that they just don't have The time. Now. It's amazing how this show can you know even impact my thinking in the moment while we're doing the show. Um It was me talking, wasn't it? Yes. I just engaged you. Usually you give me all sorts of thoughts. I wonder if it's possible that uh all of the people in all of the areas, whether it be the Carolinas or Illinois or downtown DC or Frederick, um are chasing after the same thing, none of them are really chasing after um uh a gospel experience and they're all having that same thing met in different ways and we're reading it differently. So here's what I mean by that Meaning they're all chasing success. They're all chasing well, uh it could be that, but I was thinking though they're they're they're chasing um their motive is community. They're chasing community. In D C they're chasing community because they want to be able to network with that community and advance their careers. Uh in Frederick they're chasing community because they want to plug their kids into good athletic programs and uh and uh and groups and clubs that are good to to be a part of or something. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So their kids don't be raised one. And in the Carolinas, maybe they're chasing community and they're plugging into Wednesday night Bible study, Thursday night prayer group. Sunday morning worship. Because a lot of churches have Sunday morning social club. They don't have Sunday morning worship. So then community in your question ends up being the thing that is neutral You're just you're just pursuing it in different places. So so you can use community to get to God or you can use community to get to your kids being successful or community to get to your career being successful. And if there's something to that Yeah. Then that would, again, if there's something today, it would explain what Ace was saying. You go and talk to somebody and say, hey, you know, I got this thing going on, we're gonna worship Sunday morning, love to see you there, and they're polite and they say, Yeah, you know what I'll be there 'cause they're trait to be polite and they they don't want you to badge them. They're gonna give you a yes, you go away kind of thing. But why don't they come? Mm-hmm. Why wouldn't they come? Well, I've already got community. Mm-hmm. My kids play soccer Yeah, I I I'm I'm I'm carting the kids around uh the the county to all their different games. I've got community that are carting their kids around to different things would say that they have community there But but it's not a guarantee that just because your kids are on a team and you're going right that you're really building in a community. Like there's a lot of times where people just show up They say hi to one another, but in terms of there being any kind of real community it it can be very limited to the other. Yeah, well that happens on Sunday mornings in churches too. That's true. Right. I mean so maybe people are hoping to find community there but don't actually plug in, they don't have the personality that naturally lets them enter into relationships very easily or who knows. Uh I don't know. I I feel like I haven't thought it it through 'cause I'm just thinking it now for the first time. But the more I'm thinking and talking about it, the more I feel like I might be onto a little something there, which would help explain why we have Sunday morning social clubs. Because they're going there for community. They're not going there to worship God. They're not going there to learn about the Bible. They're going there to have community. And there's nothing wrong with I'm not dismissing the importance of community. But if that's the main thing. But it shouldn't take but it shouldn't take residence for the house of God because we're there to worship the Lord. I feel that a lot of the things that are going on in church today is that we have taken the focus away from. uh the creator himself. I believe that w like what you're saying, we're we're trying to um We use the word things other things, entertain the flesh of people and not giving them the spirit. Which that's what the church is all about. That's that's what the cr community is about. It has to be God has to be the head of the whole thing. But if we So we fall into a very interesting thing. And the other voice you're hearing besides my on the show today is uh Pastor Ace Ray. Uh I'm Troy Skinner and this is the Faith of Beta nine thirty WFMD. I'm sorry I wanted to kinda reset. We're about halfway through, so go ahead. So my point is just right, the two the the two greatest commandments to love God with all your heart and love your neighbor as yourself. Right? If people are looking for ways to love their neighbor as yourself. Um that's not in and of itself bad. Right. It only becomes, you know, dangerous if we get disconnected from, you know, loving God with all our with all our heart. You know, and so um Solomon is the one that said what a man truly desires is unfailing love. Better to be poor than a liar. I mean, is he referring to Romeo and Juliet? I don't know who he's referring to, but he's referring to you know, it's it's better to admit that what you're really looking for is that. And and so the people that are looking for riches so often they're looking for it because they're looking for To be accepted somehow, you know, to the community. failing love and there's only one person that we can trust to give us unfailing love, and that's God. So I think it is the case that E even among those like like let's just admit it, even among those that are atheists, you y y y you still hear stories, you know, of people that just have an uncommonly close relationship, you know, that that m maybe is the exception to the rule, but there's enough of it out there that, you know, that maybe for those people that that that that it meets a lot of uh what they're looking for, even though it's not the fullness that we're describing in the city. And I think that's the challenge we have in Frederick County, again getting to our you know the spiritual climate of Frederick, because if what we're really wired for is to be in community with God Right. And that's what should be happening on Sundays when we have our worship services, right? We're communing with God. With each other as well, but with each other with God. If we leave the God part out, it turns into a social Sunday morning social club. And and if that's all it kind of becomes in people's minds, you know I think uh Ace alluded to this before, that you know they're polite, but they already have all their needs met. They have a nice house, they have a nice job, they have nice friends They've got a loving spouse, they have you know uh obedient kids. I mean I'm painting on really nice not everybody has these things, but a lot of people have at least some of those things I just mentioned. Right. They have reliable transportation, they're not worrying about what their next meal case but um begs the question. It begs the question though. Um, 'cause I I I think it's probably not quite as good as you're saying it. But if they've got all those needs met because they've got a nice community that's just a Christian social club, then why do they need God? I mean of course, okay, so eternal life. Okay. I I admit that that's a really big deal. Uh but but the reality is that is that most people don't go looking for an answer to e to Well maybe they do, eternal questions. Uh some do. But many, most of us, I think, go looking for answers to more immediate needs that we have. So if somebody has all those needs met But they're never met perfectly. That's I think that's why I was going with the unfailing love. There's only one that is always one hundred percent unfailing. You know, I'm not always unfailing in my love for her. Yeah, I wish that weren't true. But I fail her. Right? There are times when I have a sharp word or I'm in a mood or you know, I'm not considerate enough to, you know take the the the dish out of the sink and put it in the dishwasher. I fail her all the time. And so that's one reason we need God. The other is, you know, when we when we Come to know God when when when we're open to having God reveal himself to us, he starts to reveal ourselves to us. Mm-hmm. You know, we learn about ourselves as we learn about God. He starts to show us truths about us, our our sinfulness, uh our gifts, our you know, our potential, our Yeah, um you know, our our hopes for our challenges. And it's being fighting it, not not participating in the U. S. Helping to break people out of it, you know, to break the death rate uh that opioids brings more than one uh week in Frederick County right now that dies from that. And so anyways, that being the case, what's becoming increasingly clear in all of those environments is that at the heart of it is is loneliness. Like people sp l like this particular drug epidemic different from is is somewhat different from like the cocaine epidemic and others in that people that suffer from it tend to suffer in silence And families that ha that struggle with it, uh, they they're not telling people. They're just kind of suffering in silence, trying to deal with it themselves, but but it's not something that that you wear openly and so it ends up uh loneliness and uh and uh being separated from from you know other parts of society uh is a big part of the problem meaning for all of our connectedness on cell phones and uh internet social media. It's actually driven us into greater Solitariness, you know, where we're up to the community. And it probably causes more of a problem because we feel like we have community when we're on anti-social media. But where you're that's what I call social media social media. It's full relationship. It's not real. And you end up Farther apart. So you're not going after the real community, which you could find in a really good Bible believing, God fearing church. You know, you're not gonna think you even need that because oh I got my Facebook friends. Yeah. And so you never leave the comfort of your own bedroom because you're online all day or something. And yeah, that's part of the problem too, I think. Mm-hmm. And so what are we saying about the spiritual climate right now Like even even all the numbers of millennials, you know, that that are not going to church or X generation guys that that are leaving church in greater numbers than coming into the church, right, there's a there's a lie that's been sold somehow to our society that uh that it's better to not have too many people in my life. It's better to, you know, to to handle things where I have greater autonomy. And the bottom line is that is that it's resulting in uh problems in the society that are that are geared towards people not having community, that that arise out of loneliness and being solitary. And so the answer to that is community But it's community with God and with one another. I think that the uh the spiritual climate of Frederick is the the patient uh gives every appearance of being strapping and healthy. uh and is on the precipice of death. Yeah. Um my grandfather was a very physically fit guy, worked out all the time, one of the strongest men I know. He was a runner. Back then they called it jogging, but he was a r he would go on a jog for miles. I mean he was the picture of health. And then one day, on a run, had a massive heart attack and died instantly. So he had great health. He had a problem with his heart. He would never know it. He was the picture of health. Like literally, the healthiest guy you could ever know. But he was on the precipice of death and nobody knew it until suddenly And I think that's Frederick. I think we look really healthy, but spiritually under the precipice of death. And ironically, it's a good metaphor, actually, a good one. It's a heart issue. Right? We look good, we're buff, we're muscular, we're strong You know, but our heart is ready to just be done. Well, you know, y where a man's treasure is that's where you find his heart. And I think people's treasure is in the material things in their self. Yeah. Me and the lovers of them own selves is what No Second Timothy third chapter seven. They're just lovers of them ownselves. Covetous boastful proud that's just where we are today That is very true. And um we're gonna wrap up. I read a quote uh I t today or yesterday, and I can't remember who it was or what the exact quote was, but the gist so I can't attribute it, I apologize. And I can't get it exactly right, but the gist of it was when people die You know, uh they're in one of two situations. They're either leaving their treasure or going to their treasure. Okay. And That's a good quote. You know, and I wish I could uh maybe maybe I'll uh Google that and see if I can find it and uh 'cause you can't take the gold, but you can take the heavenly riches. Yeah. You can give it to them. Yeah, anyway. Thank you, gentlemen. We're uh gonna wrap this one up. This is the Faith Debate on nine thirty WFMD. Jonathan Sweitzer with Bridges and uh Pastor Ace Ray, I don't know what your ministry you're with the jail ministry and what else you have going on. We we um we just started ministry over at the North Frederick Elementary. So you're up and running now. Over at Mata Avenue. Well you know what? We're gonna have this panel again uh together next week and maybe we'll spend a little bit of time giving you a chance to talk about this exciting new venture with your church plant in Frederick. Maybe you're gonna bring about the climate change that we need to see in Frederick County. Thanks so much. Thank you for listening. Visit us online at wfmd. com. Com keyword faith until next week 100, 67 and 1 half hours from now. God bless