The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. We're going to have a bit of a potpourri show today on the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD on the FM and HD2 for the 99. 9 FM. You go to 99. 9 FM and stay on the regular channel, you get country music. Might sound a little different than this. But today's country music actually sounds quite a bit like that. Now that I think of having it. Anyway, so you gotta go to HD two to find uh Our smooth and dulcet sounds. The smoothest and most dulcest dulcet of the sounds will belong to David Forcey. He's one of the uh area pastors in Frederick County Uh actually pretty dulcet sounding themselves, Imron Razi and Daniel Razvee. Uh they have a church up in the northern part of the county. David for the most part's in the southern part of the county, but I I think he plays like uh Uh Marco Polo with his church on occasion. You gotta figure out where he's gonna pop up. It's like whack a mole, figuring out where they're gonna worship. Um and then I'm in the center part of the county and you can find out more information about us and the churches and you can see what everybody looks like by going to Household of Faith. And we gather on Saturday mornings for brunch at ten thirty and uh Troy gathers in the evening at what, five thirty? Usually five thirty, occasionally four, but usually five thirty. And David gathers on Sunday morning. Yeah. So we eat before and afterwards. And during and just shoveling it in. All right, I was I was tempted to start the show cold by just reading this without an introduction on the show. But I thought better of it. But I'm gonna be reading it cold to you guys. You guys have no idea. So here's a here's a uh a news article. It's uh titled What the Bible Actually Says About Abortion May Surprise You And it gives you all this muckety muck, and I can read parts of this if you want to you can look at it when I'm done reading what I'm going to read and see what all the other nonsense is. But here's how it ends. The conclusion. His closing statement as it were. In response to the Supreme Court's decision, Christians on both sides of the partisan divide have appealed to any number of attack of texts to assert that their particular brand of politics is biblically backed. However, if they claim the Bible specifically condemns or approves of abortion, they are skewing the textual evidence to fit their position. Of course, Christians could develop their own faith-based arguments about modern political issues, whether or not the Bible speaks directly to them, but It is important to recognize that although the Bible was written at a time when abortion was practiced, it never directly addresses the issue. And I have one word response to that. Poppy cock. But you might have more loquacious terms than that to share with our listeners. So w I mean seriously, what is that? Well the w the word abortion isn't in the Bible. The word Trinity isn't in the Bible either. But murder is Murder is so I I'll put I'll play the other side for a minute. There's there's one passage where it can get a little dicey, and maybe you wanna do want to interpret it for me, but there's a passage that talks about Um if you hit a pregnant woman and the baby comes out and then there's there's a there's a uh Um there's a Are you purposely setting up a straw man? Well it it says there's a phrase and if mischief follows in the King James or in other phrases something like if if there's long term consequences or if there's a problem happens. And then then you take a life for a life or an eye for an eye or whatever. But if not, then you just pay a fine because you hit her, you didn't kill her. And so the argument that it just The question is whether that's talking about does the baby get born alive or born dead and if it's born dead then you kill uh the the you know, the the guy. So that's that's the one Yeah, but that's not what it's saying. I I mean it i it particularly if if somebody takes the time to look at the Hebrew, which would have been the original language, it's clear that what it's saying there is if if the woman is pregnant and something violence is done that causes her to uh give birth early, which is causing great jeopardy, putting everybody in peril. I mean we're we're we're spoiled now. We don't realize how dangerous it is for women to give birth Uh and so when things go off schedule and then they weren't able to take care of uh preemies in incubators back then, so if you went early, your baby was in much more dire straits. You were putting somebody at risk, you were threatening the life of the mother and the child by doing that. And if you force a a an an early delivery, then you pay basically a fine. Right. But if there's a death It's life for life. So if the baby dies. Or the mother dies, that's what the passage is saying. And so I actually I like when those on the theological left or the political left who don't know their Bible at all try to use that passage Because if they're willing to be patient, I can pull up because nowadays on your phone, you can pull up the Hebrew and stuff and you can show them the translation of the words. And it's It's so clear. It's ironclad actually. That's why I was asking if you were purposely setting up a straw man, because they're walking into a trap if they bring up that passage. the only one that you can even come close to making such an argument. Everything else in the Bible is so pro-life. I mean but but God tells Jeremiah in Jeremiah 1, before I formed you in the womb I knew you. It well i you and and I I it gave you a soul. So she had a soul in the womb and so as soon as conception happened There was a life. See this kind of a story really illustrates part of what's going on on all of the issues that are almost all the issues anyway that are plaguing the church these days. There's this um This third way, middle way, s I'm smarter than everybody else way that tries to find some sort of answer that's making everybody look wrong. They're all wrong. Well, you know what Some things are black and white and they're just they just are. And there's no nuance, there's no way to pivot around that. So it's you know like Well, the Bible doesn't explicitly mention abortion. And while they did have abortions back then, that would have been a different context culturally than how we do things now. We can't really know. And all that does is open the barn door wide for all the forces of heresy that invade your farm. I mean it's it's crazy. We've done that with sexuality, the sexual identity, the the uh side A and side B question. You guys up on the lingo on that? You know but side B. Yeah the the side A is uh would be that you know uh uh would be I guess the idea that homosexuality in any form is okay. Side B is no no no no if you engage in homosexual ac activity uh that's not okay. But It's okay to identify as homosexual as long as you don't act on it. That's not sinful your attitude about that. As long as you don't act on it, you're okay. But to take on as a Christian, to take on an identity that's other than Christ, uh, is is is a problem. So I reject both side A and side B. But side B is an attempt to try to find that middle ground. Well We can try to figure this out. We do this on all these issues. And it happens politically too, but I'm talking just theologically it happens. But that's one of the big problems. It's like the old motton daily, if you wonder where that one go. They're trying to push the envelope so far out Right? They're running out there saying outrageous things and then you call them on, oh no, no, no, no, you misunderstood. I really and they retreat their position. But they put it out there and oftentimes they don't fully retreat. And so they've gained ground. And they might have tried to g it's like in football they they they wanted to gain you know, wanted to go eighty yards for a touchdown, but they only got eight yards. Yeah, but they're eight yards closer. And then the next time they want to go seventy two yards for a touchdown and the only gain eight yards. Yeah, but they got a first down and now they only have to go sixty some off yards Like that's the game we're playing. We can't allow this sort of stuff. If this guy who wrote this is a Christian, he needs to be under church discipline. And I'm not even joking. He is obviously not a Christian. I mean the same with uh do you remember when uh Representative Ted Liu uh got on stage and said, Now I will say all the things that Jesus said about homosexuality. And he kept silent for however many. It's idiocy that we he's basically s saying that Jesus is not God because Jesus wrote the whole Bible Right, he's gonna say that only the if you have one of those red letter Bibles, right, only the red letters are what Jesus said. No, he said everything in the whole book. All of the books, all sixty six of the books of our Bible. He said it all. So obviously he's not a Christian. He has no idea Or like that knucklehead uh was a year or two ago he closed his prayer it was at Congress or something with A men and A woman. It's like what is wrong with you? But that's he's like See, I'm just trying to be like Inclusive. Yeah, and like David said, if you're trying to do something new that's never been done before, you're probably in a bad place. So let's be clear. The Bible is explicit that life begins at conception. And then if you kill a baby before he's born or after he's born, that's murder. According to the scriptures, yes. And the penalty for murder is death by execution. Yes. Certainly in the uh not the well I guess we're having this discussion and uh I have a position and um but I want to do what you did and kind of go offer a fuller view on the question. Certainly within the civil confines of the uh ancient nation state of Israel, they would have had a civil penalty that would have been stoning, they would have been k killed for after a trial. Uh but there is a question as to whether or not that needs to apply to the the civil code of today like in America or whatever. I would argue that on the moral questions like that I'd probably lean pretty heavy in in in that direction. Um I will say though, on capital punishment, I have so little judgment uh s Faith in the judgment of the the judges and the judicial system and the politicians and everybody that would have to make those decisions and those laws and execute those laws. Exactly. Uh I am there was no fun intended, but it was a good one, right? I am really nervous about this. I I I have a bit of a nuanced thing where I feel like the state has the right and maybe should If there's no doubt, like we they're caught red handed, we know they did it, boom. I think I think we should follow what the Bible says. But man, I don't trust I mean look what they're doing not to make this political, but look what they're doing with the former president and they're making up reasons to go invade his house and stuff. I mean I I I don't trust that they're gonna make the right decisions. They've got people still in jail right now from what happened almost two years ago in uh in DC and j on January sixth. o of twenty twenty one. And they haven't had a trial. From what I understand, a lot of them are isolated, uh uh solitary confinement. We're gonna trust them to decide who to who to stone to death and not I'm just I I have a hard time with that Yeah, Troy, I'm I I'm absolutely understanding what you're saying, but it all comes down to are we guilty and should we die, all of us? And if we are, if we know where we're going, it doesn't really matter. See the problem comes when we're trying to put humans understanding and saying, Well, humans can make mistakes. Yes, they will. In fact they will likely make mistakes. And innocent people will be uh But we're all deserving of death except for Christ. But for Christ, we should die a horrible death and that's what we deserve because we are sinners. Yes, I we and we all will die, right? The the uh the death rate uh in the world throughout world history to date is a hundred percent. Like everybody will die. Two two people Elijah and Okay, no, okay, yeah, they were they were called up caught up to heaven. So okay. So uh statistically still zero because that's gotta be like zero point zero zero zero a bazillion zeros and then a one. Right. Uh so um so I agree with you there, but still there are these uh prescriptions for how to handle justice questions. You cannot be a hundred percent only God and it can be a hundred percent sure. Even if you all watched it happen, it could be some other context to it that you weren't aware of. But you follow the procedures and you go and and you obey the law just because You are not perfect doesn't give you an excuse not to uh obey God's laws. And if you're the government, you're gonna obey God's laws on capital punishment. So that's where I would I I would I would fall there. Okay. The next issue I'm going to bring up is is on everybody's mind these days and it might feel a little obtuse for our context. But I do feel like it's important for us to seek opportunities to be pastoral and try to speak to the quote-unquote felt needs of a person. in their life. And so how does the Bible, how does, you know, f faith in God and understanding of Jesus and all those sorts of things help somebody who's struggling with the incredibly fast rising prices. You know, you go to the store and something's like fifty percent more than it was, you know, a year ago. Or you want to buy a car and they're selling it for five thousand dollars above the manus manufacturer suggested retail price where A few years ago you'd go and you would negotiate a price that might be $5,000 less than the MSRP. So the effect is you might be spending like $10,000 more on a car. Maybe a high end car that I'm talking about here at this point, right, ten thousand dollar swing. But still you're you're talking about at least several thousand, if not maybe ten thousand dollars more than you would have five years ago i in a similar situation. Uh and we're feeling it particularly uh strong. Uh Maryland is one of the here's a a report that I have here. It's it's uh this is looking at cars. But uh Maryland, um this is used car price increases uh by state and Maryland's used car price increase uh year to year apparently when this would report came out anyway is fifty five point two percent. That's More than one and a half times the cost. So a used car that was going to cost you twenty thousand dollars a year ago. ten thousand dollars swinging on a pretty low end car, eh? Exactly. So that's That's crazy. So w what do we say to people who are uh they're at their wits end and they might be asking questions like, how is God allowing this or what am I gonna do? Or maybe I have to feed my family, is it okay if I steal to feed my family? Who knows those questions But what are some things that w that work that we say to people to help them remain calm? Trust God, like what do we say? Uh I mean I I think first of all it's like we have to keep in mind that God is God is sovereign over uh even catastrophe. Um you know, and We, you know, certainly are people are are in airing some hard times in a lot of ways you know, and and individuals exp experience sort of individual types of catastrophe, but this this is not like uh catastrophic, uh, you know, historically speaking. Um but I mean we need to You know, c care care for one another, um, you know, look to to meet the needs of others and and you know, also to be to be content with what God gives us. You know, and that's that's hard in uh in our current society. I feel like you guys might be able to offer some uh the Razzies I'm looking at now, some real practical practical things. I know a little bit about you know three businesses. Well yeah and yeah you're financial guys and stuff, right? I never plugged that on a show. I maybe I could once in a while. I forget what's the name of your business called Higher Ground Financial Group. higher ground financial group and get some practical advice of how to invest and maybe keep up with inflation or something at least. So one of the things that many people do if you've been i so most most Americans do give paycheck to paycheck they don't really have much of an emergency fund. But if you've been thinking about these things and trying to be wise and be in a good steward with what God's given you, you you may have an emergency fund already, and that may be in cash. So what we've been encouraging a lot of people we talk to is maybe not want to have all of your emergency fund in cash. The emergency fund is for n your living expenses, not just your rent, but also your food and things like that that you're gonna need for several months or a year if you go without income. So you might as well have it in food now. You know, food that's not gonna go bad, food that you're actually gonna eat, instead of sitting in your bank account eroding with inflation, go ahead and buy another year's worth of food if you can, if you ha if you can afford it. If you can store it, right, yeah, yeah. But It's not a good thing. Right. There's no way right. There's absolutely no way that that your Yes. I eat rice twice a day. But if you don't like rice, don't go buy five hundred pounds of rice, right? Buy what you're actually gonna eat. But if i if you you'd be good on the game show Survivor They eat a lot of rice on that show. There's no there's but there's no way food's gonna be w uh costing you less next year than it is now. At best, it's gonna be the same. And it's almost guaranteed to be a lot more expensive a year from now than it is today. So you might as well buy ahead. If you see they have in stock something you like, buy more of it, you know, as long as it's not gonna go bad and just keep stocking up. It Everybody thinks you're some crazy doomsday prepper if you have two weeks or a month of food in your house. But that's c that's ri ridiculous. Just a f generation ago People had gardens and that's where they got their vegetables from, and you had to have enough safe for entire years until the next harvest. So at a bare minimum a year is not crazy. That's like a normal amount of food to have in. Exactly. And at a bare minimum, everyone should have their own garden, even if you live in an apartment. Put some pots and plants out on the balcony or s or find a local there's a lot of local community gardens that are available. You can participate in that, get a little you know small ten by ten foot uh plot that uh you can put some plants in there. Do you have the same advice on bigger tick items? Like if somebody's got a bunch of cash and they they're feeling like, you know what, I got an older model car, I'm probably gonna have to replace it within the next couple of years anyway Should I go ahead and replace it now or because of the depreciation, because of the wear and tear on that vehicle, like that doesn't make sense to do that? I I think You want to be thinking of things that you can actually use and consume in the future. In the future. Right, okay. I mean so food you want to i i that's that's a that's a big thing. And unless you have several years worth of food in your house, you shouldn't be thinking of buying a new car with that money 'cause you know you're definitely gonna eat the food. You may or may not need a new car, but you're definitely gonna eat the food. So you gotta set up like a grocery store in your basement or something? Yeah, I mean some shelving and uh buy a bunch of canned foods and stuff that's not. Again, focus on things you're actually gonna eat. Right. But Yeah, I mean there's no reason why you shouldn't if you can afford it, if you have the emergency fund, if you th there's no reason why you shouldn't have extra because there are gonna be more shortages. You think that the shortages you're seeing now are a lot? No, it's gonna get a lot worse. We're I'm seeing a lot of signs and all the research we're doing on the economy in our business, we're seeing a lot of signs it's gonna get far worse. So definitely wanna stock up when you can. And back to biblical principle When uh the landowner left one talent, three talents and five talents went away and came back, the guy with one talent buried in the ground because he knew that that there was a hard landowner. Well You if you got money in cash, you got money in your house and just sitting there not doing anything, put it to work. If you're talking about large ticket items, you know, get it uh you put your money in something that's actually gonna produce cash flow. Um even if y it's a small thing, like get uh if you buy some equipment, rent it out. There are uh now you can rent out your car. If you have a spare car, put it on Turo. Let it somebody rent it for a week or three days and get a little bit of cash flow. Create uh uh uh cash flow from your assets. If you can create cash flow, then you can survive or or ride out this inflationary time. But if your money is just sitting there dead like a a lazy nephew smoking weed on your couch, it's not gonna do anything for you Now here's uh something uh take that I think is a transition off of what uh Daniel said a second ago. I think it's gonna get worse. Well here's an example of how it just how true that could be. And the rest of the case. Headline. Hand implant allows people to pay with chip. The future is here. There's some company that uh created a microchip that could be implanted inside a person's hand and can be used as one would use a credit card. Uh the technology is right now uh only allowed to be sold in the uh European Union and the UK. But uh I guess it'll be coming here. So is this uh the kind of thing that perks up somebody's ears says, Mm, the mark of the beast, uh it's um the number of a man is on the forehead, it's on the hands. Unless you're a preterist, yeah. We only have a couple of minutes, so maybe it's not a fair thing to throw out there right now, but this is a fun one, right? This is yes. I mean I think it's uh I I I I'm I'm I'm becoming increasingly persuaded the more I that that the times are changing around us and the rapidity with which they're changing and the more I'm pressing in and trying to understand certain parts of scripture that address that most specifically I don't know that it's any one thing necessarily per se. I I think that that could very well be an aspect of Taking the market. You can't buy or sell without getting the chip. Well if they start to force it on you, that could be some sort of a sign. Uh but I think we already have an example of that. Like you can't buy or sell if you won't put a a mask over your Or you can't buy a cell if you get shot in the arm with something that you that's experimental. But that's been right. So far it's been localized. It has not been a global thing. I think if you're seeing a global requirement That's where it it's it's gonna be c uh very, very it's uh cautious. You need to be very cautious about it. Um so just just keep your eyes open and and be aware that these things are prophesied about, they're gonna happen All right. I have time maybe to sneak in one more, just get some quick thoughts on this. This the the headline here, fewer Americans attend church than ever before, according to polls. It says Americans uh forty-seven percent of Americans say they belong to a church. Uh in this this poll, I guess it it took them while to process the numbers because these numbers are from 2020. The story's not that old. The story just came out a few months ago, but the data is from 2020. But in 2020, forty per seven forty-seven percent of Americans said they belonged to a church or a synagogue or a mosque, not even just Christian. Uh but uh that number just twenty years earlier was seventy percent. Wow, that's a big difference. That's public schools for you. Hey I'll I'm fi I'll pile on that one 'cause I'm not going to start it, right. Yes. If you're listening today and you have children in public school or private school, tomorrow's their last day Did you say Elvis started it? Yeah. Public school? No, no, no, no, no, no. What are you talking about? Oh it's Elvis last week got Rocky gotcha, so it's it's Elvis's folly. Yeah, I think did you guys see the movie by the way? The Elvis movie that came out this this summer? No yet. That's when I actually did go to see because I grew up in an Elvis house and we were big into Elvis and I gotta say He got a starting gospel. The music was very good in the movie. And the storyline was clever how they decided to weave it together. They use Colonel Parker as kind of the anchor and it the story revolves around Colonel Paul Parker's influence on Elvis' life and his career. So that was clever. But talk about woke culture. They they wokeified Elvis. They're trying to turn Elvis into like some woke icon. He was like this political activist according to the movie. I was like, no, that was not Elvis. I mean, seriously, that I was a huge Elvis fan and he did a couple of things in his career that hinted in that direction. He was very careful and circumspect. So he didn't he wasn't completely shy and bashful about political issues, but he was not fighting for, you know, issues of the day. That was just not as that's not who Elvis was. So anyway, that has nothing to do with anything, but I think well David brought it up and so here I am running off of the mouth about Elvis movie. Uh uh I would say it it's probably worth watching, but I wouldn't pay to stream it. I'd wait till it's on uh something you can maybe stream for free or something. That's that's my take on that. Anyway, Imron Razby, Daniel Razby, David Forcy, I'm Troy Skinner. We're the four uh the the gang of four. I think the gang of eight in the Senate. We're the gang of four that does the fate debate every week here on 930 WFMD Also on HC2 of 99. 9 FM and online at WFMD. com. If you'd like to follow along with us more personally, go to um household of faith in Christ dot com, Household of Faithinchrist. com. You can connect with this show. You can connect with our churches. Uh you can get answers to uh theological questions. You can uh we we'll we're glad to pray for you, that sort of thing. Share the good news of Jesus Christ. You might not think you need to hear that Trust me, you do, even if you've heard it before, even if you believe it, you need to hear it again every day. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from right now, Douglas.