The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. Thank you for starting part of your day. Maybe you've already been up for hours. Well I know maybe you're not starting. Maybe you're in the middle of your day. Well thank you for spending part of your Sunday morning with us here on the Faith Debate. I'm Troy Skinner, been doing the show for a little while, so maybe you know me and you gotten to know some of these other voices rather well in recent months. Two. All four of us on the panel tonight are pastors of house churches. We've got Daniel and Imran Razby with the church that meets at Imran's house Got uh David Forcy, the unnamed house church on the southern end of Frederick County, and me, Troy Skinner, the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ. Uh have a website, House Household of Faith in Christ dot com. You can connect with all the social media and You can find links to this Faith Debate Show. Of course, you can follow the Faith Debate Show at WFMD's website as well. That's WFMD. com. And if you got one of those really cool, like extra special cars that has an HD radio in it, or you happen to have an HD radio at home, you can listen on the FM, where David Forcey sounds really good. 99. 9 HD too. Right, David? You got that deep base. Yeah, turn up kinda. Turn up the the low register there. Yeah, you gotta make sure your woofers are in good uh are in good working order So we've been working our way through. We we start we've kind of transitioned with the Faith Debate show. Uh it was maybe last summer, late summer, early fall, I can't remember exactly when, but Uh we are coming off the heels of the show, having been in a bit of a transition because of all the restrictions that were placed on our ability to do our typical roundtable discussion shows uh with all the, you know, um we don't want to get canceled by the social media tech giants. By all of the uh crud that's out there in floating through space and people being nervous about that there are certain things we weren't allowed to do and so the the show kinda went through a weird phase and we weren't able to talk about a lot of things that I think were on a lot of people's minds and so we've been working through some of those issues that have been in the news that have been impacting lives in general, church life more specifically. uh individual uh Christian life, because all four of us would be uh Christians. Uh and w we're heading down the tail end of that, so we're gonna begin to transition probably after our recording session together here now. into some of those things. Maybe even as we record today, we'll see. But to f to flesh out some of those things. Lots of weird stuff going on in the world. And I don't know if you guys have noticed. And maybe it's just me. It could be just me. Maybe I'm my my antenna are up and I'm noticing it. Does it seem to you like in recent months more than usual famous people have been dying? Does that see have you noticed that? It it seems like almost every day in my newsfeed somebody now there's always celebrity people that die I don't remember it being everyday. It feels like it's everyday and it's almost always somebody I know, which is even more rare, right? 'Cause I'm like, I have no idea who is that. I'll ask my wife, Oh, that's an actor, she's in this show or was in this movie, like never heard of it, never heard of her, never heard But a lot of high profile people. No one. I I have not noticed. Yeah, it must be just you. I haven't noticed. Really? I haven't really noticed. Alright, so it's just maybe the you know All right, well it's just me. But there were some but there were some high profile peop high profile people who have died in the last you know year or so, you know. Um Uh and and some of them get celebrated, which is good. We should r celebrate someone's legacy. But in a nation that uh is led by a bunch of uh y uh Euro nationalist, racist uh uh xenophobes You wouldn't think we would celebrate lives like Colin Powell or Kobe Bryant uh when they pass. And yet that happened. So, is that the a fact of the narrative being wrong, or our our Christian sensibilities overtake our sinful nature? Uh we're talking about critical race theory um and things related to that. But but broader than that, the things that are in the DNA of the of the culture generally. Remember a number of years ago there was that happening in uh in uh Charlottesville And the then President of the United States uh talked about how there were good people on both sides and he just got castigated for it. But that's not what he said. Exact well yeah, exactly. He didn't exactly say that. I don't know exactly the words he used, but whatever the exact words that use, they took them out of uh out of a broader context where he went on to explain more fully what he really was intending to say. Well he said he said there there were fine people on both sides and I don't mean the white nationalists who should be condemned totally. It was one sentence. So that was the second half of the sentence is what was removing uh in the side. And on on and a as if there are only two sides to any issue, there are multiple sides to to most any issue. And there are going to be, based on our estimation quote unquote good people, depending on how you want to define good. I would argue there aren't any good people on any side of any issue. That's what the Bible says. Nope nobody's good, not even one. So nobody stood up and criticized then President Trump for that, right? Where were the Christian pastors criticizing for saying there are any good people? We're all sinners, true Well these days you're not gonna get any pastor to say that because being good is part of the culture. And very I don't I don't know if any mainstream pastor would ever stand up and say there are no good people. And I think even put a finer point on it, because I w I've been thinking about this recently for whatever reason. I don't know that the F pastors right now for the most part who who want to sound like they're biblical of the with their legit pastors who are saying that oh Everybody's good. You're good just the way you are. I don't know if they're saying that exactly, but I will say there's a huge emphasis on a different four-letter word, nice. You have to be nice. That's what uh William Balcom says, the 11th commandment, thou shalt be nice. You know, you don't want to be winsome. Uh as as we're uh recording this show in the in the you know Christian circles news the last week or so, uh I don't know if you saw this, Tim Keller. uh had a positive tweet that he sent out regarding Stephen Colbert. Did you do you know what I'm talking about? I haven't seen So it's a short clip. It's it's circulating on social media. I don't know the name of the actress, like I just been saying, I have to turn to my wife and say, who is this? I don't know who this is. Some young actress, uh she's probably famous if she's on Stephen Colbert's show at least at night. And he's interviewing her and at one point she turns to him that turns the tables on him and says, You know, one of the things I like about you, Stephen, is you always talk about your faith on your show and stuff and you know, how do you how do you navigate that? Trying to be a comedian Um and I would put the emphasis on trying to be a comedian 'cause I don't find Stephen Colbert very funny. But trying to be a comedian and, you know, and talk about your face at the same time. How do you how do you do that? And Stephen Colbert goes on this rather esoteric soliloquy for about thirty to forty seconds. In which he talks about he mentions the name of Jesus. He does mention Jesus one time without any real gospel context or biblical framework around it, but he does mention the name. And he talks uh he leaves the the strong impression that there is a hereafter, there is an eternity that we have to be concerned about. And he talks about the struggles with fear. And he mentions how he hopes and he uses Jesus' name if I remember correctly in the context of he hopes that that uh after his life on earth is over that Jesus has a sense of humor. I think that's what he says. Anyway, so that's that's the gist of what he says. And Tim Keller sends out a tweet congratulating Stephen Colbert, saying this was an incredibly wonderful example. I mean those aren't the exact words, but that was the tone of how Christians should witness to the world to share the gospel, the biblical truth in a way that the culture can receive it. So my instinct on that is immediately a knee-jerk. No, Tim Keller's lost his mind. Um but what he's applauding there is the niceness. Right. Stephen Colbert was nice. He didn't risk offending somebody by talking about sin or the need for repentance. Well it's like the way Kanye talks about the Bible and Jesus. and and so on. He's he's all about Jesus and being nice and a good Christian now. I'm not sure how deep the faith runs, but I mean obviously you can be a You can be a a baby Christian and not have a deep understanding of how to explain the gospel to somebody. And that's one of the concerns too with this nice thing that's plaguing the church in my opinion, is Kanye West. Um Well boy, we're a total stream of consciousness today. So Kanye West, he has a rather public uh professed conversion a few years ago, right? Two, three years ago, something like that was now. Right. And a whole bunch of people in the evangelical world like wanted to glom onto him and celebrate him and make a big deal about that and they wanted to be really nice to Kanye West. And so that he would like them and maybe help build their platform. There's there's that part of it, I think. And also wanted to signal to the world that look, if you profess to believe in Jesus Christ, we'll be really nice to you too. But I don't know that he's had an opportunity to be very well discipled. Uh he's by his own admission would have claimed that to be a new Christian, a recent convert, and he's almost immediately invited to speak. at churches and to do teachings, if you will. Um more famously or perhaps infamously, uh he spoke at Lakewood Church in Houston, Joel Olstein's uh heretical congregation. So again, niceness shoots us in the foot. So where's the balance in this? We don't want to people the we don't want to give people ammunition to falsely accuse us. Well Jesus wasn't nice. Not in the sense that we define it in America now. I mean, yes, sure there's that loving side to him and a nice side to him, but he was He he I mean he the biggest example everybody uses is he went and overturned the tables but it was premeditated. It wasn't even just string of consciousness as uh you know, he didn't walk in and like, Oh, could you move out of the way? No, he he took time and braided a whip which takes it it takes effort and then he went and whipped the uh people and and threw 'em out. That's that's not nice. But the thing that you're gonna hear from today's contemporary Christian, at least in America, a lot of times, they're gonna bring us, oh yeah, but you don't wanna you know, what about the concern of giving the appearance of evil? You know, you don't want to do something that might lead somebody else to give into temptation and sin, or you don't want to have anybody have any reason to think that your testimony is is askew or something like that. So how do how you're you guys are pastors? How do you navigate that? You're proclaiming the truth, aren't you? Um we're allowing someone else to to define the terms or allow society to define the terms. So like even when it comes to like good, you know, like it it is important to define all these things. Um You know, uh we don't want to give the appearance of evil. Okay, so who's uh who is deciding what evil is? Is that something that everybody gets to decide in their own You know, in their own mind with you know, their own feelings, just like everything else. Right. Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Right. Right. Unambiguously, that is the prevailing wind right now. But is that what the verse is talking about? No. But I I think when it's uh I think when it's misused, you know, it's it's because Christian leaders have uh have bought into today's culture. And uh and are are giving in to those those prevailing winds rather than um saying, No, no, the Bible itself defines our terms for us. We can find our definitions there. And to piggyback off of that, there's there's a lot of cries of hypocrisy whenever a major Christian leader, whether they were saved or not, but whatever whenever they have some made some big scandal and a falling away or Ravi Zacharias, very high profile example from about a year or so ago, right? He died and we found all sorts of horrible things about him. Right. And and And st uh or at least accusations. Oh, they've been pretty much proven at this point. Sadly, sadly. So in any case though What does that prove? It proves that they were a sinner, which is exactly their point. If they were preaching the gospel throughout their life, whoever it is, Rabbi, Zacharias or anybody. If you're preaching the gospel and you preach from the Bible, you're going to preach at some point, I am a sinner and I still have the potential to commit sin. Um, because salvation is not about no longer sinning. And if I am no longer sinning, that's you know, i if I have no evidence of that, I mean all it's proving is is the point of the gospel is that yeah, we need a savior Um, so it it's it's not something that should be unusual or or or not it's not something that should be surprising when we see that happen, but the culture just tends to Oh you're a hypocrite. You're not one of those goody goody Christians that I see, you do bad things too. Yeah, exactly. And we need to we need to double down on that and not not go sin more that grace may abound, but but uh but don't uh you know face the storm head on and say, No, actually that's correct. And that's exactly what the gospel says. You know, we are still sinners. Yeah, and it's interesting it's funny that this topic is uh a lot of weird random things are coming up that are connecting with where my thought life uh has been recently. You started with critical waste theory. Yeah, and I I've I've been thinking about uh you know precision of language, how important that always is, but particularly it seems so important in today's day and age to define terms and be and be extra careful at trying to be precise of exactly what we mean and how we're saying what we mean. And for years I've actually said in sermons, you know, when I preach And when I'm invited to guest preach somewhere else and they're meeting me for the first time, it's it's you know, I I've done it a number of times where one of the first things I mouth is, you know, you might not know me, so you know, let me introduce myself. My name is Troy Skinner and I am a sinner you know, paused dramatically, saved by the blood of Jesus Christ. But I've come to think about that. I'm not sure that I any longer think that that is precisely how the Bible characterizes things. All people are sinners. We're were born as sinners, right? Uh original sin. We're all born as sinners. And if uh you want proof that we're sinners, we'll just wait a few minutes and I'll demonstrate by the by somebody's sin that they're a sinner. But then when somebody is saved in Christ, the Bible doesn't really refer to them as sinners at that point anymore. Now they're referred to as saints. So there's saints that still wrestle against sin. There's saints that still, this side of glory, commit sin, but our identity is no longer that of sinner. Our identity is that of saint. And so I've been really thinking about that. And I think that that could be a really important distinction for us maybe to keep at least I think it's going to become an important distinction for me when I'm preaching and stuff to make the point. to say that if you are a follower of Jesus Christ, you are no longer a sinner. That's not the label. You're still wrestling against sin, you're still struggling against sin. That's why something like Rabbi Zacharias, you haven't paid that close of attention to it, I know, have you, David? He was mired in apparently years and years and years of unrepentant, gross, heinous Sin. I mean unrepentant and hiding it and lying about it and covering up for it. It really brings into question Uh I mean only God can know for sure, but based on the information we now have, it raises the question of was was he actually a believer? Was he actually a follower of Christ? I've got my doubts now, which then makes raises all sorts of questions about different things. So in his case, was he a saint who still wrestled against sin? I don't know. John's first epistle talks about I think it's in chapter two, talks about you sin, but then you pick yourself up and wipe yourself off and you move forward. Like you don't wallow in your sin. You don't stay in your sin. Like you right, you repent and you move on. Although sin can take a while before you really admit to it. I mean just think about David and Bathsheba, right? It wasn't like oh he saw her and then there was a one night thing. Oh yeah, no no. But decades I don't know. I mean there's this whole long affair, pun intended. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Oh uh you know, in in in um indiscretion. And of course he did repent eventually, obviously. Yeah. I mean a lot of people that were in the circles I traveled for years were big fans of Ravi Zacharias. But I will say Ravi Zacharias never quite did it for me. I never his style never quite connected with me. Uh I thought he was very uh Winsome, very articulate, very bright guy, but I never felt like I learned a whole lot from him. I'd watched an entire lecture and I was like Yeah, I don't know I gained anything out of that. So he never really did anything for me. But I knew he was. I paid attention. I had regard for him based on the opinions of a whole bunch of other people. And then you find out I mean he uh had ownership in a whole bunch of uh massage parlors in different parts of the world where he would frequent and he owned them so that he could frequent them and uh he was a uh a serial happy ending guy. You know? And he would manipulate uh these masseuses, these women into feeling like that's what they needed to do. It was the God honoring thing to do, kinda it was just sick stuff. So somebody who's doing that for years and years and years. And somebody was on his trail a few years, number of years before he died, and so he changed his habits to hide it better. I mean there's no spirit of repentance there. So Ravi man, God only knows for sure, but I'll tell you this, if R if somebody had the same situation as Ravi Zacharias was a member of my church, he'd be facing discipline. We'd be walking through Matthew eighteen right now. You know what I mean? So back on track a little bit. So we're talking about being nice and and and the same thing with Ravi. I think people were afraid to offend Ravi Zacharias. Like he's a nice guy, I don't want to be mean to him. I'm gonna give him every benefit of doubt I'm gonna be nice And he allowed him to wallow in this horrible habit of sin as a result of being nice. And yet we want to react against the Things that are tearing down institutions that are positive, our our structures and our heritage and our traditions and all the statues that have come down and things have been canceled. You know, uh famously now uh Joe Rogan's uh getting all sorts of pressure for Spotify to cancel his podcast and all that sort of stuff. And Wilkie Goldberg too. Whoopie Goldberg, ironically. We want to stand up and say, look, that's not right. But if you're standing up for somebody who's a jerk or somebody who owned slaves two hundred and fifty years ago Uh well then you're not being nice. So you you're trying to stand up for what's righteous, what's true, you're trying to elevate what was good about a certain situation. But You're not nice. So how should we just keep our mouths shut on that? I don't think so, but do you guys dis disagree we should not talk about defending statues defending somebody who's g being canceled off of social media? We should absolutely talk about it. I mean the biblically you you remember the good things somebody did and the bad things, you don't hide the bad things, but you're honoring them them for what they did and I mean you have the whole hall of faith in Abra I mean in um Hebrews eleven, right Uh and tells talks about all these men of faith and women of faith who were in many cases, um there's some very gross and egregious sins that are also listed in the Old Testament of what they did. But they're still remembered and and and proclaimed as here's somebody that gives a good example that we can follow. So I don't think there's anything wrong with, you know, uh having those memories of of people in in the past and certainly canceling somebody's I mean the whole idea of cancel culture is is just to stifle speech and memory and history and I think that's that's a problem. It's part of the it's part of the issue that um you know it with if God is out of the picture, right? So if you are just approaching human beings from a uh yeah just a humanist kind of perspective, then you you still write like there's still a desire for one who is perfect, right? One who is holy. Right. And so then um then any time there's anyone who uh then then y you know, and and you're looking for a for for heroes, right, who are but you're looking for um Yeah, yeah, I mean it's it's like there without without knowing Jesus, right? Without knowing one who is perfect um uh in every way, uh you know, you're you're left grasping for for someone somewhere and and and you don't know how to deal with with people falling short. Or, you know, or learning how to um celebrate the um you know look to follow the example of people where where they are worth following. where they are you know that uh you know Paul talks about follow me as I follow Christ you know and so so that we should celebrate that when people follow Christ and set an example of that. Yeah that's that's the uh piece I think has been missing from the uh conservatives arsenal. So many people that would identify as conservatives, you know, Republicans, patriotic American kind of thing. Even they, you know, even those that we might count ourselves among that group in large measure, uh aren't resting upon God's standard and God's way, and so we we talk ourselves into a corner sometimes by saying, Well, cancel culture is bad. But God has his own version of a cancel culture. Right? There you know, if somebody is uh in unrepentant sin and they go through the Matthew eighteen, we talk about they're canceled from church, right? They can't participate in the Lord's Supper, for example. They're canceled from participating in that sacrifice. There are other examples. So the thing for us, I think, to figure to clarify is there needs to be some sort of standard by which things are or are not canceled. And so those who are ungodly, they're canceling things for ungodly reasons, and then our reaction is rightly to say, well that's wrong. But then we unfortunately add because cancel culture is wrong. No, no, no. That's wrong because it deviates from God's righteous standard And we haven't done that well because now we're in situations where th the the the evil forces in the world are doing bad things to good and righteous people and causes. and you want to cancel them, quote unquote. Oh, you can't cancel culture is wrong. We've been saying that for years. Well we've been saying it wrong for years because God would have us cancel that. God would have us call that out, hold it to account. There are consequences for bad behavior kind of thing. There's a tendency to move the farther you move towards the libertarian side, the more you likely are to say something like, Well, it's none of my business what they do. Well Yeah, it doesn't affect your personal salvation, but it is things we c we should call out. Right. And that's where we gotta be kcause there's a lot of there's a lot of things that in my opinion are attractive about the whole libertarian ideology, but it's incomplete. And where it's lacking, um, you could argue it's sorely lacking and we've got to be careful about that. Anyway, that's the end of this program. Thanks so much for listening. David Forcy, Imron Razby, Daniel Razby. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Faith Debate. You've been listening to us on 930WFMD. uh or on the FM at 99. 9 HD2, possibly online at WFMD. com. Or if you're listening to this later, perhaps it's the podcast. You can access all the different kinds of stuff and connect with us, email me, call me, whatever you want. Household of FaithInChrist. com is the website we can connect to everything that I'm involved with and that this show is involved with. Household of FaithInChrist. com. Till next week, 167 and a half hours from let me check my watch Right now, God bless