Broadcasting from the West. A big brother city in the heart of Grenlock County, where preaching with impact is like plowing pavement because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. This This is a Frederick Faith Debate. Brought to us by Putman Flooming and Heating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find links to podcasts and news items and the Faith Debate blog, which is, by the way, recently newly expanded to now 18 blog postings a day. That's 90 a week How could I put up so much volume? Yeah, like w y you like on caffeine or something? Like what people are sending emails mostly they just forward stuff they think is interesting and I take their forwards and I post it. So there's eighteen Monday through Friday. There's ninety a day. Every day from other people. And the reason there's eighteen notes more than than that on average, but I'm doing the best I can to keep up The reason it's eighteen is our the way our webmaster has set it up. The maximum number of uh new postings that will show on the first page of the Faith Debate blog page at any one time is eighteen. So I don't want you have to mess with going through mul multiple pages. So you go to the first page and there's gonna be eighteen. Some of the stuff, I'll be honest, I don't know why you sent it to me, but I put it there anyway. But some of the stuff you send me is pretty darn good, so uh I would I would check it out. If I were you. You do. And by the way, a little plug for the Fate Subway page, it is the most popular page outside of the local news page and the home page. on the entire website. So there's a thirst and a hunger for this sort of stuff in the world. That's why we do this show. The voice that's been chiming in so far, other than mine, is Jonathan Sweitzer. He is the senior pastor and founding pastor of Crossroads Valley Church And we're joined this week by Richard Fredericks, who is the founding pastor and senior pastor of Damascus Road Community Church. By the way, uh we were mentioning right before we went on the air, and I'm going to start to tease this a little bit because it's kind of exciting. Nice. This is uh early in March, so we're c few week a few months away, but uh June eighth will be our five hundredth show Five hundred faith. Five hundred faith debate show. And if you wanted to you could go listen to every one of them? Almost every single one of them all there for you. We had somebody involved in the production process here several years back that isn't here anymore. Uh and that person somehow, I don't know why, it still aggravates me just a little bit, lost two years worth of shows. Two years So My life, where did it go? So that's about a hundred shows. So but if you were to go on the website, you could find links to about four hundred faith debate shows. If you're looking for something to inspire you as you run Or looking for something to put you to sleep at night. So that's that's more than a week of nonstop continuous listening. Of nothing but faith debate. And I promise if you listen to all four hundred Of the shows online? Oh. You'd find one or two that are actually pretty good. That's right, I promise you. When you find these, send me an email. That's right. Anyway, um what are we talking about today? Well let's first start by by uh introducing Richard Fredericks, or better yet, let's have Richard introduce himself. Yeah. New to the show. Jonathan is uh evangelical Protestant charismatic type of uh pastor in town. I'm a evangelical Bible believing uh uh e essentially reformed, although not as reformed as most reformed guys would like me to be. Indeed. So people know who we are. If you've listened to this show at all, you have a sense of who we are. But you're new to the show, so Tell us about yourself. What's your what's your background? You're a pastor of a big old, successful, flourishing church twenty years now. So how how'd that all come to happen? Yeah, we are we are in our twentieth year Damascus Road Community Church and to To do a quick overview, I I was raised in the home of a pretty mean alcoholic agnostic, never had any religious background whatsoever Um and then during my teen years I had uh an uncle who was a very fine man, godly man, who at that time, though he later left it, was a Seventh-day Adventist So my first exposure to a religious community was in Seventh day Adventism. Uh ended up going to a Seventh day Adventist College here in the area. And then found Christ as I could within that movement uh and started doing a lot of reading, a lot of just studying on my own, trying to figure out what it was I believe. That ended up to me Uh I did a doctorate in theology, taught for ten years after that at what is now Washington Adventist University, the home base of WGTS And uh sorry, I don't know if I should mention another radio station. Oh no. Wait a minute. Th there are other radios? Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I'm that was that was a flip. I didn't even know. No fear there. That's fine. They're non-commercial, so they're not a competitive. During those years, um more and more questions theologically came up for me and During those years I was apply especially when I was actually in my doctoral classes for four years and writing my dissertation, I there were years where I really dug into in I would say my probably primary mentor is a great evangelical scholar named John Stott. And through the writings of John Stott and others I began to see that there was some serious chinks in the armor of what I'd been taught And that led to increasing confrontations with the denomination. Uh and finally but the problem for them was I think that uh The gospel is the power of God for salvation, right? Yeah. It changes lives. And so what I was discovering more and more is that The New Testament teaches that the sufficiency of Jesus Christ in his finished work is the sole basis of salvation. That wasn't uh articulated well in there. So to d to jump ahead. So that led to major confrontations within that denomination until finally I decided w why don't we start a church aimed at three groups of people? Yeah. Those three would have been the The boar the bored, the burned, and the bypassed with traditional churches. That's right. A good three-point sermon right here. We we left that denomination and we've uh founded Damascus Road and so for twenty years now that's we've tried to stay true to that mission, to just reach people that might not otherwise be comfortable in more traditional churches. Now what are some of the things or m one or two of the the key things that would be precious to you and what you teach and what your church stands for now? that would have been at odds with what your background, whether it be with uh Seventh-day uh Adventist Church or any of the other experience you had, you know uh you're doing what you do now with some purpose for a reason. Yeah. No. So what are what are those things that are driving that purpose in the nation? I'll draw people unto me. And so uh th Leon Morris is a great uh New Testament theologian. Leon Morris says that we tend that that uh what makes a great heresy is that it takes a great truth and puts it in the place of the central truth, which is Jesus Christ, that you take a truth and you move Jesus out of the center and you move that truth in. And the heresy is not so much wrong in what it affirms, but it's wrong in what it denies or distorts. So as we started this church, one of the things that really Yeah, that's a great definition. Um Carl Barth, who I don't agree with all that Barth teaches, he was an early theologian of the 20th century, but he said a statement that means a lot to me. He said, all true Christian theology is Christology. So every doctrine should lead back. And and Spurgeon, Charles Spurgeon, in his wonderful way, he said, when he was asked, what's the secret of your success? Spurgeon said Well, I either begin every sermon in London and end it at Calvary, or I begin every sermon at Calvary and end it in London. So what we've tried to do at Damascus Road, I have a team of teachers that work with me and I say, look, you can preach on any topic God leads you to in Scripture. But what I'm asking you to do is always keep the main thing the main thing. And the main thing is that through the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ we can be accepted with God and we are led into life in his kingdom, a life of discipleship. So we've really tried to um stay true to the fact that our task Actually let me give one more quote and then I'll stop monologuing. One more quick quote. This one uh meant a lot to me in in my formative years. It's a guy named Emil Bruner, who again was a good theologian of the twentieth century And Brunner said the greatest sin of the church in every age is that it gets so wrapped up in its programs, its personalities, and its problems that it ends up withholding from its people and from the world the simplicity and power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And so, you know, for me, coming out of the tradition I did where they had this whole construct of doctrines that really left Jesus on the periphery often, I said that I would like to have a church where everybody that attends this church knows if we bring a friend there and maybe it's our one shot, maybe it's the only time that person comes they'll hear the good news of what God did through the work of Jesus Christ. I'm going to assume you're a fan of Tim Keller. Oh, well you're mine. Yeah. And you're probably a fan of The Clowney. Now the now I'm passed on that call. Center is is really a big part of what we have to do. So you're not going to disagree with any of that, are you, John? No, it's hard to disagree. So that's been the Frederick Faith Debate. Thanks for tuning in. We're going to wrap this up now. Actually I'm gonna I'm gonna uh re reintroduce because we're almost not quite but we're close enough to the halfway point, believe it or not, that I'm gonna do that and then we'll try to figure out um We can focus on some of those great but not central truth questions. Okay. Because maybe we'll have some area for um for dialogue on that because Jonathan's going to agree, right? Jesus Christ is is is the center of anything we're going to talk about. He's the he's the answer, right? So uh this is the Project Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner. Uh you're listening to us on WFMD 930 AM free talk. That's I I I'm not I'm never gonna get used to that. As far as I'm concerned, we're always gonna be News Radio 930 WFMD, but that's just me. Jonathan Sweitzer is a senior pastor at Crossroads Valley Church and Richard Fredericks is a senior pastor at Damascus Road Community Church and We're about now to figure out where we're gonna where we're gonna find a little bit of fodder for some disagreements so we can dialogue back and forth. Okay. So on those great truth questions that aren't the central truth, uh you know Jonathan outside of this show. We've been at a men's table together for several years of pastors that meet every Thursday morning. So is there something you can think of say, you know, I'll betcha that Jonathan and I might not see eye to eye on this. What might some of what might one or two of those things be? Or Jonathan, if you Yeah, you better dive in. I thought, yeah, I agree with that, I agree with that. So you take it. Well, before we go there, let me ask this question. Uh you said that in the in the context where you were that you you were drawn to Christ, there's obviously something that was already happening in you, you know, in the context where you were originally, where you where you began to come to Christ. Uh and I j I'm just struck by the power of God to to to make that uh into our lives you know in a way that that grabs us and that changes us and that moves us forward. And so what was it at that moment that that grabbed you? Well it wasn't a moment. Um Yeah. And and you know, I again I don't want to launch into an extended monologue, but but it really was an unfolding where The one thing I decided, because I didn't start out as a Christian, I looked at Buddhism, I looked at Islam, I looked at Hinduism, later taught classes on world religions But I think like both you gentlemen, I kept saying, if this is true, then what it says is that the truth of God is revealed in the Word of God. So I kept trying to check all things by that. And I think when you're doing that, you know I tell my congregation now, the more the Word of God is in you, the more the Spirit of God can guide you. That's just a basic principle. And so for me it was more of an unfolding And a and a lot of moments along the way where I said, oh boy, this is this is trouble for this construct I'm a part of. And it and it was a gradual building and then it became an open debate and then it became very spot if you don't want to go uh in that direction but Are are there one or two things that were leading to significant debate where you said, Okay, I need to leave uh the Adventism uh and do something else 'cause it's just not a fit. Right or wrong. Maybe they're right, but I'm not agreeing with them. I'm gonna have to leave You know, that's I'm trying to be as genteel o uh as as far as capturing gratitude at the time. No, it's all right. I I you know, and I think that is the tone of this show is that I have a lot of respect and you guys too for so many good things at Seventh day Adventist do and I still have dear friends in there. in that whole, you know, denominational movement. And we do too. Robert Quintana, who's a senior pastor over at the Seventh day Adventist Church, and so I'm going to go to the city. I ran into him the other day. How are you doing, Robert? He's probably listening to Friend of Michelle. He's a personal friend and uh Yeah, I I'm I don't belong to a Seventh day Adventist church for particular reasons. Mm-hmm. And they might be a lot of the same particular reasons you have. I'm just curious what they were that 'Cause maybe there's one or two things that John said, wait a minute, you left for that reason? I would have stayed for that reason. Well i actually what what m w what more happened to fill in one more little piece of this is that while I was uh doing my doctorate, I especially realize that the whole eschatology of Adventism was constructed to say and to prove that they're the right denomination and their particular doctrinal issues would be the decisive issues. at the end of time. And the more I read Revelation, the more it was clear to me it was the revelation of Jesus Christ, just like the Gospels and the Epistles. And that the heart of Revelation wasn't a denomination. It was well, the main theme of the book of Revelation, it appears 28 times in the book, is the Lamb. So like every other book of the New Testament, Revelation centered in the cross of Christ. So this became more and more of a confrontation with Adventists who are very keen on their eschatology and their particular construct. Probably a lot the way dispensational believers are. You know, there's this really tight construct that says this is the center, and that center isn't always Jesus Christ. So, you know, I came to a point where I said to my wife, we need to leave Adventism and I prayed about it, and I'll try to do this very quickly, but I I went out for a walk And it was one of those rare moments where it was almost mystical where God said to me, Look, I have you right now where I want you. And Jesus didn't leave the synagogue. The synagogue crucified Jesus. You know, Martin Luther didn't leave the Catholic Church. The Catholic Church threw Martin Luther out. John Wesley didn't leave the Anglican Church. You just stay here and I'll let you know And actually what did happen to be factual is that the the um debate between myself and Adventism grew to a point where there was an ultimatum given that either I turned back into the fold or I would be fired That was my release from the Lord and I kinda just said, Well make you know, make my day in that. So there there you know, I think I think if I were trying to encapsulate Adventism I think it's a wonderful movement with many wonderful things, but the tragedy is they've taken a what could have been a good thing And that's their idea of the seventh day Sabbath and their whole construct about the commandments of God. And they move that into the middle and move Jesus to the periphery. And once something other than him is in the middle I think whether it's Adventism or any other ism, it makes everything toxic. Okay. So real quick by the way, there was a time a few years ago we used to do a word of the week and we had a couple of 'em that We might have been featured as words of the week way back when, but you might not remember if you're listening now what you heard years ago. Um, eschatology The three of us all know what that means. And tied into that dispensational theology. Um there are different schools of thought of how the end plays out and how to understand history And um there's a a very popular school of thought in American churches particularly that lean in a dispensational where th God works in history through different dispensations, different periods of time and ages and stuff. And so that's what's meant. In case you're like, okay, this show, I don't know what they're talking about. Before you leave and go somewhere else We're going to explain the the words as they come along. So Jonathan won't use any big words, so you're safe with that. And I won't either about big words are fine as long as we explain them. Um uh Richard uh sat in with us from Israel. Some that were messianic Jewish. and uh several that were from Palestine and from the Arabic Christian Church. And uh there was a very poignant moment, I think that you weren't here for this particular moment, but you were here you were there for most of our time together. It was a very difficult discussion but I think it's something that I'd like to dig into with you because it 'cause it it grapples with eschatology and some practical implications. for today. Uh the only evangelical minister that we are aware of from Gaza Strip spoke to the messianic Jewish guys and says Why are you guys more concerned about why does it seem like you guys are more concerned about your Jewishness than about Jesus. Why is it why is it that you're more Jewish than you are a Christian? And of course the the Messianic Jewish guys came back uh without even blinking an eye and saying saying that that question doesn't even make sense to us Everything that it means to be Jewish is fulfilled in Christ. So there is no difference, you know, for us between those two. And yet The majority of the messianic Jewish guys are of the opinion that God has has in history re-established the Jewish nation because we're coming up on the final return of Christ. And so therefore the establishment of Israel fits a eschatology timeline that Israel is supposed that required Israel to become a nation again. Where it says in Isaiah, you know, can any nation you know be born in a day? You know, this is the fulfillment of that uh from back in nineteen forty eight. But every single one of the Palestinian pastors is of the opinion that that can't be the case because their family members that are Christians and that lived in the land for the last two thousand years, uh why why would it be the will of God that the the church that has been there for so long would be driven out by Jewish people that are ninety-five percent secular. They don't even worship God according to an Old Testament orientation even though they you know they have a strong uh Jewish identity, you know, and being in the land and I don't know that any Jew can get away from that identity. Nevertheless, you know, by their own reckoning Israel's ninety-five percent secular. My question to you and and I've wanted to have this discussion with you is is how would you um How would you place Israel's becoming a nation in your eschatology? Is there significance to it or is it or is that kind of an accident of history? that is i is is interesting and has uh social justice issues at at its root that we gotta work through, but it's not necessarily a prime indicator of where we are in in a eschatological timeline. Yes. Yes, just what you just said. Yeah, that's right. I I um I believe that God put a blessing on the Jewish people and I believe that because of all the years that they lived in covenant with God, uh and all that they've gone through as a people and what they've learned about in terms of community, that there is a there is a unique blessing on that people. They are the oldest identifiable people and that is their survival defies all odds and and I honor that. I think, you know, the way Paul said it in Romans ten, I mean they they have the covenants, they have the fathers, you know, I bear them witness, they have a zeal. But um I do not find justification in the in the teachings of the New Testament for some kind of dual track of God's work with Gentiles and Jews. In fact, I find over and over in passages you know well like Ephesians two. If you look at the end of Ephesians two or Galatians three, very clear at the end where God's saying This whole dividing wall between Jew and Gentile has been broken down. Yeah. And they have now been merged into one. And in fact, Paul says in Ephesians three, he says the whole plan of God was to bring them together into one body. So, you know, the modern view of end times that wants to divide them out and put them on a separate track Um I like you were saying earlier, I don't I don't fight this out with people verbally or anything. Exactly. But I just say that I can't find any kind of justification for that unless you do what my Adventist friends do, and you pluck a part of a verse from here and a verse from here and a verse from there, and you build this kind of artificial construct of proof text. Then you can do it. But if you're actually working um really with the passage, with any passage where Paul begins to talk about Jews and Gentiles, you don't arrive at that. Okay, so I'd like to dive into this. I don't know how much time we have here coming up to the end of the show, because I think that I'm in a different place than you on this and And I have a background of having spent time with some messianic Jewish guys, but now I'm in a context where I'm looking to help facilitate you know, outreach among Muslims in the Middle Middle East. And that's really going to be driven by these Palestinian guys. And so I oftentimes find myself in a different place from the Palestinian guys And uh and yet I'm not sure exactly what I believe. Like I'm still trying to figure it out. I've got some uh some ideas about it, but Uh I think that it would be a very interesting conversation. So Yeah, and you could dive in, except you know, you'd break your neck because of the shallow end of the show right now. We've got a little over a minute. uh minute and a half or so left in the show. So we're gonna we're gonna save that. We'll dive in next week, assuming that you guys are willing to to to go back at it next week. This is the Project Faith Debate. That's Jonathan Sweitzer. He's the who just said that'll be good. Senior pastor at uh Crossroads Valley Church. And we're joined this week by Richard Fredericks, who is the senior pastor and founding pastor. Jonathan's a founding pastor too. Yes? Uh Richard is uh a pastor at Damascus Road Community Church. Our show is the Frederick Faith Debate brought to us by Putman Plumbing Heating. How can we make you smile? What have I been reading lately? I know you care. This uh isn't exactly uh deep stuff and I I haven't been reading it lately, but I never mentioned it back during the the holiday uh time of the year. I read The True Saint Nicholas, Why He Matters to Christmas by William Bennett. It's a light fluffy sit down for a couple hours and blow through a kind of a read. Not necessarily a recommend, but it was interesting. Got some little tidbits, historical anecdotes about uh the legend and where the folklore comes from very important to Troy because Troy every Christmas time, every year, has to take some time in the show to uh to get on a soapbox and to complain about why it is that the church in so many things that's not my fault the Puritans are right. It's not my fault Godly. Till next week, thanks for listening. God bless.