This is the Frederick Space Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So a couple of sponsors, I'm gonna mention them now if that's okay with you. Hilo Auto. Sales online at highlowauto sales. com and tire pros of Frederick. We're online at WFMD. com, keyword faith. That's one way to get to us. Use the keyword field. Or you can go to the drop-down menu of what's on the air and find the faith debate that way, or you can find our on our on air schedule. Click on the face debate. You can do it that way. Lots of ways to find the face debate. And if you want to listen to the podcast, you can do that at the audio bulb section of the website. You can also find us on iTunes. And if you're not sure how to do any of that, go to the Face Debate page, you'll find links for doing just that. The last several shows, and again this week we've got uh a stellar panel um lined up for you Daniel Razby uh I think the Raz I thought I said Razby didn't I Raz V is a uh recent law school grad who has a particular uh interest in things as they relate to uh church and religion issues. He's graduated from Oak Brook College of Law in California. Julia Sherd is the pastor of Saint John's Bible Fellowship Church in Newmarket, Maryland. And Kendall Lovelace is the evangelist at that same church, Saint John's Bible Fellowship Church. So we've been talking about things have been in the news of late and it wasn't too many weeks ago, although I guess it's about two months ago now as we uh as this show airs uh in July Donald Trump uh had a kind of a surprise visit paid to him in the Oval Office. This is from NBC News, or uh for those who are fans of a particular movie from back in like I guess it was the nineties, NBC News Uh Trump pay prays with evangelical leaders in the Oval Office. That's the headline. Donald Trump, President Donald Trump spent part of Wednesday Praying with evangelical leaders in the Oval Office. Social media posts from attendees show the President's head bowed in prayer I don't know. As those around him laid their hands on the commander in chief. Uh-oh, what's going on here? Are we turning into Poland? Right, Vice President Mike Pence is also seen in the picture praying. Oh, can you believe it? Such an honor to pray within the Oval Office for the POTUS and VP said Johnny Moore, a former senior vice president at Liberty University. He sent that out in a tweet. White House spokeswoman Sarah Huckabee Sanders said the group was a faith advisory council that meets, quote, from time to time, to speak about issues important to that community I guess that community would be the faith community, I'm assuming is what she means there. So this was in NBC and I'm sure that fans of NBC and that that uh mode of dissemination of news information might have been aghast at some of what I read, but w what is your take on that? Do you think it's a good thing? Do you think it doesn't really matter? And what would be a response to some, you know, histrionic uh uh secular humanist lefty who's got their hair on fire over this issue. M what might you say to them to calm them down? I will uh greetings again. I would uh point out that I I had made a uh a criticism of our our president. Uh President who? Trump. Trump. Ratings went up. When he spoke before the New York uh police. uh department uh last week uh when he spoke about uh arresting uh folks who are presumed innocent uh but then uh arresting and using rough tactics. I made that criticism. Uh but I also want to give uh him uh uh kudos for uh bringing uh the vision uh of Christianity back into the White House Uh that to me is courageous. Uh and it's also exactly what myself as a Christian uh in the United States wants. to see. So I applaud it. Which is interesting 'cause I'm not even sure he's a Christian, but he's doing things that you would hope to see a Christian be doing. You know, I don't know if he attends church, I'm not sure if he reads his Bible, if he prays. I know he's been to church. He's had an interesting life, he's made some decisions in his personal life that make you wonder if there's a lot of fruit in certain aspects. And so you gotta wonder. And yet It's kinda like with the uh you know the the style points versus the policy points issue. His style's all over the place. I mean if if you don't like the White House staff now, just wait a few hours, it'll change. Uh you know, so that's crazy. And yet most of his policies are things that conservatives and uh evangelicals, uh and you know, Christians in general for the most part Yeah, I I think uh a lot of what uh m many of the in the liberal crowd would be concerned about this meeting a a lot of their reasoning is, well, the president shouldn't, you know, take a stance on religion. Well, I don't know that that's true. I I don't think there's anything i that that prohibits a politician or someone who's involved in the government from having a religious belief. Now we can argue about whether Trump sincerely holds such religious beliefs, but the fact that there remains that You can be a Christian and be in politics. And I don't think that's a problem. And and and I don't see that having a pastor go and pray for you somehow makes that pastor endorsing you and everything you believe and everything you say. So I think the fact that these pastors went and as it says laid hands on him or prayed with him does not mean that they necessarily endorse everything he says or don't endorse anything he says. It has nothing to do with that. It they what it's what it does show is that they seem to care that he does lead the country in a way that is honoring and pleasing to God. Which I think is a good uh aim to have and I think i is is something that's very important. And we should pray for our all our uh our leaders. So that they'll follow after God and and govern according to his principles. Let me put a slightly different face on this and use it as a pivot into the next thing that I want to talk about today, which is a story about uh uh prayer uh with government officials in North Carolina. But a different phase let's imagine that Donald Trump wasn't professing to be a Christian, but was professing to be a Muslim and the gathering of people coming into the Oval Office to pray and lay hands if Muslims do that. I'm not sure if they lay hands or not, but they came to pray and bow towards Mecca and all that sort of stuff in the Oval Office. Um you know, a bunch of imams. Would we feel the same way as Christians or would that would that trouble us? Well well I I I think you go ahead. You you haven't uh gotten the chance to speak yet. Well do you have anything you want to put you on the spot? Since the beginning of uh the establishment of this country. uh there were a lot of men of faith that gathered. Uh my concern would be, uh, with our president As you said then, President Trump. Yes. Trump Trump. Russia, Russia, Russia. If this was and and no slight to him, but he has done a lot of things to uh in the visual for for the visual effect to appease a lot of people doesn't necessarily mean that it's gonna have any true effect. I enjoy the fact that there are people of faith that because we are called to pray for our government officials Our president needs a lot of prayer. Uh my hope is that someone had a little holy water and they slipped that up under the desk or this is what we need to do as a clandestine effort A as a country, uh all of our faith-based believers, all of the Christians, that's what we need to be doing. Uh there is power in prayer. And it doesn't matter whether it's the president or somebody else. This is what we're called to do, those of us who believe. And we need to do more of it. H did it have any effect? That's yet to be seen. But this is what each of us are called to do. We don't necessarily need to be in the Oval Office. But this is what we're called to do. We we clearly we are called, those of us who believe, we are called to go into prayer on the behalf of this country. That's what we're called to do um uh sympathetic to that to the Muslim faith. And having uh hourly professing Muslim faith as a president and having Imams come and pray for you Well I as a Christian w would not uh would not think that that's that's something that should be done in general just because I disagree with the Muslim faith And if he believes in Islam then that's that's uh his uh his belief I may I may not vote for him, but you know, w uh w I I don't think there's anything that's prohibiting him from meeting with whoever he wants to meet with. I would I would hope that even in such an instance You would have Christians that would pray for him, you would have Christians that would pray for him to get saved, to come to a saving knowledge that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, He's He uh died for our sins. Well Kendall said a moment ago that there's power in prayer. So let's switch to this story from Religion News Service. Headline is Court, and then a uh little break, and then it says North Carolina Commissioners prayer practice violated the Constitution. So the court says that the North Carolina Commissioner's prayer practice violated the Constitution. Let's learn more, shall we? This is um from the AP in the Religion News Service, uh Slubline Richmond, Virginia. Elected officials in North Carolina violated the Constitution by opening meetings with Christian prayers and inviting audience members to join in. A Federal Appeals Court ruled this on Friday, July 14th, so ten days after Independence Day There was some independence of prayer called into question. Uh this was an e this was a closely watched case that could end up in the Supreme Court of the United States. The Fourth U. S. Circuit Court of Appeals upheld a lower court ruling that found the Rowan County Board of Commissioners prayer practice to be unconstitutionally coercive The Supreme Court already has ruled that it's appropriate for local clergy to deliver predominantly Christian prayers and town meetings in New York. The question in the Rowan County case is whether it makes a difference that the prayers were given by the commissioners themselves and whether their invitation for the audience to join them in prayer was coercive. So, Mr. Law School grad who took the bar not too long ago. What say you? Well, um it the i i I I th I think I think what the the the point of contention here is about whether this is constitutes an establishment of religion. under the First Amendment and if by praying and I'm assuming these are Christian prayers in most of these cases ha uh seem to be very Christian beliefs, they don't seem to care so much if it's another faith belief, which I think in itself is an establishment of other religions than Christianity. But the fact that the Rowan County Commissioners were the exclusive prayer givers, combined with them consistently invoking one faith and inviting the audience members to participate sent the message that they preferred Christianity above other religions. And so that's the issue the court was trying to do. I would hope if you were a Christian that you would prefer Christianity above other religions. But but but uh the tests that the courts normally use for determining whether these actions by the government are an establishment of religion and and like it or not the the lawmaker or the commissioner they are a government actor So this is a government action, the prayer, and their and their question is does this violate the establishment cause? So is it is there a secular purpose to it? And they're gonna argue there's no secular purpose to the prayer. Um does it does the primary effect advance or inhibit religion? And they're gonna say that's that's they probably does that as well. And is the excessive government entanglement. So I don't I don't know and that's called the government test, by the way. It's it's uh for what test? The lemon test? It's from a court case, the lemon b. So if it really sucks and makes you have your face get all squirreled up on a ball, then it's not a little bit. So so the the I I don't know under the current court interpretation of of the law whether it violates the establishment clause. Clearly this court feels that it does violate the establishment clause Uh the question is here's a quote from the judge who wrote the majority opinion, and he is joined by nine other judges. Wow. Here's the quote The principle at stake here may be a profound one, but it is also simple The establishment clause does not permit a seat of government to wrap itself in a single faith. Right. And that would be what they're calling excessive entanglement. They're saying that we're we're saying you can only pray Christian prayers I'm not sure that that that I get that from from from seeing the context of the story. I don't have to do some more research on it. You were gonna say something, Professor Well, it when you begin to do lingo leaves with me you lose me, but I don't know what they mean when you say rap your your your yourself. I you know, you are what you are. If you're a Christian, you're a Christian. Uh uh if what they mean by that is by you demonstrating your Christian faith, you're being coercive to those who hear you, you know, well to me that's politically incorrect. But it also speaks to me, uh uh Troy, uh the need for more uh Christians to participate in politics, uh to be seen, to be heard Because what I see is happening and we we uh last week or week before we were talking about the abortion issue, uh a lot of stuff is wrapped in legal lease. And if we don't uh play on every playing field, then uh we're gonna be losing. And uh so I applaud what uh what they're doing in pra uh in in prayer and Uh I applaud what God is doing with the Supreme Albert. I'm going to quite literally play devil's advocate here for a moment. Okay And that's why I bought my blessing on. Where's that where's that holy body you snuck in here? So Let's say that the Knuckleheads in North Carolina elected some commissioners who were Satanists and they stood up and did some sort of Satan worship prayer. Would we be arguing that that made us 'cause here's what the the American Civil Liberties Union took up this lawsuit on behalf of non-Christians who say the prayers made them feel excluded and sent the message that the board favored a particular religion. So would we feel excluded and feel like the board was favoring Satan worship if if And I I think that is making uh uh an argument that is not based in reality, so I rejected for that reason. But I'm going to split with the general court interpretation of the establishment clause. and say that I don't believe that the Constitution protects Satanism. Um I don't think that's what the founders intended by it and I I don't I don't think it is protected there. Now, the courts disagree with me. So Satanism is uh for all intents and purposes protected under interpretation of the law. So what their argument is is that when you as a Christian give a prayer, you are uh uh excluding other people. And I think they're reading a lot into it. And people get convicted. They know that as a Christian, I believe that if you don't believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God, he died for your sins, and that He's the only way you can get to heaven that you're not saved and you're going to go to hell. And and it because I believe that, even if I don't I come out and say it to your face, you get convicted by it as a non believer and y and you and you're afraid that I'm I'm excluding you where no God loves you. God loves everyone. He loved us while we were yet sinners And I think when people say, Well, I tolerate all religions and we should tolerate all religions. Well that really means I tolerate all religions except for the one that doesn't tolerate that belief. And that ties to something else in this story. By the way, this is the Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. That was the voice of Daniel Razby that I just so unceremoniously cut off. He he is a a a insightful legal mind on the show today, a graduate from Oak Brook College of Law. Law in California. Julia Shern and Kendall Lovelace, the uh pastor and evangelist respectively from St. John's Bible Fellowship Church are also on the show. So the Fourth Circuit said it also found it troubling that the commissioners' prayers sometimes implied that other faiths were, quote, in some way condemned, with messages suggesting that Christianity was the one and only way to salvation. So that's exactly what the issue is. The exclusive claims of Christ, the exclusive nature of Christianity, is what bothers them. And that's why you think the problem is Well, we were talking earlier about President Barack Obama and some people, you know, were suspicious that he was either a Muslim or at least uh apologetic for Islam. I don't think he's a Muslim. I I I don't think he's n necessarily a Christian either. I think he fits the mold for what passes for religiosity in America today where it's a secular humanism that's connected to an inner faith idea where all faiths are equal and and so yeah he he he was He loved Islam and he loved Christianity and he loved Buddhism and he loved Zoroasterism. I mean he loved everything. So and and and and that's that's the problem is when you have you you cannot have t total tolerance of all faiths because once you do that you are thereby excluding those faiths who don't tolerate other people. You are such an intolerant, narrow minded, bigoted Christian. How did you get in here? Unbelievable. If I can if I can if I can say something, Troy, that that I believe is part of the problem. We don't have enough Christians that live by true conviction Uh too many c uh Christians are more concerned about offending somebody else or offending another religion while at the same time you're being offensive Uh, if I had the opportunity, which I oftentimes do, uh it's a joke in my house. I only have two friends, my husband and my mother, and they don't count because they're obligated to love me. You have to take a stand for what you believe in. And when you waiver When you waver, you cross the line, a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. So if you're not gonna stand Why did you look at me when you said that? Because I like you, Joe. I like you But this is what we need more of. We need more Christians to stand up uh and and not be double minded and live by their conviction. And by the way, Daniel, uh the court, the Supreme Court, uh our constitution it does support uh uh uh the Satanism. Totally. That we we we live in. Under the inter current interpretation of the Supreme Court, yes. Yes. What I was say what I was saying was I don't believe the founders intended it that way. Oh, of course they didn't intend it. And and if we can get back to what they originally intended, that would not be protected. But the fact of the matter is it is under current law I think I think the court would do well to understand that just because the commissioner is a Christian does not mean the government is Christian. And he can be you can be in the government. Now if if they're going to prohibit him from uh uh from professing his faith at work. That's no different from me professing my faith at work at Higher Ground Financial Group where I work. It it's or you uh uh Troy at um WFMD professing your faith You you can't prohibit someone from professing their faith. If you're going to say we cannot prohibit the free exercise of religion, you can't say that, well, just because you're an elected official, now all of a sudden you no longer have free exercise That that cannot be. And this is part of the problem that comes in where people of faith don't want to live by their convictions. If that would be the case, um an early retirement would be due for you, Troy, because We have to stand on the principle of the gospel. And when we don't, we waver. And that confuses everyone else that's looking at us to be a beacon of light for the truth. So we have to live by our convictions. Well the ACLU disagrees all y'all. The North Carolina legal director for the ACLU, Chris Brooke, who argued the case, called the ruling a great victory for the rights of all residents to participate in their local government without fear of discrimination. So that's the argument they're making. I I mean it it's interesting though because they're discriminating against Christians So they have to be fear of discrimination. I again say this. Christians do have to stand on their convictions. And they have to become involved. Uh I I I kinda like Trump being in the White House because I think we're gonna get another Supreme Court pick. And this is going to be the battle of all battles. Uh and but we go win it. And conservatives are hoping that the next pick is a conservative replacing a liberal rather than a conservative replacing a l uh conservative, right? 'Cause that just kept the ballgame even. Even Yeah. And and that's why they keep on giving good medicine together. We got several older ones and if uh on the Supreme Court. And so if uh Trump If he were to get re-elected particularly, if he s were to serve eight terms, there would definitely be a huge move in a conservative direction. Over eight years in the Supreme Court, there'd be a huge move, I think. And that's what Conservatives are probably hoping for. But anyway, I'm gonna have to uh wrap this up. Let me get a final thought on your mind. We talk a lot about the federal constitution, but the Maryland Constitution currently in Article 36 states that as it is the duty of every man to worship God in such manner as he thinks most acceptable to him, him meaning God, all persons are equally entitled to protection in their religious liberty. And and it goes on, but the the the point being it's you have the religious liberty to worship God in the manner that you feel God wants you to be worshipped. And that was the view of the founders. That was the view of the authors of the Maryland Constitution and that I think is we would do well to get back to those basically. That's uh Daniel Radby, uh graduate from Oak Brook College of Law in California. Pastor Julius Schern and Evangelist Kendall Lovelace from St. John's Bible Fellowship Church also on the show. That church is located in New Market. I think their service begins Sundays at eleven o'clock, right? So if you You can get yourself ready and head on over there. Thanks to our sponsors, Hilo AutoSales, online at hiloautosales. com and Tire Pros of Frederick. Um we're online at WFMD. com Keyword Faith. Thanks so much for listening until next week, which will be 167. 5 hours from now. God bless.