If you've seen my cunny uh my cousin Vinny, that movie from like the nineteen eighties or nineties, whenever that was, a long time ago, I know that movie came out. But there's a line where uh Joe Pesci and uh Marissa Tomei are in it and and he says something about what he's wearing, he's doing it 'cause he wants to blend in and she says Oh. Yeah, you blend. You blend. Like meaning you don't blend at all. She's very sarcastic. I mentioned that because we're talking about oil blends. Today. See how I did that? This is the Fate Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner and uh Yeah, don't hold it against these guys that I'm on the show. Uh the guy laughing just a second ago was David Forcey. Uh also commenting a little bit, you can hear him just barely on the mic, I think, was Daniel Razby And his father, Imran Razvi, known as Raz, to his friends, you can find them online at conquered by love. org. You can find me and my church online at household of faith in Christ dot com, household of faith in Christ dot com dot org So yeah, oil blends. Um this is but this is talking about, you know, people using oils essential oils. Y yeah, and using maybe in in combination with some incense on occasion or whatever and You know, I don't know if there's anything necessarily wrong with that. Right? But they used oil blends and burning of incense in the tabernacles. But they can be but they can use in ways his family did too, and the earth opened up and swallowed them So they can use them in ways that are related to like false religions and that's where the the concern comes on. It's kinda like a f a theme we've had now. This is our third week on New Age kinds of things and You know, why are we using these oils? Uh in fact we see oils and different things I think in the studio when we come in here oftentimes, right? And different Incense and candles and not our studio by the way. If you're listening here, we don't own the studio. We just record here. And we're grateful and glad for it. But the items and decorations in the studio were not designed by us. We sneak in under cover of darkness so they don't know we're here. Shh, don't tell anyone. So um but some people use them almost almost less like they're making a potion. It's almost like there's some sort of a ritual that's built around the oils, that sort of thing. So I I I don't know about you, but whenever I use oils it's always so I can attract more good luck. But that's the only reason I use them. How about you guys? I just like to smell nice. I mean th there's there are There's a lot of uh health benefits for certain oils oils and um if you're sensing a theme for the last few weeks it you're y you you're right. There may be very good health related things How about you guys? You guys all three you guys say. What's kinda interesting is is um so we're talking about you know, have been we'll be talking about new age kind of stuff. I think the the uh the attraction, the strong attraction in our culture uh to all of that is is maybe twofold. I think I think one is that uh the god of health and wellness is one of the supreme idols of our culture. Uh and then and then two, you know, in a in a culture that has in a lot of ways moved so Um so m so much towards atheism and materialism there there's this r you know, people recognize at a at a root level that actually they are they are kind of spiritual beings and so you know, so they are interested in kind of spiritual things. And You know, and they worship the idol of health and so why not, you know, things like yoga or, you know, crystals or you know, so if if they can somehow kind of combine those two Right, feel a little bit spiritual and improve their health while they're at it. And they're chasing vapor because a lot of what they're chasing is I'm gonna live forever, I'm gonna be young forever, gonna be beautiful ever, gonna be healthy forever, like I Right, if I just feel feel good forever. If I just do these magic things, you know and and and Well that's got to be careful 'cause in this one, this is it's not necessarily magic things. There are good things like oils. We already s began to hint at that and you can use them. Right, yeah, and it's healthy oils in those foods, right? Yeah. My my father in law likes to joke about he puts a lot of oil olive oil in his food and stuff And he says, well you gotta do that. You've got to lubricate the joints, you know. You've got to put some lubrication in there. And and and obviously he's anointing his dinner night. Yeah, so he's like he's a tin man putting some oil in the joints or something. But there's some truth to that. Good healthy oils are important. And there are biblical uh uses for oil uh and oil. So maybe somebody wants to talk about uh some of the good biblical uses of oil. Well they noted uh Jesus with oil and the the the um uh the the lady was the was washing his feet uh uh which we talked about a few weeks ago. Spikenard, right? Oil of spikenard. Uh a year's wages. Yes. Expensive oil. Yeah. And and she was uh cle uh you know, anointing his feet and and I I guess cleaning his feet, you know. with that. Um there's there there's certain uh plants. Um hysop, for example, in the Bible is talked about as th this is a very healthy plant for for cleanliness and and for Purification. So there's a lot of oils used for purifying and I think that not just just health but also spiritually in the Bible. And yeah, and I mean even, you know, in in James, you know, post resurrection early church, you know, James says like uh if somebody's ill A a good practice is for for the elders to come and pray and and anoint the person with oil. Yep, that's right. You know, and is so is that w is that because there, you know, were some m kind of medical benefits to the oil there or and that's that's I think is an interesting question too is because I think I think sometimes Christians can get a little bit ob obsessed with oil and think that, you know, anointing things with oil somehow somehow has like a like a mystical, magical kind of effect. Yeah, and apparently people are using essential oils. What you know, if you're not doing this sort of thing, how would you know? What what are they using the oils for? Like Apparently they use them for potions and rituals to harness energy of nature to enhance psychic vibrations to attract quote unquote good luck. uh and other sort of spiritual practices that are obviously not directing one's attitude and posture towards God, right? It's not about glorifying God, it's about glorifying self or glorifying the the the the the Wiccan pagan kinds of things of of the world and making them godlike in some respect. That's that's where the problem is. I mean, I don't know how oil helps you through psychic vibrations, but apparently It does. I wonder if the Beach Boys song is about that good vibrations. Oh probably, yeah. I think yeah, as Daniel said in a week or two past that uh God created all this stuff. Satan is using it to corrupt everything. Okay? So it all comes down to what is your purpose? I think there's nothing wrong with oils. There's lots of good oils. In fact maybe all oils are good. I don't know. Some are maybe poisonous. I have no idea But if you're focusing on that as opposed to going to God for your healing and for your you know and and again, if his practice is medicine, there's nothing wrong with that. Yeah. Well like the Apostle Paul writes in First Corinthians, right? Whatever you do, do it for the glory of God. The only bad oil in my opinion is uh is seed oils. My mom swears by Am's oil. It's the only thing she'll put in her car. Don't burn that for a good aura in your car. We might not come out of your home. Oh man. But even those those words, right? Aura, good aura, like uh good vibes, vibrations and stuff and And and the whole idea is that you're feeling spiritually there's something there. And unless you're specifically inviting God in to your house. If you're just open-ended, hey, you know, spiritual energy come into my house, you're asking the devil. You're not calling God by name. You're you're opening your your house up to devil. I mean there's this the passage Jesus was talking about. You know, if if I if if the spirit goes out of a man And then, you know, he d he returns later and finds the house uh empty and and swept and i it's open. There's nothing in the house. So now he can go bring seven other demons with him, right? Your house needs to be full of God's glory. It needs to be filled full with with with with with God's presence, so there's no room for the devil to come in And and that's the problem with opening your mind so that things can come in. And I don't know that's on your list to talk about, so I'll mention it briefly here. There's hypnotism is a is a is a very uh hip and cool thing people go practice hypnotism hypnotism and and a lot of people don't even see any spiritual connection at all. Um but the whole idea for hypnotism to work is you have to clear your mind of everything and let Uh intentionally let somebody else control your mind. So I and I I would say there's you know in principle I don't know that there's a whole lot different necessarily between uh you know, hip hypnotism like being allowing yourself to be hypnotized, right? And getting drunk. You know, blackout drunk, right? So that you don't you don't know what you're doing. You don't know why, right? Right, yeah. Yeah. All these things. Yeah, yeah. Uh you know, there's You know, we the Bible God calls us to, you know, uh maintain control of ourselves, you know, the self control. But what if I use hypnotism to stop smoking? It's a healing thing. Yeah, I don't know. I mean I've always been rather skeptical of hypnotism myself. self, but I mean some people claim that they've been hypnotized. I just I'm always suspicious that they use that as an excuse to act the fool and Oh, it wasn't me, it was a hypnotist. Okay, you were probably in control and just wanted to act out and have the excuse of I don't I I just I don't I've never felt like I was one prone to being hypnotized. You know. Except when Joe Biden speaks. That that's called sleep. Oh. Unconsciousness. All right. I get the too confused. Yeah. Something like that. All right, so w uh I uh teased last week that we're gonna talk about smudging this week and that's uh not something that everybody has even shows on new age stuff People kind of know what that is. Smudging, what is that? So here's what Dorian Virtue, Dorian Virtue is the person I mentioned a few weeks ago. She used to be a new age guru type person who's now a Christian who speaks against it. And on her website, she's got the A to Z list of new age practices to avoid and Y. And here's what she says in her long list Gathering bundles of dried sage book uh bush, uh brush, rather, dried sage brush, hard word for me to say, and lighting it on fire, these bundles, for the purpose of smudging, quote unquote. It's a way of covering places, people, and items with sage smoke as an act of exorcism and space clearing. Instead of turning to plants, we should go directly to Jesus, who is the only authority for casting away demons and unclean spirits, Dorian says. And I've would agree with that. So y you're basically you're you're lighting the sagebrush on fire, creating like an incense of smoke, and you walk through the house to chase away the spirits by the smoke and I guess extra special attention is usually paid to the corners because you know the spooks will hide there in the shadows of the corners. Yeah. So Uh and some people they they will quote unquote smudge themselves, like they will waft the smoke over themselves, they get rid of the spiritual entities that are clinging to them somehow or you know, we we you can use smoke to cure meat. Uh so I I think You can use smoke to cure your house Well no, I I I I think I think you can use uh you could use sort of curing though as as sort of like a sanitation disinfecting, right? Like that's that's essentially how we use it in in food preservation. So sure in that sense, but I I don't I don't think that you can use it to uh um cleanse your house of evil spirits. No it has roots I think you'll probably actually invite them in if you do that. It has roots in the Native American American culture. Uh it was a ceremony they did and I wonder if they did it for those reasons and then attached some sort of spiritual like they were getting rid of bed bugs and other kinds of things in their in their house. Is that a form of smudging? High tech contemporary smudging But I wonder if that's part of the like a lot of the things we've talked about now these last few weeks, maybe there is some practical reality, real world benefit to watching this smoke. Maybe it chases away fleas and ticks and th who know or you know. But as far as it being some sort of mas magical, mystical way of chasing away evil spirits, I mean I don't I can't think of any reason to think that that would actually smoke sage, is that Did I did I make that up? Yeah. I don't know. People smoke everything these days, don't I? Why something else? Now, where do they get this from? Is it is this is this something that they can point to a Bible verse that this is doing something or not? Or is this some you know uh uh which which doctrine type of stuff. R these days in the culture, everything that's done by min minorities seems to be upheld in a in a higher value what the Indians did, you know, what the Aztecs did when they took tore the heart out of somebody. That was good, right? I mean it it's like uh and uh how the uh Ibonics or whatever the the inner city black people speak. I mean that's good now. That's the now and and all the movies and stuff. Although I gotta say, you know, somebody who's more quote unquote liberal minded, more on the left. They're not going to agree with all the spiritual and biblical stuff we're saying. So maybe I could say something else that would scare you away from doing the smudging. If you smudge You are guilty of cultural appropriation. So you had better stop right now because the Native Americans in in invented it and you're culturally appropriating their culture. But no, it's more than just wafting the smoke though. So this is Uh apparently there's like kind of like with yoga and these other things, or these practices that get connected to it. So if you're going to properly do it, apparently, uh the person who's uh doing the smudging is to focus their energy and control their breathing in a particular way. And then they light the uh smudge stick with a candle and then they wave it in the air uh with a feather And walk around the house starting at the front door moving clockwise. This is important apparently. And then y like I said earlier, you pay special attention to the corners of the rooms and And then some people, as an extra talisman of good luck, when they're all done, they will leave the the remains of their smudge stick at the front door. I guess like standing century as a as a warning and this has been smudged, stay away, evil spirits. See talismans for good luck or for good spirits and things, I think they would be inherently So if you but Dan, what do you say to those people that said, hey, uh things that Paul used or Peter used and people you know took those and healed from that? The the the clothing that and the handkerchiefs that touch Peter and and heal people. That's that's yeah that's where the Catholic Church gets a lot of their talents from. So I mean their relic worship. Yeah. Yeah. And the bones of Elijah raised somebody up a hundred years later. Right. Shows worth anyway that we've mentioned the idea that, you know, a good lie has got a lot some truth in it. And there's nothing inherently wrong with burning some incense. There's nothing inherently wrong. In fact there could be something inherently good about it, possibly. Well God commanded you to burn incense in the temple. Exactly. So But that's not what this smudging is all about, right? This this New Age well it's funny, it's it's it's lumped in with new age teachings, but it's really old age. I mean it's Ancient like you know, Native American practice. The New Age is kind of an umbrella term for things that are spiritualistic that are either humanist and spiritualistic uh you know, religious type of activities Yeah, and if you're thinking, well I'm just you know, I just want to do anything I can, I'm gonna throw everything including the kitchen sink and my smudge stick at the devil to keep him at bay You have no biblical warrant to think that the devil's gonna be scared off by some sort of smudge incense in thing going on. It's just not there's no reason for you to think that's true. Um if you call yourself a Christian, then the Bible should direct mean even if you don't call yourself a Christian, the Bible should direct your life. But if you call yourself a Christian What are you doing? What are you doing? Stop it. Put the spudge sticks away. Open up your Bible. See what it has to say. There's no biblical warrant. I would challenge anybody. You give me a biblical warrant for chasing away the devil with a a burning sage brush. bundle, right? Oh. Alright. Uh but we can transition to our next topic or not, because David Force he's got more to say. No, no, I I mean I think it speaks to this in general. So like throughout I feel like throughout the Bible, like there's times when God tells people to do weird things. Right? And and then and it does something and then something miraculous happens. Right. And uh now I I think I think part of what we learn from that is uh one, if anything good is going to happen, it it ultimately comes from God. Right, he's the one who did it, who made it happen. Uh but there may be all kinds of different things out there that we don't understand. Uh but the the point is, you know, that it it the good things come from God. I I think another another element in all this too is um the idea that uh you know, somehow if we do something in just the right way, it will get something to happen, right? And and God doesn't work that way. Like he's not He's not the genie, right, or or whatever you want to say. Right. People do that with their sports right, their favorite team. Oh, I was wearing that unwashed, you know, holy uh meaning lots of holes in it shirt and they won. So I have to wear that w unclean shirt with lots of holes in it every week. And then you know that's superstition. They're gonna win. Yeah. Yeah, so don't do that. Particularly if you're a Christian, don't do that. You should know better. What's that? Very intimidating to the other team. Yeah. Something else, um, you know, should Christians consult horoscopes? No. No. Now why why should they? Somebody tell me why. Let's come up with a the Bible says in Genesis that God made the stars for signs and for seasons and for days and years. Right. So there are signs in the stars. We know there was a sign in the stars when Jesus was was born. So why why wouldn't there be a sign for whether you should put a hat on today? Well, I think there is something to to again, just like all these things we've been talking about, there is something that God created and God did make the stars for signs and I think for in like general as uh symbolic things in the heavens the uh for humanity I think that that's the type of city signs you see in stars. I think it means signs as in like road signs, like the North Star Like that's how you sign of how that's how you navigate, right? It is it is. It is. But what but I mean i So it marks places and Yeah, but but there was something unique that happened in uh uh the time of Jesus' birth. And that something that was special enough that all these Very highly trained astronomers from uh ha hundreds or thousands of miles away came and traveled to see and say, Hey, look at the star we see. and we know that it's the king is born because of something we see in the s in the sky. Right? So s there is something to signs in the sky about w and it and it talks in Revelation about, you know, people seeing si uh, you know, signs in the in the heavens. and and uh you know um uh various symbolism happening and in Troy will say it's it's all very symbolic. But regardless it does talk about there are things there are things in the heavens that you are seeing and used. I'm I'm okay with that. I think that's a very different thing than you looking at whatever stars above today has an impact on what you should eat for breakfast. Like you personally. Not oh the the country or the culture or or or the earth in general is going to go into a period of tribulation soon or or famine because of something. That's in general Uh you know, why they're horse sculpts are very specific and you know on the one hand uh a lot of them are very you might think, oh what's what's the harm? 'Cause it's just playful stuff and and they're they're written so ambiguously that they could all all be true or false at any time. Anyway Uh but I think it's a slippery slope g getting into where you're thinking the stars control you. And I don't think it's as much of an issue anymore with all the light pollution that we have. But if you ever go out in a place where you can actually see the night sky without all the light pollution, I mean it it it captures the imagination. It's awe inspiring. All those twinkling bright lights I mean it's I mean you look in the Frederick sky and you're lucky to see a dozen of them sometimes, right? But you go out where you can really see. Like you know, when I was growing up, we used to go up into um uh the the hinterlands of Wisconsin. I grew up in Illinois. We go up in Wisconsin, there's nothing up there but farmland. And man, it was unbelievable. And so it it it can be you can be wonder struck. And it can bring you to a place of worship. So I think the stars have a place in that. They bring you to a place of recognizing God's majesty, his power. And the constellations I don't know if God necessarily uh placed them in a way for us to connect the dots and make these constellations or not. However Some of the constellations are actually mentioned by name in the Old Testament, and so the Bible acknowledges that they're there, and naming them isn't a problem, right? Because the Bible wouldn't be naming them. The problem though is when you're fascinated with the stars and the expanse of the universe and how maybe there is some sort of design that was placed there as almost like little Easter eggs. If you know what I'm talking about in movies, they place these little things in the background that aren't central to the story but uh if you're a fan of the movie and but hey, they put that because that was in the other movie and they you know these little these little plants uh plants these little things they plant in the movie to capture those who are on the inside know Maybe God did put the constellations there in a particular way to capture the imagination and and to be able to point to, you know, the the line of Judah and Uh and things like that maybe or b although I don't think that the line of Judas specifically the constellation is is mentioned in the Bible, right? I think uh Orion is mentioned, right? The Bayer Hades, I think, is mentioned. But anyway. And Job God mentions a few of the constellations. But the the point in all of me saying that is that's Astronomy. Astronomy is different than astrology. Astrology is you're trying to find some secret hidden meanings in those stars and the and the position of the stars and the planets. And it's it's a form of divination and divination is clearly prohibited. And I think I think the uh one distinction sort of in all of this is uh right like uh we don't we don't worship the creation, right? We don't say that the creation has power. You know, God God has power Right. God made the creation and it serves his purposes. And so you wouldn't say, oh, the stars said this. And you say, God is showing us this through the stars if you want to if you want to make that kind of a claim. And and again, the examples, few as they are in the Bible, are all general signs for a time or for a society or for the earth. not a specific direction for a specific per person in their everyday d life. So I actually I will go a little farther than you, Troy. I would say it's very plausible that If you w if you look up s at the in the sky to night and you know what know what you're doing, you know what God God means by the different stars and you might see something that might tell you whether there's gonna be uh you know, some war coming in the next three months or whatever, some in some other part of the world. I I'm perfectly willing to believe that God may actually put those types of uh answers in the stars. I don't think it's going to be relevant to you specifically, like what do you have for breakfast and whether you're going to meet somebody today, you know, that type of thing. All right. Well if we have more to say about that specifically, we'll pick it up next week. We have other issues on new wage kind of stuff we'll talk about. That was Daniel Razley, I'm Troy Skinner. You also heard Imran Razi and David Forcey today. Find us online at household of faith in Christ dot com, uh, WFMD. com. Till next w next week. Get the marbles out of my mouth. 167. 5 hours from now. God bless Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com