This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. Our sponsors are Hilo AutoSales online at hiloautosales. com and tire pros of Frederick. I'm Troy Skinner on the show this week. We have uh Bernie Beal with Great Commission Families. His organization is online at gcfamilies. org. Bernie is founder along with his wife Linda. And Tim May. You might know that name. Tim. Tim is the pastor of Pleasant View Church of the Brethren in Jefferson and of course he is the host of Mid Maryland Live or co host with Frank Mitchell here on WFMD Monday through Friday from three till six. And if you're not sure which one is uh Tim and which one is Frank, uh Tim's a good look. Tim is right. Frank is wrong. Yeah, there you go. Um so last week we were talking about uh statues and uh national anthem controversy a little bit. We didn't get into that too much. We end up talking a lot more about the Confederate flag and that sort of stuff Sure. And statues and things like that. But as part of that conversation, uh we we had some loose ends that I said we're gonna talk about that maybe next week and we're gonna get to that. But before we do, I want to set the stage for this week's conversation by reading something that it's a family operation. One of the things that's love that I love about Great Commission families is it's a family ministry. The entire family participates, including Um, Bernie's daughter Sarah, who wrote something a few years ago that's posted on their website that I think really ties into what we're talking about during these arc of programs that we're doing. Since we do not have a perfect citizenry, our anarchy, to state the obvious, will not work. And God has not instituted a civil theocracy, so we cannot even attempt to set one up without grossly abusing power. So we are left seeking an unhappy medium, attempting to somehow make sense and societal peace out of the absurdity of man-ruling man. We cannot grant absolute power to a sick uh to a single man or to a group of men, whether oligarchy, democracy, or republic But we have to grant some power, or there will be anarchy, the conse uh consequent power vacuum and the inevitability of something filling that vacuum. This seems to be the very dilemma that faced the founders of America and somehow They managed to create a decent compromise with our constitution. But it was not a perfect solution. How could it be? They could not create a perfect citizenry, and they could not institute a perfect theocracy. They were left to attempt a less than perfect compromise, granting mortal rulers some power, because an archic society will not function. But binding those rulers with the chains of a constitution, delineating the limits on power so that there can be no free exercise of absolute power Because tyranny destroys a people. And that's the kind of stuff you can find at gcfamilies. org And I'm going to put in a plug now. We ended last week's show with a plug and put in a plug now. Bernie does all sorts of tours. The whole family uh uh is involved, but uh Bernie's the guy I know the best, so I'm gonna talk mostly about my experience with Bernie. If you want to go downtown DC And learn about the monuments and the history of all that's going on in downtown D. C. , contact Bernie at uh Great Commission Families and set up a tour. If you want to go on a CNO Canal tour, if you want to go on a on the on the the various battlefields of the area tour there, not just to learn the history of America or Maryland and and uh that sort of thing, but also how The Bible fits into that, how Christianity influenced some of that sort of thing. It's fascinating. So if you have visitors coming in from out of town, call Bernie, set up a tour. If you are uh responsible for setting up uh social outings with your church, perhaps you're leading a youth group and you want to do something like that, contact Bernie Um and I don't know, it's like I don't know, it's like four or five cents a person. It's a little bit of an exaggeration, but he's cheap, I'm telling you, cheap. In fact, he was so cheap that a couple years ago I said, Bernie, what are you doing here? Your ministry's gonna go bankrupt. Start charging some money for crying out loud. So I think he's up to a couple of bucks, I don't know what he's up to. No, but it's I mean it's the bargain of the century. So Last week he had to pay uh Tim some money, I think. Last week he's got to pay or other way around me some money. No, that's why I can't remember. That's right. And and the emphasis is uh as constantly as I share history, I love history, but I I'm an evangelist. I'm a Christian minister, so I say Repeatedly, and that reminds me of a Bible verse. Then I'll give a spiritual lesson. I've got uh massive list, top forty monuments in DC, top forty statues in the Capitol. Um I probably have over 200 spiritual lessons from uh all these different places. And uh no one's ever heard them all at once. I think that would be too much, but I I'm ready for all of them at any time Now I teased last week talking about the American flag and uh the Maryland flag. We didn't do a whole lot about of that, and I want to make sure we do that this week. But before we do, I gotta tie up a loose end from last week. Uh Tim s went down a a related uh topic, but a bit of a rabbit trail, and I commented briefly on it and said, you know, we'll talk about that more maybe in next week's show. Guess what? It's next week's show. We're talking about the civic symbols being uh displayed, whether it be statues or flags, American flag, American flag uh uh uh state flag, whatever. Um in sanctuaries at churches or maybe in anywhere on church property for that matter. I'm not sure how far y where you draw the line up. But Tim's not a fan of that. And he and I are of some like mind on that. I might be a little firmer than he is on some of this stuff. I'm not sure. We'll find out. Why don't you finish your uh I appreciate that choice uh and gives me an opportunity to explain that I you do uh I do uh love the flag of the country. I think it's beautiful. I like what it stands for. I uh served under that flag. So don't misinterpret. That's a word for ya. what I'm saying regarding uh the flag. But its place in the sanctuary is is has never uh I I don't uh I I don't like it, I don't approve of it if I have the power to do so uh it's not the place for the flag. The flag, uh the sanctuary is uh should be dedicated and should be there to serve the gospel of Jesus Christ. And uh th although we're in this country and everything, which I certainly appreciate, we play we pray for the country every I just do not think the sanctuary or the church is really a place for that. If there is a meeting hall and you wish to have that to you know, you you've got to think next to it is w what about standing and saying to pledge the flag What about putting your hand on the Bible and s and taking an oath to testify? So there is uh our faith denomination is is has very clear guidelines on on what we feel is the proper way uh to do these things. This is a bit of a pop quiz question, so it might not be fair. You might know because you have no idea this question is coming, Bernie, but if anybody from might know the answer to this sort of trivia question When did it become popular? Was it from a get-go or did it come along later on where American United States churches started prominently Placing the flag in the sanctuary. Do you happen to know the answer to that, by the way? Interestingly enough, it wasn't until during the Civil War that the flag got more prominent. Like now you drive around, you see flags over top of a car dealership. Flags everywhere. If you have visitors especially from Europe that drive around and you ask them, what are your impressions about America? One thing they will likely say if they feel bold enough Why do you have the US flag so many places? So it it kind of began after the Civil War, uh, continued through the mostly the wars caused that, World War One, World War Two. Um so going into the sanctuary, uh there there was a sense of the civil religion uh but no I don't know when. Okay. But I I do know this. In flag protocol it's very interesting. The US flag is always over top of any state flag with the notable exception of Texas, they're allowed to be side by side. And the flag protocol is the Christian flag is never subservient to the US flag either. Uh so if you put it in your sanctuary, it's not because the national flag is over the Christian flag. And even to have a Christian flag is kind of a um you know, I don't know who decided where where that flag came from. And these symbols are important. Sure, but I think it's kind of like words themselves. Words are a collection of symbols that that we assign a meaning. And and and that meaning can drift and change. I mean years ago you could say gay and mean something completely different than somebody who says gay today means. Or if you're in in uh England and you say, you know, F A G, I'm not even sure if I can say that on the radio, but uh they mean something completely different than we would mean Uh yeah, they mean a cigarette. Right. Cigarette butt. But here it means something different. Even the dreaded N-word uh has a different uh acceptability. Um years ago compared to now it wasn't qu I don't know that it was I I think it's taken on increasing derogatory meaning over time as it's associated with all of the ills that have been perpetrated upon a particular segment of our population. So same with the symbols uh the the the the typical things we think of as symbols. Um there was a time when Christmas trees were a really clever way of taking pagan celebrations and Christianizing them uh for a purpose Um I know some people, in fact, I've done it in my family where uh jack-o' lanterns uh are turned into object lessons for for Christianity and the gospel. There are opportunities to make use of these symbols around us and assign meaning. But over time, I don't know that anybody really thinks about what a Christmas tree is supposed to mean or anybody who really thinks about a jack o' lantern and what it could mean. I wonder if we've c begun in our society now to lose track of what all the symbols assigned to our flags really mean So let's talk about uh a particular area of expertise for you, Bernie. Let's talk about the Maryland state flag and some of the symbols that are attached to it that we as Marylanders for the most part have completely forgotten. What are some some Christian uh attachments to the Maryland flag? Well I wrote a gospel flyer, as you know, about the Maryland State flag and my subtitle is the most beautiful flag in the Union is an illustration of the greatest need in the universe. Because as you look at it, it's a busy flag. Uh the University of Maryland has four school colors. because there's four colors in the Maryland flag. Now two of them are black and white, but uh red and gold. Um and it's two flags. You look at it, you say, Well looks like they combined two flags. Well that's exactly right. Uh but they went back to uh in the sixteen thirties When George Calvert came to his king, King James I of England, you've probably heard of his Bible. Um, George Calvert had been the ambassador to, I believe it was Spain, a very Catholic country. And uh in England you could not be in the Privy Council if you were Catholic. And while George Calvert was in Spain, he was influenced by uh Catholic priests and he became Catholic personally. Went back to England and he eventually, because he was good friends with King James I, he eventually confided in him that I've become Catholic. And that meant he was out of the Privy Council. It's kind of like the law of the Medes and Persians. Even the king couldn't change it Just because the king likes you, if you're Catholic, you can't be in the government at that particular time. Um but uh King James I said, But I want to do some things for you, essentially he said that. Uh because I like you. I'm gonna give you a title, Lord Baltimore I'm going to give you a castle, Castle Baltimore, and I'm I'm going to knight y you'll get the rights of heraldry and you get to make a uh a family crest a personal family crest. The Maryland flag is n is uh a flag representation of that family crest. George Calvert and the Calvert side of the family The family colors, like people had family colors in those days, were black and gold. And so it the actual imagery of looks looks a little bit like a checkered flag It's supposed to be palisades or uh like a posts of a fort up and down and then a sash going across it. So if you look at it it's not It's ang it's an angled uh uh black and gold, and that's like a sash going across a man's chest so he can carry a sword, because George Calvert fought for his king. Now he only fought politically, but That just shows that he was he was fighting for his king. And his mother's name was Crossland. And they also had family colors and family emblem. And that of course is a cross, red and white. And so this cross is a very special cross. It's a Catholic cross. Um it's a four-armed cross called a botany cross. Botany meaning buttons. So it's four arms and at the tip of the four arms it has three little circles representing buttons. And it's part of the family crest, but that's a that is a distinctly Christian symbol on the Mer on the uh Maryland state flag. Yes, the the four arms cross is represented that the four gospels should go to the four corners of the earth. And what is the four gospels? Or what what is the gospel? Uh contained in the four gospels? The three buttons symbolize it's God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. Frankly, it was a crusader's cross. So this is m maybe more of a Christian flag than the Christian flag. But to honor both sides of your family in heraldic imagery You wouldn't put one over top of the other or one side by side which one comes first. You would quarter it. And there is a slight supremacy of the first and fourth quadrant, but that's that's kind of that's what you do in correct herald heraldry. Maryland's the only state flag that has correct heraldry in it. Um well anyway that explain that Brian. Um well every other state flag it has some imagery that's indigenous to America. Okay. Well this goes back to George Calvert's personal family crest Which was then used in the Maryland seal and Maryland didn't have like everybody didn't have flags. Um the Baltimore colors, the black and gold, tended to be the Maryland colors. Um and that's the Baltimore City flag, for instance, has has the black and gold only with uh the uh a monument in the middle. Uh but in the run up and the action of the Civil War, Maryland raised regiments for both sides. Mostly North And so they decided, but you know, the people at the time, black and gold, that's Maryland for the North. But if you were in Robert E. Lee's Army of Northern Virginia, but if you were from Maryland you would probably have pinned on your uh on your shirt somewhere a botany cross showing that you were from Maryland, but you're fighting for the South. Then after the war Uh there was a the great need in America, in Maryland, was reconciliation. Remember I said the subtitle? This flag represents the greatest need in the universe, reconciliation. And so after uh former Confederate soldiers and s former Union soldiers reconstituted the Maryland National Guard units. Um And you know, everybody took the oath of loyalty, you know, so everybody's Americans now. Um part of the Union, Maryland National Guard. Um, they got the idea for this flag. Well, they took the two flags. and put them together and then in Baltimore, I think it was eighteen eighty eight for the hundred and fiftieth anniversary of the founding of Baltimore, there's a big parade, and Maryland National Guard's there and they're marching with this with almost this flag. They actually flipped it. They put the Confederates in the first and fourth quadrant and the Union in the second and third, um, because they were mostly Confederates in the new new newly reformed Maryland National Guard. Um but the Marylanders saw that and they saw that's the two emblems of North and South combined to show reconciliation and it really resonated with the people of Maryland. And within about twenty some years the the American legislature they made this, they they f they flipped, so the union was in the first quadrant, slight supremacy Um they made that the official Maryland flag. So it symbolizes reconciliation. It's interesting and there's all this Christian symbolism in the flag And Christianity of course is a Christianity of of reconciliation and then there's this reconciliation theme in the flag as well. So I mean there's so much fodder for gospel proclamation in the flag. And go to the go to the uh the flagstaff itself. Uh I don't know. Before you talk that uh touch on that, uh the person reminding me to uh to ask Bernie about the uh the staff is Tim May. He's pastor at uh Pleasant View Church of the Brethren in Jefferson, also uh uh host of a of a uh moderately popular show, I think uh Monday through Friday, three to six on WFMD I'm Fro Skinner and this is the Faith Debate and the other voice you're hearing is that of Bernie Beale with Great Commission families. So yeah, in in uh what nineteen forty five I think something happened. Yes, Maryland is the only World War II ended. World War II ended. And um it was the the front end looking back we can definitely see it. I'm not sure how much they knew it at the time. It was the front end of the Cold War where there was two world powers, one the United States of America, which is based on principles um well, the the revolution that was America in in my way of thinking and expressing it is that rights do not come from uh governments or kings, rights come from God. That's what's stated in the Declaration of Independence, which is foundational and um and formational for the Constitution. We hold these truths to be self-evident that all men are created equal and endowed by their Creator with certain inalienable rights, and that among these rights are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness. The Declaration goes on to say that governments are instituted among men to protect the rights that God has given. And that phrase God given rights. It's just ubiquitous in American political discourse. It's unique in world history. And it was in utter contrast to the Soviet Union, which says there is no commies. Well, as I was fond of telling college uh when we would do evangelistic training, people are never the enemy. They may be captives in a mindset. They may be captives of the enemy, but people are never the enemy. So um so it's remarkable that today the former Soviet Union has um uh has embraced this Christian roots of over a thousand years into Russia um more so than uh the the the typical intelligentsia of America. So as a result of all of that, the the the emergence of the co the beginning of the Cold War on the aftermath, immediate heels of the Second World War Maryland decided to add something that no other state I think you told me before the show, no other state has ever done. What is what is that? Add an official flagstaff ornament. And so if you walk b if you drive by a a a public school, an elementary school in Maryland If they are flying a Maryland flag officially they should have on top a botany cross. One of these it's the same cross uh that uh is in red and white. uh in the two quadrants of the uh of the Maryland flag and it's the cross that shows that the four gospels should go to the four corners of the earth and the gospels symbolize by the three buttons on the each end of each arm. Alright, so that so that raises the point of of debate now. This is the faith debate. The two of you, you you can take turns, whatever. Somebody who's not a Christian Somebody maybe who's militantly defending a a secular view on on civic things is gonna say, wait a minute Bernie Beale just spent like seven hours detailing all the Christian symbolism in the Maryland flag and then seventy two years ago Maryland had the audacity to put a Christian cross as the official uh emblem for the flag. What in the world is going on? Not only do we have to get rid of all those statues of the Confederates Not only do we have to take a knee at the national anthem when the flag is unfurled, but we got to get rid of these Christian symbols in Maryland. And what would we say in response to that as Christians? Well it it's a it's a question that has been asked. Uh uh I wish this was just for uh you know uh hypothetically speaking, but it's not. And uh you'll see the Maryland General Assembly this year when they come in, there will several bills will be prefiled. Oh and uh uh changing the entire State American flag, which would be I I think would be horrible in in respective of uh from whence we came. I could uh be the devil's advocate in saying that, well, the cross does not represent me if I were, you know, if I'm not a Christian. And uh I think it would be you know, it could be even I guess could far enough say i it it inflames me if if I'm not a Christian. Um I, as a personal opinion, would would hopefully leave it alone. I I think those days of of um political correctness have gone nuts and uh but I would be able to say Bernie I and I I could understand their their point of view. And uh, you know I would pray for the outcome on that. Mm-hmm. Let me share an analogy. I I um learned from uh uh one of my favorite authors about American history, a man named Bill Federer. That's kinda to give a a a footnote, if you will. So I didn't come up with this concept, but I I think it's really brilliant. Um if you go back to the pilgrims and the Puritans they came for religious freedom. Actually they uh the pilgrims came to be able to be uh lights to a lost world they use the metaphor from Jesus because they already had religious freedom in the Netherlands. The Puritans came after 'em for religious freedom. And you could say they built the boat of liberty. That's the metaphor. They built the boat of liberty for themselves. Uh the joke is that they came to America to work just worship God the way they wanted to, and to make everybody else do the same. At least initially that's what the Puritans were doing. They were trying to purify the church. So if you're coming into our colony, you gotta do it our way. But over time the boat of liberty got expanded where okay, you you don't have to be just a Puritan, you can be any kind of Protestant Christian. And then you can see how this goes. And then over time it got expanded. Okay, you don't have to be a Protestant Christian. You can be any kind of Christian. So the Catholics were included. And of course that Maryland was the first colony to have actual religious freedom. Because the boat of liberty now could be any Christian. It wasn't until after the Re American Revolution, um a couple decades after the revolution, you c uh for Jewish people to have religious freedom officially, completely. uh being able to hold office and that kind of thing. So the vote of freedom got enlarged again. And then the Civil War did the the great need that was embedded in the Constitution or the Declaration of the Constitution. It It it's inevitable, you know, that that uh there need to be freedom for every person in America. So the boat of liberty got larger and larger and larger, and over time it's gotten larger. But it's as if in these last generations or last generation or so, the people that have gotten in the boat they've looked around and said, Christian, what are you doing in the boat? Get out of the boat So the people who built the boat Uh I mean compared you know the you we we don't have a uh perfect history, but compared to what's going on in the rest of the world, it is amazing how the boat of liberty has been a blessing to all. George Washington got a letter when he was president. uh from a j uh Jewish synagogue, I believe it's in Georgia, saying, uh what's gonna happen to us now? Uh that's not exactly how they said it, but they were just, you know, a little concern And he wrote back a beautiful letter essentially saying there is no place on earth that you should be more safe than the United States of America. has gotten enlarged, but remember who built the boat. So if you remove the symbols of those who built the boat, you're then on a the law of unten unintended results. that could lead to a type of tyranny that you know we can't imagine the future. But uh let's remember let's at least understand the past in a way that uh looks at it honorably and honestly. Good stuff from Bernie Beale of Great Commission Families online at Great Commission Families or uh GC families dot org. Um Tim May, he's with Pleasant View Church of the Brethren in Jefferson, also here of course at WFNB in the afternoons, Monday through Friday. I'm Troy Skinner. to thank our sponsors, uh Hilo Auto Sales, online at HiloAutoSales. com and Tire Pros of Frederick. Um we will do this again in one hundred and sixty seven and a half hours. Until then, thank you so much for listening. Have a great week. God bless