This is the Faith Debate, a theological roundtable gab fest, a free-for-all four, with faith community leaders wrestling over the truth. In less than one half hour, learn more about what really matters than what most others learn in a week. The Faith Debate is on the World Wide Web at WFMD. com keyword faith, sponsored by Hilo Auto Sales, Entire Pros of Frederick. Are you ready for the clash of ideas? Are you ready for the sound of freedom? Let's get ready to rumble. This corner, weighing in with a Master of Divinity from Reformed Theological Seminary, the Faith Debate Master of Ceremonies. Troy Skinner. The Bible was written a really long time ago. A really long time. Before smartphones even. Before Twitter or Facebook. Even before television, radio newspapers The Bible is so old it was written before there were typewriters, printing presses, or even books as we'd recognize them today. How can it all be relevant to us today? We're gonna get into that a little bit later on in the show. Actually, Jesus, he's pretty cool Apostle Paul, he's pretty cool too. So maybe the New Testament at least is a little bit relevant and trustworthy as a guide for our lives. But what about the old testament? Come on, all those religious rules and regulations. So-and-so begat so-and-so, all that moral law, ceremonial law, civil law. Well, undaunted to talk about the trustworthiness of the Bible and how it's relevant to us today Two longtime ministers of God's Word. Peter Kemeney, pastor at Good News Presbyterian Church, and Kent Kent Rambler, pastor at People's Baptist Church, both churches in Frederick. Thanks for coming on. Uh hope you enjoyed your Christmas break. Your pastures on Christmas time, you're working your butts off, I know. And uh I actually had a great time. I was able to slip away to Chicago for a couple of days. Oh, okay. Well I'm glad that today is uh New Year's Eve and not New Year's Day because Nine o'clock on New Year's Day, nobody's listening. New Year's Eve we got a shot. I think somebody's listening today. Hello, listener. Uh so uh we had w last week we were talking about whether the Bible can be trusted And uh I wanna I also want to talk this week about how the Bible can be trusted to be relevant in our lives. But let's pick up the thread from last week 'cause I I could tell you guys were itching at the end of last week. Both of you, you had your hands up pointing away, look, don't go on the show, no The most important thing I'm going to say all day and I'm not going to get to say it. So I'll give you a chance to have your final thoughts on uh you know your final salvos on reasons people should trust that the Bible uh really is and should be authoritative that we can trust that it what's been delivered to us is is accurate. All right, I'll try to be brief. That's probably an oxymoron for a pastor. Yeah I was going to say it's not yeah. Why lie? Okay? Let's not start pastors aren't brief. They how long do you preach at your church? I preach for forty-five minutes. Enough said. You brought the same no, about thirty minutes? Thirty five minutes. Thirty-five minutes. Okay. All right. But mine's worth listening to. Oh I'm being facetious there. Well, I just wanted to follow up on something that you had said right at the very end because I get this question many times from people Well how do we know we still have God's word thousands of years after it was written? And uh the remarkable thing is for the Old Testament we are confident that we have the very words that Moses wrote or Isaiah wrote because of two different um major items. One is uh the Masoretic scribes and even just the ways the the the Hebrews uh revered their scriptures and copied it so carefully, taking great pains uh to know even how many letters were in a book, what was the middle letter of that book, and then making sure that it matched up Otherwise they would destroy it and start again. And very reverent with the name of God as they would write it. Then also, uh the discovery of the Dead Sea Scrolls really helped confirm that the Hebrew manuscripts were in fact very well copied down through the millennia. And those Dead Sea scrolls actually gave us Hebrew manuscripts that were uh a thousand years older than anything we had in existence. And uh those were matching up with very, very little difference. But century scrolls they were discovered in the back of the nineteen forties, I think, right? 1946, 47, that time period. It's interesting. The main centerpiece of those Dead Sea Scrolls was the scroll, the Isaiah scroll In fact this is uh an Israeli national treasure. You can see it in the shrine of the book there in Jerusalem. But what's interesting to me it was discovered a year before Israel was made a nation and the Isaiah scroll had prophesied that God's people would be back in their homeland again And they found that prophecy, the Isaiah scroll, just the year before the Balfour Declaration came to pass in May of nineteen forty eight. But also the New Testament is a whole different animal because uh you had people trying to mass mass producing these things uh not as carefully. uh copying, uh trying to get it out as quickly as possible. People were clamoring for these things, uh paying for them. And uh churches were spreading so quickly they had to have these copies. And so uh a little different, but whereas with the Hebrew we don't have a lot of manuscripts, but they're very carefully copied with the with the New Testament. Uh the numbers are now approaching about 6,000 Greek manuscripts, and then you go on up into the tens of thousands with the ancient Latin, Syriac, Coptic. uh all of these different ancient languages, uh and not just thousands of these, but also very close to the originals. And to put this in perspective, if you took the Homer's Iliad Which is kind of like the McGuffey reader of the day in the ancient world. Uh we only have six hundred and forty-seven Greek manuscripts of the Iliad. And none of them are within a thousand years, probably uh hundreds and hundreds pr a thousand years from the original And yet we don't really question that we have the Iliad today. And yet the New Testament blows that out of the water. Aristotle, we just have a handful of manuscripts of him. And so when you look at the numbers and the age of the New Testament manuscripts, in fact uh One New Testament scholar, Daniel Wallace, believes he may have just found part of Mark's gospel dating to the first century. And uh and part of why the number of of manuscripts is important is because if you have all these different manuscripts you can compare them with one another and see if there's been any changes. And something else that's important to note is They weren't all found in the same place. Right. There are different uh traditions, you know, different Christian traditions and Jewish traditions and language streams and different continents and all these different places and you you pull it all together and you compare them And are there some differences here and there, maybe some copying errors or or translational issues or things like that? They are, but you can sift through those because you have such a preponderance. hundreds, thousands of things to look at, and you can take the outliers and say, okay, there I have uh let's keep this the math simple. I've got a hundred things in front of me. Ninety-none of them agree, one of them is different Which one am I gonna trust? So in this case, multiply that by ten. Yeah. If we only had one to go on Well, okay, and maybe they didn't copy it downright. But we can kind of weah we can hand it to another student and have them grade the paper. So it If you look into it, uh and this is really a science, um the textual studies, um you can be be confident that the Bible was reliably uh transmitted down through the centuries. The copies are reliable because of the processes that the scribes use to make these copies and whatnot And so uh we're really dealing with two questions. Number one, uh is the Bible the Word of God in its original manuscripts? And then the second question is has it been reliably transmitted down through the centuries so that the Greek and Hebrew uh documents that are English translations and translations in other languages come from Are these reliable? And we can say yes. The transmission is reliable. But still people have the question. Can I trust the Bible? What do I do? And what I've said to folks who are unbelievers who ask this question, and it's an honest question that many of them do ask, I just tell them something that the Bible teaches. Excuse me, in Romans 10. 17, Paul writes, Faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the Word of Christ. In other words, I say to these folks, read the Bible, sit under the teaching of the Bible, ask questions of the Bible. Go to church. Go to a church that teaches the Bible, a church that doesn't use the Bible as a springboard for some uh topical talk. but rather a church that uh teaches its way through books of the Bible according to the uh uh author's original intent in its historic context. And learn what the Bible is teaching. And I'm persuaded that the Spirit of God will uh likely open a person's eyes. to recognize the divine authority of Scripture if they stay with it. And try one of the things I have just been amazed with through the years is, you know, we all have books that we enjoy reading, but you read it once and and it's good. You've set it on the shelf, you never go back to it. Some books are really good and you may read it a second or a third time But as many times as I've read the Bible and read the Bible through, I I don't know how many times, thirty, forty times, every time I read it, there is more to find. It's as though the author had a depth that is way beyond any human author I've ever read. And that to me speaks of the genuineness of the divine origin. of this book. Yeah. And if I might add, Kent, I mean Kent uh teaches through books of the Bible. I teach the books of the Bible every Sunday. We're working through a different passage. But the most fascinating aspect for me is that I not only learn new new facets of what the passage is teaching, but I discover how the Old Testament and the New Testament are in concert. Yes. How the Old Testament is the bud and the New Testament is the blossom. And um in very subtle ways, but there's a depth to the Bible. And once somebody gets into it, uh it is self authenticating. Just recently I read uh preached through the book of the Revelation. You cannot read the book of the Revelation without understanding the Old Testament. Right. It is the foundation for that New Testament. Yeah. Yeah. It's tight. Uh somebody who isn't who ha who hasn't spent any time or a lot of time reading the Bible and certainly somebody who you know doesn't identify as a Christian, doesn't have the have the illumination of the Holy Spirit uh guiding them as they read it, might not appreciate this. But Uh so this is almost inside baseball, uh the what I'm about to say. But some people have doubts about uh whether we have the entire Bible and they'll want to include the Gospel of Thomas or the Gospel of Philip or something like that. But If you've read the Bible, particularly if you've read the Bible under the inspiration, you know, the illumination of the Holy Spirit, uh, but even not, I think if you've spent time in the Bible and you read these other uh supposed books that should have been considered for the but it's clear they don't belong. There is something tangibly different in the lacks the ring of truth. Yeah, it really does. Well Jesus said my sheep Hear my voice in John chapter ten, and so you can recognize the voice of your shepherd. And that was one of the other questions I had to answer for myself, is if I okay, I believe the Bible is God's Word, how do I know Which books are God's Word? What is the Bible? And that whole question of canonicity, which books belong as part of the standard of God's Word? uh the Apocrypha, for instance. Some believe that that's God's word, but Jesus is very clear that the Apocrypha is not to be included. Uh but that's another topic and I don't want to get off. This is the Faith Debate on 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, joined this week by Kent Ramler, who's pastor of People's Baptist Church. And from Good News Presbyterian Church, the pastor there is Peter Kemene. Uh I teased at the beginning that we were going to talk about something that I'd like to get to a little bit. So we've decided the three of us are in agreement in concert. Now the listener might not have be totally persuaded, but for now we're going to assume that we've completely persuaded anyone who might have happened upon the show. That the Bible is inspired, is it it is inerrant, it is infallible, but is it relevant? Does it apply anymore? I mean we talk about these ancient manuscripts, which are copies of of works that were written way before that even. We're talking about stuff that is two, three, four thousand years old. How could that possibly be be relevant? I mean it was I was joking at the beginning about the uh you know Facebook and uh printing press and all that sort of stuff. But seriously There is no technology. We live in a world that is immersed in technology. So how does my technologically advanced world relate to an aggregarian uh culture, a a uh the uh nomadic tribe culture in some cases uh that doesn't relate to me, does it? And you say why. No, let me let me just start off. I guess I'll I'll take the floor here for a moment. Uh even the New Testament itself, two thousand years old. How can that be relevant to us? You've got uh, you know, yeah, as you say, free video society. And yet, just recently preaching in the book of Philippians And Paul tells us in Philippians chapter 4 how we can have contentment in life, regardless of what our condition or circumstances are. And Paul's in prison awaiting trial under Nero. And he says, I've learned in whatsoever state I am therewith to be content. And he tells you how to have peace in your life. He tells you how God can supply all of your needs. because of his vast riches in glory in Christ Jesus. So is contentment a relevant topic today? Is peace of mind a relevant topic? Is Happy marriage. A happy marriage? Is that a relevant topic? Uh having your needs uh God supplying your needs. That's a good topic though. That's hot that's a hot topic. You know, marriage. What what is marriage? And those who want to throw stones at the Bible. uh are going to say, well the Bible's irrelevant because the Bible doesn't even recognize that two men can get married or two women can get married. And so that's an example where somebody would say, would use marriage as a way to say the Bible's not relevant. Or some of the you know, more arcane kind of laws uh in in Leviticus and Deuteronomy where you know we get stoned for this, stoned for that. And you know, do these things still You know, what to do with your house when it has mold in it. You know, do those things still ring relevant and Kent will say this too. Every Sunday or just about every Sunday, forty-eight Sundays a week For the past 27 years, I've been preaching through the through books of the Bible. I've never run into a problem where I've taught a passage that wasn't relevant. Once I understand the historical context, once I sometimes you have to step back a little bit to see the bigger context. But every single passage in the Bible is relevant. And that's why Paul wrote in Second Timothy Timothy three sixteen, all scripture is useful. I preached through I Y I knew a pastor and uh you know y sometimes people say, the book of Leviticus, I mean, that has laws about offerings and mildew. How could that be relevant? A pastor friend said he was teaching a Bible study of college kids um and one of the kids wasn't a believer, but he kept coming. And he would come and he just sat there and he would have sort of a quizzical uh look on his face as he was teaching through the book of Leviticus. And um the guide became a believer uh through studying the book of Leviticus. How can this be Well, because the Book of Leviticus is part of the Word of God. Well, and the Book of Leviticus talks about those sacrifices and as you begin to dig deeper you realize that all of that ceremonial law was given as a picture, kind of a almost an extended allegory, if you will, of the true sacrifice that God would one day send. Right. And you begin to realize, oh, this does have significance beyond an animal living thirty five hundred years ago, um the significance of sacrifice, the significance of uh the atonement uh being reconciled to God, having your sin forgiven, uh how this happens, how God's gonna so it's very, very relevant. I my very first Sunday, my very first sermon at People's Baptist Church I preached on the genealogies, from the genealogies of Matthew chapter 1. I think people will tell you it was one of the best sermons I ever preached. Yeah. It's about Abraham and it's about um David. And you see, for instance, in those genealog genealogies, several women that would not have stood out as successes in our society, uh, whether it be Bathsheba or uh Tamar or even Mary, who would be accused of being unfaithful. And yet you see them in the lineage of Christ, you see redemption there, you see purpose, uh, you see the love of God, you see the uh fulfillment of prophecy. So all of these, even genealogies, have significance. in telling the overall story. Yeah. And not and we would say to uh folks who who are unfamiliar with scripture and want to become familiar with it We would say uh that not every part of the Bible is as immediately relevant or immediately accessible as other parts. And so I typically tell uh folks new to the scripture, start with the four gospels and then work your way through the New Testament, maybe do that a couple times, or then jump over to Genesis. But um I think it's good to start with the gospels and um and see what they're saying. And going back to a question you had raised earlier on the topic of marriage. Yeah, we have to understand something. We don't write the rules. We are not the creator. And if if God teaches us something in Scripture, he must have a reason for it. And so when he talks about marriage between uh a man and a woman and that it should be a monogamous marriage uh when he talks about faithfulness in that marriage. Um you know it's not for me to change the rules here. That that's God giving me those rules. You know, culture changes with the winds of time. Uh but God's word is settled and sure and absolute and truth. And in fact I would argue that the Ten Commandments really is teaching me the character of God. It's showing me the person of God and who he's like. So for instance, thou shalt not God is a faithful adultery God in his covenant relationships. Um and on and on it goes, I know. And what about rules where you know that uh God has given us gave rules in the Old Testament about you know celebrating the you know the feast of weeks, the feast of happening or something like that. Which Christians don't do that anymore. So what do you do with that? Well, the Old Testament, there are three categories of law in the Old Testament, and I think this is where people get uh discouraged or frustrated or confused about the Old Testament. So many of these Old Testament laws, for example, are ceremonial laws. They were uh you might say object lessons that pointed forward to the coming of Jesus Christ The New Testament Book of Hebrews explains how Jesus fulfilled all those Old Testament ceremonies, so we don't need to go back to those object lessons. That talk about the holiness of God and God's call on us to be holy. Uh Jesus fulfilled those object lessons. That's why we don't worry about uh offerings, sacrifices, priesthoods. um mixing seeds and so on. That's all fulfilled in Christ. The moral law, summarized in in the Ten Commandments, is eternally valid in the Christian life. Well, that you did it in in about a minute. Good for you. I'm impressed. Peter Kemeney just impressed me. He's a pastor of Good News Presbyterian Church. joined this week also by Pastor Kent Ramler, who's the pastor at People's Baptist Church in Frederick, also home to uh Frederick Christian Academy, by the way. That's right. Um this is the Faith Debate. Our sponsors are Hilo Auto Sales, Atlanta Hilo Auto dot com and uh TirePros of Frederick. Thank you so much for listening. You can find us online at WFMD. com keyword faith. There you'll find um uh kind of a a a listener's guide of what's coming up on the show, also links to podcasts. So if you missed part of a show or this is our third, we'll do one more show together with this panel. If you missed any part of the four shows rolls on, you can find those podcasts and listen to them uh later on. Next week I think we might tackle the question of how does someone move from unbelief to belief in Christ. That would be a good topic to tackle as our first show of twenty eighteen. believe it feels like it was just the first week of December, like moments ago, and now here it is, first week of January. Till next week, God bless.