Welcome to the Great Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I am your host and moderator, Troy Skinner. Thank you so much for taking time out of your busy schedule to sit with us for a spell. If you've been listening to the Fate Debate last couple of weeks, then you have heard us continue a discussion that's we've had three, this would be four, I guess, on the topic of penal substitutionary atonement and the gospel and honor, shame, innocence, guilt, power, fear, that whole dynamic. And we started this little arc of programs kind of as a one-off last fall. I forget the one it first broadcast was it maybe November? Uh I think it might have been November of uh twenty twenty five. And then we just had two more shows these past couple of weeks and now here we are in April and I'm gonna try to put a finishing touch on some of this. And part of this is just for scheduling purposes, but also I had a bunch of notes I didn't get to share and I figured, you know what? I might as well share the notes with you. You know what I'm saying? So if you miss the first three shows in this arc of programs, then I'm gonna just review a little bit here and then share with you some of the thoughts that I wanted to expand upon that I began to touch on in the other three programs that didn't really drive home the way I would have liked because of time constraints and that sort of a thing. By the way, if you want to follow the faith to debate you can do so online at household of faith in Christ dot com and of course at wfmd. com and uh through the community podcast uh community podcast the christian podcast community hello Christian Podcast Media. org, Household of Faith in Christ. com, and WFMD. com. Those will be the three best places to go to connect with the show. So let's dive in here My concern in talking about contextualizing the gospel presentation in different cultural settings is if we're not careful, we over-contextualize to the point that we actually lose The Gospel Proclamation. It's become traditional in a lot of ways in the West, quote unquote, to think in terms of forensic legal categories. Guilt. Innocence. There is a holy God. We sin against him. We stand guilty before the judgment throne of God. What are we going to do? This is why we need a Savior at the cross to pay that penalty for us and so forth. And those like the Razbies, and even maybe a little bit of David Forresty the last couple of weeks, are indicating that maybe that's too flat And that the Bible also talks about honor and shame and power and fear, and we need to share the gospel in those contexts too. And as far as that goes. Okay, I'm with you. But let me explain where my concern is. First of all, I don't think it's merely a Western culture thing. I think it's a biblical thing first, and the West has been heavily influenced by the Bible over the years. And so the West has a biblical framework on this issue for the most part, at least when it's doing what it should be doing. Of late, the West is postmodern and it's lost its mind. But anyway, historically speaking, the traditional West, let's put it that way. So when we talk about our guilt and our innocence, the Bible definitely talks about that. Now in fairness, those who would not be as concerned as I am on this issue would say, of course we can talk about guilt and innocence, but let's also remember that in certain places, like maybe in the east, where honor and shame are really what drive their thinking, their worldview, we need to meet them where they are. And that's where I say I agree. I am willing to meet anybody where they are and bring them to the gospel, bring them to the cross But here's something to think about when it comes to an honor-shame category, or culture rather, it's not about whether you personally did something that was bad. or good for that matter. It's the question of whether you have done something that elevated your family. So it's not about right and wrong. It's not about sin really, it's about maybe uncleanness. Is that maybe a biblical category we could talk about? And so did you do something that uh elevated or diminished your family, or by extension, the community, because all of the families are interconnected at some point, particularly in specific cultural ethnic categories So is your family, is the community placed in a good light because of things that you are doing or that people think that you are doing? Are you more honorable now? Or maybe have you shamed your family? Like these are the kinds of questions that they want to emphasize. And I get it. And there can be a healthy emphasis when there's an emphasis on the Klan or the image of the Klan. that that can be an important aspect of something to address. But is God primarily through the cross of Christ setting things right within our community, or is he setting things right between us and him? Now, that gets complicated because we being in him, Christians being in Christ, are part of a community, but we're individuals who are in that community. And the individuals will stand before the judgment seat of God. And outside of Christ, we don't have a prayer. God's going to say, you are guilty. And now those, like you heard last week and the week before, those who aren't as concerned about this as I am going to say, well yeah, but he could also say, well, you've done is shameful. But yeah, but if you've done something that's shameful, you stand guilty Unless we're merely equivocating, which isn't necessarily a good habit to get into, then we're changing the definitions of what we mean by what the good news is sparing us from. The good news is we are saved. Saved from what? Condemnation They say, yeah, we're saved from disown, but with that dishonor comes condemnation, an eternal condemnation. And we do not want to water things down to the point where that gets lost in the messaging. Same with the power-fear dynamic. This is more common, let's say, in the Southern Hemisphere, Continent of Africa, South America, for example. This idea that God is powerful and There are evil spirits out there that are powerful and we're afraid of these powers, so we need someone to be our hero and have us be not afraid anymore because they're more powerful and we can have and share in that power to a certain degree Part of my concern with this is that we end up confusing categories when it comes to the spiritual and the mundane. Mundane meaning the earthly, the world, the physical realm. If we are fearful in this world, then we're not focusing on what's spiritual. Now, those who argue differently than me are going to try to point out and say, hey You know, there are spiritual dark forces and we should be afraid of them. And so that's why we need Christ. Yeah, but we should be afraid of them because we stand guilty before God and we're outside of Christ until we recognize our need for him to be covered in the blood shed for us. We can't pay the price ourselves, shed our own blood. Our blood is tainted. His blood is pure. So we need to stand with him and in him. And when we stand in him Our guilt is gone, and because our guilt is gone, we have nothing to be afraid of. And so then the power comes from that. So I guess my point is saying the Bible is saying pretty consistently As I read it, that it's about a holy God and our offense against him, our rebellion against a holy God. All people rebel against God. What do we do about that rebellion? And yes, that rebellion is shameful, and God deserves to be honored. And that rebellion brings with it fear because we're trying to assail the power position that God holds. as the creator of the universe. But when we are standing in fear because we are rebelling, or we are shameful because we're rebelling, that rebellion is sin, and sin is guilt. To try to get away from that is what troubles me. If we want to start in a culture and say, look, you don't have to be so afraid because God's more powerful Okay, that's a good entry point, but then you've got to share the idea that they stand condemned because of their sin before holy God We can't just stop. Same with, oh, what you've done is shameful. Yes, we need to emphasize the the shame aspect maybe with them early on to get them to understand what we're talking about and then say, and by the way, you know why they're shame? Because you're objectively guilty. Because if we we have to understand there are cultures all around the world that the shame isn't really about what you've done that's right or wrong. It's about what the cultural conditions on the ground say is shameful Me sharing the gospel with someone might be considered shameful in the eyes of some cultures. In fact, I know for a fact it's considered shameful. I've had guests on this very radio show. Be offended with me and others who would dare to share the gospel with them. It's offensive to them. It's shameful. Why would you do that? Well, because they or the culture or the conditions on the ground say that it's shameful doesn't mean it's actually shameful before God Because what matters is right and wrong before God, and God says it is right and good and true to share the gospel, no matter what kind of shame people might want to assign to you. So the categories again. We didn't talk a lot about power and fear these last three shows because I don't think that's an area that's of as much interest to the Razveys. They're the ones that brought this topic up for the show for us to discuss. They come from a Middle Eastern context, their family does. And so they have a tendency to think in the Mideast and Far East categories of honor and shame. But power and fear, the focus there will be Christus Victor, right? But resurrection is the key. But yet resurrection demonstrating his victory over even death, but why was there death? There was death that had to be overcome and conquered because of guilt. You can't have one without the other The gospel, I think, can be, and often is, proclaimed in clear guilt-innocence categories over and over again. And that's all you need to do. And by extension, you could mention honor and shame, you could mention power and fear, but you wouldn't have to to have a clear gospel proclamation But if you are beginning with an honor-shame presentation of the quote-unquote gospel, or a power-fear presentation of the quote-unquote gospel You can't just stop there. You have to get to the sin question. You have to get to the guilt and innocence question So to say it's about fear and honor or it's about shame and honor or power rather, if it's about those categories and that's all you're going to talk about, then I think you have an insufficient presentation of the gospel, and with insufficient you have to ask yourself, have you presented the gospel at all? My point here is guilt It's objective. You are objectively in violation of some righteous standard. Now you might feel guilty. That will be a subjective emotion in response to you having guilt, or you might not even actually be objectively guilty, you might just feel guilty without actually having guilt, bearing guilt. So we get confused on these things because our emotions are subjective and can be tossed to and fro. So we're going to keep the words the same if we want to say that shame and guilt are the same. Maybe we can go that far, but shame I don't think carries the weight that guilt does. And shame can also be understood as an emotion. I guess shameful would be better. I think that to do that puts you in a position of guilt. Or to do that puts you in a position of shamefulness, maybe I feel a little bit better about that than just saying shame, because shame feels like a subjective emotion to me. I think that's what we typically use the word shame. But if we're going to say shamefulness Maybe I feel a little bit better about that. And to feel fear, that's one of the categories too, right? Fear, subjective emotion, isn't it? I mean we can talk about the the honor and the high regard and the biblical kind of fear, but when people are talking about the power fear dynamic and the sharing of the gospel, they're not talking about the biblical category. They're talking about that emotional quaking in your boots kind of a thing And not just the guilt and the shame and the fear, but innocence and honor and power. Innocence. You are objectively free of being in violation of the righteous standard if you stand in innocence. If you're not guilty, you stand innocent. It's objectively, it's one or the other. It's black and white. Honor, a little grayer, right? Something can be considered highly honorable, maybe honorable, not sure if it's honorable It has to do with a position of respect and esteem, but I think again it's rather subjectively relative sometimes, and I'm concerned that we water down the clear presentation, proclamation of the gospel if we focus on that particular category alone. And then power as about being strong. uh varying degrees of being strong too, right? It's not necessarily a black and white thing. I'm strong, well compared to who? If I'm innocent or I'm guilty, that's boom, black and white. But if I'm strong, that's a comparative thing. So lots of gray area and the gray area I guess is what makes me nervous. So just to finish my thought on that power thing Think of it as a spectrum. You've got the highly powerful maybe on one end, and you've got the powerless on the other. But then there's all these grades in between, and if you compare one to another, some are more or less powerful than others. So could you say that I'm somewhat powerful and have that mean the same thing as I'm somewhat innocent? You see what I'm saying? I'm somewhat fearful. I'm somewhat guilty. You see how the categories, the guilt innocence is blacker and whiter, the power fear and the honor shame a little easier to be squishy about and massage and and move around and and so it all bothers me. Now we didn't get into talking about it at all, but it did come up as a brief contact uh a greet brief. Well I have a hard time spitting out my word. I think I've got so many things in my head right now. And I'm trying to make sure I get them all in in just this one episode so I don't have to do a whole bunch of background shows to fill in the gaps. So I'm gonna try to finish everything up here in the next ten minutes. But in one of the shows, I think it was Daniel Razzby brought up the idea of recapitulation and how important that is in all of this. And he didn't get a chance to flesh that out. But if you're not familiar, recapitulation has been around for years. I think it was Irenaeus who was big into recapitulation. The idea is that we need the active obedience of Christ and the recapitulation theory Technically, it's saying that we need the active obedience of Christ as of it applies to each phase of our lives This is why, again, I think it was Irenaeus. He thought that Jesus died as an older gentleman, at least in his fifties, because he needed to live as a post-prime physical specimen and be obedient in that context. in order to recapitulate our lives before God. Yeah, I don't think that uh that works So I do think though that it is important for us to not forget that the active obedience of Christ is important and not merely the passive obedience. Passive meaning the passion, the suffering. It goes into the Latin there So the passion of Christ, the passive obedience, meaning he pays the penalty, he is the atonement for sin. It's why he had to die. But it's not enough for him to take our bad record and pay the price for it, but we need a good record. And so he gives us that good record that comes with the active obedience of Christ. Well we have that I think Daniel is trying to indicate that you can't focus on the act of obedience of Christ and this idea of what he was calling recapitulation without focusing on honor and shame or power and fear. And I would disagree a hundred percent I think that there are lots of sermons and books and articles and lectures and just various presentations of the gospel that Talk about the active and passive obedience of Christ. They're talking about innocence and guilt, and they never really focus on honor and shame or power and fear. So I think that what I'm not saying is that honor and shame and power and fear as categories for sharing the gospel is a bad thing to touch upon. to uh to be sure that we don't ignore, I think we should talk about those things because the Bible does have categories for shame and honor and power and fear But the meta-narrative of Scripture, the overarching message of the Bible, is we have a creator who made us in his image to be holy. And we have violated that holy standing. We stand in rebellion. We stand in sin. We are broken image-bearers. And so what do we do? We need someone to come and be the image bearer we have been unable to be, and that is the person of Jesus Christ. And the work of Jesus Christ saves us. The passive and active work of Jesus Christ, if you will, is what saves us. from that marring of the image, that broken standing, that guilty standing that we have that puts us in a position of shame. That puts us in a situation where we feel fearful. And if we want to be seated in a position of honor with Christ, and if we want to share in the blessings of the kingdom in power with Christ, then we need our guilt. Done away with. We need to be innocent before a holy God. That's the gospel. And then out of gratitude for all of that You want to live a life that's not shameful, that's not based in fear, that's not full of guilt. So all of those things would be true, and so we could talk about those categories in that context. And then ultimately in glory, there is only honor, no more fear. There is only power and no more shame. And there is only innocence. No more guilt, because the guilt fell upon Jesus, and when the Father looks on his chosen, he accounts them as righteous. He accounts them as innocent. So if you would like to look into this a little bit more yourself, because this is heady stuff and it can be deeply theological and we probably, if this were a like a seminary class, you could do a whole semester. Of classes just on this and have lots of assigned reading and that sort of thing. But if you want, there is a desiring God That's John Piper's ministry. And John Piper, you know, he's hit or miss sometimes. I think he's mostly hit in his career, but his passivism and his vokelite tendencies have have gotten him into trouble over the last you know number of years. But he's generally a pretty trustworthy teacher when it comes to the gospel, generally speaking. And he's got an article on Desiring God. Their website is desiringGod. org. Look for distinguishing shame from guilt. Distinguishing shame from guilt is a brief little article, and I think there's a recording of the article too that just in case you don't want to read it, you want to listen to it, that's available for you as an option. Also, if you want to go to a website called Biblical Myssiology. org. biblical myssiology. org. There's a multi-part series on this subject matter by Jamie Miller. It's called Did the Apostles Proclaim and Honor Shame Gospel. Did they? It's a good question, right? Did the apostles proclaim an honor-shamed gospel? And there's at least two parts. I'm not sure if there's more than two, but there's at least a part one and a part two. I've read parts one and two. If there's part three and four, I didn't read those. So I can't vouch for those. But it's good and there's a lot of materials. It's truck full of information for you. And then there's another article that you can go to It's called I think it's Reaching and Teaching is a ministry. And so their website is rtim. org. I think the R and T stand for Reaching and Teaching. The IM, I'm not maybe I'm not sure what the I stands for. The M must be ministry. But anyway, it's RTIM. org, Reaching and Teaching Ministry. They've got an article that was published back in 2022 called Nothing to Be Ashamed Of, Penal Substitutionary Atonement. in honor shame cultures. So I would suggest that maybe that you would possibly want to read that and get some more background and information to help you navigate these things Look, I'm not saying that anybody who wants to focus on a Mars Hill experience and give great emphasis to something like the honor shame paradigm. Let's say you're in the Middle East, you're in Pakistan, let's say, or you're in the Far East, you're in China or Japan or something, and you're trying to share the gospel. Meeting them where they live in an honor shame category is probably incredibly wise and good and would be tremendously useful, helpful to getting them to give you a hearing, to understand kind of where you're coming from But at some point you've got to pivot and say it's not merely that you've brought shame upon your culture and your family and even yourself. It's that you stand condemned before a holy God. You've got to get there. And the same with if you're talking to somebody in the jungles of Africa or in the Amazon or South America or in the Caribbean or something where they're going to be more focused on the power-fear dynamic You can explain to them, yeah, you know, uh we have a powerful God, and he's to be feared in a healthy way. If you belong to him, if you're in right standing with him, and he is to be feared in a quaking in your booth way if you s if you stand uh in a in a bad way before him. And so they believe, yeah, well there's a powerful God, yes. And you know why he's to be feared in a way that's an unsaving kind of a fear Because you stand guilty. You've got to get there. You've got to go there. Or you haven't shared the gospel Am I crazy on this? I don't think so. And I've alluded to this on some of the shows. I guess I'll end with this final thought. It's under assail. Penal substitutionary atonement is under assail in the Western church right now. People are losing their bearings about how important that is. One, because people aren't reading the Bible. They're not attending church, or and if they are, they're not necessarily attending good churches. They're proclaiming the gospel in a biblical way. And there's been a lot of people who are disillusioned by what's going on in the world ever since 2020 particularly. And so there's been this bit of migration of Protestants moving towards uh the Roman Church or the Eastern Church And uh the Eastern Orthodox are not fans of penal substitutionary atonement. I would argue that means they're not fans of what the biblical gospel is, but you know, we'll have maybe one of them on the show. We can hash that out But penal substitutionary atonement, it's on the outs in too many ways. And if we lose that, boy We lose the importance of the gospel. We must fight to defend that. So penal meaning there's a penalty to be paid Substitutionary. There's a substitute who pays that penalty. Atonement. Meaning that that penalty is atoned for then by the one who pays the penalty. That substitute is Christ We stand guilty before God and so we need to pay a penalty. That's the penal part. And Christ is the atonement because he pays that penalty. He's our substitute. If we lose that, boy, we lose the whole game I'm flabbergasted that not everybody would agree with me on that. Well, clearly not everybody does. But anyway, I got that off my chest. I feel pretty good about it. Next week, I think what's slated is a discussion that's going to involve me, David Forcy, maybe a couple other folks, Elijah Dirksen, who's been on the show before, I think might be on, and I'm not sure who else might join us But I think we want to talk about what the gospel is and talk about salvation questions. And we might even particularly try to hit upon the question of once you're saved, And you lose that position of salvation. I think that that's gonna be what's coming up down the pike next week. Oh, and I almost forgot. Something else I wanted to mention. There's been all this talk about Western civilization, Western culture versus the Far East or the Mideast or the Southern Hemisphere, that sort of thing. And that somehow in the Western culture there's no idea at all. Supposedly, there's no idea at all about there being honor culture or fear culture. I'm sorry, but that's just not the case. Think about the Annabelle himself. That was a very big honor-shame kind of a culture. And yet they did not lose their bearings when it came to innocence and guilt, right? And you get down in the Cajun country and other parts maybe of this country that are more rooted in kind of a fear idea So it's not merely the West is only individualistic and only guilt, innocence. There's no honor, shame, there's no sense of community or clan or kinship or anything like that. That is just not true. It's not true. So the rubric is one thing, but then the necessity of the rubric is another. Do we really, really, really have to have this? Again, I think there can't be some wisdom in figuring out how to have your Mars Hill moments. You know, Paul met with those who had a particular cultural context and he spoke their language to get their ear and then he shared the gospel And so if we need to find different ways to get somebody's ear to then share the gospel, which talks about us having sinned against the Holy God, then I'm all for it. Anyway, thanks so much for indulging me this week as I finish my thoughts on this subject matter. I really do appreciate it. I'd like to have an opportunity to vent. If you don't have a place that you can vent, I I encourage you to go get one. Anyway, this is the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. Again, follow me online. Household of FaithInChrist. com will connect you to all the social media places I am. We'll connect you to information about this radio show, The Faith Debate. And of course you can go to WFMB. com as well. We will pick up the conversation on the faith debate 167 and a half hours from right now. God bless