Broadcasting from the West Side of Big Brother City in the Heart. of Gridlock County. We're preaching with impact. Ask these two guys over here. It's like plowing pavement. Why? Because people continue to place their hope in un Satisfying things. This is the Frederick Faith Debate sponsored by Putman Fleming and Eating. How can we make you smile? Faith Debate is online at WFMD. com keyword faith. I encourage you to go check it out right now, right now. Get your smartphone, your computer, let's go. Check it out. And what you'll find there are links to all sorts of information about religious traditions. You'll find reading recommendations. You'll find all sorts of interesting stuff, including the Faith Debate blog. And links to podcasts of this show. And the face to faith blog, well, our blog is your blog, so email me, Troy Skinner at Clearchannel. com. I post what you send me 18 times a day, that's 90 a week Well, eighteen times a day. If it was seven days a week it would be more than ninety, but it's only Monday through Friday. Even I, as indefatigable as I am, need a break on the weekend. Johnny You mean indefatigable? No, I can say it how I want. Tomato tomato, here we go again. We had this issue a couple of weeks ago. No no no. It was more than tomato tomato. That was a whole different word. Indepatigable. That is a good word. Jonathan Sweitzer's giving me a hard time. That has six syllables. If you'd like him to give you a hard time, show up at his church today around ten o'clock. On uh what do you have? Fourth Street? Is that where your church is? Uh yes, East Fourth Street. East Fourth Street, so he'll go visit there today. He'll give you a hard time at ten o'clock. That's right. All right. Feel the love. Crossroads Valley Church. Yes. And I'm not sure if he'll give you a hard time or not. He seems like a nicer guy than Johnson. That's six. So all right, so John, you can be quiet now. Umragilist next year doses. Mostly we've been talking about why James became an Orthodox priest uh and his theological reasons for doing so. We started out in show one, kind of getting the history of that. Last week we started to get in press into a little bit more of some of the specific theological questions and and and nuances and we ended we were talking about um what I referred to as the Lord's Supper and got smacked for. The the Eucharist, uh the uh the the Holy Communion, what have you. Um And I was a little bit lost and confused of exactly what the difference was that you were trying to make the distinction of why leave Protestantism behind. for the sacramental view. And as you were defining the sacramental view, it sounded an awful lot like what I believe. And I'm a Protestant, not an Orthodox uh church follower. So maybe that's the point. Maybe once he's through with you you'll say, Oh, I'm Orthodox just like he is. But if that's the case then uh he's also, you know, Presbyterian just like I am. I like where's Where is the difference? Well and and one of the things I I I think that while certainly historically, as I said before, uh you know guys like Luther and and Calvin, there was a certain uh sacramentality even in their theology, but Sacramentality. There's sacramental worldview and then there's sacramentality. Which is a little bit how you meant it? That's how I meant it. sacramental worldview that they still possess. But really or what it should have been. Yeah. And one of the things that um in studying Protestantism that uh I r realized is that um that later followers of these Protestant reformers in the face of scholasticism And um this whole idea of of minimizing minimizing what what uh the church had originally brought in terms of the sacrament became a result within Protestantism. So for instance, most most the vast majority of Protestant churches, if they even have a concept of sacraments is usually limited to baptism and holy communion or Eucharist, and that's it. And it includes uh kind of a minimalization of miracles, meaning that that we kinda look askance at the expectation of miracles. Which again makes me feel like we're not just looking pack back past Luther, but we're looking back past uh the whole um you know, Enlightenment era you know, back to Greek Orthodox to a group of churches that were that had really never uh been affected or changed by those things as much as Protestantism has spent a lot of time trying to react to and respond to the struggles of those things. Yes. Uh I mean am I hitting that accurate? You are. You are. You're you are barking up the right tree here. Um the the the the Protestant uh Reformation occurred as a result of primarily clerical and theological abuses that were occurring at the time. And so there was a reaction to to that. And in many cases uh the the baby was thrown out with the bathwater. And and the baby that got thrown out is what? Some of the things were the the broader understanding of how God operates through these sacraments. Some of the sacraments that we still hold, which by the way the Orthodox Church has only recently said um there's seven sacraments only really kind of to um to categorize things broadly but There was a point where the the Orthodox Church thought that there were as many as maybe a hundred or more sacraments. How does the Orthodox tradition define Sacrament. A sacrament is uh is uh is anything in which God's grace, an action of the priest or an action of the church whereby God's grace is manifest. And it could be a personal thing. It could be s in other words, at one time simply crossing yourself. whereby you are remembering your baptism, you are tracing the sign of the cross across your forehead, chest and and shoulders. was considered a sacramental act. That that it was an outward sign of an inward grace. And and so So it becomes an issue of definition then, right? Because defined that way the Protestants would agree, oh well yeah, there's a heck of a lot more than two sacraments, but we don't define our sacraments that way. And and how like Rome has d dealt with this is they call certain things like that, such as crossing yourself or or or maybe um having holy water um splashed on you as a sacramental as opposed to a formal uh a formal sacrament. And so the the Orthodox Church b basically has the Roman Catholic Church calls it a sacrament, you gonna say it's sacramental. No no no I what I'm saying is The Roman Catholic Church says there's a whole bunch of sacramentals out there, such as such as like crossing yourself, or even or even praying would be a sacramental, but it's not a formal It's not a formal sacrament that's been set apart as a special sacerdotal ministry of the church that is. Fathers, patriarchs that have said you know what, we're gonna call this now sacrament. acts of the church that are so uh sacred and and s and so important to I think John hit it maybe, right? I I think that's at least it hit it for me. You tell me if I'm if uh if I'm misunderstanding uh if John either mishit or he hit correctly we're both misunderstanding, I don't know which. Um the church fathers, there's a lot more authority, um That's the right word, given to the Church Fathers and Church of Tradition in the Orthodox fiction, much like with the Roman Church tradition, correct? Exactly. So the Protestants will have the two sacraments because they identify only two places in the Bible where the Lord Jesus Christ instituted a sacramental practice And since Christ instituted those sacramental practices, we identify as those as the only two sacraments. Right. But if you broaden it beyond things that Christ Himself instituted, in in the pages of scripture and you broaden it to the church fathers or significant church leaders through through the years, then you certainly can have a much healthier list. Sure. Or from a Protestant point of view, I guess an unhealthier list. And so okay, so this is where I think we begin to grapple with differences. Right? If you believed Moses, you would believe me. But what you've done is because of your human tradition, you've set aside what Moses said, and instead you follow your human tradition. It sounds to me that what you're describing is that instead of us believing Jesus who built on Moses, that we need to add all this human tradition as being, you know, uh a key to that whole thing. And and as soon as you go there, I'm like Well, I can't go there. Christ has warned so severely against that danger. So now you've got hundreds of sacraments. No, a hundred, sorry. Sacrament. I don't want to uh hyperbole there. Well officially up to a hundred. Well officially said but up to a hundred. Now you got all these sacraments where where I'm like, you know Man, are you tying up these huge burdens and laying them on people's shoulders and Well let me let me just first of all and let me let me name the seven sacraments o of the church that that we hold to and they are kind of categorized this way as the sacraments of initiation, which are baptism and chrismation, or what's also known as confirmation. uh in receiving a person in the church, which by the way in the Orthodox Church, when we baptize and and we chrismate and give a person holy communion all at the same time, as opposed to the Roman Catholic Church who may baptize a baby, wait till they're of the age of reason before they confirm them. Um but we believe that again under covenantal theology that uh entrance into the church is is you know for all coming uh with faith. So you baptize infants. We baptize inf infants. And infants participate in and we will We will give as soon as the same day that I baptize an infant, I would minister holy communion. Okay. So patio communion, patio baptism. Yes. Okay. And and so so there's baptism and and confirmation or chrismation as we call it in the Orthodox Church. Then there are the sacraments of vocation, which would be marriage or holy matrimony, because that's a vocation, and holy orders. Those are the vocations of the sacerdotal, uh, you know, the priests and deacons and so forth. Um, and then Eucharist, Eucharist and um Function. By the way, in the Orthodox Christian, can you do both? Can you be married and I am married. Okay. As long as you are As long as you are married prior to ordination. Oh, once you're ordained, then you if you were slammed the door. If you were single when you were ordained Then you then you have to remain so fall in love early. And if my wife were and if my wife, God forbid, were to depart this world. I cannot remarry. Hm. So Uh Eucharist and of course baptism and Eucharist are we see as the principle, you know, because you're baptized really so that you can receive Eucharist, because that's that's the that's the real healing presence of Christ. And then the others are penance or confession, sacramental confession, and then unction or anointing of the sick. So those are the seven. But Those are the same as the Roman Catholic Church, correct? Correct. Yeah. There's a there's a correspondence there. So um this idea of human tradition And we would agree, absolutely, with everything that Jesus said. But Jesus was addressing true human tradition, th the the pharisaical um tendency to add all these things that were un that were unnecessary uh weights placed upon people. The the tradition the sacred tradition of the thing. is is precisely the question. Right. So if you're doing something and it ends up being heavy and or ponderant p anyways, I don't know what the word. Ponderous? Ponderous. I think I was going to say ponderance. ponderous, then you know the point is is that maybe it is. Maybe it's become that. And how would you know? This is really getting at the the heart of one of the things that I that uh was that was that the center of my whole journey and that is um the whole idea of authority. And how is it because the the Bible itself in John says, you know, Jesus, there were so many more things that weren't written in Scripture. The fact is there was this whole deposit of the faith. Now scripture being Scripture being one of the preeminent things, obviously. The the Bible did not just fall out of the out of heaven in between the two alt the candles on the altar, okay? But rather was a book of the church that that was canonized, that is, that was declared divinely inspired and authoritative as a result of the the fathers of the church going through this process of discernment. And so that would that's one tr the Holy Scripture is is one piece of that tradition. But there is a whole other deposit of tradition that lies outside of just Scripture. And it's and I realize I'm going up against the sola scriptura, which was all another part of my journey of the faith, in in recognizing there are things that are handed down, sacred traditions, not human traditions, but sacred traditions that were that were handed down from the apostles that we have record of. Within the first generation following the apostles, there are there are things such as St. Ignatius describing Saint uh within the within the first century after Christ, who was a disciple of St. John, who describes sacerdotal Eucharistic worship. um describes administration of sacraments in the church that in in a way that is not described in the Bible. And so There is this whole deposit of sacred tradition that is preserved and handed down. Some of the other pieces of sacred tradition, for instance. uh might include um icons, the sacred hymns and liturgies of the church. Icons is something that Peter was a artist? I icon well s actually Saint Luke was considered the first iconographer, the first Christian iconographer. drew a painted a picture of uh what we would call the Theotokos Mary, the mother of Jesus. And um so he St. Luke was the one who really began the tradition of iconography. uh in the Orthodox faith. Let me jump in real quick. Jonathan Sweitzer is senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel and the one who's just now talking about the iconography and all of that sort of stuff is Father James Hemrick with Uh Saint John um uh the Baptist Orthodox Church. It's not a Baptist church, it's it's not a Catholic church, it's an Orthodox Church. And and our patron is St. John the Baptist. Makes sense to me. And I'm Freud Skinner and this is the Frederick Fate Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 930 WFMD. So yeah, we're beginning to get into a lot of areas of dis uh of disagreement uh in this room. Right. So many at once that it's hard to figure out, okay, how do we navigate through this. Straighten us out. Uh sounded like you wanted to maybe take a little bit of time, John, to talk about um iconic uh the the idea of icons and if they're appropriate in worship and that sort of thing. Did you want to go there or you were just sus sussing that out? Well well again, w you know, we have uh a significant shift at that point. Okay. It's one thing for Saint Luke to draw a picture of it and that's fine. It's another thing for Saint Luke to say, you know what guys, this picture is going to be a tool of God's grace to you, you know, from here on out. And uh one of those is, you know, him just drawing a picture. Right? But here's Luke. Is Luke a Greek? Right? He's not a Hebrew. Right. Right? And he's drawing a picture, but he's stepping away from a pretty significant Old Testament. uh uh injunction in the Ten Commandments, you know, having to do with, you know, not uh making a a graven image. I mean a graven image isn't the same as drawing something. Right? But but it's dealing with this whole question of of Is there the potential that we could that we could uh move away from worshiping the God that is unseen into what, superstitious things, you know, that are man-centered? And my point is that I mean that's a pretty big shift. Uh maybe that's what Jesus was doing in the sand, you know, when he interacted with the adulterous woman, but I'm just saying that that outside of uh those original guys really giving an indication that this is something that's really important, iconography in particular is an example of something that has really taken on major human tradition and and uh taken on a life of its own that It I find it really difficult to think to myself, okay, Peter, James and John, Paul, Jesus, you know, they they knew this was coming. And uh they were, you know, kind of uh, you know, looking forward to this as a as a means of grace. I just I have a hard time seeing that. I'm not saying that it didn't develop I'm just saying that to turn that humor to d tradition into something that is that is so big is a major move. Well it l let me just suggest that uh again um we distinguish iconography, for instance, as one aspect of sacred tradition as being utterly different from just base human tradition. Um iconography was dealt with um if you uh remember your church history in the seventh ecumenical council uh in which there were the same thing that I have I have a problem with the councils in general. Right. So um but because Constantine was far from an unbiased driver of those things. And uh in the the things that he he drove uh what I would argue, and I don't know that Troy agrees with me on this, uh an anti-uh Jewish practice uh orientation from the original Council, Council of Nicaea that I think is part of the reason why there uh why uh there's been so much ugliness towards the Jews for the last eighteen hundred years. And and these kinds of things are pretty significant when that they moved in the direction of uh Greek philosophical terms trying to force a unity in places where it was unnecessary. And and so your appeal to the to the councils automatically throws up all kinds of flags for me. Well that it and and that's and that's going to be where probably another area of difference because the canons that came out of the council we hold to as a part another body of sacred tradition. Um again this was a process. The Bible itself, understand this, the Bible itself was a result of the same con kinds of all that of of discernment. But with the councils they came up with these creeds and they're using very loaded Greek philosophical terms like the term substance. Have you ever looked up the f the philosophy behind the word substance? You just do Wikipedia and there is there's pages. I mean just I mean Google it. Just page after page after page. of of what Plato meant by it, what the pre-Plato philosophers thought, after Plato, Augustine, all these different people, what they thought about the word substance. Right, which is central to one of these creeds. And all I'm saying is that that term is is so far beyond biblical that it brings baggage into our understanding of of God but is unnecessary and unhelpful. Here's what you're left with. You're left with the Greek language, which by the way had was more nuanced than just about any other language. And granted, there were Hellenistic philosophical associations with Yeah. And just the same way that the logos the word. There there was an Hellenistic philosophical understanding of that. But what the church did through this beautiful classical language was to be able to to baptize, if you will um these terms to be able to describe and to be able to really canonize something and to create um uh boundaries for what it is that we believe such that if you're outside of those boundaries, then you're not really Christian because the Council of Nicaea, the first council, the first ecumenical council What they were really dealing with is was the whole um heresy of Arianism. Arius taught that Jesus was not co-eternal with the Father, that he was rather created, that yes, he was divine by God's grace, but that uh there was a time in which Jesus did not exist. And so that really tore it to heart of the Christian, the Orthodox and the Trinitarian Christian faith. And so it sought to destroy the church. But at the same time that it did that the council of Nicaea, it it re-erected the very wall that that scripture tells us was torn down the wall between Jew and Gentile and all the things that that that uh Paul taught in Galatians and Ephesus and Romans about I mean, he circumcised Timothy, but he didn't circumcise Titus. I mean the point is that the Jews who came to Christ were allowed to continue in all of their traditions as long as they did not rely on those things for justification. And Paul went to great length to clarify all those things, and Constantine in the context of the Council of Nicaea outlawed all of those things. It was huge. Constantine were civil in nature and they they did not voted on those things. On on what things? On these issues of whether or not the Jews who are Christians are allowed to worship on Saturday, whether or not they're allowed to continue to be circumcised, whether or not they're allowed to continue to uh follow the holy days. I'm talking a major repudiation of Pauline theology. And there's no tradition that that that that we can say is okay repudiating Pauline tradition. Well I can't speak to that that particular point um in that because I uh I'll plead ignorance on on that particular historical point. But um my my broader point i in is saying that Our what we believe is sacred tradition in the church, again, based upon the incarnation, is something bigger than just a written text. is there is there there is a grace that is that is far beyond just the printed words of scripture. Do we absolutely as Orthodox Christians believe that, you know, that That those books of the Bible are divinely inspired, authoritative, the Word of God. Absolutely. Absolutely. Mm-hmm. With a significant part of this in that in my tradition, the people that are the right people to preach the word of God uh are those that we've laid hands on and said We agree that you're right. Why do you lay hands on it? Right, so that's why you lay hands on it. That's what I'm saying. I'm agreeing with this. There's an apostolic succession that we all follow. at some level. You know, Troy's uh working that through, you know, he's he's grappling with that in his own life. You know, uh which tr tradition, you know, where would he fall in that. And so so I agree that that it's more than just the word of God. That there is a that there is an authority that rests in the group that is interpreting those things. Right? But But where I live in that whole thing is that our standard for for uh for dealing with that authority is the same standard that the prophets and david and jesus all had and that is if you don't believe Moses you're not going to believe me. We got to go back to what Moses taught that we know that we have not the traditions of men, but go back to the original and then we can build from there. And if we're careful to do that, then and only then does the authority remain intact? But I have and maybe it's because I'm an American, I have the responsibility to be prophetically studying the Word of God and calling out any tradition that is moving on moving beyond What is the original teaching of Jesus Christ? That's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. We're joined this week by Father James Hammer from St. John the Baptist Orthodox Church in Lewistown. I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsors, Putman, Fleming, and Heating. How can we make you smile? Thanks so much for listening. 167 and a half hours from now, we will pick this back up. That's exciting. Till then, God bless.