Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner, the host of the show and the pastor of Household of Faith in Christ, online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Thank you so much for spending part of your day with us here. Joined this week again by Daniel Razby. He is one of the pastors at the Church of Meets at Imran's house. You can Learn more about them at conquered by love dot org. And David Forcy is on the panel again this week. He doesn't have a website, so if you want to reach out to him, reach out to me and I'll put you in touch. And you're gonna wanna do that because as we have clearly demonstrated over the last several weeks, David Forcey is Chuck full of fun. So we've been talking about pastors and marriage and those sorts of things primarily the last few uh few episodes and we've touched on this topic that we want to make the centerpiece of today's show. And I'm going to try to dive right in so we don't get distracted with all these little rabbit trails off the bat. If we take a rabbit trail later, that's fine, but let's let's not have one right out of the chute if possible. At least I'm gonna see if I can accomplish that for myself. So the Point blank question is can women be quote unquote pastors in either function or title? No I would not do that, but I'm gonna caveat with There's a specific type of church that I've I've come across a number of times where I see them having a title and I and I don't believe they mean by that what we think when we hear it. And that'll be in churches that are predominantly black. Um quite often on their list of leadership page they'll have Bishop uh uh Mr. and Mrs. Bishop whatever or past uh you know Pastor Joe and Pastor Susie. type of thing. And it'll be listed as like a couple. The picture of the two of them will be even in the same picture and their their bios together and stuff. And what they mean by that is he and his wife Like their family is the is this you know, which we talked about last week is they're the example for the church and she's never gonna speak, she's never gonna preach, she might give a women's conference, she may pray in the church. She may even sing a song, but she's not gonna be doing the preaching and in most of these predominantly black churches that I've that I come across that is the way they they do it and and at least a number of the ones I'm aware of, they wouldn't dream of ever having her preach. Um, nor would they mean that by pastors. They just mean that she's because they're one flesh and he's the pastor, that kinda makes her a pastor of source too, certainly to the women. So I think I don't have a problem necessarily now I I I d I don't like the just in general with mega churches they get into, well he's this is the lead pastor, then this is the youth pastor, this is the women's pastor, this is the the outreach pastor, this is the missions past well To be pastor, pastor, pastor, I mean I I don't know, it almost there's different ways to organize the church and I think the whole point of pastors what we think of when we think pastor usually is somebody who's leading the church. Um, and I think that should be the a man. But I don't know. So that's a lot of stuff. But I think there is one caveat. Usually the the black church is usually uh much more strict about what they mean b in those definitions than than other denominations i I've I've seen. Yeah, I boy, I I'm I'm uh I'm gonna preface what I'm about to say by saying up front I know I'm about to just anger a lot of people. But my chief concern in that sort of because I'm familiar with those sorts of situations too. Sure. Uh my chief concern with that would be that the husband in that husband-wife team isn't qualified to be an elder Because he's not apt to teach. He doesn't even know what an elder is. He doesn't know what the responsibilities are. He doesn't know what the word means. He's not apt to teach. I would never belong to that church. And I would counsel everybody I know, even church like that. And calling his wife a pastor Or a bishop? He doesn't know what those words mean? I I'd be very concerned. If if your pastor doesn't know what biblical words mean, uh what other biblical words does he not know the meaning of? You know, I'd be very I'd be very concerned about that. Uh they don't have pastors don't have to know everything. Sure. Uh we wouldn't be qualified. Right? But we Uh of all the things there are to know, I know less than one one millionth of one percent of what there is to know. I mean z but there are certain things we have to know. We have to know the gospel and we have to know what like biblical words mean. We have to know what the pat what the the definitions that are packed into these words are. I'm not saying that that's not correctable. Maybe because of their uh their context and their experience growing up that that's just this huge blind spot And if somebody were to come up alongside us and say, hey, let's let's say it was you know David and Megan Forse, I'd say, David, your wife is not a pastor. She says, What do you mean she's not a pastor? And I'd and I'd say, Well, you know, she can't do that. Well no, she never does those things. Then why do you call her a pastor? Well, it's what we do here. Well Brother the brother, let me explain to you what these words mean, what weights can't carry and be like, Oh, you're right and and and and correct it. That I'd be okay with that probably. Yeah, I mean I d I d I disagree with the practice and I I wouldn't do that in my church. I wouldn't I want my wife uh a pastor or even if she's teaching women all the time. Um that's not that way I wouldn't label her that. Um And you wouldn't because that's not biblical language. No, but there's a lot of things that a church might do or or describe in different certain ways that that is not central to the gospel. And I I don't know that it disqualifies them from being a godly church, uh just because uh they have a real conditions. Yeah, that sort of thing would be a a red flag for me. Right in a in a church. Um, that would make me very very leery of you know, watchful of I have much more of a problem with with a church that would then with like here's our male pastor and then she's also a pastor and then she's also like the but if in a specific s the specific situation that I'm I'm talking about, which we all all seen that, where it's it's the pastor and then he's just pastor and his wife, like kind of listed as one person up on the staff directory or something. That I have much less of a problem with honestly, 'cause I I don't believe that they mean what we take it t what many people take it to mean. I I would probably to have the same similar sort of conversation you're describing, but I might be more willing to agree or disagree on on that because I think it's mu much less important than what they're actually I think I can meet you this far. I think somebody can be a Christian. And get that wrong. They haven't been fully discipled yet. They don't understand what all the words in the Bible mean. But y you g uh I don't think somebody who's has the the responsibility of being an overseer, being an under shepherd, uh can get something like that wrong. Particularly since it's such a big issue now in the culture and for the church. A lot of people in the church trying to fa play fast and loose with these things and they'll say, Well, kinda like you said, they have the title pastor, but they don't really do pastor things. Okay. Or you have other people where the woman is doing pastor things, but we don't call her pastor. You're trying to have your cake and eat it too. It's like no, no, no. These words have meaning. This is part of the challenge we have in our broader culture, and I think it's affecting the church too, is this we've deconstructed our language. So m words can mean whatever we want them to mean. W you know the word pastor means to you what the word pastor means to you, and the word pastor means to me what the word pastor means to me. No, the word pastor has a meaning. God has preserve that word for us in the Holy Canon for a purpose and we need to know what that meaning is and if we're confused about it, okay, but as soon as somebody would call you on it, I mean hopefully we all the three of us hopefully live our lives this way, we get something wrong and somebody calls us on it and say, Wow, you know what? I've never thought about it that way. Wow, I need to recondition my thinking. I think I said this off the air uh between shows a couple of uh weeks ago. I'll say it now on the air. I've become much more hardcore on some of these things over the last handful of years, last four or five years, really ever since like 2019. Uh because I feel like in 2019 like the wheels came off the truck you know, and uh were careening off of a cliff as a result. And it's like, wow, things that I was kinda had an opinion about, but I didn't really know why I held those some of those opinions. I'm mu I I've been endeavoring to be far more clear and and f and far more consistent intellectually and biblically. Like what do I believe in why and can I defend this from God's word. And so I think I might have said something. I I'm might have. I'm positive fifteen years ago, maybe ten years ago I uh maybe there's recordings of me on this show saying almost exactly what Daniel said. I don't know. I mean I I listened to old shows, I've been uploading old shows. And I listened to some of these old shows from like the early two thousands, and you know, the panel includes a a woman, quote unquote, pastor. I introduced her on the show, you know, uh so-and-so pastor of such and such church No caveats, no qualms, no hesitation in my voice. Obviously, I didn't have a strong view on that the way I would argue I should have. Um, in fairness to myself, I wasn't a pastor at the time. You know, I hosted this show for a long time without being a pastor. Um but I don't know, I think A Christian can get those things wrong and the pastor then who's apt to teach can correct them. But I don't think somebody who has the responsibilities of being the pastor can get something like that wrong. Because then he's okay. I don't mean by marriage. What do you mean by marriage? Where does that sort of argumentation have us end up? That's my that's my uh concern. I kind of dominated there. So but that's that's my view on that Um you guys had your say already, I think, but if you want to respond to what I said or amplify. I mean I I I think, you know, so I I look at I look in scripture and those who are specifically called to take positions of leadership, uh, you know, pastor overseer particularly uh, you know, as regards the church are our men are supposed to be heads of households. Um so I I mean that's why my m my answer is so so swift and and easy to me in the sense of just saying no, like I don't think a woman should uh perform the the role of a pastor or have the title, because if you have the title then you're just you're you're confused about something, I I think, if you would agree that they shouldn't have the role. Um now The a man who's a pastor is going to do a lot of different things and a lot of women might do a lot of those things also. Right. A a woman might proph prophesy, a woman might teach, um, you know, uh a woman might do You know, uh all yeah, all all kinds of things like that. Um but uh the the idea of pasture uh is is like a you know, is the the main leader is the idea, right? Just like uh the husband is is the head of his his wife, the the head of his household, right? So men also who have you know, demonstrated that maturity and understanding and knowledge uh and ability would be the heads of the local bodies of believers. That's that's my summary. Now related to this and by extension was uh this was a a uh a question I had written down beforehand so it wasn't sparked by anything any of us have said It's just on the agenda. By extension, should women even speak in church? And what do you mean by speak? Do we have enough time for this, Troy? Open their mouth open their mouth at all. Um Pray out loud, sing out loud. Yeah, I guess that's what the qu I I guess we could include all that in that. Um so does that imply not speaking all I think the context of that is teaching others, particularly a man in the congregation. um giving an exhortation. So I don't think that precludes them from singing, from even praying necessarily in corporate prayer or maybe even out loud, uh from uh if you know, f from giving some kind of testimony like we talked about last last week. I don't think that's necessarily what it's talking about. Although there is a passage that says don't ask questions. Ask your husband at home. Um, presumably if you don't have a husband, find somebody else to ask, or maybe ask the pastor, but not in the church setting. Uh is what I would assume there. Um so I I think they're not I think is is the implication. Um, but I don't think there's anything wrong with women singing as well. There there is a congregation I know of that uh takes the music um uh part and says, look, if you're even leading uh singing the melody of a song and leading others to sing then you're also leading men so women cannot be singing the the uh the melody and and so them the you have a man that's actually leading the leading the worship. The women can also sing. They can sing harmony, they can sing other things, they can sing without the microphone, but whoever's got the microphone and leading everybody that's gotta be a man. Oh okay. So so the women in the congregation can say reality. Okay. Okay, because that was a related question I had written down here. Can they can can the women even be quote unquote up front during like the priest of worship singing. Well in this particular congregation none of the people are up front that are singing uh because the the attention is supposed to not be on the music, but the music's supposed to enhance what you're what you're doing, you're worshiping God. So they always had to They're musicians at the back of the room and you can hear 'em, but you're not looking at them. Um which I think is also an interesting uh thing. I don't think it's a requirement, but I I respect how they do that. Yeah, or even if like I've been to churches where the choir isn't up front, they're actually in the balcony behind, so you don't see them, you only hear them. But they're helping to lead at the singing because they're setting The harmony and the tone and the pace and all that sort of stuff. And can Miri can we then be involved in that? So Miriam Miri Miriam, Moses' sister, sang and danced before the Lord before the congregation in some kind of corporate setting And that was looked on favorably. So I I don't have any problem with that, personally. Um I think that's a great example right there, Miriam. What do you have to add? Mr. Forcey? Pastor Forcey? Overseer Forcey? Yeah. Uh I yeah, I I think again the yeah the the the main principle at work is that um Is that the the men are to to be leading or to be well ultimately I I guess maybe maybe I would say it this way, like the the men are to be the ones who have the the final say, the final word, uh right, the the uh the authoritative sort of proclamation and and the and the voice of of correction and admonishment. Um so I I think, you know, just like that's the It's the role of the father. stand that and then I'm reminded of that by what you're just articulating, David, that uh it's the idea that it's it's man, you know, male led. There's a a male leadership, there's a male headship here. And and that shouldn't be resented by the women, they should greatly value that because there's protection in that. There's there's there's helpful oversight in that. And there's the responsibility that those men carry that uh that you don't have to carry that sort of a burden. There's there's incredible uh there can be if you look at it that way, incredible blessing uh in that. I I I think that um The position that Daniel has articulated in passing in previous shows and what he brought up again uh in this show about you know, uh women not asking questions and uh a and not communicating during the time of teaching might be the only area where there's some opportunity for some nuanced discussion and quote unquote debate among the three of us because everything else that Daniel says, like yeah, I I could have said that not as well, but I would have said pretty much the same words. And it sounds like from what you've shared so far, David, that yeah, you we weren't pushing back on that. But I know from previous shows that like, okay, how are we defining what we mean by the women keeping silent? That's a a bigger conversation that to your answer your question earlier, David. We do not have time to talk about that. Because we've won't we've got less than ten minutes in today's show and that's it longer than a ten minute conversation. Um I am For what it's worth, I'll put my cards on the table. I don't know if I've reset yet. This is the Faith Debate. I'm Froy Skinner, uh joined this week by David Forcy and Daniel Razby. We're all pastors in the area, and today we're addressing specifically the the the role of women in the church and can they have the title or the function of pastor and you know can they speak or basically what can they do i in the church. Um I've been in situations where I've been invited to guest preach in another church and uh they know that my wife has been involved in in you know the church choirs for years and she's a pretty good singer if you ask me And and they'll say, Oh, your wife's coming would she mind like singing and doing what they call sometimes call it a special. Would she sing a special? Like a basically a solo performance, right? It's not called a performance, but a solo opportunity to lead people to a place of worship uh for three minutes or four minutes how long the song is. And I've never had any compunction about that. Doesn't mean I've been right in that though. So I wonder, do you think that I should think about that. Like, no, she probably shouldn't be doing that, or do you think that's okay? I don't think the music or the singing is is uh is a problem. Um I'm not sure that special music has a place in in a corporate worship setting necessarily. But maybe it does. Um I don't think this wrong necessarily. Uh I think important i it should be important for the congregation to sing together. um to just play music or just to have some kind of uh soloist that gets up there and sings. I mean you do have examples like Miriam singing before the but I I I get the impression that we're they're she's kind of me everybody is singing this song and and they're all singing the chorus together, but I don't really know. Um, so I'd I'd probably have to fall back on I don't think it's unbiblical. Um now if the song itself turns into a sermon and and she's uh also kind of giving a little bit of exhortation in between, like a lot of a lot of pastors tend to do, a lot of what they call worship pastors do that. Um, that I think is not not something that the woman should be doing in in a church setting. Yeah, some of these things that we're bringing up on this week's show um Well go ahead. Well we'll I mean we'll have church conferences where we'll have a bunch of sessions and things and not really strict worship settings necessarily. And we may have some uh a woman give up and give s some kind of I I wouldn't have her give a teaching to the men in the connotation necessarily, but she might uh do some kind of uh s singing and in fact uh there was somebody I considered if uh her husband had had come to preach at the last the weekend conference we did then I might have asked her to sing something too. I I so it's a similar type of thing. I I I guess that that kind of is some proof that I d I'm not against it necessarily. Yeah, I mean I've I I never even questioned it, right? And and it's only in this contest like this where you're kinda forced to think about things afresh that you begin to like Hmm, maybe I should question it. And I think that's healthy. That's not about having a bunch of self-doubt and running scared all the time. It's about evaluating what you're doing and why you're doing it and how it squares with what scripture teaches and we should be doing that all of the time. And some I was about to say this a second ago and so I'll I'll make that point now. Part of what we're talking about here uh is broadly uh covered underneath what uh people refer to as the regulative principle. You know what other things have we had a nice show about the regulative principle yet? Uh not with uh t the current incarnation of the show. You know, we we we kind of reinvented the show a few years ago and so we have regular panelists now with Daniel Razvy and Meetroy Skinner. And David Forcy and uh you also hear Imran Razvy a lot. And we've had um uh Stephen um Jurger Jurger, thank you. Uh on somewhat regularly and then some uh some other guests popping in and out but pretty much it's been the the the two Razvies David Forcy and me have kind of been the core. And since that core, I don't think we've done a regularly consistent show. Yeah. I mean I I I understand the regulative principle to be the idea that the only thing in a official church service, a corporate worship setting The only things that should happen are things that are specifically prescribed and commanded to happen during such a setting. And anything else, while maybe godly to do, should not be done in that specific setting. So Um y you know, that that but that that's a broad definition and people can use that principle and come to different conclusions because there are churches that use the regulative principle to say regarding music for example. Some will say, well the we we uh it says play psalms and hymns and spiritual songs so basically any kind of music is fine. Sing under the word a new song that says that's fine so we can sing new songs and so on. And then other churches will say, well Actually that what they meant by that is probably just different types of psalms, so we should only sing psalms like from the book of Psalms and but then they might still put music to them which is they're not Music's not provided in the Psalms. Um, and many of them will be well it has to be only uh a cappella, no instruments, because of this is music particularly seems to be where a lot of the regulative principle churches disagree But there's also a lot other a lot of other forms and ordinances and and and so on. Um and so normally though the regulative principle for for what it's worth it does tend to uh temper the desires by the congregation to go in more extreme directions or unique directions that are not that that at least run more risk of being contrary to scripture. Um but I don't think that's I I don't subscribe to that necessarily. I w uh you know, the the opposite of the regulatory principle would be, well, if God didn't say you can't do it in church, then sure, go for it. You know, God didn't say you can't watch a movie in church, so we're gonna watch, you know, God's not dead in the church service. He didn't say anything about that. So you can really go much more extreme if you want. Um I'm I I I understand where the regulative principle comes from. I think it's important to do the things that are commanded to be done in in worship and also to not do things that are commanded not to be done in worship, but I I I don't have as as much of a strict Guideline on that. Yeah, and I think you and I are probably in agreement on that. And I think you did a really nice job explaining the the what you know these theological terms, these buzzwords they they're given labels, right? All Christians in all of life should have the Bible regulating what they do. So certainly we come together for corporate worship. The Bible should be regulating our worship services and it should be and so I I think it's interesting I feel like I'm actually true to what those words actually mean when I say I'm all about the regulative principle Meaning the principles that we see in the Bible should tell us how we should handle things. People get too hyper regulative and if the Bible doesn't explicitly say that you can uh add music to the Psalms. It doesn't explicitly say that, then you shouldn't do that. It's like, yeah, but we have reason to believe it tells you according to the tune of like if there was music at some point, right? So the principle is there. Anyway That's going to put a wrap on this week's show. Thank you to David Forcy, Daniel Razby, thank you to you for listening. I'm Troy Skinner. Find us online at wfmd. com or household of faith in Christ. com As we really appreciate the time you spend with us each and every episode. Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from now. God bless