Welcome to the Faith Debate on News Radio 930 WFMD. I'm Troy Skinner. You can find me online at Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Joined this week by Daniel Razby and Imran Razby. You can find them online at Conquer by Love. org and David Forcey. You can't find him online unless you come through me, and you can find me also, I guess, at wfmd. com. But I would point you most specifically to Household of FaithInChrist dot com because that's where all my contact information is and all that sort of stuff. And you can keep up with what's going on the faith debate on the radio station's website or on our church's website. We keep everything updated in both of those places. So What's the Bible say about poem reading? What's it say about crystal balls and tarot cards? How about Ouija boards, seances, that sort of thing? That's the kind of stuff we're talking about on the Faith Debate this week Boy is like giving me the evil eye over here. There's a new age phrase for you. Daniel's looking at me like we're talking about what? Wait a minute. I thought we were talking about something in the Bible. This is we're talking about this? Yes we are. If you like to back out now So what does the Bible say about poem reading and such like? Uh anybody wanna jump in with their thoughts? So Daniel's gonna jump in. I I always have some thoughts. You know, th these these are forms uh of of witchcraft. And, you know, you might think it's a game or it's a silly little thing, but but if if if you if the purpose is to is to find out, you know lucky uh you know, whether th certain things are lucky or unlucky, or whether you are and whether the universe has something to tell you about fate. All these things They don't have God in them. They don't start from a place of God. And i if he's not for us, he's against us, right? So if it's not God, then it is demonic. Um anything that that you're doing in this area and if it's not of God, then it is of the devil There's no middle ground. There's no oh well stuff I think it's not religious at all. It's just a fun game. No, it's it's either godly or it's antichrist. There's there's there's no middle middle ground. Yeah, and the Bible doesn't say anything specific about poem reading per se, but it has a lot to say about divination and this is a form of divination. You're trying to figure out what somebody's future is or what kind of life they're gonna have. Are you gonna get married, not get married, be rich? Troy, what about Urim and Thumim and and and the casting lots? I mean that was Commanded to be done in the Bible by godly men. Well, you know, it's interesting. I was gonna actually bring up uh something related to this I think two shows ago, and you're reminding me of it now. Look, in today's world, I'm gonna sound like a clown saying this, but I'm not gonna say a clown to people in the room I know, but a lot of people who would hear what I'm gonna say will think, oh, that guy's a clown. The spiritual is real. Right. There is a demonic. There is a spiritual reality. There are angels. There is life after death. There is there is a spiritual reality that might even be f well, I don't I don't want to say it that way. I was going to say might almost seem far more real than than the physical, but they're both real, so I don't wanna say that one's not real b in comparison to the other. That's why I was catching myself there. So there's something to the spiritual dimension of things. And if God gives us a prescribed way of determining what His will would be, or a prescribed way of connecting with spiritual realities, Well, that's up to God. And if he tells us, here's what you should you should do, okay. But if he doesn't tell you that's what you should do And it's a form of divination, then you shouldn't do it. In fact, if you find somebody doing that, kill them. It's that dangerous of a thing. It's one of the few capital punishments in the Bible. You're supposed to kill the witches and uh you know, d along with murderers and rapists And here's the difference. If you do just a generic divination like palm reading, for example, or looking into the crystal ball, like we're talking about today as well. Um that's looking for some sort of answer, some sort of spiritual insight that's outside of God. But the kinds of stuff that you've mentioned that's in the Old Testament, that's prescribe for God's people to determine not just some generic spiritual truth, but to determine God's will. And even the New Testament, right, they they cast the lots for Matthias to to add somebody else to the to the twelfth. And God speaks in a particular situation. It doesn't mean we're actually laying out fleeces every day. They cast it off and they said, God, please Make the uh uh you know, the the lot fall on the one that you've chosen. And now we're gonna cast the lots and that's how they they got their answer. Now I've heard some pastors argue that they gave God a choice between two, but they didn't let God actually pick the people in the in the uh that were running in the election. So maybe that was not necessarily the greatest. But the point is their intention was to look learning what God's will was by doing a certain thing. Uh you know, and and that was one of the prescribed uh ways. But there is a lot of other methods of divin divination that are not from God. And talking about the uh that uh casting lots would be, I think, an interesting show all by itself. Maybe we'll uh uh I'll make a note uh about that because that that's going to take us away from focusing on the new age. stuff. That's a difficult thing. Some people practice uh open the Bible to a random page when you're praying for direction and and see what happens there. And that can be very dangerous. We're gonna use that for a different one. Alright. Yeah. No no no that's that's that's good and I I made it I you saw me, I wrote it down, I'll put it on our list and we'll we will eventually uh get to it. What what if somebody says a palm reading is not really definition? Palm reading is what God has putting on your body as as your future and it's not divining, it's just reading what God has uh foretold about you. Yeah. I I don't know. I'm just saying. But what what reason would we have for thinking that? And and and Well God created your body, right? Yeah, and and and that's a good point, right? Because Do we do we just make that up? Go go find go find ten or hundred palm readers. And I would venture to say not a single one of them is going to say, Oh look, God made this line here and God teaches in the Bible that when you have this line this is what happens. No. They're saying well the universe this and and fate this and whatever else And here's the con you know we have a mixed audience listening to this show, I know, and so not everybody's a Bible believer or a Christian, whatever, but If you give any weight at all to God's word. Here's what it says in Deuteronomy eighteen. Let no one be found among you who sacrifices his son or daughter in the fire. Now that's bad, right? Right? We w nobody would want to sacrifice a turn on the fire. So hopefully we all agree with that. So this is definitely a list of bad things. So let's see what else is on this list of bad things that's maybe comparable to putting burning your children to death, okay? Uh where is it? Practicing divination or sorcery. You might as well build burn your children to death. Uh interpret omens, engage in wit witchcraft, cast spells. Might as well burn your children to death. Or who is a medium or spiritist who consults the dead. Anyone who does these things is on shaky ground Maybe it's not the best idea. God will overlook it. And all it says whoever does these things is detestable to Yahweh. Yahweh is the creator, the God, right? The God. So This is serious stuff and people oh it's just it's you I've been have you been in situations where you're like at a party or some sort of a carnival thing or whatever and they oh wouldn't it be fun to have f we'll have water painting over here and we'll have some you know uh uh we'll have a sandbox for the kids and we'll do you know uh they can do do face painting over there and we'll put a poem reader over there in the corners. It's just part of the fun fas festivities. And then uh And then the stripper comes in later and then and then we get the the uh the drag queens coming in to finish it all up. And that's true. I mean that's you know that's that's the kind of thing that we open ourselves up to. And if you're one of those Christians who I would say incorrectly believes that the Old Testament should not be thought of much very highly these days. Galatians. Galatians five talks about the fruits of the Spirit. You know, y you you memory memorize in church. But the fruit of the spirit is love, joy, peace. Well, that's a but, right? As in be s uh it's the opposite of these other things which are fruits of the devil. Is a whole long list of things right before that verse, among which is sorcery. So sorcery is ungodly. It is not a fruit of the Spirit. God says, I will set my face against the person who turns to mediums and spiritus to prostitute himself by following them. I'll cut him off from his people. Now this is he's talking to his people. So if you count yourself among his people, you are a child of God, you're a follower of Jesus, uh you would you would consider yourself to be a member of the bride of Christ. So if you are consulting mediums and spiritists, you are prostituting yourself, meaning you're in an adultery against God and he will cut you off. What if your intention's a little bit different? I tell I tell Christians, I tell people in my church, uh, don't read or watch uh Harry Potter. Because it it it has to do with sorcery and the good guys are doing sorcery. It's not like you're making a movie about an evil sorcerer that the good guys kill, right? The the the good guys are the sorcerers uh uh among there's also bad guys sorcerers all in Harry Potter as well. But people often get really offended and it's like, well, I mean I'm just watching it to have a good time and a and a laugh. I'm I I'm not really believing that uh that that's that's Let's talk about this another time. Go ahead. Finish your point, Camille. Harry Potter, write that down. Perfect. So that that's that's and that and there may be nuances to that, right? But the the the usual excuse that I get is, oh well I mean I mean it's just a game, it's just entertainment. What's wrong what's the harm in that? 'Cause I know and I'm not actually doing sorcery. I I understand doing sorcery would be bad, so I'm not doing it. I'm just, you know, having a little laugh. Well, I would say throw that back at look at this list of of of evil things. Sorcery is listed in there. Adultery is also listed there. Oh, let's just have a laugh. Let's just pretend to commit adultery. Let's just, you know, sleep around y you know it's not really doing it, we're just coming really close, you know, maybe pornography, maybe that that'd be a good thing to do. You know, it's just for fun, it's just entertainment. No. You don't get involved in things even for entertainment that are ungodly or that are in a form of ungodliness So I think that that's that's something that a very good d distinction. Just because it it's i a a game to you doesn't mean it's i it's a game to the devil. And he's gonna twist that and and tear you apart from God. Yeah, and and and uh yeah, I did write down Harry Potter because I think that's gonna be an interesting conversation uh for us to have as a group and hopefully the listener will will benefit from uh how we try to split hairs on some of those kinds of questions. But I think anything we would say about poem reading we'd also say about crystal balls, we'd also say about tarot cards, we would s also say about Ouija boards, all those sorts of things. But we might have specific things we want to say about those things. So I wanna Pivot into that and then we'll also then broaden it out to just clairvoyance in general. ESP, mind reading, moving objects with your mind, you know, those kinds of things as well. Something of a distinction between say you know I I would say, right, between saying, All right, let me let me look at my palm and see what it says there, look at the stars, see what they say. You know, shuff shuffle these cards, uh I don't know. uh you know, cut cut the animal open and look see how its organs are, you know, situated, right? I mean those are Those are all I think along the same lines, right? You know, take these bones and throw them in the sand and see how they fall. Uh yeah, I I that that's different, right? And I think this is sort of where you're going from uh from then uh you know from saying, okay, I'm gonna look at and see look at these inanimate things or these physical things and you know they communicate something to me versus Uh let me let me s let me try to ask and get get some sort of response, right? You know. Uh Which is, you know, what what happens with like a miraculous response. The Ouija board, right? Where you're expecting some other power force uh you know um yeah, mind And some people think what are you crazy? It's just a board game. They may sell it, you know, in the in the uh toy sections of all the gr all the stores that sell toys these days. There's there's fewer and fewer of them, but stores of sell toys you can buy a Wheezy board. It's just a game it's it's like playing Monopoly. Just enter ma entertainment. Is there is there are there actually like r rules? Is there like a are you playing it? Like it like The way to play quote unquote play the Ouija board would be to to to use it to to to talk about to spirits. Yeah. Apparently, uh Ouija, for for the uninitiated, and I I hope you are, and I hope we're not tempting you to get into something you shouldn't. That's the risk with doing shows like this. Uh but it's spelled O U I J A. What the heck? Where'd they come up with that? You know, a little one too many vowels. going on. Well apparently it got its name the inventors of this game or this uh spirit board thing or it's also called a talking board apparently. By the way there's an old classic Waltons episode from the early nineteen seventies And the Waltons is this stereotypical conservative Bible Baptist, you know, kinda kinda family and there's a Ouija board that makes its way into the home and they entertain it and they and it's you know e even the Waltons you know, prone to new age. But anyway, the the people who invented this game, they decided to quote what play the board or put their hands on the little pointer that's part of the thing. And it's and they said, What should we call you? And it pointed to the the uh the O U I J A. Ooh, its name is Ouija. And so they decided, well that must mean something. They decided that it means good luck. That's what they decided. So but so yeah, but that is the transition. So your your the idea is that you're communicating with somebody who's communicating back. And it's the po the idea is that it's the spirit force, the dead person, whatever it is, is somehow m pushing your hands, influencing you some way to to point to different things on the board, to spell out different words and and and other things. And Seances are like that where you're trying to talk to the dead, necromancy, that kind of thing. And we know it's possible. We know it is because the Bible says it's possible. So I'm not a hundred percent sh ironclad sure that the Bible says it's a different way. And maybe that's all right you're saying. That's what I say. Uh there's examples of when it happened. I mean Saul Saul went and talked to the I'm not saying it's not possible. What I'm saying and and that would be the proof text if there is one. There might be some other ones. That's the first one that comes to mind, right? And I I think a careful reading there i it it leaves open the possibility, but it doesn't mean that it must therefore be because you could read it in a certain way where it would appear that it was Samuel. It's certainly Saul thought it was Samuel, the uh the witch or whatever. She lost her freaking mind. She thought it was real. Well it was something. It was a spiritual thing. There was definitely something, but was it actually Samuel now raised from the dead? I'm not uh I'm not sure that this the passage is ironclad, that that's what was going on there. Something s is I think God is uh give them a taste of the medicine they thought they were seeking and it freaked them all out. At least that. Uh I I'm not so sure that Samuel was hearkened from the from the grave. I'm not sure about that. But anyway, that's that's an aside. That's a little bit Bible lesson. We'll talk about that. That's an interesting interesting topic. But the point is there is something that is actually possible to do to talk to spirits or talk to whether you're talking to literally dead people or you're just talking to spirits that are claiming to be dead. I my theory is And and with Samuel, you know, I think God was involved 'cause there was a prophecy given to Saul at the time. I think maybe God kind of uh stepped in there and and and helped out with that. But the uh the in in general, when you're talking to the the spirits and what I've heard from people that that claim to oh we're gonna channel your dead mother or grandmother or whatever I think and and then sometimes those people, those mediums, are actually spouting off real information that you that only you would know about your dead deceased relatives and stuff My theory is that those people were possessed um by the same spirit that now possesses this medium and that person would then carry some of those memories and they'd be able to share them because they know what the person was thinking a hundred years ago. It's the same demon. The demon didn't die, he's still there. And the same demon can possess multiple people. I think that's what it's I met a medic guy once who is a act active practitioner of the Norse religion and worships Thorin Odin, like the literal Thor, not the Marvel universe thoroughly. The literal Thor in Odin he's he goes into a temple and and does this and he gets possessed by what he says is is i is Odin or or Thor, one of them, I don't remember which, but he he mentioned both of them in the in the conversation. And he he r uh really um uh r uh believes when he goes into this trance that he's remembering past lives of himself is what he says. And I would say that the demons that's inhabiting him has those memories of other lives that they he's possessed other people and that's how you get those memories. That's how I would explain that. Well and I I I don't know that the You know, I I think the the demons, well, uh you know, I I think they live a lot of human lives, right? And so Even if they haven't possessed people, they've they've seen what's gone on, right? And so and I think that um that's definitely let's say oftentimes what's happening, I think it might be directly spiritual and they're demon possessed or demon influenced or what have you. I think other times it's not necessarily that. They're just charlatans who are really good tricksters and they've got plants in the audience who chat start up a conversation and they relay that information. So I think sometimes it's it's spiritual and sometimes it's not. Either way though it's not good, it's not healthy, it's not safe, it's not right. So it's it's not none of it is glorifying to God. And I mean it consumed um Houdini, right? Great great magician, one of the great m magicians of all time. Uh he was consumed by it. Which makes you wonder, was his magic It's a it's ironic because he of all people should know how how you can fool people and use sleight of hand and so on. There's um there there's a number of magicians Uh and so you might you might be thinking that's a good segue. I mean, i is it is it wrong to go to an illusionist show or a magician show. I think there are plenty of quote unquote magicians that are practiced today that are very upfront about hey everything I'm doing is fake. It's all it's all fake. I'm using some light of hand, there's no spiritual stuff going on. And then their shows they don't even claim to be they don't even pretend that's spiritual type of thing. And I don't have a problem as a Christian, you know, watching that and being amazed by how fast their hands move that I can't even see them. 'Cause they're they're admitting freely there's skill involved. This is has nothing to do with spiritual things. But there are, like you said, Troy, there are plenty of people who try to bore the lines and pretend that they're spiritual things and maybe Some of them actually do have s uh um demonic help in certain things. Yeah, there was a I can't I'm trying to blank on his name. I thought it would as you were talking, I was hoping his name would come in as not. I can picture in my head. Back in the seventies it was very, very popular Magician was on TV a lot. Copperfield? No, no. Uh oh my I always had his name and it popped out again. And he was this really skinny guy and he wore these tight fitting shirts that made his skin look even skinnier. And he had like a he was a white guy, but he had like an afro that was big in the seventies, you know, white guys left their curly hair grow out, whatever. And his thing was he was a magician and he was invited to all these shows all the time. But he was always very specific. As a kid even, I recognized that he was doing this. He's a he would talk about he's an illusionist. I'm going to perform for you this great illusion. He wasn't claiming to have magical powers. He was he would figure I'm gonna I'm going to trick you now. Like you know, and uh he wasn't trying to make it there's another guy who's very popular over the last twenty years, his name's escaping me too, but he's very dark, he does lots of street magic and Chris Angel. What's what people Chris Angel, you said David Blaine, I said to me. David Blaine's what I was thinking of, but maybe Chris Angel's another one. And these guys, you know, they do a lot of stuff that seems very dark to me and almost seems like It's connected to the occult. Or at least we're trying to get the impression that it's connected to the occult. And that's that's not helpful. Then you get uh Penn and Teller are some of the most fa one of the duo that's very famous, and they have a whole show Expose fool us. Right. No, we w you you know, we're gonna try to fool you. Yeah, because we're good at this and so if we can catch you, yeah, you know. We know how this stuff is done. Exactly. Which is interesting because At least Penn, I don't know about television ever talks, but Penn is an atheist. They're both they're both strong atheists. Yep. Yep. Although one because of atheism, they're just not pro th they would totally discard anything spiritual. They do. They do. They they believe there is nothing spiritual and they think it's it's uh hoodwings people and they they'd rather people believe in atheism Interesting um as a side note, uh there is a great clip online from uh uh Pen Joette that that musician who i i is a great wake up call to Christians. He's saying, uh I don't respect people. As an atheist, I don't respect you if you're a Christian and you don't preach the gospel to me. Because you must really hate me if you if you think I'm going to hell and you're not going to try to stop me. Well there's a rebuke. I'm telling you that is that that has probably become the core central message of my ministry is trying to encourage Christians to share the good news Tell people the good news. How much do you have to hate these people not to tell them the good news? Because uh and this is sort of something that I feel like a point that Daniel's kinda made a few times as we've been talking about this is that uh either You know, either you are for God or or against him. Right? Uh either we are with God or we are apart from him. Right. Right. And so if If God is not uh in us, right, if we're not joined to him through faith in Christ, then then there's a void, and that will get filled with something that is anti-God. Yes. It will it will get filled with something evil. But but what we're not saying is that you should not have anything to do with people that are not of God and you should not ever uh consume any uh material or or be involved in anything that is not entirely run by Christians. You know, people often ask me, well, you know, Mozart wasn't saved, should you listen to his music? Well You know, because he he created it and this this guy, you know, he wasn't godly but but but he wasn't attending with that with the music necessarily to to bring out some evil spirit and The music itself might be f nice to listen to and w well I know we'll talk about music at some point, but that's just an example. Art, you know, Rembrandt art, can you consume uh or Van Gogh, can you look at these things? You know, you watch a movie made by an unbeliever or about a secular topic, uh there's a difference, I think, between that and you know, uh participating in a a a seance for fun or w you know, where where where they're pr they're claiming, Hey, we're gonna talk to spirits. And I want to say, you know, if if you've had an experience where you feel like, well, I uh there's no way that person could have known that. To Daniel's point, you know, maybe there's demonic influence there and let's remember The devil knows a lot of stuff because he's been around for a long, long, long, long time. But God is all knowing. And so the devil doesn't know everything. The devil's not gonna a hundred percent accurately predict the future. Now it might have a pretty good batting average on guessing what the future might be be based on human tendencies and history and all and all that sort of stuff. But you can't trust it. And the other thing you can't trust, and this one's gonna hit right in the heart for some people I know, you've had a a death in the family and you feel like you're getting signs or visits from that dearly departed one and like, oh, they're still with me, they're talking to me, they're communicating with me, and it can make you feel warm and the curtain shimmers or the the door slams. And I I it it pains me to have to bring this kind of truth to you, but I'm not saying that you're not seeing and noticing things that are actually happening. It's not your deal you have no reason Based on the the God who has revealed himself to us to believe that that's the dearly departed love for the thing. showing you that he sees your pain your pain and you know that he is he has compassion on you and you know and will help and comfort you. Well that's an interesting take. I'm not sure I I'm not sure I agree, but maybe we'll pick it up on next week's show or we'll talk about it between this week and next week's show. Uh look because we do want to have some time to talk about the Enneagram next week. That's our our plan for next week. So, uh saying nice was David for C V uh other voice you heard most recently before that other than mine was Daniel Rasby. What? Naughty. Naughty. And checking his list over there is Imran. Yeah, he's checking it twice. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks so much for listening. Find us online at WFMD. com and Household of Faith in Christ dot com. Till next week, one hundred and sixty-seven and a half hours from right about now. God bless. Past editions of this program are available in the audio vault at WFMD. com