The following program does not necessarily reflect the views of the staff or management of WFMD. You're gonna want to listen today. We're gonna start off talking about XE X that a good teaser? Huh? That got your attention, right? Good Sunday morning to you. This is a faith debate on 930 WFMD on the FMF 99. 9 HD two. And on the web at WFMD. com. Thank you so much for listening. I'm Troy Skinner. I'm the pastor of a church called Household of Faith in Christ. We have a website, Household of FaithinChrist. com. I encourage you to Check us out. You can connect with this show and and uh a regular blog and all sorts of other audio and video things that are looped in there. And You can connect from that website to another website which we'll be talking quite a bit about um this week like we did last week and we will in teacher upcoming weeks. Uh conquered by love dot org as a ministry has been around for uh a couple of decades I think that the Rasby family has been involved with and they go on tours around and speak at different groups, different churches and they and they provide counseling and they've got workshops and work books and all that sort of stuff. Last week we were talking about marriage And toward the end of the show we start talking about the importance of uh setting expectations. And one of the expectations has to do with uh intimacy in the bedroom And uh we didn't have a chance because of the confines of the length of this show to finish up thoughts on that last week. So we're gonna start there this week and then slide, I think into a natural um place from there when husband and wives get together and they start being intimate and stuff. You never know you might have a little bambino arrive on the scene and Uh we'll be talking about parenting as well. But you uh Imran, there's some things that I guess were left unsaid about the importance of addressing the uh the sexuality. So we talked about there's different expectations, right? Uh a man has different expectations of uh intimacy than a woman does. But one of the things is is the man doing his job as the husband and the leader to be attractive to the wife. Because if he's not, then the wife is going to lose interest and not be interested in having sex. So we have to th think about as as a husband, as as a father, as a husband, we need to know are we doing what we're supposed to do? What makes us attractive to our wife? So how much rouge should a man wear? Well w uh what uh a a woman is attracted to strong leaders Someone that has a strong relationship with Christ, that does do his job of leading his family in worship and uh spiritual leadership, that's important. If you're not doing that Then you're not as attractive. Are you a protector? Are you not talking about combing your hair and uh putting on some sort of uh fru fru outfit or something. You're talking about Right. It's it's stereotypical, but looks do not matter to a woman as much as they do to a man. stereotypically that is that's not to say it's it's a blanket statement. But that's that's a little different than well groomed, you know, so be if you're well groomed and you take care of yourself, that's that's important um but not having to be a perfect uh I mean physical. Oftentimes people are w uh people are uh curious is why are women attracted to um singers and drummers and uh the powerful men, even though they're ugly or whatever, because it's power. It's it is a position of power, strength and leadership. Women are built that way. They're attracted to that. Or honor in the society. In this case the society probably in a uh not not correctly, but honor is you know rock stars. Can you hear me then? Is that better? Let's see if that You just it seemed you you seem just a little bit muffled compared to the other mics and I I wonder if it's a windscreen. We'll see if that's uh that's better. I think the volume was okay, hopefully, but but it just seemed like you were in a different room from us. So basically what we're saying is men, if you're not getting enough in the bedroom, then first do the expectations. Find out what is it that you're not doing for your wife that she expects you to do as a leader, as a husband, as a father, as uh the spiritual leader of your house, are you uh does she feel protected by you? That's a big thing. And a lot oftentimes, you know, as we talk women get attracted to th to men that we would think are repulsive. I mean to bad boys. Why would a good girl be attracted to a bad guy? Well, because they feel the power, the strength. Okay? And they need to that. And if it's not going to be good, godly power and strength, they're going to be attracted to sinful power and strength. It's just attractive power and strength. So are you doing your job to be attractive to your wife? Are you it's it's not about having a dad body, it's not about having, you know, in perfect physical shape or having a full hat of hair, which society tells us we need to have, but It is really about what is your stance. What are you doing? Uh how are you being the rock in your family that you're supposed to? Are you leading your children and your wife towards God? Are you protecting them from society? Are you Taking the care. Are you opening the door of of your of the car or the or the house? How are you doing? How are you treating your spouse special? Because if you're not doing that, then that's a break breakdown as you become less and less attractive uh to your wife and are you listening Okay. Um men tend to get the uh two or three words in the sentence and know what the sentence is about and be done. Okay, I've heard that. Let's go, let's move on. Well many times a woman just needs to talk for a long period of time. I have a that problem. I do that many times is that tune out. And m a lot of men do. But we need to tune in and actually listen and participate in the conversation that will make us closer to our spouses and our spouse will want to spend more intimate time with us if we're doing our job. The problem is most times we're not doing our job. Are you being man enough? Are you doing what God has led you to do as being a leader uh being a husband that God has played placed you to be and being strong. If you're not doing that, maybe that's where you need to work and you're not gonna change your spouse, you've got to change you. We talked about that with expectations before. Changing yourself is something you have control over. Changing your spouse, you don't have control over that Okay. So assuming that things go well in the bedroom, you might end up having some babies come along the way. And that was actually our planned main topic for today. So we can transition and uh the way we're doing this, I mentioned this last week Uh Conquered by Love Ministries uh has a number of uh books, booklets, short short books, so you you know if you're not a reader, don't be intimidated. These are relatively breezy Reads, right? None of them are supervised. Very quick. Within fifteen twenty mashes be a read through a book. find an area of interest say, oh that one looks interesting and and and kind of check it out. And so I clustered them into categories and there's a handful of books that fit into the parenting category. There might be others, but these are the ones I noted. Training for the Long Term. Why did you do that? How a parent can help a child analyze his own heart. Practicing behavior. Subtitle Are You Trying to Train Your Child on the Field During the Game? And memorizing scripture. um tips for hiding God's word in your children's hearts. So there's a lot of stuff there. Um Training for the long term seems broad and general. Does it tie these other things together? It is. It's probably one of the most important books. Uh next to that would be the emotional needs of a child. Um we might tackle that next week 'cause that's kind of a broad one too. But training from the long term is is a long term vision of what are you doing with your children. Um, you know, we assume that a child or anyone speci anyone knows how to behave. Just like w we talked last week and you were s talking about your grandmother assumed you knew how to behave after you shower. That's an assumption that's not there. She never trained you. And she f uh mistakenly thought that your mom trained you because she trained your mom. And a lot of times as as parents, when you we see a child acting badly or a way that we wouldn't want we're our first instinct is especially if you're a Christian, your first instant is instinct rather sorry. It's to say Oh wow, they're sinning. You know, I need to punish them for their sin. And whether you're a spanker or whether you're not a spanker, that's the maybe a topic we can tackle a little later too. But regardless, there's some kind of punishment. We need to punish them so they know they gotta stop sinning, they gotta stop acting badly. Because any bad behavior is sin. It's just immediately sin. Not ac actually true. There's really three main root causes of bad behavior and only one of them is sin. So the most important thing first of all is to find out, did you train this behavior? And second of all, is there actually an emotional need? And we'll talk about emotional needs next week, but training is really i important. If you didn't even tell them, how do they know they're supposed to act that way? Maybe you thought you told them but you didn't actually practice it. Because imagine if you're uh as we talked about to your grandmother, um if she punished you for not cleaning that shower after you showered. you would be completely taken aback and your relationship with your with your grandmother would have been damaged irreplaceably because you would not know why you're getting punished. She nobody ever taught you So we tend to punish our kids before we think, did we actually teach this first? Did we train this uh uh uh this behavior or not? So that ties into the one of the books of the behavior, right? That's that's kinda think about it like a sports team, right? If you get on the field in the middle of a game and the coach starts, you know, uh y uh yelling, Oh no, don't do that, you know, w run run the other way You know, oh no, the rules says you can't pick up the soccer ball with your hands. That's not the time to to know what the rules are at the beginning, right? You need to practice beforehand. What do they do? The coach explains. what the rules are. They make the kids memorize and if the students memorize. You demonstrate I had a story flashing my head that's that really ties into when my daughter was really young. Uh I played soccer when I was young, but I never knew soccer well enough, like I couldn't coach it at the high school level or even the middle school age level. But for little kids I played enough soccer, I know the basics. uh how how it's supposed to work. So I felt fine, you know, being her coach. I think it was a coach for three seasons when she was, you know, little, like five, six, seven, eight years old, that kind of age group. Uh well when they're five, six years old, a lot of these kids they the you know, they can barely pay attention uh during the game, much less play And so I I decided as the coach we're gonna focus on one or two things, um generally one, sometimes two things, uh to prepare for for the next game. And the next game was to try to m have them really focus on doing that thing well for that game. Exactly. I remember this one uh dad was getting very upset with his daughter and was yelling at her like crazy and was just destroying her confidence and it was really kind of plorable and I was figur trying to figure out how to handle it and then uh during a break in the action I kinda sidled over and said, Hey, you're not wrong, what you're s telling your daughter we haven't focused on that like at all in practice. And it's something we'll probably be tackling either next week or the week after. Right now I'm just trying to get her to focus on this. So if you we could encourage her in that, that'd be great. And he actually handled that pretty well and he stopped riding her quite so hard. Um but there's an example of the dads coaching her during the game, something that she had never practiced before. And okay, maybe I should have As the coach, maybe I should have had her focus on that first before the other things. Uh but I was trying to figure out the logical way to get them to understand and do it. Maybe I could have done a better job communicating with the parents what I was up to as the coach too. But But anyway it's it's that relief. Well we do it with parenting but we don't do it with anything else in life. You don't take an intern at a Fortune five hundred company and his first day on the job is to give a proposal for for a multimillion dollar contract But no, that's the you teach the intern how to do all these things. He spends years. Oh you never never had a job in radio sales, huh? They show up, they hand you the fact that the hand you the phone book and say, There's your list, go get 'em, Tiger. Yeah and And so you bring him in to the experienced guy to close the deal, right? So And those don't succeed very well. No, they don't. And that's the problem. And and the military. They don't learn how to shoot the gun on the battlefield. They practice at a range. They shoot thousands of rounds of ammunition to make sure everything's accurate and they do intensive training and then they go to the battlefield. So same thing with parenting. Anything that you think you might want your kids to know, you should practice it ahead of time and It do actual practice session. Take the two year old up and say, Hey, we're gonna practice sitting still today. Okay, let's see how long can you sit still And then have a game for a few minutes and then teach them and Oh good job, you sat still for five minutes. Okay, tomorrow we might go to church and you might be able to sit down and be still for Maui and Daddy. This is the type of things that you teach ahead of time and they practice and then they they remember. Oh, it's a game now because now it's practice. And then when they don't do well after you practice, that's when I guess we get to this next book. Why did you do that? Right? They they make bad choices and you're trying to analyze what their motivations were that's about. So why did you do that? Parents are oftentimes quoted saying, why did you do that? They don't really ask for they're they're not really looking at the rhetorical, right? Exactly. Oh I don't know. I don't know. I just wanted to. But they don't really want the answer. They just exasperate it. It's it's an exasperated question and it is rhetorical because they don't really want the answer. But I I challenge parents to actually find out why is it that you would do that? What were you thinking? Uh what made you decide to do that? Because many times it's an emotional need. To give you an example Um, we came home one time and and one of my kids uh you know uh they were getting out of the car, they had a bunch of kids, and they were going to the house and one kid pushed past the other one, knocking him knocking that child down and running into the house We land the door. Sam Dor, we trained them not to do that, trained them take the turn, hold the door for the girls and all this stuff, and he didn't do that. We could have you know g got in there. I know we've trained it, right? So now it's a must be a sin problem. But it wasn't. So he said, Well why did you do that? Do what? So well this is what you did. And He said, Well, there was a dog barking and you know, I I wasn't really afraid of the dog and I was running away. I didn't see anybody else. I didn't know that I slammed the door. I didn't know any of this stuff because he blocked all that out because he was afraid of the dog. And if we had punished him Then we would have it damaged our relationship with him because he wouldn't be able to trust us. We were not protecting him. You know, he was he wanted to be protected by us, but we were not protecting him. We were punishing him for something that he was trying to protect himself from So we have to really find out why is is this why did you do that? What were you thinking? What were you feeling? And if we find that out, then we can change that behavior by helping them overcome those things as opposed to just punishing them. And that's really important. I don't know if people listening here. If you're listening right now, try to imagine a time when you were a child When you felt unfairly accused of something or prejudged on something. 'Cause I I'm having a couple of things pop into my head now and for the space of time it doesn't matter, I don't need to share a story. But there are times I can remember and I'm thinking back to what that felt like, it actually damages the relationship between the child and the parent. When the parent prejudges negatively, assumes the worst. There's a verse about that. It says, Fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. Right? This this is what it's talking about. You're i either this or if you're being inconsistent, you say one thing and then you tell them something different another day, be consistent. Um and make sure you're actually fulfilling all your duties as a parent before you punish them for something that really wasn't a sin issue. And these skill sets are Sure. Well you that's pr rather accusatory, right? Explain knowing that you train them to do something differently, you say, Hey Imran, uh so and so says you did blah blah blah like so what was going on with that? Yeah. Oh well 'cause this and this is like I'm not quite understanding our our policy is this or the way we train is that and you're like, oh I know, but uh give them a chance to explain themselves and if they can't explain themselves, well then you you gotta deal with that. I mean I've trained lots of people in the fascist artist world and we Teach we tell them what we're gonna do. Then we do that with them, we train them, and then we have them practice. We role play. How many parents actually roleplay with their children? We do that. Um stunch table or the dinner table are great times to do that. Yeah. background than we that they than growing up with us. So we would actually take time at lunch or dinner and practice how to shake hands, how to greet somebody. how to s sit at a table. All those different things. We practice it. And they thought it was fun. It was funny. It was silly. 'Cause not uh you know, we would first demonstrate it, and so daddy or mommy would do that. We would go over there and shake somebody's hand, Hi, how are you? Nice to meet you. It seems silly, but the kids enjoy it. It they thought it was funny, it was it was hilarious and they did it and it wasn't intimidating anymore. It wasn't a punishment at all. But don't do it as a punishment. That's very important. You do it as, oh, we need more training on this, and not to be accusatory, right? If you go back to the game, let's think of a pro team, right? Professional soccer team or football team, in the middle of the game, the coach sees, okay, that's W and maybe he's thinking, I have trained on that. We but obviously we need more training on that. Okay, ref, stop the game. We need your time out. Everybody get off the field. We're gonna practice no no. Go home the next week and during this next week you you have a team meeting. Hey team, you know, and you're not oh you're not saying, Oh you Bob, you did a bad job. You say, Okay, I think as a team maybe we need to practice this skill. So let's do this skill today. And then you just practice. Now it's a non um uh harsh environment. It's not accusatory, and the whole family's getting to practice and the and they're having fun. That's that's the only thing. I I know of a uh uh of a a younger person. I don't wanna I'm not sure if that person would want this story necessarily shared or not. I know a younger person who was playing basketball, uh it was like middle school age. And uh um it was the first year that that this person was on that team uh moved to a new area, a new school and All the kids on the team had played together summer camp leagues and previous school years or whatever. They all knew each other and they apparently had the same coach in the past. So they knew all the lingo and all the plays and that's but this other this one player who was new didn't know. And when that player went in the game there was an assumption assumption, there was like an assumed knowledge of Clearly the person's gonna know this didn't know and immediately got yanked out of the game, got berated for making mistakes and not knowing better. And it sounds silly? But it was so embarrassing that let me do the math. It took uh it took five basketball seasons for that player to recover from the emotional scive years to recover from the emotional scarring from that one incident. Yeah. Absolutely. You hurt the child emotionally and they learn to distrust you because they don't know that you're y you're gonna protect them and you're gonna do the right thing by them So that's very important to find out have you trained this person? Have you trained this child? And as Daniel said, uh also if you have multiple children, don't point out, oh, because Bobby didn't know how to do this, we're all gonna have to practice again. No, because if you do that then you're doing the same thing, you're hurting them. Uh, you know, uh in front of other people, you're embarrassing them. You don't want to do that. He said, I think we just need more practice in this. You know, I was just thinking that we should do this a little bit more. Let's practice it anyway. And we uh we get so much more accomplished and in fact, uh we've had uh little ki little kids. I remember one of my uh one of my little sisters, she was like two or three. Um she uh She had her baby doll, was you know, would go over there and and and uh sh she was telling us, Oh yeah, my my baby doll was not was not uh sitting still in church so now she's practicing. She's we're practicing how to sit. So she would sit her baby up there and say Well good job. And then she take her out and do so she would actually make the baby dolls practice these things that she had been practicing, which is really cool. That's one of the challenges that our culture has. Now is there's n I don't know if there's quite as much pretend play because there's all these gadgets and gizmos, right? They have their face buried in screens or what have you. And um parents are outsourcing the babysitting to the uh the television screen or something. You mentioned about three, three or four minutes ago probably now, uh citing a scripture passage. And that would have been a perfect time to segue, but we weren't finished talking. But let me re rewind. Perfect segue, Daniel. You bringing up a scripture passage. One of the things we wanted to talk about was memorizing scripture with your children. So what what does that How would that look like in your family? What do you recommend for other families? So i it is doable. That's the biggest thing that that you have to understand. It's the biggest question we get and say, oh well memorizing scripture that's really hard. Or maybe when you think when you hear me say memorize the scripture, you might think I mean memorize a verse. Or maybe one of the really short psalms or something. No, I'm talking we're talking about memorizing entire books of the Bible. And your children can do this. Your six and seven year olds can know the in in several books of the Bible. It is possible. And how do you do it? You do it in small sections. You know, break it up. But first of all, immerse them in scripture. That's probably the mo one of the most important things you can do as a parent is constantly be reading scripture to them, making sure they're in and around scripture, hearing scripture, seeing scripture everywhere. And they start to get familiar with it and break it down, right? Oh you you might be thinking, oh I can't memorize the book of Acts. Well sure you can. How about memorize Acts 1 verses 1? Oh, you can memorize one verse, right? Now you're a good Christian. You go to church sometimes, right? You can memorize a verse. Well how about two verses? Well how about three verses? Now you're seeing where I'm going with this, so now you're starting to get overwhelmed because you can hear I'm telling you to memorize twenty-eight chapters now But you can break it into small pieces and eventually you can get there. And there's a lot of different things. For example, with uh one of the things that we did in our family is my wife would record uh the Bible. She would she would speak the Bible, record it, and have it playing in the background. So as Daniel was growing up, he was hearing the Bible spoken by his mother uh uh the a voice and sound that he should be very familiar and and lovingly accept. And we didn't even realize one time the the uh battery ran out and the recording stopped and Daniel kept the rest of the ch he rest of the chapter he finished uh verbatim while he was pushing a truck around doing something else. And that was a shock to us. We didn't realize he had been memorizing it, but he did and this was at three years old So the first thing we have to decide as parents is don't take negativity. It is definitely possible, not only possible, it is very, very good to do and God asks us to do it. We should know his word. If it's in our hearts, it'll always be there. So uh all the naysayers out there, just put 'em out of your mind. But but allow them to memorize in the way they they learn best and this is uh helpful for homeschooling parents as well if you're teaching other subjects besides scripture memorization, but don't make it harder. Everybody learns different ways. You know, boys especially learn best while they're moving around and doing things. It just as a general rule. Girls may be able to sit still, but don't make them to sit still. You know, you can be jumping up and down on the trampoline and quoting scripture. You know, and and in fact boys are probably gonna learn better while they're jumping up and down the trampoline. I was on a on a ripstick, like a skateboard type of thing, and and memorizing scripture that helped me be uh uh ke keep uh keep my legs and arms moving so that there wasn't uh distraction and it actually made it easier to memorize. And one of the things is if you make it a game and make it challenging but make it make rewards We joined uh Bible quizzing. I don't know if you're familiar with Bible quizzing. Bible quizzing, you have to actually memorize whole books of it of the Bible. Yeah, not just uh a few words here and there, I mean a whole book. Like you said Acts. You had to memorize Acts. And uh then you ha you were sitting on a jump seat, so meaning that you had to jump up and the uh the buzzer would go off if you jumped up first to be able to answer the question And that competition made it worthwhile for the children to wanna do that because they wanted to win. And it wasn't winning any prizes, it was just the accolades just being in first. And uh w It was a great time, but it gave a purpose to because as a child you don't really have a purpose to memorize the Bible. But to win a game that's a purpose. And when they're older they're definitely gonna remember it because the verses are gonna come out for a situation. So Daniel has much more of the Bible memorized than I ever will because he spent growing up years memorizing it for contests, for competition. And during a time of his life when it was gonna stick much more readily. Absolutely. Children are able to memorize things better than adults are. And uh and I'll um we're gonna wrap up here we're running out of time on the show, but I do want to say, you know, this story about Daniel um learning through osmosis, just being exposed to the recording, playing over and over again That works in the negative too. So pay attention to the kinds of things you're saying and the sorts of things you're exposing your children to because they're picking up way more than you think they are. And uh they might surprise you with some words that'll fly out of their mouth or some attitudes that they have or some things like, how do you know about that? They started on a TV show when they were four and you didn't think that you know it went over their head it didn't. Anyway, this is a bate the bait. Thank you to uh Imran and Daniel Razby You can check out the resources online at uh conquered by love dot org and uh visit us online. Uh I'm running out of time. I'm just gonna say go to household of faith in Christ dot com until next week. God bless