Broadcasting from the West side of Big Brother City in the heart of Greg Lock County. We're preaching with impact. It's true, right, John? It's like plowing pavement. Because people continue to place their hope in unsatisfying things. Preach it, brother! Sounds good. Listening to that for weeks and years. This is the Frederick Faith Debate. That's Jonathan Sweitzer, Senior Pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I am Troy Skinner. Our show is brought to you by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? You'll find us online at WFMD. com. Keyword Faith. You can also find the little on air tab and click on it and then it shows all the other meaningless shows that air on this radio station. Then you find the faith debate, you click on that one and it takes you to uh all sorts of links to religious traditions. Um uh links to the audio vault for past pro uh uh past episodes of the Faith Debate show and of course the Faith Debate blog and our blog is your blog so email me Troy Skinner at clearchannel. com My blog, our blog is your blog because I really haven't had an original thought in my whole life. So I need you to send me content so I can just post it. Because he's the postman. I'm the postman. You send it to him, he posts That's right. And Jonathan tries to make me go postal, but it hasn't happened yet. That's right. So if you were listening last week, we set a record and we're tying that record. Yes. So Right? I don't know. It's not too hot in here. So I guess we're not breaking a new record. Yep, we are. Right. The guy who ties the record never gets credit. That's right. You know, is impressive the first time but never impressive at it. Why is that? But anyway, we've got a room full of nine people in here. Nine people. Yeah. So watch your back Kyle Andrews and Daniel Dietrich are here representing the youth rally that's taking place on the National Day of Prayer. We'll find out more about that in just a moment. Uh their supervisor, I guess, honorarily speaking, with regards to that, is Shelley Aloy. She is the honorary chair of the Youth Prayer Rally. And the person who supersedes all of that is Carolyn Jackson who is the regional coordinator for the National Day of Prayer here in Frederick and has been for a number of years. And apparently uh if you don't belong to the International Community Church in Frederick, you are in the minority Uh for today. In this room, yeah. Yeah. I think there's at least one, two, three, four, are there five six? Are you guys? No. Yeah. Yes? No? Okay. Well five of us. Five of the nine. So yeah. You can just meet us on the highway. That's right, ITC, the Inter County Connected Highway. Yes, sir. So we're talking about all this prayer stuff. If you missed last week, what's uh give me real quick cause I didn't write 'em down. Uh Carolyn's really good at this because she's thinking about it in her sleep. Um the date, the time, the website people find out more. Give me that really quick. Okay. The National Day of Prayer is the first Thursday in May. Um This year that's May 7th. And the so far we have two events going on. There'll be a prayer breakfast at the Holiday Inn FSK Mall. And then we're having a youth prayer rally, which will take place at Baker Park Band Shell. uh that same evening starting at about 630. And you can find information on the website, National Day of Prayer, hyphenfredric. org Now that's so important because it's outdoors where anybody can see and hear what's happening when they do this. And so uh when we're hearing the stories of these young people doing their things. They're doing it right out there in the center of downtown Frederick. Right? And so it's not hidden away in a in a room somewhere. This is like right out where any everybody can see it. That that ends up really changing the dynamic. Now the breakfast I'm going off of my memory from years past. It's I think it starts at like seven, seven thirty, something like that, and goes till about nine, correct? And then the youth rally you said starts at six thirty. How long do you anticipate that's going to go? Or it just goes until like the Holy Spirit says, Okay, enough, go to bed. Yeah, usually we start with a prelude about six o'clock and last year we ended up pretty close to eight thirty. Now I wanna ask I think you're the one to ask this, Carolyn, although maybe somebody else can jump in. Your the youth rally is taking place in a public space. So was there any issue with that? Was there pushback? Did the city say, Oh like what are you guys? You're doing like a religious thing? No, no pushback at all. Um matter of fact I had no problems in getting it at Baker Park Band Show. And you told him what it was? Yes. I told him what it was. National Day of Prayer, Frederick. Surprise, surprise. This happens in Frederick all the time. And I thought it would be a great venue for young people. You're out in the open, you're out in the park, you're out in an area that you're familiar with, you know, and you can just let go and enjoy yourself in the Lord. Now what did you mean by that? It happens in Vertical Time There are churches that um rent spaces in Baker Park to do events regularly. Um one of them that comes to mind is the Church of the Brethren. Um does a big event, a v big family picnic. where they have prayer and picnic and all kinds of activities going on and there are many other churches in the community that do the same thing. That's Paul Monday's church. You just heard him on the same radio station ten minutes ago. Exactly. But but you'll see this, if you pay attention, you'll see this happening regularly and consistently, which tells you that there's a large faith community in the city of Frederick. Hmm Not large enough. Alright, so young men, last week you shared that y you got involved well, you got involved. Either by accident or because something made you. I'm not sure, you know, how I how I want to try to understand that. I want to give you every benefit of the doubt here to extricate yourself from what you said last week. But Uh Kyle, you you said that you came to the uh get involved with this because your mom kind of forced you is the word you use. What are your thoughts on that now? Um, I think overall it was a a very good experience. Um I think after a while I kind of Pursued it. Did you see Carolyn over there? She just wiped her forehead. She's like everything's gonna be okay now. Okay So I get to keep my position for another year. This is this is a study in like parenting and uh a study in intergenerational dynamics, right? Because the the spirit of Elijah turns the hearts of the the the fathers to the to the children, the hearts of the children to the fathers, and there's this this general idea in society that you cannot have good interactions between parents and children and that anything that the parents are trying to get the kids to do is somehow going to produce rebellion and resistance and and it's it's really a narrative that is not true in a lot of Christian homes and and it sounds like in these in particular that yes your parents kind of uh strongly forced you to do it, led you into it, but they've done that apparently a lot of times. And there does not appear to be great resistance in your hearts towards that. Like, okay, fine, I'll do this. Mom wants me to do it and mom's led me to do other things before and it turned out that I liked it. So maybe this will be that way too, kind of a thing Like i you know, uh i is that uh is that your phone ringing i in the middle of my mom's of uh the radio? Can you believe that that's the case? So anyways, I thought it was the Someone should have forced her to turn that off. Wouldn't that be funny? And so so sure enough So the question God calling, you want to answer that? So so this is the question that you're answering. Like when your mom leads you to do stuff like that. Like I want to pursue this for a second. This is where I'm getting off your little agenda, you know, again. Um w when she leads you to do something like that, like is there Resentment towards that? Have there been times that your mom has like really missed it? And like how do you work that through with her? Do you tell her, hey mom, you missed it that time, or does do you, you know, just kind of seethe inside? Um Most of the time she's right, uh, when forcing me to do something. Most of the time. Um What's an example of the time she was wrong? Horseback riding. That was that was terrible. Oh. See now that would have been the right thing with me. I would have loved that. No. Um that but uh I think uh she forced us to do piano when we were younger and uh A lot of parents do that. Yeah. We've uh stuck with that uh for eight years. Can you play? Yeah. Well then there you go. I can play. And apparently he's like moved beyond into rap. So that wasn't so that was a good thing to rap. Oh okay. You weren't you I thought you were still using that as an example of that thing. That was a good thing. Um There would be there really uh haven't been any major bad things. Um but That's good because we don't want to have to hit the dumb button. No, I mean this is this is just so important because these are two guys that are like homeschool guys and this the point of the show is not homeschool. But I know a lot of family situations that do not fall into this narrative of this major gap between the parents and the kids. And here we have a very strong Christian family where the mom is is pushing her kids to do things and the kids are not like resentful of it but are stepping into it and have a testimony of it being a good thing in the long run. And I'm just saying that that I think for a lot of people out there that's like really unusual Right? This is a great situation where a young man young men are stepping into leadership at their parents' encouragement, but it's not somehow like uh like like a miss. It's not it it's not an example of something that's bad, but it appears I mean for those of you that can't see these guys' faces, there's real peace and and even joy as they, you know, describe these things. There there's there's real You know, and uh uh i you know, that's just not common again. And if you hadn't brought up the homeschooling thing uh that came up last week, I was gonna bring it up because seriously, um homeschooling's come a long way. Totally, yeah. When I was a kid in school yes, they had schools when I was a kid. Um every homeschooler I knew was a complete total geek, you know? I mean really every single one without exception I mean you are a homeschooler, right, John? I was not homeschooled. Oh well then he's the exception that proves the rule about the geek thing. Uh but Kyle and Daniel are the furthest thing, right? Totally. So it it's really amazing. Homeschooling has come a long way Dan Yes, yes you can anytime. So uh Cut me off in particular because I like to get cut off. John, John, John. Um off of kind of what John was saying, um the way I see it for like parents is like They're trying to do what's best for us. And that's what they always say and most kids would just blow it off and be like, Well, you don't know what I you know, you don't know what's best for me, I know what's best for me. Um the way I see it, if I was a parent and I didn't care about my kid, I would just I wouldn't make 'em do anything. I just hands off, let 'em do what they want. Um, so I figure the fact that they are making us do things that they think are best for us shows that they do care about us. Um and then so even if it's not something that I feel like doing, um, in the long run usually it well Yeah, most of the time. Um it turns out okay. Because um they are ch they are trying to do what's best for us. I also think that there's been another shift here and I'm just gonna go ahead and hit it. You know Troy our generation generation was raised uh as latchkey kids. Right, and there was a major gap in our generation between parents and their children, uh, that led us as a generation to get married later and to have kids later because we weren't gonna do it until we felt like we could do it right. But it's resulted in our generation being helicopter parents. where we're we're doing so many things for kids that we're there so much for them that that it's a totally different generation. And that shift is something that I've talked to a bunch of different pastors that they've seen that shift you know, like in the generation at large. And the point is is that I believe that these guys generation uh is is going to have a major impact on the world. because they have been so invested in by parents that cared about them and that have much better relationships with them that that even outside of the body of Christ that they're going to be way more effective than the X generation ever was People said about the X generation that we've never shown up in charitable circles. Right? You got the boomers in charitable circles, and you have uh the millennials are starting to show up, but then our generation in general seemed to just be absent. Well the reason why is because we were trying to find ourselves and when we finally had kids we were like we're not going to run off and do all these other things, but we're going to be there for our kids. And the result is that they have a much stronger sense of confidence heading into their their adult years than than the previous generations. And I just want to say I feel like we're seeing it as we're looking at these guys. And uh Carolyn, you know, you're stepping into that and kind of calling it forth is such a Uh I call it a prophetic moment, you know, a moment where where the kingdom of God is producing, you know, a significant shift for the sake of the world for that matter. Come on, I'm uh yeah. It gets you excited, doesn't it? How I could address that. Yeah. That even though that like you're saying, you're just really smothering the kids and guiding them and leading them But it just doesn't line up with modern day statistics where church membership is falling, uh parents teaching the basic fundamentals. Right. You know, um uh Bible literacy is falling? I mean we're having a generation that's really biblically illiterate. Totally. And and that just speaks to my heart because I've been involved in youth ministry. I mean for ages. Yeah. Yeah. A few years. And uh I think it's just important that as adults and that we see down the road that we can provide a platform or an event to encourage the young people Come back to basics. This is important. It's gonna serve you well. And if you start um serving and praying and looking after God now, it's gonna It is really going to impact your life and it's going to ensure your future so that you can have a happy, peaceful life. Isn't that first Timothy Come on, quote scripture to us. She she she looking at her husband there, and I'm like, I'll tell you what it is. But you know, it's uh it's it says prayer is made for m men, for kings and for all that are in authority, that we may lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness and honesty. Yeah. First Timothy two. Awesome. And that's something that I really want to drive home with the youth prayer rally. Is that First Timothy two two related to Desmond 2 2? No? Okay. No, it's nothing to do with what a ballerina words either. So just you know, move on. That's the voice of Carol Carolyn Jackson. She is the regional coordinator for the National Day of Prayer here in Frederick. Jonathan Sweitzer just said yes. He's a senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Church. I'm Troy Skinner. This is the Frederick Faith Debate on WFMD 930 free talk, as we like to say these days. Uh Shelly Aloy is also with us on the panel. We haven't heard much of her today. We will in just a second. She's the honorary chair of the Youth Prayer Rally. And Kyle Andrews and Daniel Dietrich are the two uh young men who are representing the youth for a uh a rally that's taking place on the evening of May seventh. Um if you have something as as part of that slightly older generation the cause you know the the these young men are sitting here listening to Jonathan speak, me speak, Carolyn speak about our hopes and dreams for the generation, trying to understand what's happening with parenting and stuff. If you have anything you want to add along those lines, this is the time to do that. Uh because then I want to h get their take on what they're making of all this adult talk. So is there anything you wanted to chime in on or not necessarily? No, not necessarily. Okay. See what comes to mind. Jonathan wants to speak for Shelley. No, not for Shelly. It just happens that we're sharing a mic and that's why we're beginning to speak a lot today. I I just want to say that that at the heart of this this whole idea though of of youth stepping up is this question that has been debated in the church, right? So on a Frederick Faith debate. I knew I could find a good debate in there somewhere. uh as to what is the best way to do youth ministry, right? And so do you do youth ministry where it's separate from the parents? You know, where you where you have a really exciting program with a lot of fun and games, or should your youth program be geared towards Bible study and worship and prayer? Or should your Bible st uh or should your youth meeting be be something where the parents are uh are there with their kids and it's strengthening the relationship between the two or is there a scenario where the kids aren't looking for a youth group. They're just looking for a place to step into their destiny, you know, because of the strength of, you know, like maybe a homeschooling background. And I I just know that It's been a major debate through the years, you know, that you have these big churches with these really great youth programs at mega churches that have ended up losing the next generation because There ended up being a gap between them and parents, and there ended up being, you know, just kind of a fun orientation instead of moving into the prophetic issues that we have a nation that we live in. that n that that is dealing with significant issues and and are are kids able to see that even at a young age and to step into that. So I am kind of going back to the street. I have had um uh a testimony from uh one of my instructors when I was at Washington Bible College that it was because of his son. His son had gotten expelled out of every possible school. The last school that his son could enroll in was Riverdale Baptist um church school. And he said within two weeks they was now he he was um a Christian so to speak. But he drank, he smoked, he partied, he thought it was all right. And he said within two weeks his son had totally changed. And they sat down to dinner and his son ministered to them And they say if this school can change his heart, it must be something about it. So many times a child can draw in the parent. And then that really strengthens the bond. All right, so oh now Shelley has something she wants to say. Well I I want to ask these young men what they think, but but I want to tell my experience as a youth pastor. And so um when I first became a youth pastor I said I had no idea what I was doing. And so I thought we need to do a lot of games, we need to do fun things, you know, get the get the book that's Tells the fun activities. But I'll tell you when the group grew. The group grew when we focused on the Word of God and These young people started to understand their power. Because folk you know, there are young people all over the Yes, God's power in them. Yes. You know, Jonathan is very good about getting the words exactly right. Thank you. You're amazing. Troy, you need to remember that. But it li you know, let me say it like this. So w when Jesus was doing miracles, he said He said, I do what I see the Father doing. And then he said, And greater things than these shall you do. So the question is for for young people and for all of us, frankly, you know, did he mean us? And if he meant us, what does that mean? You know, uh greater is he that's in you than he that's in the world. What is that power? And do we really know what that means to have that power? Young people need to know that because they're all over all over the place thinking they don't have worth. They don't have a place. There's there's no purpose. And so this this is what grew the youth group. And we went from about twelve to about seventy five who would you know, some who would come and go in a in not a sh long period of time. And so, you know, I want to ask these young gu these young men What do they think? W where is the power for you? What do you want to see? What what makes God come alive to you and where do you find your power? Um so your question is where do where do I see God's power or Well you can address it any way that you want. Yeah, let me let me put it this way. The the the adults have had their turn for like the last fifteen minutes and you've heard a lot of different things. Out of the things you've heard, what would be your response to the adult community that's listening? On behalf, no pressure, but you're representing all of youth right now. Not really. Um sometimes I'm the worst. No, you don't really you agree with everything, you see wisdom in it, you For the most part, yeah. I think uh uh Miss Shelley said it with the uh um different approaches to uh youth or to no, Miss Jackson said it with the mixture of them all. Um hybrid was horrific. Right, right, right. Yes. Uh I think uh uh some games are good, but you need to you know this is what's true and uh not just all funny games because then you don't take anything away from that. Uh, but then if you have too much seriousness it just gets boring and you don't want to go back. Uh or don't want to hear it for that matter. Um Oh Dennis looked like he was going to say something, so I wanted to I mean yeah, like like he was sharing a microphone too by the way. We we have nine chairs but only three mics. Um Like uh like oh gosh, I'm so bad with names. John. John. I've been trying to forget myself, so don't take um But yeah, it's kind of a hard balance you gotta that you have to come up with because if there's no fun in games, if there's no um, you know, like I don't know how exactly to explain it. Like you're not gonna have a bunch of kids being like super excited about it. Now that's not the way it should be. Um kids should get excited about, you know, prayer and fellowship and worship and stuff. But sometimes it doesn't happen. That's just um the way our culture works sometimes. So it's kinda but then you also don't want to make it all about the fun games because if you do, um uh like like John was saying, you you can lose Um almost like the purpose of of youth ministry which is to, you know, bond as youth and um and grow and and Christ and stuff So and then for the parent thing, it's like, do you do it with parents or do you keep it a youth ministry? Because if you have the parents with them with you, then it almost feels like it's not a youth ministry because You know, it's I don't know. Like I I know some of my friends have felt like they're they're not comfortable sharing things in front of their parents, but in front of friends they would be. And again, that's not the way it should be, but that's the way it is sometimes. So but then again if you keep it just youth, um then your church just starts to like I feel break into like little like organized groups. Like you have the youth group and then you have the singles and then you have the care groups and then you have the pastors and then everybody's their own little separate group. Everybody's scared to talk to each other. You feel like the next one up is like above you and ooh, they're more spiritual. Um so there do need to be bridges. Um But it it's it's a hard line to draw. It's it's not just black and white. Um how much parents that should be involved in youth ministry and all that stuff. No, I'm curious how much time uh In recent months or maybe over the last couple of years, have you spent thinking about these sorts of things or are these thoughts that are just kind of occurring to you in the moment in response to the first? Um kind of I wanna say it was last year something. It was like I I love my youth group and stuff and then like a big group of like um seniors had left and I felt like it kinda went for a little bit. Um but like it was still like a good it was a good youth group, but I felt like something was missing and I didn't know what it was. Um so I had done um n this was at the same time I had just been visiting other other friends' youth groups and I was just trying to kinda like um almost like come up with a way that I could like, you know, make youth group like more fun and more exciting to go to. So it was kind of I didn't um I was just kind of not visiting youth groups for that reason. I was doing it for other reasons too, but when I would visit other youth groups, I would think, you know, if this was a fun youth group, what made it fun? Um and if it was like fun in games and stuff, should that be why it was fun? Because I've had plenty of great experience at youth uh youth groups um where I, you know, grew in in the Lord and that's why it was fun. Um But yeah, I've just I've done a lot of thinking on like 'cause you know there's there's no perfect youth group, um but just it's a i it's a lot to juggle. So Yeah, there's so many angles to this. I'd like to take you to lunch and have a conversation, seriously. Yeah. Um I'm hitting on you Just so you know. Yeah. Ugly guy. Um there's a lot of uh We're we're gonna pick up, I think, and we're gonna do a show next week that talks about your leadership role with this, but then I wanna maybe bounce off of that and talk about potential leadership role beyond just this. Meaning like for their generation. And how this is maybe training you up for that. Because you're obviously very thoughtful about this and uh uh uh rarely so. I I even find it fascinating that I mean, I don't know if we'll want to go there or not, but it's fascinating to hear you talk about small group shopping the way that adults talk about church shopping. So maybe we'll maybe we'll talk about that a little bit, I'm not sure. Anyway. Uh this is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio 930 WFMD. We've been joined this week by Kyle Andrews and Daniel Dietrich, who are uh part of the youth rally uh youth prayer rally is taking place uh on uh May 7th Uh the regional coordinator for the National Day of Prayer, Carolyn Jackson, and the honorary chair of the Youth Prayer Rally, Shelley Aloy, and Jonathan Schweitzer, of course, on the show again. He's the senior pastor of Crosses Valley Church I'm Troy Skinner. Our sponsors Putman Plumbing and Heating. Help me make you smile. What have I been reading? Well, I told you last week that I've been working my way through the Beginning Biblical Hebrew by Mark Fitado. So that has allowed me to begin to grapple with uh judges in uh uh in a Hebrew Old Testament. Uh Biblia Hebraica Studingarcia. Hey, can I recommend a book? Next week we gotta go. We're out of time. Thanks for listening. God bless.