This is the Frederick Faith Debate on Frederick's News Radio, 9 30 WFMD, brought to us by Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we make you smile? This is us, the online version of this show, wfmd. com. Keyword faith. There you will find a daily Monday through Friday updated blog. I encourage you to email me, Troy at wfmd. com. And if you do that, and it's uh At least at least loosely related to the subjects we handle on this show, I will post it up there. My blog is your blog. What am I reading these days? Well, I finished reading CJ Mahaney's Humility, True Greatness. Which is kind of ironic these days, but it it's a it's a very good book and a reminder that uh even those of us that know a lot about the things that we're supposed to do and can argue them well still struggle in areas in our life so on humility's gotta be, you know, the most difficult thing ever. CJ Mahaney unfortunately has has had uh some acute accusations against him in that area of not being very humble. But uh regardless, the book is good and I'm sure that CJ would say, Yeah, you know what, the book was good, I need to follow it bo better than I did probably. So isn't that true for all of us? Amen. So Jonathan Schweitzer, senior pastor of Crossroads Valley Chapel. Thank you for being on the show again, my friend. The founder of the Frederick 48 Hour Fast. Oh, yeah. Which will be On September 27th and 28th. Oh, so you got the dates? Is when we're gonna do it. And so I actually need to talk to Bob Miller and Blaine Young and and uh verify that they will uh let us do it on the air those days. September twenty seven and twenty eight, those are those are good. One week after the fair. Right, which people need to think of fast. That's what I was thinking. Totally. They w they will have stuffed themselves and it will give them a chance to get back on their uh healthy diet. Uh started last year. It was in response to the Frederick County Commissioners needing to cut all the funding or they at least claiming to need to have to cut all the funding to the social agencies uh in the county. Do you know that Pittsburgh last year did a one day give day and they raised Three no, sorry. Let's see if I get this number right. Five point nine million dollars in one day. The first year they did it, they raised over two million dollars. And one day they raised five point nine million dollars. They had seven hundred and fifty thousand dollar matching grant uh on the front end of that, and that brought them up to five point nine million. And that's similar to what we're trying to do here. We're saying everybody on that day give as much money as you would uh spend on food for the money. And the reason there's this need is you know there's organizations, Religious Coalitions, Salvation Army, uh I mean all these different organizations that that are helping to feed the poor, care for the poor uh provide for you know job training for the poor, whatever, all these things that are helping those that need help amongst us. The people that the church should be meeting the need of, to be quite frank. Um, you know, they've been helped through a lot of um secular money, through tax dollars. And of course the economy is tough and budget cuts have to be made and and the county commissioners last year said we just don't have the money anymore and they slashed by hundreds of thousands of dollars. And so there was an attempt made to meet that need. It wasn't met fully, but it was met partially. Uh there was some success last year. This year it'll be even better. And the idea the concept is that people would they might literally fast But they would at least calculate in their mind how much do I spend on food in two days and however much money that is I'm gonna give it to the cause, right? That's kind of the idea. So that's gotta be between fifty and a hundred dollars depending on, you know, your lifestyle and your family size. Somewhere in that range. So if you don't have the money like oh I just don't have the fifty bucks, then don't eat for two days and send in your fifty bucks. Yeah, whatever it is. That's right. Many people won't, but many people will. But the idea is that we go without to remind ourselves what it's like for those people. Is that website still up and active? It's still active. You can still give through that website. So you don't have to wait till September twenty seventh. You could go to what it's just Frederick. Frederick48. org. Though it's not updated for the new uh they can still link to all the different plays to make their donations and that sort of thing. All right, there you go. All right, so what we're talking about now is the end of the world. That's right. Happy time. That's appropriate. Happy time. You went to church. And you went to church on Resurrection Sunday. And you're thinking, Okay, I'm good. No, no, no, no. So this show is gonna guilt you back into the church pew this week, next week, and every week. Because he's coming. He's coming back. He is coming again. Dude, we should like make commercials together. I mean I mean we can really sell some stuff together. He is coming for you. I'll be the sound, you be the He is coming like a son of man in the clouds. So anyway, last week in the show we were talking about this, and Jonathan referenced uh Matthew twenty-four, in which Jesus is referencing Janiel, I think it's chapter seven. Is that right? Uh so uh with the whole son of man coming on the clouds and all that sort of thing. And Jonathan used the word par partial preterist, basically uh I'm gonna have to do like last week's twenty-seven minutes. Ready to go. But the the gist of it is Jonathan is saying, look, everything that needed to happen for the most part, with maybe a couple of little small exceptions, happened by AD seventy when the uh the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed by the Romans. Alright, Jesus said before this generation passes, this not a stone will be on another in this temple. And sure enough, in eighty seventy that happened Yeah. And so that informs his opinion on what the how to understand the end times. Yeah. Eschatology. Uh Mark. Troy Wallace was saying, I agree with you. I'm gonna call you Mark from the case. So I don't know. Wallace was was saying that uh I think the gist I uh what I was about to say was, Jonathan, you're kind of on the mark. Yeah, on a lot of this But you're wrong enough. tend to to carry with it. So go back and listen. That's why people go back and listen. Because our shows are interesting enough that they're like they gotta hear what was just Any day. That's right. Which might be like a millennium. Send in your email. Is that going to be literal or is it just going to be a really long time? Well, I I listen, what I wanted to pick up on was what I was talking about with coming and going and Jonathan brought up you know that this Greek word which I don't know what it is. No Okay. Uh say that one more time for Ericumai means to go, to travel. Yeah. And that's where I think our first show we were talking about the beauty of Nuance. Yeah. I also think that you were talking about the son of man coming or going. on the clouds of glory w implied judgment, which I also agree with. And what we see here when when when Jesus I wanted to say this last week. God com how did you mean come come? Because there are I'm babbling now. There are examples of God coming and represented being represented by a cloud and it's not in judgment. That's true. But it always represents the cloud leading the Israelites through the wilderness. The presence of God fills the temple. And the tabernacle. That's true. In both places the the ministers. Right, that's true. But whenever it talks about the Lord's gonna come in the clouds of glory, on the clouds of heaven, in every one of those places it deals with judgment. Well and it is true that he dwells in a cloud in in his holiness. We see that in the tabernacle and all those. You were saying we see it we see judgment on Israel. Absolutely in seventy AD. We absolutely do. I think that when Yeshua is talking here at the end, well, towards the end, I guess, of Matthew 24. In specifically in verses 37, 38, and 39, he's talking about as in the days of Noah. Now, as in the days of Noah, implies a world cataclysm that we haven't yet seen in 70 A. D. We certainly see a great judgment and cataclysm happen in Israel in the destruction and loss of the temple. I think, Jonathan, and this is where I agree with you and yet disagree with you, that we also have to deal with the worldwide implication that we see in Noah. It's like I was thinking also of Peter's. Peter in Acts 2 stands up and says this is the fulfillment of Joel to But he can't mean that in its totality because Joel II says the spirit shall be poured out on all flesh. Well when we're looking at Acts two in the context of Shavuot or Pentecost In the in the Temple Mount area, we see three thousand people. We see a hundred and twenty that see, you know, have the spirit poured on on them as tongues of fire, and then we see three thousand people come to to confess Jesus as the Messiah, Yeshua as the King of Israel that day, but it's not a worldwide thing. And again I think that this heavy and light or partial and full is something that we see when we're dealing with uh uh prophecy in the text of the Bible, both in the in the the Hebrew scriptures of the Old Testament as well as the New Testament or the New Covenant scriptures. The already not yet kind of argument. Your heavy light correlation is a very important thing. Which would be an all millennialist's argument. So I'm not sure I'm understanding. So what how So you're me. So I'm trying to understand the you you're not defining yourself as a partial personality. Let me say it this way. I see the kingdom of God from Genesis to Revelation as stages. The first thing that we see is God through the figure of a man appearing to the patriarchs of Israel and reintroducing himself after the expulsion from Eden. And then we see God taking the descendants of those patriarchs, turning them into a people where he inhabits He brings his present down in a more corporate way in the tabernacle and then the temple. The figure of the man which figure of the man are you referencing there? Uh what's often in the English Bible translated as The angels. The angel of the Lord or the messenger of Yudhe Vovhe. Okay. We see the patriarchs Interacting with Richard just wrote a book on this. You gotta get a copy of it. Revive Israel dot Why would we start ten chapters in? Why not start in Genesis one and two? Well I think we see that in Genesis one and two. We see uh God in the form of a man walking in the cool of the garden with Adam and Eve. We do, we see that. Uh I guess. Okay, go ahead. So anyways to stages thing. We see uh God then takes the n goes to the next level and puts his presence in the temp in the tabernacle and then the temple with a people in Israel. Then we see another stage where God inhabits a human form so much so that he gets born and he has a name. His name is Jesus. He he promises the Holy Spirit, the the Ruachha Kodesh, the holy presence of God to his disciples if they tarry in Jerusalem. They see that in Acts 2, and we see what many describe as the indwelling presence of the Holy Spirit in a people Then we see the next stage, which is primarily through Peter and Paul's interaction with the non-Jewish people. We see the presence of God now extending beyond the boundaries of just the people of Israel into Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and to the ends of the earth. Then I see another stage, which is Jesus sitting in a chair in Jerusalem administrating justice over the face of the earth. And then I even see a final stage to that Which is him putting all things under his feet and turning the kingdom over to the Father and thus fulfilling his purpose in serving the Father. I mean it's it's it's brilliant and so that's why I see stages. I mean you can see some parts of some things in almost all of that. Now don't take that too far. I'm not trying to make the most broad statement possible and expecting it to apply to every prop prophetic declaration from any part of scripture, but it is part of how I see stages. So that's why I can Find myself in some positions with Jonathan of we do have a now and not yet approach because we are in a stage of the kingdom of God on earth where his presence inhabits us There's something to be won here. And yet we're still walking out our salvation with fear and trembling. It hasn't come all the way full yet. What is the fullness of that Salvation that we're wrestling with in f in in fear and trembling. I see that as Jesus coming and starting to spread his rule of peace over the earth for a thousand years, and then the last enemy that's defeated is death, and then he turns the kingdom over to the Father, etc. etc. So My approach from Genesis to Revelation is one of the kingdom of God and stages. And I see Jesus' purpose as uh uh one of the stages. Now it was the greatest stage, and I could say that Jesus has been involved in some ways all the way since Genesis 1, and we see that in John I That he's the creator, he's the word made flesh, he's all these things. He's the guy that was, you know, hanging out in the cool of the day with Adam. Yeah, other than the you know And having lunch with Abraham. one of the stages kind of language. Other than that part of it, most of what you said sounded like the kinds of arguments that I hear and read from all millennialists. They're talking about these these these different uh they might they don't use the word stage, that would be a di the language dip would be different, but they they talk about this unfolding of the redemptive historical Rev you know, revelation of God. There's a redemptive history, and God provides evidences and windows into that at different periods in time throughout redemptive history. And so what we have in the garden, and we have God cre makes his creation and it is good. It is very good. And so that's a representative of of God's kingdom. God's ruling there and there's no sin yet and everything's good and he gives authority to man to now rule over the kingdom. Right? He says, okay, now you guys are in charge. You are my y you are my uh my my staff bearers. I'm giving you control here and they screw it up. And so then there's this breach, there's this break. And so then we see this kind of what you're talking about these these uh these stages Does anybody that talk about the stuff though not talk about different stages of history? Everybody deals with stages. That's an all millennialist argument. Well, can you give me an example of somebody that doesn't believe in the already not yet thing? Isn't already not yet a particular phrase that's attributed to George Ladd. George Elden Ladd, who was who was not enable any of it. Forty years. He was he was uh uh uh a premillennialist and I also think he was a post-trib guy, but I'm not sure of the trib part. I'm just pretty sure he was a a pre-millennialist. uh as a whole. So that's my recollection of it anyways. Uh well my understanding of the Almond maybe I'm uh this could be a hole in my uh understanding of things which is very much possible But the idea of the already not yet is Christ already reigns now. He's already king. Right? He's already ruling. Okay. He's already seated at the right hand of the Father. Right. He is. Right. So he's so in that if if the mil if we're talking about millennial rule, he already rules, so it's already started. And yet it's not completely fulfilled in the way that it will ultimately be. And so that's the not yet part. And it sounds to me like That's kind of what you're saying, so I'm a little confused on the difference with j what John. Here's the thing. I'm just taking the thousand years as literal You know, we we we as creationists want to defend that it was literally six twenty-four hour days at the beginning of time And I think it's interesting that sometimes then we take the thousand years from John and want to make that uh figurative. Now not all people fall into this category. uh particularly the first few chapters have some have a poetic feel, it's like a poetic prose. But for the most part, people take Genesis as narrative, and narrative is generally understood as more historical, but nobody takes uh revelation, John's uh revelation uh of Jesus as as narrative, it's apocalyptic link uh literature, so it's very metaphorical. So there's there was But it's not exclusively metaphorical, is it It's exclusively apocalyptic. Well I can go with you on exclusive. I absolutely agree with you that it's apocalyptic But I I don't know that apocalyptic absolutely requires exclusive figurative interpretation. There has to be something about it that's literal. Right, but the point is is that trying to figure out where the one starts and the other one stops tend to be a little bit subjective. But We have to I I mean I'm reading it expecting to be able to understand something literally from it. Yeah, and I do too, which is Jesus wins I I'm with you all the way. Which is why when some people talk about the end of the world they get a fearful thing. I don't have I don't have any fear. I don't have any fear about the end of the world. Right. We win. There's nothing to be afraid of. It might not be so comfortable along the way. twenty four hour, six day creation. Right. But I also take the millennium to be figurative and their the the thrust of their argument's gonna be it's different kinds of literature. Genesis and and revelation are completely different types of literature. They need to be read differently. So there's not My point is there's not it it's not an inconsistency for them to hold those two views. Uh it's not if you get into what type of literature it is. I agree with you, Troy. But if you if we're talking about consistency in our uh approach to hermeneutics, which I think that there's something to be gained from saying seeing both of them as literal. Now you haven't asked me how I literally interpret the six days of Genesis. That's a whole nother conversation. No, I don't think God's a chicken. Well literally he would have to be because he's like a hen g covering over his his his his checks, right? So I'm with you. The phrase a thousand years uh from what I can tell shows up in the Old Testament in Psalm 90 verse 4 where it says a thousand years in your sight are like a day. No, that's Second Peter where it says a day is like a thousand years, a thousand years like a day. Ecclesiastes talks about if you live to be a thousand years twice over. but fail to enjoy your prosperity. What good is your prosperity? Right? And those are the only places in the Old Testament that thousand years shows up. In the New Testament, it's only 2 Peter A thousand years is like a day for the Lord and uh uh and uh uh a day like a thousand years, and then Revelation twenty talking about the millennium. There is no other place that talks about a thousand years. But when you look up a thousand and you see the way that the phrase, just the word thousand is used through the Old Testament It's obvious that it's used in a whole bunch of places where that where it's not dealing with some kind of a literal thing, but it's describing a certain amount. of things. And all I'm saying is that if you use scripture to interpret scripture, there's not a whole lot of evidence to go on that would say We should look at that thousand years as a literal thousand years. I'm not saying that that necessarily means that it can't that the argument can't be made. I'm just saying that Uh like the Supreme Court discussion about Obamacare right now, you've got a lot to prove as to you know the the onus is on is on you, I feel like, to to prove why we should take that particular thousand phrase a thousand and say that that it's really literal. And I I guess I I mean um there's there's one kind of s uh s uh uh subjective thing in the back of my head that I that I Uh I'm not going to be able to quote Talmudic references or anything like this, but all of his leaders do though all the time. There's this sweep there's this sweep in i in a Jewish worldview, there's this sweep of human history. Yeah. That's six thousand years long. And there's this thousand years that stands alone at the end of time that is attributed to the son of David Ruley. So the Mayan calendar was right. Well you're coming up on the end of the six thousand right now, baby. The point is is that thousand years represents a day. So I don't mean to use the mind to somehow uh thousand years represents a day minimize your thousand the last the seventh thousand is comparable to Shabbat or or the resting of creation. Right. In terms of the grand sweep of human history. And I can't so again that I want you to know that that's uh uh a subjective thing that's informing my opinion on this. Sure. Uh uh but what what is it built on? Rabbinically what is it built on? It's built on that thing from Psalms about a thousand years equaling a day. It's hard to do it. So get away from that from that kind of an orientation. I mean I I gotta admit that when I think about these things, Yeah, yeah, it's it's sublime, it's simple, it's forthright. And if that's the case, you know, I'm not gonna have any argument, you know, if this is the time, you know, for for for Christ to Finally return and to set up his kingdom, you know, forever. I I'm comfortable with all that. And and I also I want you guys to know that I I I wouldn't mind being wrong. Like it wouldn't offend me. Right. But I will say that my worldview is built on Jesus coming and fulfilling something on earth that belongs to him as the son of David. He rules in heaven as the son of God right now. That's absolutely true. This is so But there's a promise to David for his son to rule forever. And David's son never did that on the chair in Jerusalem that belongs to the son of David. And this is the part that is messianic Jewish that I think is so important. They saw that at the triumphal entry. They said Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord and rules in the seed of David, and yet Jesus died instead and didn't fulfill that promise. He didn't do what God promised to David's son to do. He's doing that as the son of God in heaven, but he's not doing that on earth as the son of David. He will do that for a thousand years in my estimation. Maybe it'll be a thousand days, but I think it'll be a thousand years and I think it will be fantastic, and I think we'll see Our faith come full. Everything that we've been hoping for. And when I say we, I I want you to know I'm thinking of the righteous first century Jewish expectation of this the Messiah that's equal to the 21st x century expectation of the Messiah to rule from Jerusalem over the nations of the world Uh uh with a a kingdom of peace that's never ending. You know, a one world government, if you will, except Jesus is the head of it and not some man-made political body. It's a beautiful thing. And that something significant significantly different happens. So we have absolute agreement there. I think the difference ends up being like what is the Yeah, with the practical outworking of all this is what is the role of the church in all of this then? You know, because if you're gonna hold that Jesus is ruling now and he is ruling on earth in some sense through his church, right, through indwelling his people, then that has implications that would disappear if you're saying no no he's not ruling on earth yet. That's going to happen. So there's all sorts of these theological connections that end up being dominoes that fall. And I think Peter addresses that when he says uh you know, we live righteous and in holiness uh as a people who are hastening the day of the Lord. I mean the implications for us are to see righteousness and holiness in the people of God, Jew and Gentile alike. And the when I look at the face of the earth uh uh I don't see that in his people. I mean I don't see it in me all the time. I really want to see it in me, but that's that's our thing. So can we make sure that we draw out uh next week uh specifically uh th what what I feel like is the uh messianic Jewish uh um emphasis on the fulfillment of all of the old testament prophecies and and uh the literal fulfillment of those things in terms of the land and that sort of thing. Because I feel like that's an important part of what you're talking about that I'd like to do that. Excellent. Jonathan Schweitzer with a great suggestion for next week's show. Senior Pastor of Crossover Chapel. And uh Troy also known as Mark Wallace. He is I don't want you guys writing any uh gospels here on email. Assistant congregational uh leader at El Shaddai Congregation. I'm Troy Skinner. Thanks to our sponsor, Putman Plumbing and Heating. How can we Make you smile. Again, visit us online, wfmd. com keyword faith, and you can email me, Troy at WFMD. com. Until next week, God bless. Here at Putman Plumbing, we make a living by servicing our customers' needs, but we make our life by how we service our clients The Putman Plumbing Way combines value, ethics, honest answers, and amazing service because we believe you deserve it. Putman Plumbing, how can we make you smile?